In this concluding part of his series on mining in Oyo State, GABRIEL OGUNJOBI delves into the untold hardship of the people Overgrown with bushes and with several dysfunctional machines worth millions of naira, the Morlap Mining and Processing Company that used to operate under the license of the Nigeria Marble Mining Company (NMMC) has been moribund for years. NMMC is an associated company of the Nigerian Mining Corporation under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Solid Minerals Development. Residents revealed that Morlap, with 10 cadasters, has been dysfunctional since 2016, adding that the Federal Government refused to renew the company’s license. Contrary to the reality observed at the moribund site, information on the website of the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development assumed that the private company to have been in operation since May 2010 when it was licensed and would only be due for renewal in May 2020. The security guard also confirmed that government officials visited occasionally. An insider who prefers to remain anonymous because he was not authorised to speak on the matter, said some of the workers at the old Morlap migrated to the Alaguntan to continue mining. He further affirmed that the miners at Alaguntan quarry put up resistance in spite of the past controversy on mining site between Engineer Bamidele Babatunde, the title-holder of Glister Success Limited and other operators then. “That expanse of land was jointly used by all of them before, including Glister. But there was a controversy when Glister went behind them to license some cadasters for legal mining and acquired most of the land,” the source said. Checks on the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development’s website confirmed that Glister Success Limited is one of the eight licensed mining companies in Oyo State, having 36 cadasters while the other miners such as Balogun and Ojekunle, Oyo Agriculture Commissioner could not be confirmed registered as no signpost indicated their mineral titles granted by the ministry. Investigation revealed that the private company, Mubol Dapeb Global Limited which the commissioner is the Chief Executive Officer – as he stated on his Facebook account – is not registered by the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) let alone be approved for mining. The commissioner did not deny the mining operation at Alaguntan but was more on the defence for his legacy in the community than confirm the legality of their operation. ”I know how much I have spent in Igbeti. Ask people about my impacts. I have a site where you are talking about. I hire Dozer. I am telling you that the government has a plan to revive mining in Igbeti”, he hurriedly stated. On the plights of the farmers as a result of the poor road network along the same quarry, he swiftly buttressed on the Oyo State government’s plan to relieve their hardship. “There is a programme launched by the government to have access roads in all farm settlements. We have released N360 million for road construction and work will commence after this rainy season. The Oyo State House of Assembly has also passed the bill for the executive to access N7.3 billion from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to grant loans to farmers to improve their activities. This government is committed to pivoting the economy through agriculture. So, we are not leaving any stone unturned, including Igbeti,” he said. On the other hand, Abiola Sunday, the Secretary to the monarch of Igbeti, Oba Emmanuel Oyekan Oyebisi, who spoke on behalf of the monarch, noted he was briefly ill. He confirmed that the existing mining site at Alaguntan village was a lease by the royal family to the private operators after the neglect suffered at the Morlap site. Mr. Sunday said: “Since the government abandoned the mining in Igbeti, the royal family of Onigbeti leased Alaguntan to the private investors. When Morlap stopped operation, a lot of our community members lost their jobs. Some resorted to peasant farming and other menial jobs. “Now, there’s nothing they can do at Morlap because of the overflowing water. Besides, houses have now surrounded the abandoned site except the government wants to render people desolate.” Again, in August this year, the Executive Assistant to Governor Seyi Makinde on Investment Promotion and Public-Private Partnership, Mr. Segun Ogunwuyi led a team to the moribund Nigeria Marble Mining Company, Igbeti in a bid to revamp the operations there. Meanwhile, based on the provision of Section 44(3) of 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), the ownership and control of all minerals in Nigeria is vested in the Federal Government, which is mandated to manage such natural resources in a manner as may be prescribed by the National Assembly. Thriving business at Alaguntan The lapses in the regulatory oversight of the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development have resulted in a booming business at Alaguntan quarry. According to Bioku Kabir, a local dealer in marble, their marbles are usually sold to people in Kwara State and foreigners such as the Chinese, in Lagos State. During the dry season, production is high as 15 trailers could be loaded at Alaguntan site in a week while during the rainy season; about five trailers are loaded. A full trailer load of marble in Alaguntan is sold for N250, 000. Therefore, an average of N5 million can be realised in a month when the production is low as in the rainy season and up to 15 million during the dry season when nothing hinders operations. According to state disaggregated mining and quarrying data sourced from the National Bureau of Statistics, 20,117 tons of marble were produced in 2016 with Oyo State producing 10,784 tons, Nasarawa 6, 467 tons, Kwara 2,067 tons and Ebonyi 800 tons. Suffice to say, Oyo State produced about 54 per cent of the country’s marble but perhaps NBS is oblivious of the huge deposits of marble at Alaguntan. The annual report of the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) on solid mineral revealed that the revenue Nigeria could generate from solid mineral as of 2013 was N33.8 billion. By 2014, it went up N55.82 billion. This accounted for 0.11 per cent of our GDP. The figure went up in 2015 to N69.2 billion which amounts to 0.33 per cent contribution to our Gross Domestic Product (GDP). While the activity at Alaguntan is ongoing, the International Trade Centre recorded Nigeria to have imported marble and other calcareous monumental or building stones of 1,291 tons in 2018, worth of $2,856. Experts’ views A geoscientist at the Nigerian private tertiary institution, Achievers’ University and retired top member of staff at the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, Mr. Joseph Dada stressed the need for government to increase supervision at locations with huge deposits of mineral resources to ensure compliance with the law. “I know some quarries are serious with mining in Nigeria and are doing very well in the aspect of workers’ welfare. But, illegal miners are still distributed across the country. “If Nigeria will thrive in the exploration of mineral resources, there must be adequate supervision on how these private companies are complying with the country’s mining regulations, especially on their workers in these states that have huge deposits,” he said. Government’s stand Abiodun Oni, the Executive Chairman of the Oyo State Mineral Development assured that both the federal and state governments are working hand-in-hand towards revamping the moribund marble site in Igbeti. He said: “As difficult as the situation may seem, Igbeti marble is on government’s mind. We have been there to see the need to generate revenue to support other programmes this administration is launching in Oyo State. I won’t give a timeline but it will be resuscitated as soon as possible.” Oni, who is indigenous to Igbeti, further stated that the government is not oblivious of the mining at Alaguntan, adding that “it’s a private endeavour. If there’s anything wrong in what is going on there, it will be corrected” whenever the government initiates actions on improving mineral resource exploration in the state. On the other hand, an official in the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, who pleaded not to be named lamented about the economic sabotage of illegal mining. Unfortunately, the illegality is sometimes abetted by the traditional rulers and other Nigerians but the Federal Government is reinforcing various strategies to tackle this malady, he stated. “Apart from the ministry’s inspectorate department in charge of ensuring compliance with the Nigerian Mining Act of 2007 for the operators, the new leadership under Architect Olamilekan Adegbite and Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah is committing logistics and incentives to strengthen the Special Mine Surveillance Taskforce. “Back in 2012 when it was first created, the Presidential Initiative couldn’t operate optimally because of lack of funding. “We are not saying people shouldn’t mine but it should be done legally and in best practice that is environmentally-friendly. If you must mine, your company must first be registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and acquire mineral title that must be displayed through a signpost so that people can be duly informed of your operations. “Unfortunately, illegal mining is covert and encouraged by members of the community, especially farmers and their rulers.” The source said. On whether a political appointee is permitted to own a mining site, our source added that “By the provisions of the law, such commissioner must step aside as the operating director to avoid a clash of interest.” In the end, the source hinted that the ministry will be having a high-level consultative meeting of Special Mine Surveillance Taskforce in the next few weeks to further address their challenges. WATCH VIDEO: How artisanal marble mining is done in Igbeti  **This investigation is supported by the Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism, PTCIJ. 