Afolabi Pelumi One of the biggest deterrents that keeps creatives and entrepreneurs from pursing a side hustle is the fear of failing in one or both. This type of balancing act is not easy. Whether your side hustle is a simple creative project or a full-blown second business, the idea of taking on additional responsibility while working full-time can seem impossible, especially if your full-time job requires the typical 9-to-5 office. Here, are four ways to balance side hustle with part time jobs: 1. Focus and Prioritise Often, when you have a full time job, you have limited weekdays, hours to dedicate to your side hustle. As humans it’s easy to procrastinate or multitask when you don’t have a clear goal in mind.
If you rock your side hustle in the morning, set your goal the night before. Say it out loud or write it down somewhere. If you work on your side hustle in the evening, set your intention in the morning. That way, when you wake up or get home from work, you would have an idea or structure in place. Also, be realistic about how much work you can get done in one sitting. 2. Use Your Limited Time to Your Advantage Use your limited amount of time to your advantage to get more done in the long term, by doing this you have to opportunity to earn extra income. Stop thinking of your limited amount of time to work as an excuse. Instead, think of it as an amazing benefit, helping you to be more productive and actually get more done. Most full-time jobs pay for professional development like conferences, courses and training. Consider these FREE opportunities to educate yourself and potentially grow your side hustle with your new skills on your company’s time. 3. Get comfortable with the word “no” One of the greatest keys to success in any endeavor is learning to prioritise and maintain your limits. No one is at their best when stretched across too many responsibilities a risk that becomes very real when balancing a side hustle and full-time job. Both at your job and with your side hustle, you need to learn to say “no.” It might sound like a simple task but it can be surprisingly hard for ambitious, hard-working people. Before you jump at any chance, think about how it will affect your performance in both your side hustle and your other responsibilities at work. 4. You are your biggest priority It’s rare, for one to find a perfect balance between their side hustle and full-time job. You’ll need to constantly be ready to adjust on the job or hustle. There will be moments of perfect synergy and moments when you would want to give up, but each one will teach you more about how to balance these part of your life. Above all, maintain your own health and sanity. Remember that without you, there is no balance between your side hustle and your full-time job. You are the crux of all of this and, therefore, you are your biggest priority.