By Adekunle Yusuf DrugStoc, Nigeria’s premier anti-counterfeit drug procurement platform, made its debut at the just-concluded Africa Investment Forum 2019 in Johannesburg, South Africa. The forum, Africa’s investment market place, is a multi-stakeholder, multi-disciplinary platform dedicated to accelerating the economic and social development of the continent. It is an exclusively transactional event, organised annually by the African Development Bank. It offers investors, deal sponsors, policy makers and delegates’ access to a structured platform and enabling environment to advance projects to bankable stages, raise capital and accelerate financial closure of deals. ‘We are excited to have been selected as a delegate to attend the Africa Investment Forum 2019, which held in South Africa. It was a memorable experience, but more importantly a major milestone for us at DrugStoc. As Nigeria’s largest anti-counterfeit drug procurement platform for health professionals, we are glad to have attended the forum with other change makers to discuss and take action on ways to attract investment and reshape the fortunes of our continent, Africa. Our presentation at AIF was well received and we are certainly looking forward to further empowering healthcare providers to fulfill the mandate of a healthier Africa,” Adham Yehia, co-founder DrugStoc, said. DrugStoc is a cloud-based pharmaceutical IT and logistics platform focused on eliminating counterfeit drugs, expanding access to pharmaceutical products and improving transparency in pricing for healthcare providers and the product supply chain. The platform is reputable for being internationally accredited with zero tolerance for fake drugs. It also seeks to provide all licensed health workers in Nigeria a hassle-free procurement channel to source all the medications, consumables, and small medical devices they need for their patients or practice.  Earlier this year, DrugStoc was recognized by the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Awards for its innovative use of technology to improve access to anti-counterfeit drugs. The startup also recently emerged one of the top 10 finalists for the Africa Netpreneur Prize Initiative, a Jack Ma’s flagship entrepreneur program. The 2019 forum, which had in attendance heads of states/government, including H.E Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the Republic of South Africa, H.E Nana Akufo-Addo, President of Ghana, H.E Paul Kageme, President of the Republic of Rwanda and H.E Carlos Agostinho do Rosário, Prime Minister Republic of Mozambique. The event also had in attendance business leaders, industry captains, hundreds of select delegates and participants with over $40.1 billion dollars in investment secured from 25 countries including Nigeria.