Six years after the completion and handing over of a befitting edifice named, Sunday Dankaro House, to the Nigeria Football Federation to serve as its secretariat, Sports Minister Sunday Dare has issued an ultimatum to the leadership of the football house to move there next month, writes SEGUN OGUNJIMI  The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) will start operating from its new secretariat by next month if the wish of Sports Minister Sunday Dare comes through. The edifice was built by an indigenous company, Messers Paul-B Nigeria PLC and was inaugurated with fanfare on July 18, 2013, and handed over to the NFF by former Vice-President Namadi Sambo. The building was named after a former NFA chairman, Sunday Dankaro. The Sunday Dankaro House is a two-storey building, which boasts a helipad, a courtyard, a penthouse, and a manicured park. The ground floor of the building has a conference room and 12 self-contained offices with conveniences while the first floor has 14 of such facilities. It also has a big conference hall and the office of the Secretary-General. The second floor is a penthouse, which accommodates the office of the NFF President with two conference halls. At the time it was handed over, the new NFF secretariat had a functional 200KVA generator, a borehole with the ground and overhead tanks for 20,000 litres capacity and a parking space for 110 vehicles. Going by the profile of Nigeria in global football, the need to give the Nigeria Football Federation a befitting secretariat informed the decision by the Presidential Task Force on Super Eagles to build for the NFF a new secretariat in Abuja.  The location of the new secretariat is good and we also have our Goal Project field there for our national teams to use for training and preparations for events and competitions  When the Super Eagles qualified for the first World Cup on African soil; the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua constituted the Presidential Taskforce for the 2010 World Cup that was to be held in South Africa. With the support of the government, the Task Force, headed by a former governor of Rivers State, Rotimi Amaechi as at that time, mobilised funds from philanthropic individuals and corporate bodies to support the Super Eagles to qualify for the 2010 World Cup. At the end of the World Cup, the Task Force declared a surplus of N350million, which it immediately channeled into what is now the new NFF secretariat located inside the Package B of the MKO Abiola national stadium in Abuja. The NFF had cited a lack of furniture and structural defects as some of the reasons the building is still unoccupied. While retiring the 2014 World Cup funds, the present NFF said it had expended $150,000 on procurement of furniture for the new secretariat. Furthermore, it was reported that the former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabnio had donated N50million to the NFF to assist the football federation in furnishing their new office. But this time around, everything seems to be working in tandem with plans to relocate. In a chat with the Minister shortly after his meeting with the leadership of the NFF a few days ago, he said the relocation to the secretariat would boost the image of the football house. Dare said: “I am glad to see a renewed commitment to completing and moving into the prestigious and well-conceived Dankaro House. The NFF will boost its image in this respect. It is a benefitting edifice to Nigeria’s status as a football nation. It will be a plus to the ongoing effort to bring the Moshood Abiola Stadium back in full swing. But NFF ought to have done this sooner than later.” Nigeria Football Federation General Secretary Dr. Mohammed Sanusi expressed the readiness of the body to relocate its secretariat, as directed by the Minister. “I want to tell you that in less than two months by the grace of God, we will move to Dankaro House. We are working with the contractors to make sure that everything is done. They (the contractors) have already brought in the furniture, internal and external work that is delaying the installation of the furniture will be completed very soon.  “We are not happy that we have not moved, but we are working round the clock to make sure in less than two months we pack in into Dankaro House. The location of the new secretariat is good and we also have our Goal Project field there to make for our various national teams to use for training and preparations for events and competitions. We also have elite athletes hostel owned by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and other facilities. So we are not complaining or talking about the new secretariat. “By the time we move to the office, you will see that the office will bring more life to that place.” Sanusi declined to disclose the source of funding for the renovation and furnishing of the secretariat. “If you have a house and you are either building a house or renovating it, it is not about where the source of funding comes from but it’s about when you are finishing it or moving there. It is not for public consumption of how your house is being built. I think our concern should be when you are moving there. “The Honourable Minister of Youth and Sports Minister is interested in seeing us move to Dankaro House. He has charged us as a father to do everything humanly possible to make sure that we move into our new office. You know when you have an edifice that is like this one if you don’t move it will continue to dilapidate. It wasn’t our intention to stay this long here without moving, but we try as much as possible to give it touches. That was why it was not just renovation; there was serious reconstruction that we have done inside that place. Just like the minister has charged us, we are looking towards making sure that we move in there,” he said. Barring unforeseen exigencies, the NFF will be operating from its new secretariat any time soon. 