The family of a 13 year-old girl, name withheld, who was reportedly raped to coma is seeking financial aid to offset medical bills incurred during her treatment. The teenager was allegedly raped to coma by her step-father, identified as Sunday Ojo, on October 16, 2019. The incident was said to have occurred at the White House area of Jakpa Road in Effurun, Uvwie council area of Delta state. The Nation gathered that 51 year-old Ojo has been in hiding since the ugly act. He had allegedly beat the young girl after molesting her, then tried to drown her in a bucket of water. The victim’s mother, Ese Matthew (not real names), who was absent due to a quarrel with the suspect (her husband) on the night of the incident, returned the following morning to find her daughter sprawled on the floor, with blood stains. It was learnt that she rushed the child to Central Hospital, Warri and then again to a private clinic, were the young girl finally regained consciousness, after seven days. Narrating the ordeal, the mother said, ”l left the house that night because of the misunderstanding I had with my husband (Sunday Ojo). l left the house to avoid the very violent man who had at one point stabbed me on my left elbow. ”I returned back the next morning but I could not gain entrance into the house, until I called my brother and we broke into the house. Then I observed everywhere was silent. l met my daughter naked and lifeless, with blood everywhere, a wet bed and bucket of water that was used by my husband to drown my daughter. “It is true that the step-father raped and drowned my daughter. I rushed my daughter to General Hospital, Warri, but I was referred to Lily Hospital. My little child of 4 years who was also in the house that night narrated how the father suffocated her half-sister after beating her up and also confirmed the actions of her father. ”Mr Sunday Ojo has been on the run since the incident occurred. I arrested the brother but the police released him because they said, Mr. B cannot be arrested for crime of Mr A. I arrested him again because he was communicating with his brother on phone but he has been released.” The victim, said to be relatively stable, has been billed N1.8 million for her medical treatment. The family who has been able to pay N800, 000 is seeking support from the general public to complete the payment and get the child back to school. “Please, I want the public to help me financially, to take my child home. We are here because we couldn’t pay the balance money,” Mrs. Matthew appealed. Meanwhile, the Delta State Police Command has confirmed the development. Commissioner of Police, Mr. Adeyinka Adeleke, told The Nation via phone that “it is the step-daughter that was raped. We are yet to arrest the man.” On his part, human rights activist, Comrade Isreal Joe, urged the Ekpan Police Division to intensify efforts to apprehend the suspect. Appreciating the Divisional Police Officer, SP Ibok, for the investigation thus far, he called for a court order declaring, Sunday Ojo “wanted”.