 Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has sent a list of 20 commissioner-nominees’ names to the House of Assembly. In a letter read by Speaker Abdulaziz Garba Gafasa, the governor asked the House to screen and approve the nominees for appointment as members of the Executive Council (exco). They include: Mohammad Garba, Murtala Sule Garo, Magaji Da’u, an engineer, Ibrahim Ahmad Karaye, Musa Ilyasu Kwankwaso, Kabiru Ibrahim Getso, Nura Mohammad Dankade, Dr. Aminu Tsanyawa Sadiq Aminu Wali and Mohammad Tahir Adamu. Others are: Mukhtar Ishaq Yakasai, Mohammad Baffa Takai, Ahmed Rabiu, Mahmud Baffa Dansantsi, Dr. Zahrau Muhammad Umar, Shehu Naallah Kura, Kabiru Ado Lakwaya, Lawan Abdulahi Musa, Ibrahim Mukhtar and Mohammad Sanusi Kiru. Speaking after reading the letter on the floor of the House, Speaker Gafasa invited the nominees to the Assembly on November 5 (today) for screening. However, of the 20 nominees, six former commissioners made it back, while 14 new ones were appointed to form a new exco. The appointment is coming five months after the inauguration of Governor Ganduje after his victory and affirmation by the tribunal. Katsina State House of Assembly yesterday suspended the confirmation of the 17 commissioner-nominees, citing “technical issues” for the suspension. The Nation recalled that the 17 nominees submitted by Governor Aminu Bello Masari were screened by the House last week and are awaiting confirmation. However, the Assembly, in a motion moved by its Majority Leader and member representing Rimi Constituency, Abubakar Abukur and seconded by his deputy, Ibrahim Dikko, cited “technical issues” for the suspension. He said: “We suspended the confirmation of the nominees in line with the constitution that gave us the mandate and privilege to take at least 21 working days for screening and confirmation of nominees.” Speaker Tasi’u Musa Maigari, while confirming the suspension during the plenary, said the House would address the “technical issues” before the confirmation of the nominees. The Assembly, however, adjourned plenary till November 11. Adamawa State House of Assembly yesterday began the screening of the 23 people Governor Ahmadu Fintiri nominated for appointment as commissioners. The Assembly, at its plenary, screened 11, four of whom were technocrats, six former lawmakers and a former commissioner and Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP’s) state secretary. The House last week fixed November 4 for the beginning of the screening of the nominees named and forwarded to the Assembly on October 23 by Governor Fintiri to serve as members of the executive council (exco). The 12 screened during yesterday’s plenary included Prof. Isa Abdullahi from Mubi South, Dr. Dishi Khobe from Numan, Dr. Ishaya John Dabari from Michika and Dr. Umaru Garba from Hong Local Government. Others include Shaibu Audu from Mayo Belwa, Sanusi Faruk (Toungo), Aloysius Babadoke (Jada), Justina Obadiah Nkom (Lamurde), Mrs. Wulbina Jackson (Guyuk) and Hassan Kaigamma (Maiha).