The President, Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIoTA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, has said that the way to go in seeking solution to the perennial gridlock in the port city of Apapa, Lagos, is to turn to the railway and barges for the movement of containers. This is aside the urgent need for the expansion of the ports, especially as the present Apapa and Tin-Can Island ports have lost spaces where containers would have been, to concessionaires, who are in charge of the terminals. Jamoh, who spoke ahead of a planned summit aimed at taking a holistic look at the entire transport value chain in the logistics sector, disclosed that when  to  have rail tracks to move cargo from the ports to the outside would be a paramount discussion at the summit, with emphasis on same in terms of policy, advisory, human capacity, and skill acquisition for the association members across the various agencies in the maritime industry. According to him, CIoTA, at its 2019 National Transport Summit,  with the theme: Unlocking the Potentials of Transportation for Sustainable Development, holding from December 3 – 5 at the Musa Yar’Adua Conference Centre, Abuja, pushes for policies to enable seamless integration of the different modes of transportation in the country a focal point. This, he reckons, will ensure that smooth logistics that would help improve cargo movement from the ports to final destinations, are explored and formulated. Besides, it would also create an avenue to address the silo nature of the modes of transportation in the country, which have not been beneficial to the trade supply chain. Jamoh, who is also Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), further explained that the event would also avail the stakeholders in the sector an opportunity to learn how best they can get the needed value in the supply chain, noting that trade is only complete when goods can get to their final destination in efficient manner.  “We can see that the challenge has been the non-integrated approach of the various transportation modes, making it difficult for movement of goods from the ports to various locations. We shall be looking at solutions that would integrate the road, rail, air, and water transport systems. We are looking to push for policy to uphold seamless integration of the transport modes to support trade, in terms of easy movement of cargo across locations,” Jamoh said. He revealed that the Chairman Presidential Economic Council, Dr. Doyin Salami, will lead other speakers at the event. Other speakers lined up include Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside; Founder, Centre for Value in Leadership, Professor Pat Utomi; Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Bala-Usman; as well as  retired Merchant Navy Captain, Emmanuel Iheanacho; The Managing Director, Nigerian Railway  Corporation , Fidet Okhiria, Prof. Innocent Ogwude and Chris Asoluka, Chairman Onne Oil and Gass Free Zone. President Muhammadu Buhari will be the Special Guest of Honour at the three-day summit. 