From Alabi Ahmed Abiodun  I am a 400 level student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) on along Alabata Road, few meters from Obantoko, a highly-populated town that has been subjected to severe hardship due to its dilapidated road. Although there are three Federal Government agencies and two institutions in this community, the state of the road is terrible. Obantoko Road is the state headquarters of the Nigeria Police as well as the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. From the T-Junction to the left is the Ogun-Osun River Basin. At the end of the road sits FUNAAB. To the right of the T-junction is the Federal College of Education (FCE), Osiele, which road leads to Oyo State. Despite the huge opportunities on this road, it has been abandoned for years by successive administrations. The leadership of FUNAAB has spent huge sums to rehabilitate the portion leading to the institution’s main campus. However, the more it is rehabilitated, the more it turns out more terrible. It is obvious the road needs reconstruction and not partial rehabilitation. Nonetheless, my university neither has the constitutional power nor the financial muscle to rebuild this road from scratch. The people staying on this road have multiplied manifold unlike some years ago. Daily, the commuters are facing severe hardship. The people I sympathise with most are the civil servants working with those federal agencies. They have been living with endless lamentation. Pianfullly, due to the terrible condition of the road, several accidents had occurred resulting to needless loss of lives. In fact, students of FUNAAB are the greatest victims. During emergencies, there would be lockdown, leading to delays of students who are being rushed to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) at Idi Aba for urgent medical attention. There’s also a quarry around this community; and the trucks and trailers with loads also ply the road. So, aside reconstruction, the road needs expansion and extension to address the human and vehicular movements around Alabata and Obantoko axis. Dear Minister, I am begging you in the name of Almighty Allah to come to our aid because the past few years have been hellish. God bless the Federal Republic of  Nigeria.