As the concluding part of the Kogi West senatorial election takes place on Saturday, fears over violence, thuggery, intimidation of voters that characterised the initial exercise on November 16 are still rife. Will the exercise be free and fair?  TONY AKOWE and NICHOLAS KALU write on the preparations for the poll.  Two sons of Okunland in the Kogi West Senatorial District, Smart Adeyemi and Dino Melaye, are poised for a final duel over who takes the district’s vacant seat in the Senate. Judging by the growing animosity between the contestants, the stage appears set for a fight to the finish. The election on November 16 was cancelled in a number of polling units where violence, ballot snatching and intimidation of voters marred the process. One of such units is the Aiyetoro Gbede polling ward 1 unit 4, located beside the Apostolic Church headquarters in Aiyetoro. Intending voters were on the line in an orderly manner, waiting to take their turn to perform their civic responsibility. The turnout of voters was impressive. Suddenly, there was commotion as news filtered in that thugs had invaded the polling unit at the town hall and had made away with the ballot box. The voters scampered in different directions, while the youth corp member, who was apparently the most senior electoral officer around, made to pack up the unused electoral materials. A middle aged man told him, “please protect yourself first and don’t argue with anybody”. The electorate began to form the line again to continue when suddenly, like a scene from the movie, a black Toyota hillux van and an ash coloured honda civic showed up on top speed on the bumpy road. There were gun shots rang in the air and the people, including reporters and election observers, ran in different directions. A middle aged man jump down from the hillux van, smashed the box containing cast votes for the senatorial election and took the second box, which was probably containing votes cast for the governorship. A few minutes later, everywhere was calm again and residents of the area gathered in small clusters discussing what had just happened, while some of the youths began to make road blocks and burn fires around the voting area. Some of the women were heard saying “they took our ballot box away. We cannot vote again”. A passing Toyota sienna space bus belong to Splash FM, Ibadan, stopped to listen to the women. Journalists who were occupants of the van were lucky to escape as the youths went wild, smashing its rear windscreen. Senator Melaye, who is a senatorial on the platform of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), accused the Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello, of sponsoring the thugs. He said the governor was desperate to hold on to power by all means and would do everything possible to ensure that the election went is way. He also accused the police of not doing enough to protect the people and their votes. Melaye said: “After casting my vote, I left my polling unit and came to the house only to be called that Sowore, who worked as SA to the governor and now Chief of Staff to Onoja, came with hoodlums who shot indiscriminately and carted away ballot boxes in my polling unit. Immediately I was told, we ran back and the boys were able to recover the two ballot boxes. The ballot box for the senatorial election was riddled with bullets so, it was damaged. But that of the governorship was recovered intact. I want to acknowledge that the security agencies who came in started searching for them and eventually got five of them arrested and as I speak, they have made confessional statements to the Commissioner of Police in charge of election in Kogi West. They made confessional statements to the fact that they were recruited. They have been arrested along with a police man on illegal duty who was apparently giving cover to the thugs. He was recognised as the person who came with them to the polling unit and the community people descended on him and started beating him until he was rescued. The policeman is right now in detention. I also understand that police arrested a team of thugs carrying a bunch of PVCs and they have confessed that it is Taofik Isa, the local government Administrator that gave them those PVCs and thumb printed papers to be used. Taofik Isa has been arrested by the police and I learnt that he has written a confessional statement in Kabba. We have always said that the APC was not prepared for election, but we are ready to prove that the ballot is stronger than the bullet. They came to the town hall, shot and carried ballot box in Ayetoro Ward 2 and also went to Okebukun in Aiyetoro ward 1 and shot the ballot boxes, carrying all the bags and the remaining ballot boxes and ballot papers, including the phones of Youth Corps members. Yahaya Bello has terrorised the entire state. As I speak to you, I have received information that they have taken over a greater part of Lokoja and they have been collecting ballot boxes from each polling unit in Lokoja metropolis with the intention of coming back with stuffed ballot boxes with altered results. We don’t see how that is going to happen because we will fight with the last drop of our blood to protect our ballot and our votes.” This was the scenario in many other parts of the state as residents tried to decide who should lead them in the next four years, beginning from January when the tenure of the current governor expires. It was not only in Aiyetoro Gbede that journalists were attacked. They suffered the same fate in Ayingba, Dekina local government area of the state. Sporadic gun shots either from political thugs or policemen trying to instil fear in the people became the order of the day. The violent attacks, started days before the election, went unchecked till the results of the polls were announced. Fingers were being pointed at the governor who was the candidate of the APC and the party’s leadership in the state. Before the election, tension was palpable across the state. Fear of possible violence was the major topic of discussions around the state, especially in Lokoja, the state capital. The police authorities claimed to have deployed over 35,000 personnel in the state, in addition to other security personnel from sister agencies. Observer groups like the YIAGHA Africa had warned of possible violence long before the election, citing heavy militarisation of the state. Of particular interest was the attempt to prevent the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Natasha Akpoti, from casting her vote at her polling unit in Okehi local government. Thugs and charms were reportedly deployed around her to make sure she did not step out of her house until journalists arrived before she could go out to vote. With a total number of 1,646,350 registered voters spread across the 21 local government areas of the state, only about 636,202 were accredited to vote. Interestingly, Kogi East Senatorial district where the governorship candidate of the PDP, Mr Musa Wada and the APC deputy governorship candidate, Edward Onoja hailed from, has the highest number of registered voters with 804,715 spread across nine local government areas. While the governor’s Kogi central district has a total registered voter population of 409,120 spread across five local government areas. The balance of 432,515 are located in the West district where Senator Melaye and his APC challenger, Senator Smart Adyemi hailed from. Also from the West district is the deputy governorship candidate of the PDP, Samuel Aro. The Secretary to the Kogi state government is also from the western district. A close analysis of the distribution of polling units indicates that the governor’s Okene local government, with 131,166 registered voters, has the highest number of polling units with 266 units. In contrast, Dekina local government where the PDP governorship candidate hailed from, has the highest number of registered voters of 166,165. But the total number of polling units in that local government was 217. Also, Ankpa, in the eastern part of the state with 142,912 registered voters, the second highest in the state with 176 polling units, same with Okehi with 8,180 registered voters. Vote buying, may have played a prominent role in the outcome of the election. But one thing that was clear is the fact that in most of the places, votes were bought and sold while security men looked the other way. Complaints over intimidation of voters were rife during the initial election. The some chieftains of the PDP in Kogi West told told one of our correspondent that members of the PDP were denied the opportunity to cast their votes in Odokolo area. Thy claimed that some APC chieftains had left a standing instruction to armed thugs not to allow voters other than those intending to vote for the APC exercise their franchise in a number of polling units. However, the village head of Odokolo, Oba Abdulganiyu Isa, denied the claims. He said that he personally instructed the people to allow everyone exercise their franchise without intimidation. A local government administrator was sighted in one of the polling units moving in company of persons who appeared to be political thugs. Worried by the disruption of voting at the various units, Captain Jerry Agada who served as agent of the PDP at the collation of results, had tasked the Inspector General of Police to explain why some of his officers chose to work against the people wanting to exercise their civic responsibility. Agada claimed that an officer of the Counter Terrorism Unit flew a helicopter that shot at innocent voters, allegedly killing some of them. He claimed that the officer was arrested, but released shortly after despite the promise by the IGP that such offenders would face the consequences of their actions. The IGP had said: “During the elections, anybody you saw either in police uniform or military uniform that did not carry the tag that had been given for the election, that person was not a genuine police officer or military officer or he was not on official duty. We were aware of the fact that some politicians were going to sew police and military uniforms, so we devised some other means of identifying those who were on election duty. We gave them tags. There was a police helicopter that was hovering. It was on patrol, and in the course of patrol, you could see some incidents of maybe people fighting, people trying to snatch ballot boxes. You need to intervene. In the course of intervention, of course, you can never use firearms because during elections we don’t carry firearms. So, that helicopter you saw was to patrol and scare those that would want to snatch ballot boxes. Of course, if you see a helicopter hovering over your head, if you wanted to snatch a ballot box or you had carried one, definitely you would know you are being monitored and you would stop. So, prevention was our focus”. The Kogi governorship election may have come and gone. But, the ugly fallouts from it may continue to linger in a long time to come. On Saturday’s the senatorial poll will hold. Adeyemi is already leading with over 20,000 votes. What is left for the two contestants to share is about 40,000 votes. But, win or lose, the two contestants have fought a fierce battle -fair and foul. 