Nigerian Army Council has approved the promotion of 81 officers comprising 34 Brigadiers-General to the rank of Majors-General and 47 Colonels to the rank of Brigadiers-General. The new promotion was announced on Sunday in Abuja in a statement by the Acting Director of Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa. The Navy Board also promoted 140 officers to the next ranks, according to a statement on Sunday in Abuja by Navy Director of Information, Commodore Suleman Dahun. Also, the Air Force Council approved the promotion of 99 senior officers to the next ranks in the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). A statement on Sunday in Abuja by Director of Public Relations and Information of NAF, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, announced the promotion. Army Those promoted to Major-Generals are: Brigadier-Generals. S. Idris, Defence Headquarters; D. C. Onyemulu, Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre, Oshodi, Lagos and B. O. Sawyer, Army Headquarters Department of Policy and Plans. Others are: G. S. Abdullahi, Defence Headquarters; I. M. Obot, Nigerian Army Resource Centre; A. L. Lawal, Nigerian High Commission, Cairo, Egypt and L. A. Adegboye, Headquarters 82 Division, Enugu. Also on the list are: A. B. Ibrahim, Department of Training and Operations; P. B. Fakroga, Headquarters, Nigerian Army Women Corps; C. K. Nwosu, Nigerian Army Special Forces School, Buni Yadi, Yobe State and H. I. Bature, Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command, Minna, Niger State. The other new Brigadier-Generals are: A. L. Dusu, Defence Headquarters; M. A. Masanawa, Ammunition Central Depot Agunu, Kachia, Kaduna State; J. A. Ataguba, Land Forces Simulation Centre, Abuja; A. E. Attu, National Defence College, Abuja; B. A. Isandu, Nigerian Army Intelligence School, Lagos; S. S. Araoye, Command Engineering Depot, Kaduna and M. S. Ahmed, S. I. List, Nigerian Embassy, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. They also include G. A. T. Ochigbano, Army Headquarters Department of Military Secretary; T. A. Lagbaja, Headquarters, 2 Brigade Abak Uyo, Akwa Ibom State; L. A. Fejokwu, Army Headquarters Department of Administration; P. E. Eromosele, National Defence College, Abuja; A. M. Alabi, Headquarters, Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole, Maiduguri, Borno State. Also on the list are: Brigadier-Generals G. O. Adesina, Department of Policy and Plans; M. M. Bunza, Nigerian Military School, Zaria, Kaduna State; A. A. Adesope, Directorate of Audit and Financial Management Office of the Chief of Army Staff and K. I. Muktar, Department of Administration “Army”. Others are: O. O. Olatunde, Headquarters, 35 Brigade (was posthumously promoted; E. A. Ndagi, Office of the National Security Adviser (NSA); K. O. Aligbe, Defence Headquarters; U. A. Yusuf, African Standby Force, ECOWAS Headquarters, Abuja, were list among the newly promoted major-generals. The statement also contained the names of O. C. Ajunwa, Nigerian Embassy, Brasilia; F. O. Omoigui, Department of Training and Operations (Army) and O. A. Akinyemi, Administrative Staff College of Nigeria, Badagry, Lagos. “Those promoted to Brigadier-Generals are Colonels B. Y. D. Sakaba, Defence Headquarters Abuja; A. Y. Bwala, 302 Artillery Regiment Onitsha, Anambra State; A. A. Adekoya, Defence Intelligence Agency; N. J. Edet, Headquarters, 81 Division, Lagos; E. C. Obi-Osang, Headquarters, Nigerian Army Special Forces Command, Buni Yadi. “They also include A. O. Arogbofa, Headquarters, 102 Division Equipment Support; S. Nicodemus, Headquarters, 6 Division, Port Harcourt, Rivers State; W. B Idris, 17 Brigade, Katsina; I. O. Olatunji, Headquarters, 8 Division, Sokoto and S. T. Audu, Headquarters, 21 Brigade, Yola, Adamawa State. “Others are: U. T. Opuene, Headquarters, Infantry Corps Centre, Jaji, Kaduna State; M. D. Abumawashi, Headquarters, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maiduguri; L. G. Lepdung, Headquarters, Infantry Corps, Jaji, Kaduna; A. O. D. Okoro, Department Administration (Army); A. S. M. Wase, Department of Training and Operations (Army) and A. L. Okpodu, Nigerian Army Aviation. “They also include S. Nuhu, Department of Training and Operations (Army); E. O. Ojo, Special Task Force, Operation Safe Haven; J. R. Lar, 31 Artillery Brigade Garrison, Minna and S. J. A. Ilori, Department of Army Transformation and Innovation. “Also elevated to Brigadier-Generals are: N. B. Ebulue, Defence Intelligence Agency; K. O. Ukandu, Army Headquarters Department of Administration; A. G. Laka, Army War College, Abuja; E. I. Etuk, Multinational Joint Task Force N’Djamena, Niger Republic; M. E. Onoja, 1 Military Intelligence Brigade, Kaduna and E. I. Okoro, Nigerian Army War College. “M. B. Wabili, Nigerian Army Super Camp Benisheik, Borno State; K. E. Chigbu, Army Headquarters, Department of Training and Operations; S. O. Nwafor, 303 Artillery Regiment General Support and I. Out, Headquarters, 7 Division, Maiduguri are also on the list,” the statement said. Others, according to the statement, are: S. O. Adejimi, Headquarters, 6 Division Supply and Transport; S. D. Makolo, Headquarters, Department of Transformation and Innovation; V. D. Beryo, Headquarters, Ordnance Corps; M. O. Erebulu, 2 Provost Group, Ibadan and A Idris, Directorate of Army Reserve Recruitment and Resettlement Rear. “They also include C. A. Ataki, Department of Policy and Plans (Army); F. O. Omata, Special Task Force Operation Safe Haven; C. C. Ogbu, Institute of Army Education; A. E. Owiriwa, 82 Division, Ordnance Services; R. O. O. Cole, Nigerian Army Ordnance Tailoring Factory, Yaba, Lagos and T. I. Gusau, Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja. “Among those promoted to the rank of Brigadier-Generals are: G. C. Nkenke, 8 Division Supply and Transport and M. Galadima, Headquarters, Nigerian Army Finance Corps, Apapa, Lagos and M. Auta, Nigerian Army University Biu, Borno State,” he added. Musa added that the Acting Director of Defence Information, Onyema Nwachukwu, had been promoted to the rank of Brigadier-General. “Others are: I. Ahmed, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna; S. Nuhu, Army Headquarters, Department of Administration and A. A. W. Hassan, Armed Forces Command and Staff College.” Navy Those promoted are: Rear Admirals as Dickson Olisemenogor, Elkanah Jaiyeola, Baribuma Kole, Othaniel Filafa, Akinga Ayafa, Danjuma Moses, Vincent Okeke and Yakubu Wambai. Others, according to him, are: Emmanuel Beckley, Perry Onwuzulike, Nuhu Bala, Chukwu Okafor, Tanko Pani, Ibrahim Dewu, Monday Unurhiere, Joseph Akpan and Olumuyiwa Olotu. Dahun said those promoted to Commodores include Kabir Mohammed, Shehu Gombe, Ibrahim Mohammed, Musa Katagum, Gideon Kachim, Semiu Adepegba, Pakiribo Anabraba, Bob-Manuel Effiong, Suleiman Ibrahim, Danjuma Ndanusa, Haruna Zego and Ayo Adedotun-Vaughan. Others promoted are: Victor Choji, Mohammed Dahiru, Nnamdi Ekwom, Stephen Ibrahim, Desmond Igbo, Mohammed Muye, Kunle Oguntuga, Aniefiok Uko, Olufemi Adeleke, Etop Ebe, Usman Faruk, Paul Efe-Oghene, Michael Igwe, Ikenna Ubani, Musliu Yussuff, Samuel Ngatuwa, Omotola Olukoya, Dolapo Shittu, Abiodun Alade and Emmanuel Anakwe…” Air Force Thirteen Air Commodores, now Air Vice Marshals (AVM), 35 Group Captains, now promoted to Air Commodores, and 51 Wing Commanders promoted to the rank of Group Captains. The statement added: “Those promoted to the rank of AVM include Air Cdres Ayoola Jolasinmi, Hassan Abubakar, Jackson Yusuf, Austine Imafidor, Pius Oahimire, Dalhat Ladan, Cosmas Ozougwu, Isah Muhammad, Sunday Makinde, Abubakar Yusuf, Abubakar Adamu, Ado Inuwa and Ademola Durotoye. “Among those promoted from the rank of Gp Capt to Air Cdre are: Ahmed Idris, Olasunkanmi Abidoye, Olusola Akinboyewa, Isaac Subi, Japhet Ekwuribe, Solomon Lazarus, Ahmed Dari, Emeka Ashiegbu and Abdullahi Bello. “Others promoted to the rank of Air Cdre include, Yuhana Katabiya, Gambo Adamu, Alheri Dakwat, Olayinka Oyesola, Adedoyin Oyenusi, Edward Gapkwet, Friday Ekpah, Luther Kamat, Joktan Chidama, Felix Uwakara, Mikail Abdulraheem and Ernest Owai. “Group Capts Glenn Nkanang, Chidiebere Obiabaka, Raphael Ojo, Mohammed Isah, Ibitoye Ajiboye, Shani Bukar, Wapkerem Maigida, Atang Sambo, Daniel Akpan, Olanrewaju Oyename, Boniface Ifeobu, Godwin Udoh, Ayodele Hanidu and Azubuike Chukwuka were also promoted to the rank of Air Cdre.” “The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, on behalf of officers, airmen, airwomen and civilian staff of the NAF, heartily congratulates the newly promoted senior officers and urges them to see the elevation as motivation to re-dedicate themselves towards more effective and efficient service delivery. “The newly promoted senior officers will be decorated with their new ranks at a later date,” the statement said. “The Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, on behalf of officers, ratings and civilian workers of the Nigerian Navy, rejoices with these newly promoted officers and their families. “He urges them to rededicate themselves to their responsibilities and remain loyal to the nation and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR,” the statement said.