Nsa Gill, Calabar  The National Vice Chairman of All Progressives Congress, South-south zone, Ntufam Hilliard Ettah, has declared that all the suspensions and counter suspensions following the crisis that has engulf the APC in Edo State are unconstitutional and therefore null and void. Ettah who spoke to newsmen in Calabar after the suspension of some senior government officials of Edo State APC by the National Working Committee of the party through a release signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, said none of the factions in the crisis rocking the party in Edo State followed the provisions of the constitution of the party. He said, “I am not in a position to take sides in the matter in Edo State. But let me say , I have read and seen in TV and  newspapers as well as in the social media the various sanctions and suspensions starting from the national chairman,  who was said to have been suspended to the governor,  his deputy , the secretary to government,  the chairmen and even the state secretary of the party.  My take on the suspension is that none of those processes lived to the expectations of the Constitution of the party; so as for me as I am concerned, they are all null and void,” he said. He added, “What we rather should do is to find ways and means of reconciling our people so that the only state that we have in the South-south will not be lost to the opposition so that after the Bayelsa election we would have two states controlled by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South-south.  This is my take on these matters.” Asked about the recent meeting of his party’s National Working Committee after a campaign rally held in Bayelsa state were certain decisions were alleged to have been taken touching on the Edo State governor and some senior government officials of his government, Ettah said, “I decided to come back. I was unable to attend that rally. I needed to go back to Abuja to get more information and find out all that I needed to know on the meeting. I will leave it at that. I need to find out from my colleagues who were at the said meeting so that I can give the correct answer to the question. I would have to interact with my colleagues.”