 The role of technology in traffic law enforcement is very crucial. It is, however, very sad that at this age, the use of technology is still a mirage in Nigeria. Consequent upon the dangerously increasing rate of road traffic violation, I decided to fashion out an alternative strategy, which I strongly believe, will instill sanity into drivers, riders and other road users. I tagged it Participatory Enforcement Strategy. Under this strategy, the state government should set up  a Special Enforcement Desk to be manned by adequate number of Information Communication Technology (ICT) or computer literate staff.  A dedicated toll free number and e – mail address should be made available to the public and a regularly publicised in the electronic and print media. The public is to be using the WhatsApp number and email to send pictures of vehicles, tricycles and motorcycles violating the traffic laws. They should be snapped while they are committing the offence (in the very act) with their plate numbers conspicuously shown in the picture.  The photo and a brief statement of the offence committed should be forwarded to the special traffic enforcement desk through the WhatsApp or e-mail. Officers at the special desk will instantly transmit the information the state vehicle inspection office or the state traffic management office as the case may be for action. Through the plate number, the identity of the vehicle owner can be obtained and the fines administered. Where the vehicle owner failed to pay, the compiled list of defaulters (their vehicle details) should be published in at least tw national newspapers. The defaulters are to bear the cost of the publications when eventually apprehended. For checks and balances, the  governor should have an officer, who will be comparing the list of offenders reported by the public with those fined or prosecuted.  The software should make it possible for information sent by the public to automatically go to the special traffic enforcement desk and the officer in the governor’s office.  The VIO or traffic management agency responsible for the state traffic law enforcement should submit regular report to the office of the governor to ease the regular comparative analysis of those reported and those fined. The public who is oftentimes the victims of traffic law violation will surely work better than CCTV camera on all the roads in Nigeria. This strategy will promote safety on the roads and significantly increase the state government revenue, particularly with the effectiveness of the suggested checks and balances. The state government must ensure that the identity of the public supplying the pictures of road traffic violators are kept secret or confidential. Any government official that disclose the identity of anybody that provide information to the special desk should be prosecuted in the law court and dismissed from service. With camera enabled mobile phones in the hands of many people in Nigeria, the special traffic enforcement desk will be daily bombarded with evidenced information of traffic offenders till the rate of compliance to traffic regulations improve tremendously. This is an idea which I believe if well packaged and judiciously implemented by all the state governments and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) will bring sanity to the roads and increase government revenue.