The Lagos State government on Tuesday gave conditions for the reopening of worship centres and social points and hospitality premises. They must get letters of guarantees from residents’ associations of their operational communities, Environment and Water Resources Commissioners Tunji Bello said yesterday. Reading the riot act to operators of nightclubs, bars, karaoke centres, churches and mosques in the state that were shut down by the government due to  noise pollution, the commissioner said the affected centred  will not be reopened until they secure letters of guarantee from the residents association of their host host communities. In a statement by the Ministry’s spokesman, Mr. Adekunle Adeshina, the commissioner stated that the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) has been mandated to apply the full weight of the law in the matter. According to him, LASEPA officials will henceforth monitor the activities of such centres/homes and anyone found to have exceeded the allowed level of sound output will be closed down and the appropriate sanctions applied. Bello added that the action became imperative because his office has been inundated with complaints and petitions from many residents and community associations about the noise levels of many of the leisure centres and religious homes. The commissioner explained that it was also discovered that many of such leisure centres/religious homes after being reopened by the government usually go back to the same noise pollution for which they were earlier reprimanded, adding that this prompted the issue of involving the residents associations. He advised owners of the affected premises to procure sound proof equipment to reduce the noise level, warning that the government will not allow any business concern to endanger the health and wellbeing of residents. The Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) is partnering with the management of the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA) to clean up food and beverage debris on waterways.