Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  Two persons were confirmed dead and six others injured in a fire accident involving a petrol tanker close to the old toll gate at Sango-Ota, Ogun State on Thursday night. Seventeen vehicles were also burnt in the accident that happened around 11.55 p.m. according to the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Assistant Corps Commander in Ota, Ganiyu Akeem. He said the incident happened when the lone tanker fell and spilled its content into the drainage channel. What followed was a spark and then an explosion. Several vehicles were burnt in the inferno including one tanker trailer, 10 articulated trucks, three cars and three commercial buses. The Sango Toll Gate premises of the FRSC was also affected. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) quoting an official of the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Adekunle Ajibade,said the fuel-laden truck was heading to Lagos from Sango-Ota when it developed a gear fault and somersaulted in the process. “The driver was trying to change the gear of the vehicle and lost control. The truck overturned and caught fire immediately,”Ajibade said. The FRSC commander said that seven fire-fighting trucks, three from Ogun and four from Lagos, were promptly mobilised to the scene. “Thank God, we were able to stop the vehicles coming from Lagos at the Toll-gate on Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway in good time. “We rescued one person and took him to Ota General Hospital. We also evacuated two corpses that were burnt beyond recognition and we took them in our ambulance to Ifo General Mortuary,” he said. An emotional Governor Dapo Abiodun wept while visiting victims in the hospital. Abiodun promised to settle the hospital bills of the victims and also directed that they be transferred to specialist hospitals for better care. The governor pledged that measures would be put in place to prevent similar accidents on the Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta Expressway, adding that the planned takeover of the road by both the Ogun and Lagos state governments would put an end to unnecessary loss of lives and properties in the area. He said: “This sad occurrence has made our quest to take over the management of this road more compelling. The incessant road mishap around the toll gate axis is avoidable. While I commiserate with those who lost their loved ones and property, we shall do everything humanly possible to forestall future recurrence.” Governor Abiodun prayed for the repose of the soul of the dead and called for caution on the part of motorists conveying fuel and other explosive products across roads with heavy vehicular movement and human traffic. “May I use this opportunity to once again plead that the Federal Government should approve the request of both the Ogun and Lagos State Governments to take this all-important Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta expressway over,” he said