Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, is home to the headquarters of all security outfits in the country, yet it has flashpoints that are better avoided, writes GRACE OBIKE Abuja, like any city in the world, witnesses armed robberies, burglary, theft, car-jacking, mugging (which is known as one chance), violent protests, drug-related crimes and kidnapping. Many residents have unfortunately been injured; lost properties or their lives to these crimes and residents are advised to be cautious in black spots in the city. Visitors to Nigeria, especially foreigners who visit the city, are constantly briefed on flashpoints in the city and made aware of places to be cautious of or completely avoid. Recently, when delegates from Liberia visited Nigeria on a mission to understudy the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of the agency, Ephraim Timothy, told them that Abuja was relatively safe compared to other parts of the country, adding, however, that there was still need for caution. He identified the various flashpoints as Kado – Jabi area, Bolingo Junction, the Mabushi/Jabi Bridge, Behind Sheraton Hotels up to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) axis. Others include Area One Roundabout and Area 3 Junction, Dantata linking Galadimawa/Lugbe Junction (under the bridge). Also included are Gudu – Galadimawa area, Masalachi Junction, Wuse Market, Berger Roundabout, Kuje Junction, Wuse II (Central Business District). Particularly, Masalachi Junction (along Central Area), walking on or around the bridge linking the famous Yar’Adua Centre and the National Mosque in the early hours of the morning or early evening can be a dangerous affair. There are daily reports of people, especially ladies, being robbed of their handbags, phones and other valuables at knifepoint and other dangerous weapons. The criminals take cover in the thick vegetation around the area to catch their victims unawares and also escape thereafter any “operations”. Timothy listed Gudu – Galadimawa area, where he said that the Gudu roundabout, a major passage for those going into Garki and Apo areas of the city, is also a deadly place to go, especially in the evenings or early in the morning. Street urchins, who are never in short supply around the bush in the area, regularly rob people with the aid of dangerous weapons.  Also, the Kado -Jabi area where the artificial Jabi Lake is meant to be one of the leisure spots in Abuja, has been turned into a den for peddling and consumption of hard drugs like Indian hemp, cocaine, heroin etc. Such, areas around the lake is a no-go area from 8:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. At Dantata, linking Galadimawa/Lugbe Junction, the bridge along the Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport road is also one of the spots where one can get robbed. You could get robbed walking on top or under the bridge, which is some 5 kilometres away from the National Stadium. The area becomes more dangerous in the evening and early morning. Another flashpoint is the Area one Roundabout and Area 3 Junction, Garki. It’s a major transport hub for those coming into the city from the suburbs. Criminals also operate in the area, anytime from 8pm to the wee hours of the morning. For safety, the CSO advised the visitors to carry proper identification, including a passport with a current Nigerian visa if needed. “Be cautious when walking or driving at night. Drive defensively, constantly expecting sudden lane changes. Avoid isolated or overly crowded areas, especially at night and always drive with doors locked and windows closed. The visitors were also advised to be careful of the kind of calls they make in public and to avoid exposing or leaving valuables in the car. They were also told to review routes and times to vary predictability; just as they were advised not to physically resist any robbery attempt. The visitors were also warned against giving their telephone handsets to strangers to make calls and to be extra vigilant when visiting bank or ATMs. Timothy also enjoined the visitors to endeavour to monitor the local media for breaking events, be aware of their surroundings, to stay alert in locations frequented by foreigners and VIPs. They were also to avoid demonstrations and large political gatherings, review their personal security plans before stepping out and to equip themselves with emergency numbers. He assured them that some parts of the city like Asokoro and Maitama are relatively safe with the lowest crime rates and that other parts of the city believed to have high crime rates are still not as bad as what obtained in some states and some parts of cities around the world. 