 The Nigerian Tax and Fiscal Law (Amendment) Bill otherwise known as the Finance Bill met stiff opposition yesterday at the House of Representatives as stakeholders queried some aspects of the proposed law which they claimed may impose more hardship on companies operating in the country. The Oil Producers Trade Section of the Lagos Chambers of Commerce (OPTS), Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria and Association of Bureaux de  Change Operators in Nigeria all expressed reservations about some aspects of the bill. But Speaker of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila said the Tax and Fiscal Law (Amendment) Bill will determine amongst other things, determine government’s  ability to fund the 2020 budget, meet it statutory obligations and implement policies to build infrastructure,  tackle insecurity, grow the economy and provide jobs that pay a living wage and lift families out of poverty. Represented by the Deputy House Leader, Peter Akpatason, the Speaker said “we have a responsibility as legislators to meticulously review and examine every aspect of this Bill to ensure that we produce a legislative document that is clear in its objectives, thoughtful in the mandates it imposes and reflective of the best aspirations of all our citizens.” He said the public hearing is a step towards providing an opportunity for citizens and legislators to jointly consider the contents of the Bill. He further urged the public to advance ideas and make recommendations that will improve the quality of the legislation and ensure the varied interests and considerations of all Nigerians are taken into consideration before final enactment into law. Gbajabiamila charged the House members to exercise extra care in their contributions to the Bill by eschewing narrow considerations of personal or group interests, and give proper attention to the best interests of the majority of the people and the pursuit of a more peaceful and prosperous society for all. “We must also remember that the proper operation of democracy requires that people be willing to listen to and hear each other out especially when they disagree,” the Speaker noted. The Chairman of  OPTS  Paul McGrath, identified some key areas of concern that have the potential to further erode Nigeria’s competitiveness. He said: “Sections 5 & 26 introduce a 7 .5-10 percent withholding tax (WHT) on dividends paid out of petroleum profits. International oil companies operating in Nigeria are subsidiaries of foreign companies, to which they pay dividends out of the profits made from operations in Nigeria. “As a result, this provision represents another layer of tax on the pre-existing 85% petroleum profit tax rate. For investors, it does not make a difference whether returns are decreased by an income tax or a dividend withholding tax; both taxes reduce returns.” McGrath further explained that “When Section 60 of PPTA was put in place, it was widely understood that Nigeria’s PPT rate of 85% was very high when compared to other countries. “Therefore, the exemption of dividend payments from WHT was put in place to reduce the burden caused by the high tax rate. The Finance Bill simply repeals this exemption without taking into account the reason why this exemption was initially made. he said the implication of this repeal is that the effective tax rate borne by investors is increased, arguing that the additional tax will further erode returns on investment and will have a negative impact on Nigeria’s attractiveness as an investment destination. On their part, Association of Bureau de  Change Operators in Nigeria in a presentation by their Managing Partner, E.M Akinfolarin, said to be paying VAT is unlawful and counterproductive to the fragile stability being enjoyed in the Country by the operators of the market and the Country at large. He said “the N3 currently fixed by CBN is the maximum regulated profit margin to sell forex by the BDC operators, and no more (i.e the forex is expected to be sold between =N=357 and =N=360). “It is even difficult to achieve the =N=36O maximum selling price as stipulated by the CBN as a result of market forces which is a public knowledge. Nevertheless, the BDC operators still pay Company Income Tax (CIT) and Education Tax on this regulated slim profit margin. “It is pertinent to state further that the current selling rate of forex does not accommodate VAT charges/payments to the end users. So, the insistence of FIRS to continue to compel Bureau De Change Operators  to charge VAT on the end users will not only dislocate the monetary policy as it relates to forex market, but will constitute major infractions to the rules, policies and guidelines of CBN. “On the strength of all the above and in the overall interest of the Forex market economy and the country at large, we most respectfully urge the National Assembly to exempt the Bureau De Change Operators from paying VAT and include BDC on the exempt list as contained in the First Schedule of the VAT Act. Also, the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, faulted some section of the new bill which they believe will not be in the interest of the nation. The institute however said that most of the provisions that the bill seeks to amend are obsolate in terms of global practice and have become practically difficult to implement in the Nigerian context. President of the institute, Dame Gladys Olajumoke, Simplice, particularly faulted Sections 10, 13 and 27(1) of the bill, adding that the amendment of section 2 of the Act by expanding the definition of stamp duties to include adhesive and electronic stamp needs to aligned alongside the collecting authority. “This will help resolve the multiplicity of administration of stamp duty collection by various agents such as filling stations, banks and revenue  generation agencies (FIRS and States, and so on”, she said. Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee o Finance, James Abiodun Faleke listed the highlights of amendment to the Finance Bill 2019 to include the following: *Excess dividend tax to apply only to untaxed distributions other than the profits specially exempted from tax and franked investment income. *Small Businesses with turnover less than N25m to be exempted from Companies Income Tax *A lower CIT rate of 20% to apply to medium-sized companies With turnover between N25m and N100m *Commencement and cessation rules modified to eliminate overlaps and gaps to avoid double taxation and complication during commencement Minimum tax provisions amended to 0.5%of turnover and exemption only applies to small companies(less than N25m turnover), so non-resident companies will now pay minimum tax. *Insurance companies can now carry forward tax losses indefinitely, deduct reserve for unexpired risks on time apportionment bases while special minimum tax for insurance has been abolished. *Bonus of 2% of tax payable (medium-sized companies) and 1% for large companies for early payment of CIT *Introduction of thin capitalisation of 30% of EBITDA for interest deductibility. Any excess deduction can be carried forward for 5 years *Deemed tax presence for non-residents with respect to imported technical and management services now taxable at a final withholding tax rate of 10% *Any expense incurred to earn exempt income now specifically disallowed as a deduction against other taxable income *Dividends distributed from petroleum profits now to attract 10% withholding tax *Banks to request Tax Identification Number (TIN) before opening bank accounts for individuals; while existing account holders must provide their TIN to continue operating their accounts. *Email correspondences to be recognized for communicating with tax authorities *The meaning of supply and definition of goods and services has been expanded to cover intangible items other than land, among others *Specific requirement for VAT deregistration for discontinuing operations *Remittance of VAT now to be on cash basis, that is, difference between output VAT collected and input VAT paid in the preceding month *Compensation for loss of employment below N10m to be exempted from CGT (Capital Gain Tax) *Stamp duty on bank transfer to apply only on amount from N10, 000 and above. Transfers between the same owner’s accounts in the same bank also to be exempted. Some government agencies and others invited to the public hearing like the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Central Bank of Nigeria, Nigeria Shippers Council Nigeria Governors Forum, Association of Local Government of Nigeria, Civil Society groups among others failed to show up for the public hearing. Minister of Finance, Zaniab Shamsuna Ahmed said the bill is aimed at promoting fiscal equity by mitigating instances of regressive taxation, reform domestic tax laws to align with global best practices. She said the bill is also aimed at introducing tax incentives for investment in infrastructure and capital markets, while supporting small businesses in line with the ongoing ease of doing business reforms and raising revenue for government by various fiscal measures including a proposed increase in the rate of value added tax from 5% to 7.5%. A tax expert and Partner with PricewaterHouse Cooper, Taiwo Oyedele said his personal research indicates that Nigeria was presently one of the 10 highest countries in Company Income Tax in the world, adding that Nigeria should consider reducing company income tax to about 25 percent. He said care must be taken to ensure that companies are not made to use their capital to pay tax, proposing a minimum of 5 percent of accounting profit before tax and another 5 percent payment to related parties. He said while smaller companies are being exempted from certain taxes, large companies still have to pay as high as 30 percent income tax and another 2 percent as dividend tax, stressing that this will bring too much burden on the companies. The Finance Bill is a composite bill seeking to reform the tax regime by amending several Acts, namely Petroleum Profit Tax Act (PPT), Custom and Excise Tax Act, Company Income Tax Act (CITA), Personal Income Tax Act, Value Added Tax Act, Stamp Duties Tax Act, and Capital Gains Act