Can microcredit help poor entrepreneurs free themselves from poverty? This is what The Microfinance Association United Kingdom, Nigeria chapter, is seeking to achieve, reports DANIEL ESSIET  For  The Microfinance Association United kingdom, Nigeria  chapter, a global body for Microfinance practitioners, the perfect solution to poverty in developing countries appears to have been found: microcredit! To this end, the association is pushing for practitioners  that empower microfinance institutions to provide entrepreneurs with small loans to start a business. This, the association believes will facilitate their escape from poverty. Speaking in Lagos, Country Representative, The Microfinance Association, United kingdom, Mrs. Ololade Adesola, said microfinance has taken various forms throughout the world and remains an important tool for economic development providing the financial means to stimulate enterprise growth that brings the much needed income and employment for individuals. She said limited access to finance, with low penetration of the micro-finance and banking sectors, hinders economic development. She said micro-finance institutions have  to increase access to finance for the country’s poorest and most vulnerable people, many of them women living in rural areas. She said the association seeks to expand micro-finance in Nigeria to stimulate entrepreneurship and improve access to finance for micro and small entrepreneurs, many of whom, really access the formal financial sector. One of the activities of the association is to train practitioners to help institutions to increase and diversify lending activities and expand the microfinance network. Mrs. Adesola said the association is helping micro-finance institutions develop their management capacity, to meet the demand for financial services. Mrs. Adesola said Nigeria needed functional micro-finance institutions that can provide individuals microcredit and financial resources to start, maintain and grow their own ventures. According to her, the association is supporting innovation in the sector, using developments in technology, to help financial institutions reach a greater number of people in a more cost-effective way. With the growing emphasis on entrepreneurship, Mrs Adesola stressed the need for the microfinance industry to respond to this by developing innovative ways to extend integrated microfinance services, such as savings, loans and cash transfers and non-financial services to the entrepreneurs in an attractive and cost-effective manner. On the induction of new members, she said 35 professionals have been inducted into the industry as micro-finance practitioners. She said the association is committed to financial inclusion. The Dean, Centre for Research in Enterprise and action in Management  (CREM), Dr Noel Ihebuzor,  said there is need for micro-finance institutions  to provide , business management consulting, monitoring and support services adapted to the needs of entrepreneurs wishing to start or strengthen their micro-enterprises.