Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has said his administration will soon begin the reconstruction of Ado township roads, many of which have become deplorable as a result of lack of maintenance in the last four years. The governor spoke during on spot assessment of some projects, including the Adunni Olayinka Civic Centre, New Ado–Iyin road and World Bank funded rehabilitation of Ureje waterworks treatment plant as well as the new water reservoirs and replacement of water pipeline from Ero dam to Ado-Ekiti. Dr. Fayemi said the government had concluded plans to make the township roads good, but was delayed by the heavy rains. He said that his administration had spent the last one year rebuilding the state and attending to projects that were abandoned by his predecessor as well as completing ongoing ones because his government does not “have a culture of abandonment”. The governor added that most of the projects he initiated during his first term that were abandoned by his successor would be completed and inaugurated next year. “The first year was basically a year of rebuilding and restoration because there were things that were left and were hardly touched for four years that I left here.” “So we spent the last one year reviewing the projects, rebuilding them and restoring all that were abandoned and completing projects that were also started by my predecessor but maybe taken halfway because we don’t have a culture of abandonment. If you go to Oja Oba it is virtually completed. We are also completing other things that were not completed, those we left and those we met, either they were community projects or state-wide projects. “When I said this would be a year of construction and deliverables, I meant it and by the time we complete this year in October 2020, it will be a year of inaugurating in large scale. We didn’t do much of inauguration in the first year in office. “The Lagos Liaison office is completed now. This civic centre is about to be completed. All the plug and play facilities are now in place at the Ekiti Parapo Pavilion. The rains are off. The contractor is now back on Ado–Iyin road and we could see evidence of that with the crushing of rocks, clearing of the roads, fixing of the drains. It is a first-class job that they are doing there. We will restart work on Ado township roads now that the rains are gone”. Fayemi, who identified paucity of funds as a major challenge of the government, said his administration is being creative in the management of its meagre resources so that the goods of democracy can be delivered to the people.