 Friday, October 11, a renal tissue rattled Dele Agekameh’s bulky frame, and death slunk about him on tiptoe. A tragic scene thus ensued in the life of the newspaper columnist and veteran journalist of Tell Magazine fame. His rasped breath ruptured his vehicle’s chilled confines as he engaged in a decisive duel in his seven-year struggle with kidney disease. Having failed to secure an ambulance with the Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS), his driver hurtled through the serpentine Lagos traffic, jostling for the right of way with commuters and commercial drivers unperturbed and unaware of his plight. The driver sped when he could. Sometimes, he drifted at snail pace. His destination was the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, Lagos. Having discovered his kidney problem in 2010, Agekameh, 60, managed his health condition going to India in 2012 for a successful surgery to remove kidney stones. “However, he was advised that he might need a kidney transplant as a lasting solution,” said his son, Fabian. Later in 2012, Agekameh began dialysis, which he did at least two times a week and three times when he could manage it. That routine became part of his life until the morning of Friday, October 11. On that day, Agekameh set out for Kidney Solutions, off Adeniyi Jones in Ikeja, Lagos, for his dialysis session as usual, but there was difficulty hooking him up to the dialysis machines again. A surgeon from  the Lagos University Teaching Hospital(LUTH) reportedly performed what was considered a minor procedure at the dialysis centre before he advised that dialysis must still take place. About one hour into the session, Agekameh became too weak and medication was administered, but his blood pressure remained low. “According to his assistant, who was with him, around 5 pm, the decision was taken to transfer him to a bigger hospital. Several calls were made for an ambulance to no avail until they decided to hook him up to oxygen and transport him with his personal car. After fighting traffic to get to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), there was another issue getting him into the emergency ward, as nurses who were finishing their shift refused to attend to him, based on the account of those with him. “They reportedly claimed that the doctor that could attend to him was busy and they should wait. He was still in his personal car, clinging to life when a doctor went out there to pronounce him dead”. His driver and personal assistant insisted that he was still responsive after their arrival at LASUTH. In a swift response, however, the LASUTH management has debunked claims that Agekameh died due to the negligence of its medical personnel on October 11. The hospital said the deceased was bought in dead, stating  that its personnel were not negligent or slacking in attending to him. The hospital management, in a statement, said: “He was said to have had end stage renal disease and was rushed to our medical emergency unit. Firstly, the patient was having dialysis in a private hospital when complications arose and was referred to LASUTH at 5 pm. “However, the driver and his assistant who were the only persons with him did not arrive at LASUTH until 9:30 pm. As soon as they got to the Medical Emergency Unit, they were promptly attended to by the doctor on duty and the triage nurses. “His blood pressure and pulse were not recordable at the time the patient was presented, and hence, he was certified ‘brought in dead’. “We wish to say that the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital is passionate about the health of Lagosians and everyone who comes into the institution. “We put all hands on deck to make sure that our patients get optimum care and ensure we do our best for each patient to recover and return home safely.” Despite the hospital’s rebuttal, The Nation findings within its confines revealed lapses that may accentuate otherwise manageable conditions of patients rushed to its emergency units and even those on admission. While a senior medical staff of the facility berated patients for always rushing to the tertiary hospital only when their medical conditions are at an advanced stage, and thus unmanageable, a few patients disclosed that they often avoid visiting LASUTH and other public health centres due to the long queues, poor emergency response and quality of care by the hospital staff. But even if Agekameh had enjoyed a prompt and beneficial response at LASUTH’s emergency ward, there is no surety he would have enjoyed standard or acceptable quality of care. According to Ajiun Ishokan, a senior resident doctor with the tertiary health facility, the quality of response at LASUTH is very poor and the medical operations are often hampered by a dearth of essential personnel and medical consumables. Patients forced to buy plaster, gauze, syringe, other consumables The standard practice in the emergency unit is that when patients are admitted, the first few days or thereabouts, every medical consumable is made available to them, free of charge. That means that the sutures, plasters, injections are provided to them free of charge, “but these days, those things are just not available,” Ishokan said. “So, when patients are admitted today, they have to go and buy these consumables. If they have no one with them to run the errand, they would have to wait without receiving treatment, until their help arrives,” he said. The problem of consumables constitutes a big one to medical personnel working in LASUTH at the moment. Consumables include plaster, gauze, gloves, sutures, hand-wash, needles and syringe, among others. All these are things that should normally be available to patients on arrival for  admission are persistently declared unavailable. Consequently, patients are forced to purchase, with their own money, the basic medical items required for their treatment. The consequences are never fair to  poor patients, argued Damilola Amidu, a gynaecologist. Amidu explained that, “By the time the patients arrive and you tell them to buy this and that, it affects their capacity to pay for treatment, especially in cases when the patients are impoverished. It is something that needs to be addressed urgently. “Take the issue of the antiseptic hand-wash, these are things that should be available come what may but I ask at times, and I am told that hand-wash has not been supplied. Its so sad,” said the staff of the Obstetrics and Gynaecology unit.  Insensitive personnel Kojo Otabor, a journalist, suffered a raw deal with the hospital’s medical personnel when her four-month-old daughter developed a fever and was vomiting. She said: “I first went to the General Hospital Ifako Ijaiye. The nurse told me I had to wait indefinitely because only one doctor was on duty and there were many emergencies. I decided to go to LASUTH since I use the paediatric clinic more. I knew the procedure would be to open an emergency card, which I did before submitting to the doctors on duty. “The doctor in charge questioned why I went to open a card before enquiring if there was bed space. I told her I didn’t know and she replied: ‘Ehn, you didn’t know; that is what you will say.’ She took a look at the card, handed it back to me and told me to wait outside. “There were no available seats. I waited on my feet from past 3pm till about 5pm. Finally, a young male doctor attended to us. His superior told him to do a full blood count. He had to draw blood from my one-year old. You know the procedure is different. They pierce with the needle, then let the blood drip down into the collector bottle. He pierced my child’s wrist twice, searching for her vein. My four-month-old baby was screaming but he (the doctor) showed no empathy to her. He did nothing to calm her; he was impatient. At a point, she threw up and he said with disgust that I should go clean her up. “When I returned, he abandoned the wrist and told me to lay her down. I was quivering with fear. He called my hubby, who he sent out earlier, to hold her down. This time, he decided to draw blood the normal way used for older children and adults – from her upper thigh. “Of course that was faster for him. He didn’t care about the trauma he was inflicting on my infant. “The  doctor had the guts to ask me why I came to the emergency room. Was I referred? Or did I just decide to come to Almighty LASUTH just on my own? Ok! After drawing blood, I was sent to the lab to do two tests. The first lab tech told me to come for the result 8pm; the second, 9pm. “I went back to the doctor to ask what I should do. Should I wait or could I go home and return later? His response: ‘You want to wait?’  ‘Should I go?’ I asked. His response: ‘You want to go?’ said Otabor. She said after her experience, she has always prayed never to have cause to visit the hospital’s emergency unit again. Shortage of doctors, nurses, others Further investigations revealed that LASUTH is currently understaffed. The ideal number of medical doctors for the hospital should be about 640 medical personnel comprising 80 consultants, 480 residents, and 80 house officers, according to internal medical personnel, but LASUTH, it is claimed,currently has less than 400 doctors in its employ. This is in flagrant violation of standard stipulation by the Federal Postgraduate Medical College that every consultant should have six resident doctors working with him or her. Going by the stipulation, LASUTH, which has 80 consultants, ought to have 480 resident doctors in its employ. That is the number of residents that should be available in LASUTH. But the medical facility currently has between 250 and 300 resident doctors in its employ. The figure is dynamic given the high level of attrition. Asides the fact that many LASUTH doctors travel abroad in search of greener pasture, the hospital also suffers lateral brain-drain by which many of its resident doctors quit to work in neighbouring federal hospital, the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and hospitals in neighbouring states, said Janus Ojo, a senior consultant in the tertiary facility. Corroborating him, Idayat Zinat, another consultant, noted that, “In the past, Lagos State government employed doctors almost quarterly, but right now, the government hardly employs doctors as needed. I can tell you very confidently now that right now, the employment of doctors is top heavy. Doctors come in as new employees at Level 12, but right now, you have a lot of doctors in Level 15 and Level 16. Most of them have been around for eight, nine and 10 years. “Sometimes you have no Level 12 doctor available at the hospital. Sometimes you have just two or three of them available to tend to the whole of LASUTH. Ideally, they are the personnel who should take in admissions and be on call to attend to patients. Where they have problems attending to a patient, they should call their senior colleagues, that is, the Level 14, 15 officers. “But that calibre of staff is practically unavailable. Level 12 doctors are the ones available everyday despite their inadequate numbers. The few ones available are forced to endure strenuous rotations; they are placed on call every day and every other day as the circumstances demand,” disclosed Idayat Zinat, a senior medical consultant. Interpreted in layman’s terms, strenuous shift means they have to work on Monday and do night shift. They would be free on Tuesday only to resume on Wednesday and so on. The internationally recognised standard is that a doctor should be restricted to five or six units of call hours in a whole month. At LASUTH, however, doctors do a whole lot more due to shortage of staff. And when House Officers (mainly National Youth Service Corps members) leave in January, a new batch should be employed immediately but that is hardly the situation. The process of their replacement isn’t seamless as residents and patients have to wait for about three to four months before fresh recruitment is done. This constitutes a lot of gap, given that every medical personnel has his or her stipulated work. Where there is shortage of staff, it disrupts the whole medical operation with grievous results. Taking a blood sample from a patient, for instance, is the often the responsibility of a House Officer; the resident doctor delegates such responsibility to the House Officer, while he (the resident) attends to more serious and urgent cases. But where the House Officers are unavailable, medical operations get disrupted. “At times, when we complain about the shortage of House of Officers, we are told that LASUTH can’t recruit because the governor hasn’t signed to approve the recruitment. That is sad. If you know that this public health facility is on a cycle to recruit 80 House Officers annually, and there is a budget for it, why allow any delay in the process?” lamented Alake Omobonike, a resident doctor. Why doctors make mistakes Doctors are leaving LASUTH in droves, according to its resident staff. “Of those employed about nine months ago, more than 50 per cent have left LASUTH in search of greener pasture. Now, there is too much pressure on the few hands available. And we are talking about health here. Where one doctor is doing the work of four doctors, there is no way he won’t make mistakes. And that is why you read in the newspapers of unpardonable mistakes committed by doctors. It is because such people are forced to take on more responsibilities than they could bear. There is an urgent need to employ more hands. Resident doctors should be resident in LASUTH but because there are no quarters for them to reside due to inadequate accommodation, many doctors are forced to live outside the hospital and they have to drive about three or four hours to get to the hospital everyday. They spend longer hours back home at times. Sharing his ordeal, Tede Irabor, a doctor, revealed that he has to drive through crazy traffic and bad roads on every shift. He said: “I am most oftentimes stressed and put in a bad mood even before I get to the hospital. How can I function at my optimal best?” Because doctors have to be prompt on call and there are no residences for them in LASUTH complex, most of them improvise by sleeping in their cars till they are on call. ‘Despite upgrade, only one of four operating suites functional at Ayinke House’ LASUTH’s Gynaecological complex, Ayinke House, was reportedly upgraded by the immediate past administration, of Lagos thus making it Nigeria’s largest birth clinic, overtaking 59-year-old Lagos Island Maternity. Ayinke House now boasts of 170 bed space, two Obstetric Operation Theatres, two Gynaecology Operation Theatres, eight Labour/Delivery Suites, and a Laboratory, which  also has a special care unit with 30 incubators, 28-bed posts natal ward and five Transport Incubators with Oxygen delivery system, among others. The facility could indeed be world class but for a snag, of its four operating theatres, just one is functional. The remaining three are window-dressing, according to the hospital’s resident doctors. “The operating suites were commissioned  in April, this year, but only one of them is working. So, what was the quality of project done in the hospital? Of four operating theatres, just one is working. So, if there are multiple emergency situations, poor, helpless patients are dumped on a long queue at the expense of their lives and that of their babies. “Just about one-quarter of Ayinke House has been completed. A great part of the building is not in use. It’s just window-dressing that is being done,” said Saubana Adekunle, a gynaecologist at the facility. There is also the issue of prohibitive treatment costs at Ayinke House. The Nation investigations revealed that normal delivery is pegged around N60, 000 and N70, 000 even though the cost at midrange private medical facilities, often frequented by many Lagos mothers, hovers around N20, 000 and N30, 000 for normal delivery. “Birth by Caeserian Section (CS), on the other hand, costs N150, 000 or more at Ayinke House although it is supposed to be a public health facility. Services here are supposed to be heavily subsidised and cheaper than at private hospitals,” said Adekunle. A nurse’s grief Iyunade Filemo, a senior nursing staff at LASUTH, lamented that asides the inadequacy of medical doctors, the hospital also suffers a dearth of adequate nursing and support staff. She said: “We don’t have enough doctors, nurses and medical attendants. We have two nurses catering to 15 to 20 patients. How do you expect them to work effectively? I have to walk the length and breadth of LASUTH taking patients to theatre, receiving patients from the theatre, admitting patients and attending to daily callers. We nurses also have to sweep and mop the hospital floor by ourselves, due to lack of health attendants (janitors). We shouldn’t be doing such work but we have no choice since there is just one health attendant serving about eight wards. As a nurse, you won’t leave the unattended wards to stay unkempt. “There is also persistent failure of electricity supply. Imagine having to work with torchlight in a hospital ward. Most times, we resort to the use of torches to operate in our hospital wards due to epileptic power supply, and this usually happens overnight. Another grievous failing at LASUTH are the hospital’s faulty and non-functional facilities, including toilets, fans and air-conditioners. From the nurses’ rooms to the patients’ wards, LASUTH suffers a dearth of functional facilities. Filemo disclosed that she had been driven to the brink of patience and emotional torment several times by patients, most of whom had genuine concerns. “I almost quarrelled with one recently. Even though he had genuine complaints, he was blaming me for something I had no control over. We had to admit the patient in a ward with no fan or AC unit. To worsen the situation, we had to keep the windows locked to keep out the robbers and mosquitoes. The heat was unbearable. Patients are also humans, it’s understandable that they would complain, especially a patient who is just recovering from surgery. Their experiences before and after surgery in the B Surgical ward beggars urgent intervention,” she said. A visit to the hospital’s Male Surgical Ward B revealed its bare, poorly ventilated cubicles. Of the six fans in a cubicle, just one was functioning and it was faulty. Due to the extreme discomfort experienced by one of the patients on admission, his relative had to start fanning him with a hand fan. The Male Surgical Wards are particularly notorious for its extreme heat and faulty facilities. A patient likened his stay there to sleeping in a tomb. Out of the six cubicles making up the ward, there are just two cubicles with two functional fans. The rest of the cubicles are without ventilation. Nurses often advise patients coming in for surgery to bring fans from home if they hoped for their temporary stay in the hospital to be conducive. The facility has just one private ward but no patient ever wishes to stay in that room because the AC unit is not working and there is no fan there. The toilet is very bad. It is unusable because it won’t flush.  I won’t say we are coping well, I will only say we are coping – LASUTH CMD The Chief Medical Director (CMD) of LASUTH, Professor Adetokunbo Fabamwo, however, stated that since his administration resumed on January 1, 2019, and commenced serious work three days later, LASUTH management has made remarkable efforts to improve services at the tertiary hospital. “The very first major challenge that we had was in our operating theatres; we found that our operating theatres were not in a good shape. We found that a lot of the equipment were not working; a lot of the operating tables were not functional and so the first thing we did was to start a massive rehabilitation of the operating theatres. “Of course, we recognised that, that is the nerve centre of surgical services in the hospital. If the operating theatres are not working effectively, the surgeons will be unhappy and the revenue for the hospital will be reduced, so it was going be a double approach. So, we have now managed to buy new operating tables for the theatre, we bought new suture machines, among other machines for the theatres and we’ve carried out some rehabilitation works. So, now, the surgeons are happy and our revenue has substantially increased. “Also, we found that our dialysis unit was down and so patients with kidney problems could not have dialysis done here; so, we decided to fix it and we now have our dialysis centre up and running. The other thing we found was that our intensive care unit was small and the equipment were non-functional. So, we fixed the equipment but we’re still left with the issue of its inadequate capacity. So, as we speak, we have been able to develop a new eight bedded intensive care units in the institute of maternal and child health. Fabamwo explained further that LASUTH, under his leadership, established a ten-bed stroke unit, given the high incidence of stroke in the society. “It’s specific just for stroke cases and it is ultra-modern. In terms of clinical services, that’s what we have been able to do,” he said. In terms of personnel, he said: “We have an exit replacement policy whereby staff who exited from the system can be replaced and so we have used that in a strategic version to recruit high level, high cadre experts in various sub- specialities as well as other health workers to augment what is currently on ground. “We also saw that for efficient delivery service, our medical emergency unit needed to be reorganised, so we have been able to do two things. For both our medical and surgical emergencies, we have established protocols to ensure that on a daily basis, the bed situation in the units is accessed so that we will know how many beds are available to admit new patients, because one of the major issues we have is that we are oversubscribed and there are too many patients who want to use our services and some of the times, we are unable to have available beds to put then on, especially emergency cases. So, we felt that we needed to be proactive about this and so on a daily basis, we make serious efforts to make beds available in our emergency units and then we have been able to admit more emergency cases. “We activated Ayinke House, which was commissioned on April 27, 2019 during the regime of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode but the commissioning was the beginning of the work; the real work was making the hospital work. So, we have been able to activate activities in Ayinke House. It is up and running. We have ante natal patients, we have been carrying out surgeries. We’ve been carrying out both obstetric surgeries as well as gynaecological surgeries. We have a very modern intensive care unit and we even had a training for paediatricians on intensive care for babies. So, as we speak, our Ayinke intensive care unit can offer advanced intensive care management for babies who are in need. So, those are some of the things that we’ve done to improve the standard of the hospital,” he said. On the lack of stable electricity, Fabamwo stated: “I must say that since the beginning of the year, there had been epileptic supply of power from the IPP; there had been times that we had up to 14 days of outage, 10-day outage, and you know in a teaching hospital, or in any hospital for that matter, you cannot have an outage, power is a critical factor in the operations of the hospital. So, we have generators as backup, we also have solar power in our emergency unit as backup, but when the outage becomes prolonged, there is a lot of pressure put on this alternative power supply. But sometimes as the outages are prolonged, at those times, a few lapses begin to occur in our services. So, we really do not look forward to power outage from IPP, but it looks like it’s happening. We have appealed to the authorities to ensure that it does not happen and we are really hoping that our appeal will be well considered. Acknowledging the reality of staff attrition, the CMD said: “In terms of exodus of staff, yes, we do have our own share of staff who are leaving us for greener pastures and the good thing about Lagos State government is that it has empowered hospitals to be able to replace staff who exit on a quarterly basis, that is the good luck that we enjoy, but the period in between the exit of the staff and the replacement will really disrupt operations in the hospital. “So, if you ask me whether we are coping well, I won’t say we are coping well. I will only say we are coping; just as some people are leaving, there are quite a number of people who want to come into the system, so that is the way it is.” Tunbosun Ogunbanwo, Director of Public Affairs (DPA) of the Lagos State Ministry of Health (LSMOH), stressed that, “At the core of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration’s public health vision is the employment of best practices at all levels of care to deliver qualitative, affordable and equitable services to the entire citizenry as well as the protection and restoration of the health of Lagosians without financial constraint. “I can assure that the new administration is addressing the issues. Focus has been placed on ensuring that service delivery is also centred on the needs and demands of residents. The administration of Governor Sanwo-Olu must, therefore, be accorded the accolades it deserves for prioritising the health of citizens for a greater Lagos,” he argued. The patients’ hopes are, however, basic and simple to discern. “We come here to get cured. Why else would we come to a teaching hospital?,” enthused Nasir Oteniyi, a patient in the hospital’s male surgical ward. To improve health services at LASUTH, nurses clamour for better salaries. They wish to stop doubling as cleaners and janitors and security guards too. Doctors call for an urgent intervention by the government to employ more doctors and nurses among others. “That will prevent more doctors from quitting their jobs here to go in search of greener pasture. There should also be a plan for seamless replacement of House Officers. LASUTH must provide good accommodation for resident doctors on site and provide good remuneration to curb staff attrition. Staff are not unhappy with the status quo,” said Omobonike. Even so, LASUTH on its website, proudly boasts that its  complex hosts 1,560 doctors, 900 nurses and 22,250 happy patients. Additional report by Olatunde Odebiyi   