Our Reporter The Nigerian Association for Young Adults (NAYA) in Canada and USA has called on Nigerians to contribute meaningfully to the development of the country’s health sector. The group’s president, Shola Agboola stated this over the weekend at Bida, Niger State where they donated hospital equipment worth several millions of naira to the Federal Medical Centre, Bida. According to him, governance is the responsibility of all, and government, he said cannot do it all, adding, that the effort to develop the nation’s health sector should not be left to the government alone to handle. He further said that the equipment is the second this year, coming on the heels of equipment worth N54 million earlier donated to the Abia State government, even as he revealed that NAYA has donated equipment worth over $440 million to different hospitals in the country so far. While noting, that members of NAYA are passionate about Nigeria, Agboola states that they have learnt from their host country, Canada, that to make a nation great, is not the duty of government alone. Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello while commending the group for the efforts, revealed that on invention, his administration had declared a state of emergency in the health sector. Represented by the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Makusidi Mohammed, the governor stated that the state government has over the years strives to ensure that the state budget for the sector matches what is on ground, even as it called for more of such collaborations in the state. His Eminence, Archbishop Samson Mustapha Benjamin, who facilitated the NAYA efforts in Nigeria commended the Etsu Nupe, HRH (Dr) Yahaya Abubakar, whom he said facilitated the clearance and movement of the equipment from the ports down to Bida, making it seamless, compared to previous experiences. Archbishop Benjamin who is also the president of Africa Economic Initiative, noted that NAYA works tirelessly to impact Nigeria, and that the group needs support and collaboration from everyone, as they plan to make more of such donations, in other parts of the country, to improve general healthcare delivery system. In her speech at the event, Honarably, Abike Dabiri, Senior Special Adviser to the president, Diaspora and Foreign Affairs, who was represented by her Personal Asistant In ICT, Hon Tarab Abdulrahman, states that the government had earlier established an act to encourage Nigerian living abroad to make meaningful contributions to the nation. She noted, that NAYA was one of the most active among diaspora groups and encouraged them to continue the gesture, even as she urged the FMC, Bida to make good use of the equipment donated. Equipment donated by NAYA included beds, examination tables, specialized wheelchairs, scanners, incubators and consumables among others.