Hon. Muhammad Jega is the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on IDPs, Refugees and North East Initiatives. In this interview with  INNOCENT DURU , the lawmaker representing Gwandu/Aliero/Jega Federal Constituency, Kebbi State, speaks about his fears about the level of education and displacement of people in the country, the North in particular. Excerpts:  Could you tell us a bit about your background? I was born in Jega village. There is a town called Jega in Kebbi State. That was where I had my early education. I was born in 1959. I went to Jega Primary School between 1967 and 1972.  Thereafter, I went to Government College, Sokoto, for my secondary school education. After finishing my secondary school in 1977, I went to Uthman Dan Fodio University. We were the pioneer students of Usman Danfodio University, where I did a two-year  pre-degree course before I was admitted into a full degree course.  The university wasn’t offering the courses we wanted to do; so I alongside other students who offered to study medicine, architecture engineering, and agriculture, were transferred. I was one of those who were transferred to Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, where I read architecture. I graduated in 1982. After my first degree, I proceeded for my postgraduate in the same course and finished in 1984.  After my masters, I went for National Youth Corps Service, which took me to the University of Nigeria, Enugu campus, in the old Anambra State. I finished that in 1985. What next did you do after your youth service? After that, I took up an appointment with the defunct  Sokoto State Ministry of Works as an architect.  I was there up till 1991 when Kebbi State was created and we went back to our state.  Working in the state civil service, I rose through the ranks  to the position of a permanent secretary. I was with the women affairs, Ministry of Works, as Permanent Secretary  and  also Water Resources before I resigned and joined politics. I resigned in 2005 and was given a commissionership, a member of the state’s executive council in  charge of local government affairs.  I was there from 2005 to 2007 before I contested for the House of Representatives. I won the election  and was in the House from 2007 to 2011. In 2011, I re-contested and lost my seat to the PDP candidate. I contested then under the All Nigeria People’s Party ( ANPP). IN 2015, I contested under the APC and won the election and returned to the House again. In 2019 also, I won and continued to represent my people in the House of Representatives. Before this interview, I did  a search on you and found that even when education had not been widely accepted in the North, you had gone very far… (Cuts in) What I just told you was a summary of the education I went through because I have master’s degree  in Business Administration. I did PostGraduate Diploma in  Management; then I did my MBA. Is it that your parents are rich or educated that made them to give you that level of education? No.  My parents were moderate; they were not poor.  I was the pioneer student in my family.  I am from a polygamous home.  Those days, we enjoyed scholarship and that is why it is one of my priorities to ensure that we reach the grassroots to educate them by paying for their school fees. We encourage them to go to school. The situation has drastically changed. I am sure many of us at the helm of affairs enjoyed scholarship and could not have gone to the university if not for the scholarship. At that time, Mohammad Adamu Aliero(former Kebbi governor) was one year ahead of me in the university. Usman Dankingari, who succeeded him, was in the same class with me. The present governor of Kebbi State was one year behind me in the university.  They were the second set of the Uthman Danfodio University.  Things were much better then. We had scholarship. That is why when we look at what is happening now, it bleeds our heart because the situation has changed. What exactly are you talking about when you say ‘what is happening now’? In terms of access to education across the whole country and especially in the North.  The situation is worse in the North.  All those in control of the affairs of the North enjoyed free education. Mention names; governors, all those representing the state in the North, in ministerial and whichever positions must have enjoyed free education. What is the implication of this now that scholarship is no longer there? That is why we are in this trouble.  The standard has fallen because people are just after the certificate. The quality is not there and all the noise some governors are making in respect of education, some of them are not actually providing good quality education, the structures, the conditions of these  schools and even the quality teachers are nothing to write home about.  Remember that I told you I started university education from the Uthman Danfodio University where I did my A levels. I was transferred to another university and we met students from all over the country and competed  with them. What,  in you view, is  the solution because we have had the Almajiri school but I am not sure it is a solution? The way out is to face education squarely.  We are just window-dressing for now.  Education, health and agriculture, these are the most important sectors that can rescue most of the states in the North. When these sectors are established, then you can go for industrial development.  But where people are not educated, where health facilities are not accessible, where agriculture is just a lip service, how do you expect to have progress? Talking about agriculture, the North supplies  a large percent of the food in the South  and the country in general. It could have been better if better attention is given to that area than what is being done now. What do you think is not being well done? So many things are not going straight the way they should go. So many programmes, like the CBN Anchor Borrowers Programme and a lot of things. There should be some  study so that you can improve. What do you think is wrong with the Anchor Borrowers Programme? Some of the real farmers are not involved. We have a pyramid shelve type of hierarchy. The best of the pyramid is where you have these subsistent farmers. Most of them do not have access to finance and mechanisation.  If attention is given to them, they can feed the nation easily. The food security we are talking about would be achieved easily and by now we would have been exporting agricultural products to all other African countries and even to Europe. As the House Committee chair on IDPs, Refugees and North East Initiatives, how do you feel that many people in the country, the North in particular, are displaced? It is sad, very,  very sad because most of these people left their homes as a result of conflict, either armed conflict, banditry and or some disasters.  The irony of this is that when people are forced out of their homes, they don’t know where to go. Sometimes the sons, daughters and their fathers are separated. You will see the father go to the left and the mother and the children to the right and they will never be together again. It is very, very sad. We commend the federal government for the establishment of the humanitarian ministry because the humanitarian concern of this country is very serious. Starting from the Boko Haram in the North East to the North West where you have the bandits. In  Kaduna, Katsina and Zamfara, people are seriously displaced from their homes.  There are some places you cannot even travel to even now. Security issues are serious matters in this country and without security, you cannot talk of any development. I read that the number of displaced people would rise in the future. Does this in any way disturb you? It means that in the years to come, there would be more turbulence. With no end to insurgency, the crisis would be expanded and it is serious if we cannot control this at this time. The financing of the security template now is taking so much of our developmental programmes because it is competing with other needs.  By the time it expands, then forget about development, forget about peace and that will displace more people.  This is why we have to come together to see how best we can tackle this. Otherwise , we would be in trouble. There is so much unemployment in the country. The basic needs of the people are no longer accessible. What is the price of rice today? It is serious. Normally in this kind of situation, women and children are the worst hit. Children cannot run to a safer place. Mothers would be victims of rape and victims to accessibility to basic needs. Let us get a bit personal. You are 60 years but you don’t look it. What do you do maintain a younger look? Laughs. I just work hard and don’t bother with unnecesaary things. I give service to my people and by so doing, I have less stress. Since you have been in the National Assembly, how much would you say you have touched your people? Many of my people. I can’t even mention their number. In which areas? In the area of education, health and agriculture because these are the basic needs of the people. When you look at the country at large, would you say we are making progress or moving backward? There is some progress but we could have reached a higher level than where we are. Nigeria has what it takes to be great. We have diverse people. Only in my village, we have more than 15 professors. There is the need to redefine our position so that the country can be better. I read that some constituency projects you pushed for were not executed. What is you take on that? That is politics.  If you are in politics, people will make series of allegations but the truth will always prevail.  Some of the people who contested with me wanted to blackmail me but they could not succeed because they had ulterior motives.  They are not sincere. That is what it is. How would you describe your journey into politics? It is up and down. I told you I was in the House before I was ousted.  Even then I won the election but the mighty PDP then used their power. It is service to the people. How do you relax? Relaxation? I have installed Samsung Health App. Every day, I walk. There is a number of walk I have to do every day. When I get home now, I have to complete it to make sure I have attained my daily steps.  This monitors almost everything- the oxygen in the body, the blood pressure, heart rate, stress level and sugar level.