Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni has explained why he donated 30 operational vehicles to the police command and other security agencies. Buni, who also launched a police rapid squad, said the vehicles and the squad would enhance police response to emerging security challenges and threats. The governor, who hosted Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu Abubakar regretted that Yobe was still vulnerable to insurgents’ attacks through the neighbouring states, hence the need to clear those threats. Named ‘Haba Maza’, the squad is charged with checking the rising cases of banditry, rape, kidnapping, cattle rustling and others. “As we all know, insurgents still periodically infiltrate from neighbouring states to carry out attacks against our people. Other criminals also commit crimes, including armed robbery and cattle rustling. “As we move to a post-insurgency era, we also face emergent and continuing security challenges such as rape, kidnapping, homicide and conflict between farmers and pastoralists. “It is clear; we cannot make meaningful socio-economic progress while these security challenges persist. We have to confront them. “It is for this reason that we thought it was necessary to work together with the Nigeria Police to set up a rapid response squad that can be deployed anywhere in the state to tackle these challenges and threats. “We are naming this rapid response squad as ‘Haba Maza Squad’. “We know that the officers and men of the Nigeria Police and other security agencies are gallant men and women who are working so hard. ‘Haba Maza’ is a mantra that charges them to surge forward and go after criminals relentlessly. ‘Haba Maza’ is saying that the gallant officers and men will not allow any breathing space for criminals anywhere in our state,” Buni said. The governor, who also presented 30 new Hilux operational vehicles worth N720million to the IGP, said his administration would support the police and other security agencies for better policing of the people. IGP Adamu praised the intervention of Governor Buni, urging others to emulate him.