By Adekunle Yusuf TO complement efforts of the state government in providing quality healthcare services to the people, the Soyuznik Alumni, an association  of graduates of institutions of higher learning in countries of Baltic states (former USSR), has flagged off a 4-day free medical outreach. The free healthcare services, which began yesterday (Thursday), is taking place at Ijegun in the Ikotun area of Lagos State. Already, the non-governmental organisation said it has begun screening for hundreds of people, with many of them requiring surgical operations, it said at a press conference this week. The national president of the association, Otunba Henry Ajomale, said the gesture for the body, which comprises many successful professionals in various vocations, is a way of giving back to society. The event scheduled to hold between November 21 and 24 would focus on life-disrupting medical conditions requiring surgery. “The medical intervention programme that coincides with the 102 anniversary of the 7th October 1917 Revolution and its widows mite to support various efforts at improving living standards through quality medical services to the less privileged. The outreach program is also a compliment to the effort of the government of Lagos State under the leadership of Babajide Sanwo-Olu in providing access to quality medical services. The programme, due to its uncommon and serial feature, will also support the social intervention pledge of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to lift 100 million out of poverty by 2023.  ‘’Common knowledge about medical outreach program is an all comer affair restricted to screening and diagnostics for non-communicable diseases (sugar level, malaria, cancer without streamlined targets) with poor streamlining,’’ Ajomale, who was represented by Lagos chairman of the association, Dr. Lasisi Durojaye, said. The NGO explained further that the outreach is not only for Ijegun residents, but for all rural dwellers, women, widows, orphan and physically challenged people and the neglected and under-served. “Noteworthy is the fact that the free surgery operations for fibroid, hernia and lumps will be delivered by medical and health professionals who are members of Soyuznik in Lagos State. This exercise is symbolic to the association, Lagos State and Nigeria because this will be a maiden of a series of programmes to be delivered by the medical outreach team of Soyuznik. Aside the over 400 years combined practice experience as heads of various government and private clinics in Lagos State with an average of 25 years post qualification experience,” Ajomale said.