At the just-concluded Lagos International Trade Fair, manufacturers and other stakeholders said Nigeria’s involvement in international trade has tilted heavily in favour of imports. OLUWAKEMI DAUDA reports that they urged President Muhammadu Buhari to promote co-ordination among regulators and stakeholders to address the factors militating against the diversification agenda of the government.  Nigeria’s involvement in international trade became a major focus at the just- concluded 10-day Lagos International Trade Fair, which held at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), Onikan. Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) President, Mr. Babatunde Ruwase, who spoke at the event with the theme: “Connecting businesses, creating value”, underscored the importance of robust business interactions to generate wealth and create value for the advancement of the economy and the welfare of the citizens. “The force of globalisation has reinforced the need to connect businesses. UNCTAD research has shown that business linkages represent one of the best ways for SMEs to enhance their competitiveness and acquire a series of critical   missing   assets,   such   as   access   to   international   markets, finance, technology, management skills and specialised knowledge. “A good tempo of trade and commercial activities is a critical driver of economic growth as no economy can expand to   create opportunities for its population.” Stakeholders, who spoke with The Nation on the sidelines of the well- attended event, said the economy has tilted in favour of imports. On the export side, the stakeholders lamented that over 90 per cent of trade relies on crude oil for a country hitherto known as a major exporter of agricultural produce, such as cocoa, palm-oil, groundnuts and grains. A manufacturer and exporter, Chief Abiodun Oladunjoye, said this is apart from the fact that the country boasts of large quantities of solid minerals in the 36 states that can be exported. “There are two angles to international trade – import and export – and despite popular view, the country has been very active on the international trading scene. But the results have been largely disappointing because of our level of involvement in terms of goods and services we have for sale. “Apart from oil, it is sad to state that the country lacks the necessary co-ordination between the regulators and stakeholders that lead to the sale of made in Nigeria goods and services, which could be either produce, raw materials, spare parts, semi-finished or finished goods or consulting services from the country into foreign markets that can result in the in-flow of foreign currency – called export proceeds to boost the economy and create employment.  “The problem affecting the economy is on the export side and this has been the challenge since the fall of the commodity board in 1986. Efforts by the previous administrations to correct the sorry situation have remained a mirage. Successive administrations have set up many laudable agencies like the National Food and Drug Administration Commission (NAFDAC), Standards Organisation of Nigeria, (SON), Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Bank of Industry (BoI), Raw Materials Research & Development Council (RMRDC), and the Nigeria Export-Import Bank (NEXIM) to boost non-oil exports. “But it is sad and very disheartening that almost 32 years after, there are no signs of co-ordination and collaboration between appointed regulators and stakeholders,” he said Many committees, he noted, had been set up at state and federal levels to come up with the recommendations and proffer solutions to the challenges militating against the country in international trade. According to him, most the recommendations, however, were being locked up in cabinets in the various ministries and parastatals. But a senior Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) official, who craved anonymity, berated stakeholders, staying that despite the laudable incentives for exporters and efforts by the government at various levels, the country’s share of international trade “is seriously below the government’s expectation because since the advent of President Buhari’s administration, the business environment  is no longer tough because government’s policies are more focused on export than imports and that is what led to border closure, which some stakeholders have been criticising unnecessarily. But the official agreed that there is the need for the government to address the barriers to exports as part of measures to develop sustainable routes to foreign markets “If we listen to the noise surrounding the border closure, it shows that our people are  more attracted to imports while the government is trying to put in place the support structures for export. Lack of effective linkage between the stakeholders and government agencies, poor manpower in the non-oil sectors and dearth of information to support youths across the country are the problems confronting the export business.” The official stressed the need for greater cooperation and coordination between the regulators and the various stakeholders, including  the public and private sectors amid civil society organisations and nongovernmental organisations among others so that the country can take its rightful share of the trade. A service provider and commodity trader, Mr Adewale Adetona, said the problem with Nigeria is that too much attention was focused in the past on developing structures to support importation at the detriment of exportation, which is not allowing the country to take its share of international trade because of some trade barriers. The barriers, according to him, include administrative procedures, quantitative restrictions, price controls, licensing requirements, product labelling requirements and privacy requirements.  Trade barriers take two forms For these barriers to be removed, Adetona said: “There must be a robust co-ordination between the regulators and stakeholders.’’ He berated a situation where government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) were working at cross-purposes with too much emphasis on revenue generation as an indicator of success. The worst of this situation is that even with its closest neighbours, Nigeria manages to perform poorly in trade. Within the ECOWAS sub-region, Nigeria, as the largest economy, continues to struggle against Cote d’Ivoire and Benin Republic. Sadly, most of the revenue targets focus on imports and with little or no attention on exports to our neighbouring countries. Other stakeholders, who spoke with The Nation, said countries, such as Ghana and Republic of Benin, are cashing in on Nigeria’s free import economy to push and smuggle  prohibited and dangerous goods into the country. ‘’To address this situation, one of them, Mr Friday Solomon, said the  administration must revisit some of the past agreements on the free movement of goods and services in the sub-region and come up with a policy that will promote the country’s share in international trade.”  ‘If we listen to the noise surrounding the border closure, it shows that our people are  more attracted to imports while the government is trying to put in place the support structures for export. Lack of effective linkage between the stakeholders and government agencies, poor manpower in the non-oil sectors and dearth of information to support youths across the country are the problems confronting the export business’