By Fasanmi Abiola  * Korede Bello  When Korede Bello stepped into the spotlight in 2014 following his signing with Mavins and the release of hit single “Godwin”, many thought that the future of the Nigerian Music Industry had arrived. His voice and his good looks immediately made him a favorite with ladies. He released another single “African Princess,” which was also a hit. He also featured on songs like “Adaobi” and “Dorobucci” together with other Mavins artistes. 2016 was the last time the artiste made waves in the industry and people are beginning to wonder what is going on. * Dija  Dija’s music career started in 2008 when she released her first official single in 2009, which was nominated for Best Urban/R&B Single at the 2009 Canadian Radio Music Awards. However, she became a common name in the Nigerian Music Industry after signing with Mavins record in 2014. She featured on a couple of Mavins records such as “Dorobucci”and “Arise”. She released her hit singles “Aww” and “Yaro” under this music label. In 2017, She released an EP which has vocals from artistes such as Tiwa Savage and Reekado Banks. Following that, she has released a few singles but has not been very active in the music scene. * Eva  Elohor Eva Alordiah, better known as Eva Alordiah or simply Eva, is a rapper, entertainer, make-up artist, fashion designer and entrepreneur. She is considered one of the best female rappers in Nigeria. She has even been called the ‘Nigerian Nicki Minaj’. Eva released two EPs before releasing her debut album “1960” in 2016. Since then, the rapper has not released any new music and her fans are wondering if this is the end of the road of her music career or if she’s going to make a comeback. W4  This artist stepped into the limelight with his single called “Solo”. He released another single called “Wa gba Kontrol” which was a mega hit and seemed to be the rise of a great career. However, after exiting two different record labels, his career has not taken the rise that was expected. His last song “Foreign Dance” was released in 2016 and not much has been from the artist since. * Brymo  Brymo is a singer, songwriter, composer and author. He has 6 studio albums to his name. His style of music is a mixture of different things and some refer to him as the “Father of Alternative music in Nigeria”. In 2010, the artist was signed by chocolate city. He became very popular after lending his vocals to Ice Prince on the song “Oleku”. After that, he released his second album “The Son of a Kapenta” which featured songs like “Ara” and “Good morning”. In 2013, he left Chocolate city and following a court order he was restrained from distributing any musical work pending Chocolate City’s lawsuit against him. Brymo has released four more albums since then and even teamed up with three members of Skata Vibration to form A.A.A alongside guitarist Jad Moukarim, drummer Adey Omotade, and bassist Laughter and even released an EP. * Skales  Popularly known for his songs “Booty Language” and “Shake body”, Skales is a fan favorite. The rapper, who spent most of his life in Kaduna, stepped into the spotlight after entering Zain Tru Search competition and won the competition’s North Central region. He then released his debut single “Must shine” which became widely popular and earned him a signing with Empire Mates Entertainment in 2009. By 2014, Skales and EME parted ways and he started his own label. For much of 2019, the rapper was silent and fans began to wonder where he was. Recently, the rapper opened up about his struggle with depression while making music and released his new single, “Samba”. * Sean Tizzle  Sean Tizzle is a singer and songwriter who rose to fame in 2013 with his hit single “Sho Lee”, in that year, Tizzle won the next rated artist at the headies awards beating artists such as Burna Boy and Seyi shay. In 2014, he released his debut album called “The Journey” and even went on to win the headies award for Best R&B/Pop Album that year. However, following a series of controversies and bad publicity, Tizzle’s rise to fame was cut short and most of his fans were lost. In 2018, he released the song “Pempe” and didn’t release any music. However there’s hope for Tizzle fans as he recently tweeted about new music coming soon. * Cynthia Morgan  Cynthia Morgan is a songwriter and singer. Her music is a fusion of pop, hip hop, dance hall and rap. She shot into limelight following the release of two singles titled “Don’t Break My Heart” and “Lead Me On”. She is also popularly known for hit single single “German Juice”. After exiting Jude Okoye’s label, the singer in an attempt to re-brand herself, changed her stage name to “Madrina” under which she released a song and an accompanying music video “Billion dollar woman”. Her most recent music video upload on YouTube is that of her song “In love” which was released about 2 years ago. Her absence from the music scene keeps fans asking where she is and if there’s new music on the way. * Ayo Jay  In 2013, this London- born Afro pop artiste signed a record deal with One Nation Records and released “Your Number”. This song became a hit and was even remixed featuring rapper Fetty Wap. “Your Number” was re-released by RCA Records in November 2015, after Ayo Jay signed a record deal with the label. However, following that, the artiste has released little music, the most recent being his single “Let him go” in 2018.