By Medina Kannabe The Director General, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, has advised Nigerians to take their health seriously. She spoke when members of the Association of Hospital and Administrative Pharmacists of Nigeria (AHAPN), led by its national chairman, Dr. Kingsley Amibor, paid a courtesy visit to NAFDAC office in Lagos.  “NAFDAC will continue to fight to end substandard and falsified drugs. We must take our health very serious and join hands to clampdown on fake drugs. We are zero tolerant to narcotic, substandard and falsified products in circulation. “NAFDAC will continue to ensure that the manufacture, distribution, sale and use of medical products and foods are effectively controlled to ensure that the prescribed standard of identity, safety, quality and efficacy are met,” Adeyeye said. The NAFDAC DG, who applauded the effort of AHAPN’s campaign against narcotic in the country, charged pharmaceutical professionals to discourage open market sale of falsified goods. She said, “I  applaud the effort of AHAPN in terms of campaign against narcotic. Nevertheless, we have to do more because we are custodians of medicine; controlling, monitoring and in charge of reporting adverse effects. Anything that a medicine can do to promote the health of a customer should be our prime focus and that is what pharmaceutical care entails. “We are doing our best like any transparent agency in the world in terms of stemming substandard medicine because  thousands have died due to falsified medicine. We should remember the oath we took to deliver professional service and work with our conscience to save lives,” she added. She also presented the agency’s award of excellence to AHAPN for quality service delivery in the country.  Responding, Dr. Amibor also commended NAFDAC and its leadership for leading the fight against fake, adulterated and counterfeit drugs in the country. “We appreciate the efforts your agency is making to rid our country of fake, adulterated and counterfeit products. Your efforts have gone a long way to safeguard the lives of Nigerians and we are proud of that. “We equally appreciate your fight against drugs and substance abuse, which has assumed a monstrous dimension in recent times in the country and unfortunately, continues to take its toll on the health and economy of the nation, especially our youth. Hence, we are proud that NAFDAC is leading in the effort to curb the menace of drugs abuse,” Dr Amibor added. While reiterating AHAPN’s commitment to uphold and adopt pharmaceutical care in its practice to bring about improvement in patient care, Amibor said the group is ready to embrace best global practices. “AHAPN under my watch has taken it upon herself to adopt pharmaceutical care as our philosophy of practice in Nigeria. We are collaborating with Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) and other relevant agencies in bringing the benefits of pharmaceutical care to the Nigerian people, in terms of quality improvement in patient care and cost of care, amongst others.” The AHAPN boss, however, called on the Federal Government to curb the mass exodus of pharmacists out of the country. “I wish to call on the Federal Government to seriously look into the issue of brain drain created as a result of mass exodus of pharmacists out of Nigeria to United States, Canada and others in search of greener pastures. While we are lamenting the inadequate number of pharmacists in Nigeria, (about 22,000 registered pharmacists to 170million population), the brain drain has compounded the problem of inadequate number of pharmacists needed to provide quality pharmaceutical care to the Nigerian people, ” he said. Amibor, therefore, called on the Federal Government to improve the working conditions and remuneration of pharmacists in public service, stressing that the chaotic drug distribution network in the country would be sanitised if government gives speedy assent to the Pharmacy Council Bill. “We call on the government to improve the working conditions and remuneration of pharmacists in public service as it did for other categories of healthcare workers and also reinvigorate the Drug Revolving Fund (DRF) scheme so as to make essential drugs continuously available to the Nigerian people,” he said.