Experts at a conference on trauma care have recommend how efficient emergency medical service delivery system can be achieved in Nigeria, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF  Without doubt, trauma has become a global public health problem, with Nigeria recording over four million injuries and more than 200,000 deaths annually from road crashes – a major cause of traumatic injuries. Concerned by these dire statistics and huge harvests of avoidable deaths, Trauma Care International Foundation (TCIF), a non-governmental organisation (NGO) involved in mass health, safety education, medical advocacy campaigns, and voluntary blood donation initiatives, organised a national conference on trauma care and how Nigeria can get it right like other countries of the world. The theme of the conference was, “Trauma Care: The Way Forward.” The conference, which held at the Radission Blu, Ikeja, Lagos, attracted key policymakers, healthcare workers of various cadres, health management organisations (HMOs), healthcare financiers, medical directors and employers of labour, among others. In her opening address, Dr. Deola Philips, executive director of TCIF, said the conference was deliberately designed to significantly alter the narrative by facilitating the processes and systems that alleviate the burden of injury afflicting the citizenry. “Not only are these possible; TCIF, through collaboration and galvanized engagement of relevant stakeholders, is committed to supporting the achievement of the sustainable development goals concerned for a healthier nation. “It is our hope that the inputs from this conference will proffer a real and actionable framework to be designed and agreed upon, which will impact health care delivery especially in the management of trauma cases. It is our desire that health care services for traumatic injuries become more cohesive, affordable and in compliance with global best practices,” she said. As expected, experts identified loopholes and defined the way forward for trauma care and emergency response services in Nigeria. Delivering his speech, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Health, commended TCIF for initiating a national discourse around how the country can evolve an effective national emergency medical system. He was represented by represented by Dr. Mustapha Alimi, Medical Director of the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos. The minister promised that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is already focusing attention on creating a nationwide emergency medical response system and ambulance service scheme to take care of day-to-day civil trauma and other medical emergencies in the country. “Trauma is the leading cause of death in individuals under 45years of age worldwide, accounting for about 5 million deaths annually. The casualty figures and impact are lower in high- and upper middle-income countries (HUMICs) and generally much higher in low- and lower middle-income countries (LLMICs), like Nigeria, where causative factors are legend and response systems weak or non-existent. “The affected age group in LLMICs is even younger. This is particularly significant as victims in all the age groups will mostly be aspiring and upwardly mobile family ‘breadwinners’, economically in, or still approaching the most productive years of their lives. The social impact of the loss of such figures is serious, because families, especially dependants of victims, are left more or less abruptly, without economic support. “Besides this, factoring in the huge cost of mainly out-of-pocket treatment of victims leaves many a family bankrupt, hugely indebted and often destitute. The cumulative effect on national productivity and GDP is also considerable. The Federal Road Safety Commission states that 5,181 deaths occurred from road traffic crashes across the country in 2018. This figure does not consider casualty from non-road accident causes, especially industrial (work-related), domestic, Sports and other trauma,” Ehanire said.  The minister identified other sources of trauma victims, saying the lingering insurgency in the Northeast, communal conflicts, the rising crime wave in all parts of the country, with the small arms proliferation in the hands of non-state actors, which all have caused the incidence of ballistic and diverse weapon-wounded-related injuries and deaths, are worsening the situation. He, however, disclosed that his ministry is in collaboration with other ministries, departments and agencies of Government and the private sector, to support Federal Road Safety Commission and other responding entities, to further push down the statistics of casualties from road traffic and other accidents and develop a robust all-embracing response mechanism to mitigate the damaging impact of trauma from accidents on citizens and the economy. In his keynote address, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe, commended TCIF for focusing on an important aspect in the healthcare delivery system in Nigeria. Oloriegbe, who was represented by Mr. Mike Egboh, the Country Director, USAID GHSC-PSM, said his experience in the medical practice has convinced him that an appropriate and timely care given early could significantly improve outcome from trauma care. “It is very gratifying to me to identify with this NGO which envisions how best to improve the state of trauma care and emergency response services in Nigeria. In view of the critical nature and attendant high mortality rate in most cases associated with trauma and other surgical and medical emergencies in our national health care delivery system, I consider the theme of this conference as very apt and timely. “I sincerely appreciate your efforts in contributing to focusing the attention of key stakeholders in our health care delivery system on a crucial aspect of health care service delivery in our country and which has the potential to positively alter the mortality statistics and improve quality of care in our hospitals and service delivery points,” Oloriegbe said. While admitting that trauma is the leading cause of death in the first four decades of life, he lamented that trauma and emergency incidents and their associated challenges have been identified as one of the major causes of deaths on a daily basis in Nigeria.  “Majority of Nigeria’s highways are without plans for emergency rescue operations either by state or non-state actors. Moreover, when such emergencies happen and evacuation takes place through help of individuals close to the scene of the accident or the emergency situation, the bureaucracy at the reception of most hospitals and health institutions may pose an obstacle to saving the endangered lives – as it used to be the practice that persons with gunshot wounds are required to provide police reports before health care providers can attend to the victims, and failure to provide the report may lead to the victims bleeding to death or dying of other complications,” he said. The lawmaker reminded medical professionals that time is of essence in emergency care for trauma. “Appropriate and timely care given early can significantly improve outcome from trauma. This should be one of the key messages every health care professional in this conference should go home with and strive to implement and live with,” he said. According to him, the National Health Act (2014), which was enacted by the 8th National Assembly, provides a frame work for the regulation, development and management of a national health system and sets standards for rendering health services in the country. Among other provisions, the Act recognises Nigerians’ right to health; while the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) provides financial resources to improve primary health care and has the potential to catalyse rapid public health improvements and progress towards the attainment of universal health coverage (UHC) in Nigeria, he stressed. Oloriegbe explained further that the National Health Act (2014) also makes provisions emergency care. “Section 20 (1) of the National Health Act provides that: “A health care provider, health worker or health establishment shall not refuse a person emergency medical treatment for any reason. Section 20 (2) of the Act provides that: A person who contravenes this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N100, 000.00 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both.” Furthermore, the Chairman of Senate Committee on Health also mentioned that the Act dedicated 5 per cent of the BHCPF fund for emergency treatment to be administered by a committee appointed by the National Council on Health, promising that provision of quality emergency care and attainment of UHC are key priorities in the Health Legislative Agenda of the 9th National Assembly.  To achieve this, he said the National assembly is poised to effect some reforms in the provisions of the BHCPF to make its operationalization more effective and efficient in order to actualise its primary objectives. “Investment in trauma and emergency care is a cardinal provision of the National Health Act 2014, which is geared towards progressive attainment of UHC in Nigeria. It is an investment in human capital, which is the foundation of inclusive and sustainable development. With our collective resolve and commitment, and working in the spirit of this conference, we shall get there and have a healthcare system in Nigeria that we all will be proud of,” Oloriegbe said. In her goodwill message, the First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs. Ibijoke Sanwoolu, represented by Dr. Abiola Mafe, said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is fully committed to addressing trauma care by improving all aspects of healthcare delivery in the state. Also, the Corps Marshal of the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC), Mr. Boboye Oyeyemi, represented by the Lagos State Sector Commander, Hyginus Omeje, commended the efforts of the Lagos State government in addressing trauma care. Omeje, who lamented the delay often brought about by bureaucratic bottlenecks his men often face when emergency cases are brought to the hospitals, appealed to the healthcare workers to render service to critical emergency victims. He also appealed to hospitals to stop closing their doors on crash victims, especially for lack of bed space. The former Minister of Health, Prince Juli Adelusi Adeluyi, who was the chairman of the occasion, advised participants to ensure that all that is needed is done to make sure efficient trauma care becomes a reality in the country by supporting TCIF. “Trauma itself is a big deal all over the world; it is not necessarily such a big deal here because we have other big deals; you don’t know who is going to win politically; you never know who will knock you down; even you never know when you report to the police station whether you are going to be the accused or the one reporting, too many things,” he said. 