An illegality is brewing in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), and at the centre of it is the minister who has been charged to superintend it. After setting up an interim management to oversee the commission without the backing of any law, the Niger Delta minister, Godswill Akpabio, has not relented in spite of the senate confirmation of the new board. The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, warned that the interim contraption should vacate the Port Harcourt-based commission, and allow the new board under the chairmanship of Pius Odubu and the managing directorship of Bernard Okumagba to take charge according to law. But up to the time of writing, the minister and the interim arrangement have defied the senate and allowed impunity override any commitment to the rule of law and even decency. How this is allowed to continue under the Buhari administration has baffled many in the region. The reason advanced by the minister and his supporters is that the interim management ought to continue for the next half-year in order for the forensic audit that the president ordered to work like clockwork. They contend that they will be impartial and efficient. It is obvious that the minister is hijacking the law. This is worsened by the high-handed way he has started as the minister of the region. He has not answered critical questions concerning actions he has undertaken since he started his stewardship. First, the scandal of the contract award of N1.9 billion for water hyacinth in the region remains unanswered. The news report that 400 contracts were awarded, and the bulk of them involved his cronies in his state has engendered rage among militants. The minister is yet to explain in public why he undertook those actions and has not cancelled them. This was perhaps why he quickly withdrew a list of about 300 new staff recruits of similar questionable balancing in the region. Again, if the minister’s point is that the management would be partial, a management set up by him does not guarantee  impartiality. He was a governor in the region for eight years and regularly appointed his home state, Akwa Ibom, representatives for appointment on the board in the course of his reign.  The forensic audit, as some of his critics have asserted, would affect those persons and their contracts. So, appointing the management is tantamount to investigating himself. He is a partial member of the activity. As lawyers say, no one is permitted to be a judge in their own cause. In fact, the investigation of the water hyacinth contract could not be done with his own board in charge because fairness cannot be guaranteed. The water hyacinth contract is a very serious matter. At a time of dwindling revenues and massive corruption in every facet of national life, N1.9 billion would go a long way in alleviating the pains of the region, especially in infrastructure, education and agriculture. It is not clear why the minister would act outside the ambit of the law and still appear to be beating his chest in a democracy. This drama brings into relief the continuing problem running the NDDC. The president’s decision to place it under the Niger Delta minister was designed to simplify administration. Rather, it has added a new twist to a commission that has been accused of not abiding by its high purpose to restore and develop the region that lays the golden egg but has nowhere to roost. Now, calls are in high notes asking for the commission to return to the supervision of the presidency. The minister should abide by the law and the president should restrain his minister and let the law play out its course.  ‘But up to the time of writing, the minister and the interim arrangement have defied the senate and allowed impunity override any commitment to the rule of law and even decency. How this is allowed to continue under the Buhari administration has baffled many in the region’