Mr Tayo Owolabi’s 11-year-old marriage came to an end on Thursday after an Igando, Lagos customary court president Mr Koledoye Adeniyi dissolved the union on the grounds of infidelity and irreconcilable differences. Owolabi told the court that his wife Molade was given to adultery and that she took her lover to their matrimonial bed. Mrs Owolabi, a petty trader, also accused her husband of adultery and battery, adding that she had no more sexual feeling for him. Court President, Adeniyi, held that it appeared the couple was tired of the marriage as efforts to reconcile them failed. “Since both parties consented to the dissolution of their marriage, this court has no choice but to dissolve the marriage. The court hereby pronounces the marriage between Mr Tayo Owolabi and Mrs Molade Owolabi dissolved today,” he said. Koledoye said the petitioner must be responsible for their children’s feeding, education and general welfare, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. Addressing the court, Owolabi said, “Our 11-year-old daughter used to tell me that her mother brought a man home and that she used to see them making love. I once saw her love chat on WhatsApp with a man called Timothy. When I asked her, she quickly deleted those messages. I reported her to her two eldest sisters.” Tayo also told the court that Molade was having an extra-marital affair with another man identified as Stanley. “Molade came to my mother’s burial in Ondo State and left that same day,” Owolabi said. “I later discovered that she came with Stanley and both of them lodged in a hotel. I was still in my village when Molade called that she was sick and admitted. I rushed to Lagos the following day and I was told by the nurses that a man came to pass the night with her. I later discovered him to be Stanley. “I searched for Stanley on Facebook and saw pictures of him and my wife which were taken inside our bedroom and on our bed.” The unemployed 35-year-old presented to the court the pictures printed from Stanley’s Facebook page as evidence. The petitioner said he moved out of their matrimonial home when his wife said she needed space. “There was a day we had a misunderstanding and she got me arrested.” said. “At the police station, I was asked to make an undertaking that I would not return to my house, a promise I have kept. Two weeks after I left the house, my wife changed her marital status on Facebook from ‘married’ to ‘divorced’ and also changed her surname to her maiden name.” Owolabi also said he had been denying him sex since December, 2018, and always threatened him with a knife. Mr Owolabi consented to the divorce, accusing her husband of infidelity. “My husband has been cheating on me without my knowledge. I got to know last week when I went to his family house, where I met his new wife and a baby of about six months.” The 30-year-old trader denied having affairs with Timothy and Stanley. “I sell watermelon; Timothy is my customer while Stanley comes to assist me in my shop,” she said. “The picture of Stanley and I that my husband saw on social media were taken in the sitting room, not in our bedroom, as he claimed. Stanley came to stay with me when I was admitted at the hospital because my husband travelled for his mother’s burial and there was nobody to stay with me.” The mother of three said her husband turned her into a punching bag. “My husband is a wife beater; he once beat me to the extent that I lost a pregnancy,” she told the court. She also said she denied her husband sex because she no longer had any sexual feeling toward him.