Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja  The All Progressives Congress (APC) seemed to be coasting closer to victory in the forthcoming Bayelsa State governorship election as one of its chieftains and governorship aspirants charged his supporters to vote for the party. Former Minister of State of Agriculture, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, who spoke to journalists after a closed-door meeting with the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, in Abuja on Thursday, however said he is still in court with the party over the dispute generated from the governorship primary of the party. Senator Lokpobiri, who spoke with the party’s National Chairman, along with some state governors on the platform of the party, said he will not leave the APC for any reason, adding that having served as a minister on the platform of the party, nothing would make him jump ship. “The reason why I’m here is to pay a courtesy call on National Chairman having been spoken on the party which I have a great respect for and the president. I’m a very strong member of APC and I came today to formally tell our Chairman and to speak to Nigerians, in particular, the electorate in Bayelsa that all of them should vote for APC, regardless of what will happen in the matter that is fixed for judgment on Nov. 14, 2019. “I told my supporters, even before I came for this visit, that no matter what happens, I will remain in APC, having served as minister under this administration. There is no way because of the outcome of the governorship primary that will make me to leave APC. “We are working and campaigning at different levels. I always advise that anybody that has grievances the only place to go and resolve those grievances is the court. So, whatever that is happening in the matter that is pending in the court is not an infraction on any part of our party’s constitution,” he said. Jigawa Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Badaru, said the APC had overwhelmed the entire Bayelsa State with its governorship campaign, saying that his party would win in Bayelsa State. “Well, you have witnessed the campaign going on both PDP and APC in Bayelsa. I believe by now judge by yourselves that APC is doing wonderfully well in Bayelsa. You are all witnesses to all the rallies that have been happening for both the two parties. I believe that success is ours,” he said.