In this piece, Ayo Baje highlights the conditions that will guarantee free and fair governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states on November 16.  THE question on the lips of many observers ahead of the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states is how well and impartial the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would be in its handling of the two contests. Less than two weeks to the elections, the major parties are intensifying their campaigns amidst fear of violence and rigging. From all indications, the contest in the two is likely to be a two-horse race between the candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). For instance, in Kogi State, the incumbent Governor Yahaya Bello is the candidate of the APC, while Musa Wada of the flag bearer of the PDP. In Bayelsa, it is a straight fight between Lyon Pereworimini of the APC and Senator Diri Duoye of the PDP. In their campaigns, the two parties have been trading accusations bothering on alleged attempts at vote buying, arms build-up and threats of the use of political thugs to cow opponents. Such insinuations are not new; elections in recent times have been characterized by vote-buying and intimidation of political opponents. But, for democratic ethos to be sustained and indeed strengthened, observers believe the people’s votes must count. INEC has its statutory functions well spelt out in Section15, Part 1 of the Third Schedule of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). Same is also spelt out in Section 2 of the Electoral Act 2010. The subsisting laws empower INEC to conduct elections into elective political offices. These include executive offices such as that of the president, vice president, governors and their deputies. Also listed are elections into legislative offices such as the Senate and House of Representatives. Incidentally, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu started his tenure as INEC chairman with the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa, which were declared inconclusive. Following the feats achieved by his predecessor in office, Prof. Attahiru Jega, further improvements in the conduct of elections was expected from Prof. Yakubu. But, controversy has continued to dog some of the elections conducted under his watch. Thus, with the forthcoming governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa, the Yakubu-led INEC has the golden opportunity to redeem its image. For instance, INEC recently met with the top hierarchy of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), to map out strategies on how to ensure free and fair and peaceful elections in the two states. Both representatives of the NPF and the NSCDC, Kabir Quarzo and Peter Maigeri respectively, have given their assurance to that effect. Similarly, INEC has held its quarterly meeting with political parties to review their performances during the previous elections and to come up with strategies to deal with some challenges identified. Aside from the governorship election, a senatorial election is also scheduled to hold in Kogi West senatorial district, following the recent tribunal nullification of the election of Senator Dino Melaye. Prof. Yakubu said conducting the two polls at the same will help to reduce cost. After the INEC Chairman’s meeting with the Resident Electoral Commissioners in Bayelsa and Kogi, Monday Tom and James Apam, there have been assurances that the forthcoming elections will be hitch-free. Some political affairs analysts believe that under Jega there were some significant improvements. They cite the computerization of the electoral system, the coding of ballot papers, ballot boxes and polling units. Its conduct of governorship polls in Anambra, Ekiti and Osun states recorded increasingly fair elections. But it is not yet Uhuru. For instance, the often delayed updating of the voter register and the distribution of the much-needed permanent voter cards, PVC have been widely criticised. Still, some flaws persist. There is voter apathy, as was reported with evidence in several states during the recent general elections. Also, the way and manner candidates go about their smear campaigns, couched with outright insults and innuendoes, after signing peace pacts, leaves much to be desired. Mass voter education should be an on-going exercise. But the real concern is the refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the Electoral Amendment Bill into law. Without it, the wishes of the voters may not be fully expressed. Another critical issue is the desperation of politicians to win and hang on to power at all costs, not to serve the people but because of the mouth-watering apparatchiks of political office.