Bassey Anthony, Uyo Ibom Multi-Specialist Hospital (ISH) has successfully performed 10 free open heart surgeries on children in Uyo, the capital city of Akwa-Ibom. The Chief Mediacal Director (CMD), Dr. Emmanuel Ekanem who disclosed this to journalists on Thursday, said that the operations were carried out in collaboration with the Hospitals for Humanities. Ekanem noted that 28 open heart surgeries have been earmarked for the two week period of the free operations, adding that the hospital was chosen in the country for the paediatric operations because it met the criteria set by the sponsor. He also said that two brain operations, one spinal cord surgery and the placement of a filter in the inferior vena cava (IVC), have successfully been carried out in the hospital by Nigerian doctors, adding that a brain tumour operation has been scheduled in the hospital after the end of the free open heart surgery. “Also the hospital will begin the training of Radiologist specialists next year,” he said. Ekanem further said that the medical imaging of the hospital is second to none in Africa, while the laboratory is run by its staff. Thanking the State government for its finacial support, he said the cost of services in the hospital has been slashed by 50 percent and services were accessible. He urged the Akwa Ibom people to take advantage of the subsidized cost while it lasts, adding that so much has been put into the hospital such that it cannot fail but blossom. “Since I came on board in July 2019, we have done two brain operations. We have done one spinal cord surgery. We have placed a filter in the inferior vena cava (IVC), the big vessel that carries blood from the abdomen to the heart, and the patient was out of the theatre in less than an hour with the inferior vena cava filter inside his inferior vena cava. “I did not need to bring anybody from outside. The hands we need are available. I have what I need but as we expand, we will need more people. Next week, we are going to remove a brain tumour with an entirely Nigerian crew. We have done a spinal cord surgery and the person is recovering in the ward. “Yes, there is no hospital that is self sufficient in all things. Maybe when we expand, we may need a little help. The Hospital for Humanities are helping us; they have done a number of heart surgeries, and much of the equipment they use are from here. “When it comes to medical imaging, we are second to none in Africa. The laboratory is run by our staff. We will start training Radiologists from next year but not undergraduates but specialists,” he stated. Mr Kenneth Smith, a documentarian with the Hospitals for Humanities said Ibom Specialist Hosiptal was the only one chosen in the country for the free surgery to be carried out on children. He said the facilities in the hospital attracted them to the facility, adding that he enjoyed the hospitality of the people and ambience in the state. ”We chose coming here because of the potentials, we wanted to build together with this Hospital. We have a 100 percent success rate in each surgery and we have people coming all over from the UK and United States to make it happen, and also with Nigeran Doctors. “This is my sixth trip as a documentarian and this is the best. There is a lot of potentials in this hospital. For example the radiography machine here is second to none. “Whoever had the initial vision of this hospital had a good vision. The facilities here are optimum but more can be done,” he stated.