By Ozolua Uhakheme, Assistant Editor (Arts)  Edo State Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Hon. Monday E.O. Osaigbovo, has enjoined traditional rulers in the state to continue to pray and support Governor Godwin Obaseki, the people and government of Edo State as they have always done, to take the state to next level. He said Obaseki holds traditional rulers in high esteem as demonstrated by his recent directive to pay five percent statutory allocation in addition to councils’ five percent revenue grant due to them. Osaigbovo, who spoke while presenting a staff of office to the monarch Anthony Elo Aleburu (I) as the Odibiado of Sobe, in Owan West Local Government Area of the state, implored the good people of Sobe to support the Odibiado to enable him effectively discharge his royal duties as the Odibiado. He blamed the seven-year delay in the presentation of staff of office to the monarch on the litigation that trailed his appointment. He however appealed to the warring or dissatisfied groups to sheath their sword and allow peace to reign, adding that Sobe is one big family and it is known for peace. He said it is his hope and desire that all hands will be on deck to bring about the much needed development to Sobe community and it’s environment in line with the vision, programmes and policy of Governor Obaseki’s led administration. “As you are no doubt aware, no meaningful development can take place in an atmosphere of rancor. In this regard, I appeal to you as the father of all in Sobe land to endeavour to use your exalted position to make positive impact on the people and to chart the path of peace, order and development at all times. “In the same vein, I wish to implore you and your subjects to be vigilant and to promptly report any strange and suspicious character in your midst to the law enforcement agencies so as to reduce the incident of crime and at the same time ensure peace in your domain,” he said. The commissioner reiterated that government will not tolerate what is capable of undermining the peace and tranquility in Sobe community, urging the traditional ruler to be fair and firm in taking decisions affecting your subjects. “You should also live peacefully with your neighbours as the state government will not tolerate any breakdown of law and order in any part of the state,” he added. Presenting the staff of office to the Odibiado, Hon. Osaigbovo, who represented Obaseki said: “On behalf of the state governor, Mr.Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki, the governor of Edo State, I present to you, your royal highness, Anthony Ero Aleburu, the staff of office associated with the title of the Odibiado of Sobe.” Commending the state government, the Odibiado of Sobe appealed to it to complete the lingering construction of Sobe-Sabongidda-Ora Road project so as to bring Sobe closer to the local government headquarters. “We also wish to appeal to our governor to make judicious use of Sobe Farm Settlement by making it a campus of the State School of Agriculture. It will also be appreciated sir, if the fencing of Sobe High School is done to ward off intruders and the school should be adequately staffed. “We thank our governor for the Cottage Hospital that is under construction. It is our hope that when completed, a resident doctor and other allied staff would be employed to man the facility,” he said. He assured Governor Obaseki of total support for his administration, adding: ‘’We whole heartedly support your second term ambition so that you can continue with the good work you are doing in Edo State.’’