Medinat Kanabe  The Chairperson, Chemical and Allied Products Plc (CAP) Plc, Awuneba Ajumogobia, has assured shareholders that the company will leverage technology to improve internal processes and ultimately boost productivity. She spoke following the successful restructuring of the firm which delivered a new leadership and board of directors. Speaking while she led the board members on a courtesy visit to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Ajumogobia also reiterated the commitment of the new leadership to uphold the shared values of  the company. The Chairperson also rang the closing bell on the trading floor as part of activities to mark the company’s new direction. According to Ajumogobia, current realities and changes have made it imperative for CAP Plc to realign, particularly in the digital space. She said: “Today’s closing bell ceremony is remarkable for us and commemorates the new direction that we have embarked on. We want to ensure that every CAP Plc customer can attest to having an outstanding experience. This is why we are leveraging technology. We are also using technology for our internal processes, so, we are investing in applications to ensure that our processes run more efficiently.” She said the new management is resolute to ensure that CAP Plc becomes a flagship company on the NSE with good policies and strong leadership. Ajumogobia said: “The quality of the new board and management assures me that we have what it takes to improve on the strong brand which the company has built over the years. We will be strategic to deliver remarkable value to stakeholders without compromising sustainability.” Also speaking on the occasion, its Managing Director,  David Wright, stated that the management team is leveraging every opportunity in terms of technology to grow volumes and revenue.  “We are particular about sustainable growth for the company. Technology is a major factor to achieve this and be able to deliver on our promises to all stakeholders.” The Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Oscar Onyema, commended the team and urged them to “strive for sustainability by adhering to high standards of corporate governance, deeper social impact, higher regulatory compliance, and greater returns for shareholders”. He assured that the NSE will continue to provide a platform to support listed companies to meet their strategic business objectives.