Body Odour (Bromhidrosis): Every living thing is made of chemicals. Human beings are the same. We are made up of complex compounds of chemicals whose foundation were laid when we were conceived. These chemicals are building block of our lives. They remain active every second of our lives: they undergo regeneration and shedding. The product of such recycling is constantly being removed from our body as any factory product and wastes are removed in the world. Body odour becomes noticeable after puberty at a time when our hormones are increasingly active and we are more productive and energetic. In most people, body odour passes without significant concern. Please be aware that every one of us smells in different ways to various degrees. When body odour becomes a worry or so overpowering that it interferes with the lives of the individuals, steps should be taken to address the problem. At the time of our birth, our bodies were invaded by bacteria present in the air. As we live on, depending on what we engage in and how we look after ourselves, these bacteria will remain or change as we all change with time. Causes body odour: We all sweat. Anyone who sweats is subject to some kind of body odour. How we individually deal with our body or keep the smell to a minimum is what differentiates us all. When we are anxious or we exercise or there is a lot of heat around us, we sweat more in such areas as face, armpit and chest areas. Our hands may be sweating as other parts of our body. This situation creates massive opportunity for the resident bacteria mentioned above to become active and feed on our waste products of sweat with all the chemicals that are contained in it. This interaction of human sweat and bacteria fundamentally creates our body odour. There is however more to it. Ingestion of some foods such as garlic, onion, curry, alcohol, certain medications (like penicillin, bromides), and toxins may also cause body odour. Lastly, body odour may result from underlying diseases such as diabetes, kidney diseases and liver failure. Also, in some individuals, there is a strong genetic link to their excess body odour. Such individuals also have excess ear wax. Perhaps, this genetic link may explain why some cultures such as Yoruba claims that a poor child’s first bath and eventual body odour are interrelated. How to deal with body odour:  Beyond issue of puberty and smell, body odour in an otherwise healthy person will be investigated by the doctor and appropriate treatment should be offered accordingly. Personal hygiene is a very important measure. Shaving of armpit hairs and washing of armpit as well as prompt removal or washing of sweats are useful steps to take. Regular or once daily showering or bath may help as well. Use of antiseptic soap may be beneficial too. Deodorant may help reduce the perception and intensity of the body smell.  In rare occasions, surgery may be required to deal with body odour (and excess sweating).  Excessive Sweating (hyperhidrosis): As I mentioned earlier, excess sweating may be due to anxiety, heat in the environment, eating of hot food, and exertion. But it may also be due to overactive sweat glands in the armpit, face, chest and back. In some persons, over sweating may be due to genetic inheritance. It may also be caused by diseases such as overacting thyroid and other diseases. All these may make body odour worse. The solution includes use of antiperspirants. In some situations, medications may be used to reduce over sweating but you may need to see a physician for this. In extreme cases, surgical operation may be called for to deal with excessive sweating. Skin and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs): Sexually transmitted diseases are common human afflictions. Skin is often a part of the human body that STD may manifest itself in the victim. Common STD that shows up in the skin include viral diseases such as human papilloma virus(HPV) showing as small cauliflower-like growth, human immunodeficiency virus(HIV) showing up as rashes in different parts or all over the body, herpes simplex showing up as ulcers (see next week’s article for skin ulcers). Bacteria such as Chancroid, and syphilis also shows up as ulcers as well as swelling around the groin, penis in men and vagina in women. Gonorrhea may cause little swelling in groin and discharge in penis. In women, infection with gonorrheoa may not be so obvious until much damage had been done. The solution to STD is primarily prevention: for you to exercise discretion on whom you interact with. On the other hand, use of condom may help. Where oral sex has been practised, these infections may affect the lips and throat. If infection is discovered, do go to your medical practitioner as soon as possible for thorough investigations and treatment. Prompt attendance at the doctor may save you from more body damage and death from sexually transmitted diseases.  Shaving of armpit hairs and washing of armpit as well as prompt removal or washing of sweats are useful steps to take. Regular or once daily showering or bath may help as well. Use of antiseptic soap may be beneficial too. Deodorant may help reduce the perception and intensity of the body smell.  In rare occasions, surgery may be required to deal with body odour (and excess sweating)  