Alao Abiodun  The governorship election in Kogi state which is scheduled for 16th November will be keenly contested by a total of 23 candidates. The race for who heads the Lugard House in the next four years is already on. Interestingly, the strong political parties — the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Young Progressives Party (YPP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Accord Party, (AP), African Democratic Congress (ADC), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Peoples Redemption Party (PRP)— are parading notable aspirants. And barring any surprises, the APC and PDP are clearly in the lead Here is a succinct breakdown of the contestants for Kogi governorship election and their political parties; The candidates and their parties include; incumbent Yahaya Bello of the APC, Barrister Natasha Akpoti of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Engr. Abdulmalik Adama of Hope Democratic Party (HDP), Sheik Jibril of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Engr. Emmanuel Olorunmowaju Orugun of Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP). Others are Mohammed Abdullahi of Accord Party (AP), Abdulrazzaq Baba Emeje of United Democratic Party, (UDP), Engr. Musa Wada of the People Democratic Party (PDP) and Muhammed Zakari of Young Democratic Party (YDP). Musa Leslie Lasisi will hold the banner of National Action Council (NAC), while Jimoh Ahmodu will hold the one for Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA). In no particular order, here’s is a brief about the major contenders for the Kogi 2019 guber race. Governor Yahaya Bello (APC) Incumbent governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State who is the APC governorship ticket, is currently pursuing his second term ambition and as such enjoys the power of incumbency which may perhaps, be among his strengths in the November 16 election. However, with the backings of the federal powers and support from APC governors from other states, he is favored to give a tough fight to the opposition party. Bello is also enjoying the overwhelming influence of his deputy, Edward Onoja. Irrespective of the whole political dilemma, Yahaya Bello will be walking a tight rope between his party and the opposition party’s candidate. Engr. Musa Wada (PDP) Engr. Musa Wada is the official PDP flag bear and younger brother of former governor Idris Wada; He is also a son-in-law to former governor Ibrahim Idris having married one of his daughters. Wada who is from the majority Igala ethnic group boasts of the largest voting population in the state which is quite a boost to his political adventure. Apart from being an Igala, Wada is also from Dekina Local Government Area which has the largest voting strength amongst the 21 local governments of the state. Before his emergence into the political scene, Engineer Wada spent most of his life and career in the maritime sector. Abdullahi Mohammed (AP) Abdullahi Mohammed who’s the official flag bearer and major financier for the Accord party will be giving his second attempt at the Kogi governorship elections 2019. In 2015, he reached the stage of the primary election before losing out. Barr Natasha Akpoti (SDP) Barr Natasha Akpoti (SDP) is the official flag bearer for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate. Interestingly, Natasha Akpoti has been engaged in quite a number of commendable activities across the state. The lawyer and social activist is a half caste – her late father was a medical doctor from Okene in Kogi Central, while her mother is from Russia. Her gubernatorial ambition is making waves across the state and might just be a candidate to watch. Akpoti is said to have the support of Ebira women and quite a handful of teeming supporters. Sheikh Jibril Ibrahim (APGA) Shielkh Ibrahim is the official flag bearer for the All Progressives Grand Alliance ahead of the Kogi 2019 guber elections. He was a former member of APC but was quite aggrieved with the party and he bolted out of the party alleging injustice. On the 16th of November, it is certain that the people of Kogi will elect who will saddle the affairs of the state from this obviously crowded basket of candidates.