From Adesoji Adeniyi, Osogbo  Osun State Government has received the commendation of the World Bank for successfully completing the Rural Access and Mobility Projects (RAMP) in parts of the state. Speaking with reporters after visiting some project sites, including a 10.16 kilometre Oshiri-Agbonda-Kura road, 6.337 kilometre Ana Elewa-Isamosita, Odo-Oba road, Novocrete application, upgrading and rehabilitation of 13.73 kilometre Ogbaagba-Idirokoosun road, the World Bank Practice Manager, Aurelio Menendet, pledged the commitment of the bank to continue expanding the social development of communities in Osun State. He expressed satisfaction about the completion of Apa Odurain bridge in Ife North that links Modakeke, Famia and other 50 communities, which was completed in 2017. Menendet said: “It’s interesting and we are very happy about what we saw at the site. It is also good to know some of the micro enterprises working to maintain the rural road. “The World Bank is aiming to keep rural communities in good condition. This is part of our programmes and we hope with this mechanism that has been tested and applied, the World Bank will expand it to all parts of the state.” The state Project Coordinator for Osun RAMP, Mr. Sola Adewumi, who accompanied the World Bank officials during the tour, said the RAMP projects have boosted the economy of the state. Adewumi stressed that all the roads reconstructed in the rural areas have reduced the mortality rate of expectant mothers and those with ailments in the affected communities. He said: “We are celebrating RAMP 2 today for the accountability and delivery of the services for the purpose which it is intended to bring benefit to the ultimate beneficiary of the project. The World Bank has given us a pass mark for the implementation of the project. The project made it easy for the farmers to earn higher because there are no middlemen before selling their produce.” Commissioner for Rural Development and Community Affairs Mr. Adesegun Olanibi said Osun would continue to benefit from its development partners because of its judicious utilisation of the resources from the World Bank. He said the Governor Oyetola administration would continue to work for the development of the state “in a way that will attract developing partners for good governance.” Olanibi added: “It is good that the World Bank team have come to see how we have utilised judiciously the resources being given to us as a support to link the rural roads.” The Chairman of the Road Maintenance Group, Wasiu Musiliyu, lauded the government for establishing rural access and mobility project, which he noted has impacted positively on the lives of rural dwellers. 