From Bolu Abiodun Business owners in Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State are awaiting the resumption of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) students who they have described as the ‘backbone of most businesses in the town’. CAMPUSLIFE learnt that the absence of students has dealt a heavy blow on business operators in and around the campus, who make little or nothing daily. Academic activities in the university have remained at a standstill in the wake of a crisis between students and the wife of Ekiti State Governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, which resulted in the death of two students. The students had last month staged a peaceful protest against poor electricity supply at the Oye and Ikole campuses. The protest went out of control when security personnel attached to Mrs. Fayemi  allegedly shot at the students. A sales representative at a local pharmacy, who simply identified herself as Mrs. Oluwaseun, said: “Sleeping and waking up without doing anything has become regular for me everyday. If students were around, I know what I would have made. There’s no money.” She used the Yoruba slang: enu gbe, to further underscore her state of being cash strapped.“I’d like them to resume immediately, they make the streets fun,” she adds. Another resident, Mrs. Ramot Akomolafe, who sells food stuff, said the shutdown had made the environment dull. She added that  she makes half of what she used to make when students were in town. Asked what the consequences could be, if the shutdown lingers, she said basically for her and others, their business might collapse, adding: ‘’Some people have even locked up their businesses.” Debby Ola, a fashion designer, said the impact had been negative. “Sales have reduced drastically,” he said. A barber, who introduced himself as Kingsley, says he believes in divine intervention. Like others, Kingsley admits sales had dwindled. Nonetheless, he is not affected because God is helping him. “Some of my colleagues say students make business move but not me,” he asid. A colleague of Kingsley, Anthony, who runs a barber shop in Oye, however, has a different tale. “We hardly eat three times a day. We used to make 10 times what we make now,” Anthony said. He continued: “Bike riders (commercial motorcyclists) who visit here have drastically reduced because those through whom they make bigger sales are not around.’’ Folabi Olatunde, who operates a POS stand, shares same story. “We hardly have anyone to patronise us. Many businesses are close to collapsing if the shutdown continues. It is seriously affecting us a lot.” Samuel, who runs a business and call centres, said he drew about 70 per cent of his clientele from FUOYE students but now “business is totally down’’. He therefore pleaded that the university leadership should resolve outstanding issues so that students could return to school.  