 GOLDEN Eaglets’ 2015-winning coach Emmanuel Amuneke has commended the present squad at the on-going FIFA U-17 World Cup in Brazil, even as he charged the Coach Manu Garba-led side to be clinical in front of the goal as the competition enters the decisive knockout stages. After securing a heart thumping 4-2 and 3-2 wins against Hungary and Ecuador to secure their place in the Round of 16, the Nigerian youngsters’ prolificacy in front of the goal cost them dear in their 2-1 loss to Australia on Friday. As Group B leaders, the Golden Eaglets are to face the best third-placed team from Groups A, C or D but there is likelihood that there opponent would be determined by drawing of lot at the conclusion of all the group matches. But Amuneke, the 1993 African Footballer of the Year has warned the Eaglets to be wary of stiffer challenges starting from tomorrow’s second round match at Estádio Olímpico Goiania against any other team. “All said and done, I’m so happy that the Golden Eaglets qualified for the Round of 16 after winning their first two matches, “the former Barcelona winger told NationSport. “But it’s obvious that there are still defensive lapses in the team and I know the coaches will work on these lapses ahead of the knockout stages. “Of course, it would be harder from the Round of 16 and the boys must be told in clear terms how important it is for them to put away chances that come  their way.“ Amuneke who qualified Tanzania for their first AFCON in 39 years at Egypt 2019, said the Golden Eaglets must put behind them their performances in the preliminary round and gird their loins henceforth since mit’s winner-take-all from the Round of 16. “It’s even going to be more difficult for the Eaglets because  there won’t be margins for errors from the knockout stages,” stated  Amuneke  who served  as a member of the Technical Study  Group (TSG) at the last  U-17 AFCON  in Tanzania. “ They must therefore take advantage of their  chance. “Other teams have now know the qualities and weaknesses of the Eaglets and they will be ready for them since they know the Eaglets are very strong on their good day,” he said.