Students of the Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) plying the Akure-Akoko Expressway have lamented over the deplorable state of the route. The road, from Akure which links Owo, Oka, Akungba,Ikare and some other, has been described by students as a death trap – claiming lives. They also lamented incessant robbery attacks on travellers on the road, which often claims lives and properties. In an interview, Adefemi Emmanuel, a 200-level student of English Education, said a trip on the road was uncomfortable for travellers. He said: “Akure-Akoko Expressway is very bad, to the extent that travellers don’t feel convenient in vehicles or any means of transportation. The road is somehow complicated, and the potholes cause traffic and accidents. “The bad state of the road has caused several robbery incidents while many lives have have been lost. It has caused a lot of discouragement for drivers to come to Akoko side.” Another student, Esther Oguntuwase, said the road was nothing to write home about.  “The Akure-Owo Expressway down to Akoko is nothing to write home about. The road is full of potholes which cause damages to cars and might lead to accidents.  Whenever I am in a bus or car on my way to Akoko, I become apprehensive because of the incessant manoeuvring of the driver just to avoid potholes,” she said. Though palliative work was done on the road some months ago, Esther said it has gone bad again. “There are some parts of the road around the Akure-Owo-Akungba expressway where the government had reconstructed at a particular time this year, but now it is almost as it was before. I think the fault lies in the standard of the materials used, so the best thing is for the government to reconstruct the road with materials that will last longer” Adefemi Emmanuel advised that the government should make the road passable by filling potholes and amending where necessary or better still, reconstruct the whole road. “I think what the government can  do is to amend it, because it will  reduce  transport fare and the route will be attractive to travelers and drivers. ” Akintilayo Joshua of Mass Communication department implored the tier of government concerned to pay immediate attention to the road so as to ease travelers’ difficulties.