 Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday presented Certificates of Return to Bayelsa State Governor-Elect, Chief David Lyon and Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello. The commission also presented Certificates of Return to Deputy Governor-elect, Senator Biobarakumo Degi and a member of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly representing Brass Constituency 1, Charles Daniel, whose supplementary election was concluded on November 16. Lyon described the Certificate of Return presented to him by INEC as a social contract between him and the people. The Bayelsa governor-elect, who received the certificate from INEC National Commissioner in charge of Bayelsa, Edo and Rivers states, Mrs. May Agbamuche, said he would not disappoint the people of the state, who came out en masse to vote for him in a free, fair, credible and peaceful election. Describing November 16 as a historical day, he said the people trooped to their polling units with pains in their hearts to vote out the current government and usher in a new administration under the APC. Lyon, who was in company with APC leaders and crowd of residents, including drummers, at the INEC office in Yenagoa, where he received the certificate, reiterated that he would treat the state’s revenue as the people’s money meant for development. Read Also: “The Bayelsa money is not my money. The Bayelsa money doesn’t belong to my deputy.  It is the people’s money and we will use it judiciously to develop Bayelsa State. I am signing a contract with the people of Bayelsa to bring peace to our state so that development will come to Bayelsa,”he said. Lyon said though in every election there must be a winner and a loser, in his own case everybody that contested with him should be regarded as a winner. He called on other contestants, including the PDP candidate to work with him for the development of Bayelsa. The governor-elect said the election was free, fair, credible and peaceful adding that it was the first time in the history of the state such contest was held without any loss of life. He said he was particularly impressed that Southern Ijaw, his local government area hitherto notorious for electoral violence, went through Saturday’s poll without violence. In Kogi, Bello and his deputy, who is also his running mate, Edward Onoja, were presented with their Certificates of Return in a ceremony at the Professor Mahmoud Yakubu Hall, INEC state headquarters, Lokoja. INEC National Commissioner in charge of the North Central, Mohammed Haruna, who presented the certificate to Bello and Onoja, said: “Today marks a new beginning after the election and a call to duty for the governor-elect.” Kogi State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof. James Apam, said the presentation was in line with the tradition of the commission, which it always looked forward to. “We know what we went through to get to this stage and it’s time to settle down for the job ahead,” he said. Bello said the day, being the second time he would be receiving certificate of return as a governor, would not be the last time he would get such a document from INEC. He said he would continue to pursue those laudable projects he pledged during the electioneering campaigns.