 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and Bakery Initiatives Group has partnered to train Corps members in baking and bakery, to equip the corps members with entrepreneurial skills and enable them become employers of labour. The Corps members were for a week trained on various aspects of bakery including, bakery technology and practice of baking of bread, cakes and pastries with special emphasis on recipes, effects of basic ingredients and cost calculations among others. Speaking at the opening ceremony for the training programme, at the BI Bakery Academy in Yaba, the Lagos State Coordinator of NYSC, Mr. Albert Aronni, enjoined participating Corps members to seize the opportunity to widen their horizon and learn about baking, noting that the business has over the years proven to be lucrative and provides employment for a large number of people. Represented by Mrs Dorapo Odulana, Aronni lauded Bakery Initiatives Group for the gesture to impact positively on the young graduates, noting that the initiative will help ensure the corps members become productive in the society without being dependent on others for employment. He called on other skill based organisations to follow in the footsteps of Bakery Initiatives Group and partner with NYSC to equip the new graduates with skills that can make them self-employed, keep them away from vices and crime after their service year. The Country Representative and Chief Executive Officer of Bakery Initiatives Nigeria, Mr. Ephraim Mbanaso, said the training is aimed at addressing a vital area of need for the graduates, noting that his company identified the need in the course of interacting with bakery operators in Nigeria over the years. According to him, the company is pleased to partner with the NYSC to impact the youths in a positive way. Director and Head of BI Bakery Academy, Mrs. Nike Richie-Ogbodu, informed participants that the program is in line with BIG’s philosophy that has identified well-trained and grounded people as an essential pillar for the success of any bakery business. She said the idea behind the training is centered on skill acquisition for all categories of human resources needed for the effective and efficient running of bakery businesses. 