Saheedah Oluwa is the Chief Executive Officer, CEO, Beautyklinik by Cerheedar. She graduated from the University of Lagos where she studied Microbiology but has delved into the area of beauty and skincare for men and women. In this interview with Medinat Kanabe, she talks about her love for beautiful people and why she has never worked in a laboratory  How long have you been in the business of beauty and skincare? I have been in the business of beauty for more than five years. But just three years in skincare and in this short period, I have done jobs for many notable people in Nigeria. You studied Microbiology, why did you choose beauty and skincare? I am highly passionate about anything and everything that requires being beautiful. My passion for beautiful look made me go into makeup. Then later the need to achieve a flawless skin brought about my skincare brand. I love my course of study. But I was never happy carrying out analysis in the lab. I needed to do what really makes me happy. Have you ever worked in the laboratory? No, I have never practiced it. I only had the opportunity to practice during my industrial attachment (IT). Will you be able to cope if you are asked to go and practice? I am not sure I can cope, not because I have no knowledge about it; but because I don’t find joy in it. I will choose skincare over my course of study anytime, any day because it is fun, and I enjoy watching people happy because of what I have prescribed for them. That alone gives me joy. So, I will choose skincare anywhere I find myself. What challenges do you face carrying out your work? It is really challenging, I must say; because all skins have different types. Because of this, the quest to make products for all skin types can be quite challenging if you are still a beginner and don’t have the facility yet. How was it in the beginning? In all honesty, it was not all rosy at the beginning. I just had to brace up for whatever challenge that comes with it. Let me use this opportunity to tell startups that there is no quitting, no matter how much we fail. We must always rise and come back stronger. That has been my watchword. Never give up. Where do you see your studio in the next five years? Wow. By the special grace of God, we won’t be talking about studio in the next five years. Instead, we will be talking about our buildings and branches in different states. How lucrative is your business? Skincare business is very lucrative if you know what you are doing. I advise young people to go into it after acquiring all the necessary skills they need to.