Our Reporter  Local rice processing has received a major boost with the introduction of Rice De-Stoner, Castor Oil De-Husking Machine and Automatic machines by the Nigerian Association of Technologists in Engineering (NATE) Lagos Branch. The invention was carried by the Association in collaboration with the Federal Institute of Industrial Research (FIIRO) Oshodi, Lagos. Justifying the need for the invention, the national president NATE, Mr. Ahmed Muhammed Yabagi said it is in line with the Federal Government plan of making agriculture as a priority and rice as one of the most consume food in Nigeria. According to him, “NATE in its own capacity had decided to key in and boost the current agricultural revolution going on in Nigeria. This has led to the fabrication of the Rice De-Stoning machines as a solution to the worrisome problem facing our farmers.” Pressed further, the NATE boss said, “Mechanisation that was overlooked in the past must now be on the drive, as a factor to fully analysing the way out of funding this nation with our local rice, and actualising food security at large.” Echoing similar views, Vice President, NATE Southwest, Engr. Emmanuel Adesina said, “Averagely, a unit of a Rice De-Stoning machine can provide training for undergraduates and job for our youths.” “In the last few years, the Lagos State Branch of NATE has continued to live up to its vision and objectives by adding to the local market, locally fabricated smart and innovative technological solutions to accelerate production and reduce drudgery especially in the processing of Agricultural produce in Nigeria,” Hon. Bridget Obi further noted. This hardship is predominantly experienced in the area of food among which is rice. The price of a bag of rice has inflated from N16,000:00 (Sixteen Thousand Naira) to N25,000:00 (Twenty-Five Thousand Naira)) within a period of 40 (forty) days of the boarder closure. With the innovations of NATE in the area of Scaled Down Rice De-Stoner and Castor Oil De-husking machines, the next huge task we are facing is to find strategies on how the end users can have access to these machines.