 By Eric Ikhilae, Victor Oluwasegun, Abuja, Osagie Otabor, Benin, Adamu Suleiman, Sokoto and Yusufu Aminu Idegu, Jos  The Court of Appeal sitting in Benin, the Edo State capital, yesterday upheld the victory of Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, representing Delta Central, and Senator James Manager, representing Delta South. Omo-Agege, of the All Progressives Congress (APC), defeated Evelyn Oboro of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while Manager of the PDP, defeated Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan of APC. The election tribunal in Asaba, the Delta State capital, had ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to immediately withdraw the Certificate of Return issued to Manager and conduct a rerun. Justice Jaro Adamu, who read the judgment of the three-man panel, set aside the verdict of the tribunal for a rerun. The judge said Uduaghan’s claims were mere allegations which were not adequately substantiated. The appeal filed by Oboro against Omo-Agege was thrown out for lack of merit. The appellate court also upheld the election of Thomas Ereyitomi (PDP), representing Warri Federal Constituency in the appeal filed by Daniel Reyenieju of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). The Appeal Court in Sokoto yesterday dismissed the appeal filed by Senator Ahmed Mohammed Maccido of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) against the election of Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko of the APC representing Sokoto North. The PDP candidate had challenged the judgment of the National and States Assemblies Election Petitions Tribunal which sat in Sokoto. Delivering judgment yesterday, Justice Hamman Akawu Barka said: “We found out that it (Maccido’s appeal) is statute-barred, as it was filed out of time. “I, however, make no order as to costs.” Other members of the appellate court, Justice Ibrahim Musa Saulawa and Justice Fatima O. Akinbanmi, agreed with the verdict. Also, Zamfara State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Abuja yesterday upheld the election of Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The tribunal dismissed the petition filed by Muhammed Sani Takori of the Advanced People’s Democratic Alliance (APDA) against Matawalle, the PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Takori and APDA had prayed the tribunal to nullify the election of Mattawale on the ground that he did not score two-thirds of the valid votes cast in all the local government areas, as required by law. Led by Justice Binta Zubair, the tribunal held that the petition was without merit,m based on the decision of the Supreme Court of May 24, 2019, that the votes cast for a candidate who ought not to have participated in an election are wasted votes that cannot be used in determining the outcome of an election. The tribunal held that the votes cast for Mutawalle and his party in the election were lawful. It awarded a N500,000 cost against the petitioners. INEC had declared Muktar Idris of the APC winner of Zamfara State governorship election of March 9, 2019. Returning Officer Prof. Kabir Bala said Muktar got 534,541 votes out of the 810,782 votes cast in the 14 local government areas of the state while Matawalle of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) came second with 189,452 votes. The participation of the APC candidate in the governorship, National Assembly and the State House of Assembly was invalidated by the Supreme Court on the ground that they were not properly nominated, as required by law. The apex court declared the votes cast for APC candidates as wasted and held that the candidates of the party that came second in the poll be declared winner. The Appeal Court also yesterday in Jos, the Plateau State capital, dismissed the petition of Timothy Golu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and upheld the election of Yusuf Adamu Gagdi of APC representing Kanke, Kanam/Pankshin Federal Constituency. The court said: “A petition must meet the demand of the Electoral Act. Relief must be based on pleadings and not at variance. In this case, the relief is at variance with the pleading.” It held that the tribunal was right in striking out petition. The Appeal Court sitting in Kaduna yesterday sacked House of Representatives Majority Leader Alhassan Doguwa.  A ruling by Justice Oludotun Adefope-Okojie sacked the All Progressives Congress (APC) member. The election was nullified for alleged massive irregularities. Doguwa represented Doguwa/Tudunwada Federal Constituency of Kano State in the House of Representatives. The Court of Appeal ordered the INEC to conduct a fresh election for the Tudunwada/Doguwa Federal Constituency seat of the House of Representatives.