 THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate Musa Wada on Sunday rejected the outcome of the election in which Governor Yahaya Bello of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is coasting home to victory. The PDP described the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as “fictitious.” The party faulted the 112, 000 votes credited to the APC by INEC in Governor Yahaya Bello’s home Okene Local Government Area (LGA). In a statement, spokesman Kola Ologbondiyan said the party demanded the immediate cancellation of results in Okene local government area. The party said it would not accept what it described as the provocative alteration of results from polling units as well as allocation of fictitious votes. The PDP insisted that the people of Kogi state have glaring evidence of alterations of figures to reduce the vote of the PDP and allocate imported figures to the APC. The party cautioned INEC against declaring such “mutilated results”, saying that they will not be accepted by the people. “Our party hopes that this apparent moves to allocate fictitious results to the APC has no bearing with the allegations in the public space that Governor Yahaya Bello and the APC had compromised highly placed INEC officials with huge sums of money to alter results in favour of the APC. “The PDP therefore cautions the INEC to note that any attempt to declare the figures being bandied for the APC will be a validation of the bribery allegation. “The only way out is for INEC to cancel and drop the fictitious figures being bandied and declare only the results from votes cast and declared at the respective polling units”, the PDP said. Addressing a news conference in Lokoja even as the collation of results was ongoing, Wada alleged that the results were false. He said what happened was neither democracy nor a reflection of the wishes of the electorate. He said the wishes of the people did not prevail at the polls. He lamented that the police colluded with INEC to undermine the will of the people of the state. He said there was no need for election “if Okene that had 40,000 accredited voters, now came up with 112,000 (votes).” He described it as a sad day for Kogi people who he said are in mourning mood. “Do you see anybody rejoicing? Is this how it is the day after a true victory? It is not about me here. It is about the long suffering people of the state who have been under bondage in the last four years. “I won this election free and fair. Just imagine that they leave out the rigged election of Okene, Okehi and the several cases of brutality meted on our supporters, and the widely reported cases of ballot snatching, I would have won neatly,” he declared. Seated by his running mate, Hon. Sam Aro, Wada said that he as the party’s flag bearer together with the party, will seek redress at the tribunal. According to him, the APC has taken Nigerians back to the dark days. “The governorship election is not about me, but about another four years of mis governance that would be midwifed by the APC. The results were already written, and is not a reflection of the people’s wishes,” he said.