AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna Governor Nasir El Rufai has nominated two more female Commissioners to Kaduna State Executive Council, bringing the number of women in his 14-member cabinet to six. A statement issued by Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye, the Special Adviser on Media and Communication on Thursday, stated that the Kaduna State House of Assembly has already cleared the nominations of Dr Amina Mohammed-Baloni and Hajiya Halima Lawal as Commissioners-designate of Health and Agriculture respectively. It will be recalled that 12 Commissioners were earlier sworn in on July 12, 2019 and four women were amongst the State Executive Council at that time. Specifically, the Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General of Kaduna state, the Commissioner of Public Works and Infrastructure, as well as the Commissioner of Housing and Urban Development, including the Commissioner Human Services and Social Development were part of the 12-member State Executive Council. The nomination of Dr. Mohammed-Baloni and Hajiya Halima on Wednesday, brings the number of women in the El Rufai administration to six. According to Adekeye, Mohammed-Baloni is a medical practitioner who is a fellow of the West African College of Physicians. The new Commissioner of Health-designate “holds a Masters’ degree in Public Health and has had over 20years of practice as a clinician and then as a public health professional,’’ he added. The Special Adviser pointed out that Dr Mohammed-Baloni’s ‘’career has been devoted to improved health and wellbeing of children and women. “She has helped build the capacity of government partners through technical skills transfer in planning, analytics, formulating strategies and monitoring for results,’’ he added. The statement further said that the Commissioner-designate of Health has strong leadership skills which have been refined through her training and honed at the prestigious INSEAD Business School. “Her various certifications in Health System Strengthening, Health Financing and Epidemiology have positioned her as a foremost professional with broad public health knowledge and experience to impact health systems and improve performance,’’ the statement further stated. On the other hand, Hajiya Halima Lawal, the Commissioner-designate of Agriculture, is an Assistant Director with the Central Bank of Nigeria which she joined in 2011 after working in several banks. Adekeye said she “graduated with a degree in Agronomy and Soil Science from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria in 1985. In 1999, she earned an MBA from the same university.” The Special Adviser further announced the appointment of Alhaji Hussaini Mohammed Jallo, former Chairman of Igabi Local Government area, as General Manager of Community and Social Development Agency.