For longest serving Super Eagles coordinator (2007-2015), Emmanuel Danjuma Attah, he knew what he wanted, even as a kid. He wanted to play, coach and administer football and he achieved all, first from the streets and later in an organised set-up, writes Taiwo Alimi. Attah, who was part of the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON- winning Nigeria team after 19 years of drought and worked with seven managers, began to show traces of his undying love for football and his leadership qualities at a tender age. “I grew up like most youngsters playing street football in Zaria – Kaduna State. An open field by the Catholic Church at No. 90 Yoruba Street used to be our ‘Maracana stadium’. One of the Irish Catholic priests at that time, Father Thomas, occasionally joined us to play and train us. While at the St. Theresa Primary School (Aminu LGA) Zaria, at the close of school, instead of going home, we would gather at the school play ground to play football. Our balls then were empty cans of milk, because we could not afford to buy the real football. Some of us bought rubber shoes to serve as boots; others played with their pair of slippers. We nicknamed ourselves ‘Gongoni Rangers’ which means ‘Tin Rangers.’ I went on to play for my secondary school, Kufena College Wusasa, Zaria. I actually started playing football as a supporting striker but one of my seniors in secondary school who was also a great footballer by name Kasimu Bayero ‘Abana’ converted me to a goalkeeper, when there was no goalkeeper for us during an inter- house competition. As a secondary school player he also put together his own team, which he coached and managed. “I formed an U-13 Team named Zaria Tornadoes, and we competed for the Zaria U-13 Cup in 1979, which we won. One of my players then is the current Super Falcons coach, Christopher Danjuma, and some of my players like Francis Obinwe, Victor Wikadason went on to play for the Super Eagles.” Sometimes, Attah had to pay the full price to keep his team going, yet he kept going. “One time when we got to the final, I wanted a new set of jerseys for my ‘boys’. I had no money to purchase one. My late mum (God bless her soul) had given me money to deposit in the bank, instead I used it buy a set of jerseys and canvass shoes for my team. I was silently praying she does not ask for the money soon until I get my Benue State scholarship money, but alas she one day suddenly asked me to withdraw some money for her. Not knowing what to do, I told her you must give the bank at least one week notice (laugh). She was angry, asking why a bank should tell her when to withdraw money. Luckily for me, I got my bursary on a Monday of the following week and paid back. I was relieved.” He also formed the first Female U-13 team in Kaduna State. “They matured to be known as the Zaria Queens. It was really fulfilling to do all this as a youngster.” Attah went on to play for his university, Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Kayalwa FC Katsina, Lagos NEPA, and briefly for Zaria Rangers and ABU FC. The team got promotion into the then National Division one and he won the soccer event of the Nigeria University Games (NUGA) in 1993 with them. He played at the World University Games in 1993 and was invited to the national U21 (Flying Eagles) team coached by James Peters. Though his active days as a footballer was cut short, no thanks to a serious knee injury in 1996, he quickly stepped into an administrator’s shoes. “My quest to be a sports administrator led me to contest for the office of director of sports of the Students’ Union in 1981, which I won massively. My highest number of votes was from the female hostels. Current Honourable Minister, Goddy Jedy Agba, was in the same executive union as the financial director.” Gradually, he moved up the ladder, working as an ad-hoc staff of the NFF from 2002 – 2015. He served in different administrative capacity. Welfare Officer,  Nigeria U-20 Flying Eagles Team (2002), Camp Commandant, Nigeria U-23 Team (2003 – 2004), Camp Commandant,  U-17 Golden Eagles (2005), and Team Coordinator,  Super Eagles (2007 – 2015). Describing his time with the Super Eagles as challenging and interesting, he noted the ‘sleepless nights, sadness and joy, tensions, putting your life at risk especially in away matches.’ “Some teams would plant ‘juju’ (fetish object) in our dressing room. Most of the time, I had to clear the way by going to the dressing room first. I had to pick up fetish things and flush or throw them away, but with tact. There was a situation in Congo in 2015 when a policeman corked his gun and threatened to shoot me if I attempted to go into our dressing room. I told him to go ahead and shoot. It took the intervention of the match commissioner for me to gain entrance. What we saw in the dressing room was appalling and Enyimba FC chairman, Chief Felix Anyansi, was a witness to the drama.” However, there were great moments with the Super Eagles. “I got the trust of the players and coaches and worked successfully with them. We won the AFCON bronze medal in 2010, and in 2013 were champions. We also qualified for CHAN for the first time. The Super Eagles qualifying for two World Cups: 2010 and 2014 were all great moments. “The greatest moment was winning the AFCON 2013. It was simply awesome, amazing, I just couldn’t believe it that we have won the African Cup after 19 years and me being part of the success story, even though I knew we worked really hard and made a lot of sacrifice.  I can safely say that 95% of Nigerians never really believed in us, but we believe in ourselves. There were so many distractions especially when we started poorly. But in the end God gave us victory. I was in a dreamland, in fact, and the then media officer, Ben Alaiya, and I on getting to our hotel sat by the swimming pool alone without talking for one hour before getting to know it was real. Thereafter, we joined others in the celebration. God rewarded us for our dedication and fasting all through our matches. I call that team ‘the glorious 2013 set.’ Of the seven head coaches he worked with, namely Beti Vorgt, Austine Eguavoen, Lars Lagerberg, the late Ahmadu Shaibu, Samson Siasia, the late Stephen Keshi and Daniel Amochachi, Attah said he is greatly inspired by late Eagles skipper and coach, Keshi. “Keshi was a great patriot. He wanted the best for the nation. He was a father.” Currently, Attah serves as Coordinator, NYSC Osun State, and in his usual style has set about rejuvenating the new NYSC area office. “The essence is the provision of effective monitoring and strengthening of operational and administrative effectiveness of the scheme at the grassroots level. It will also ensure proper supervision of the corps members in all their activities like the skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development (SAED) programme, community development service (CDS) etc, in view of the ever increasing corps population. Furthermore, the work load of the state secretariat will be reduced through a decentralisation process. “The South West zone which I am heading has its headquarters in Osogbo, State of Osun. We have just started operations but I can assure you that the work is tasking, challenging and interesting. The state government has provided a beautiful office located at Mallam Tope, Ring Road, Osogbo. We have carried out a lot of advocacy visits across the states in the South West. We have gone round some state secretariats and orientation camps to see the staff and corps members, while ascertaining their welfare. Also, camp facilities are inspected to ensure they meet the required standard,” he noted while opening up on other matter. Excerpts: Sweet bitter memories I have sweet and bitter memories of my active playing days. My best time was my invitation to the Flying Eagles under Coach James Peters and the World University Games team under the late coach Segun Olumodeji in 1993. Leading ABU FC to get the promotion ticket from Div. 2 to 1 without a defeat, winning the 1993 NUGA gold medal in Ilorin, which happens to be the last time ABU has won such medal. Playing for Kayalwa FC Katsina and winning the State Challenge cup, I think in 1990. I played for Lagos NEPA. Peter Fregene was one of my coaches. I also played for Zaria Nasara and briefly for Zaria Rangers. The bitter side was when I sought for permission while in the Flying Eagles Camp to go and write my final examination, to return the following day. I was asked to choose between football and academics, I chose the latter and today I don’t regret that decision I took. Motivators The people that influenced me are the late Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi, former Secretary General and Board member Nigeria football Federation, Alhaji Omachi Sani Lulu Abdullahi, former President NFF and APC governorship candidate Kogi State and also the late Brig General Bomai former Director General National Youth Service Corps. AFCON 2015 saboteurs Simple. We were sabotaged!! But for these unpatriotic elements, we could have qualified and won the AFCON back to back. These persons are alive and they know themselves. May their conscience continue to prick them? I have already given a detailed interview on what transpired, so let us allow the sleeping dog. It is a sad side of history when someone who is supposed to be an NFF board member confronts you and to your face state that ‘did you people think you can win your matches without us, even in South Africa you will lose’. You now meet the referee of the match to question his bias officiating against us at home, only for him to say it is what your country wanted. We did our best to qualify but too many forces were against us. Philosophy Never give up in whatever you want to achieve in life. Always believe that you will succeed. Unwinding I read newspapers and watch my favourite club, Arsenal FC of England, even though they have of recent been giving me headache due to their poor performance. Kano Pillars is my Nigeria favourite club. I also occasionally go out with friends if I have the time. Family I am married to Oluwakemi Betty and blessed with three children; two boys one girl. One of the boys played football. The girl is a football enthusiast. She was once in the NFA U13 female football team. For very personal reasons I did not encourage her to go further. Her favourite player is Osaze Odewengie. In Osaze’s active days they do communicate and he once bought her an ipad. Current state of Nigerian football The performance of Nigerian football teams with the exception of the Super Eagles has been disappointing of recent. The Super Falcons will not be in the Olympics, home-based Eagles are out of CHAN, U17 are out of the World Cup. But let us not lose hope. We can still get it right only if the NFF can overhaul the coaching crew of some of these teams. The U17 is full of talents, but the coaches never got it right with their strategy. You could easily predict the way the team will play. I have always advocated that Nigerian coaches must develop themselves. They don’t have to wait for the NFF. Look at coach Bisso, Austin Eguavon, and Haruna Ilerika from time to time sponsor themselves for refresher courses in Europe. How many of our coaches are ICT compliant? At times I watch the training session of some of our teams and feel disappointed with what they impact on these lads. The NFF, to be very candid, have done their best and still doing it to give our teams adequate preparation and cater for their welfare. However, all these side attractions of court cases or investigation will not allow them settle down to give their best. Let peace reign. If not football… Doing what I am doing now; working in an organisation that grooms future leaders of this great country. Likes & dislikes I like honesty, loyalty and sincerity. I dislike betrayal of trust.