Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja The oil and gas producing communities of Egbema Kingdom in Warri North council area of Delta State have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to effect the payment of the 13% Derivation Funds directly to oil producing communities. The communities, who are within the OML 40 and 49 areas, in an open letter, addressed to President Buhari, lamented the fact that their people have consistently had to live in some of the most deplorable economic and social states, despite the huge mineral resources they are contributing to the nation’s economy. The communities, under the aegis of Egbema Oil Producing Communities (EOPC), in the letter signed by their representatives, led by their Coordinator, Dr Euyabarate Teacher, urged the President to direct the appropriate departments under the Executive arm to start the direct payment of the fund to the communities, as prescribed by the 1999 Constitution, as amended. The communities, including Ogbudugbudu, Opuama, Ogbinbiri, Tsekelewu/Polobubo, Adagbrasa and Abadegbene, listed the facilities within their domains as Olero, Opuekeba, Dibi Fields, Opuama flow stations, all operated by Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) and the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC). Emphasising the need for the federal government to immediately commence the payment of the fund to the communities where the oil resources are drilled from, the communities noted that the current practice of paying to the state governments had wrecked poverty and degradation on the communities. “Based on the enormous contribution of Egbema Kingdom to the national economy, with little or nothing to show for it, we strongly demand with emphasis that Mr. President should pay the 13% oil derivation fund to the oil producing communities directly. “Mr. President sir, we must note in this press statement that available statistics clearly show that Egbema Kingdom has been at the mercy of the yoke of underdevelopment. It is indeed lamentable that irrespective of the huge contributions from our kingdom, we still lack electricity, no motorable roads, no hospital, and the water on which we defecate is the same water we drink. “To underscore the urgent need for the money to be paid directly to the communities, the absence of medical facilities in our area has led to a very high mortality rate as pregnant women die frequently during delivery, due to the absence of qualified medical personnel like doctors and nurses. “It is also very regrettable to inform you that these oil producing communities of Egbema Kingdom have lost their flourishing fishing and farming industries, which were destroyed by the activities of international oil companies. The biting effect of oil exploration and exploitation cut across many thorny issues like corrosion of roofing sheets, reduction of life expectancy, among others. “Sir, according to the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, the 13% Derivation Fund is the first line charge of the federal account. It is therefore painful and illegal to allocate it through the state governors, who are third party to the oil producing communities,” the letter read.