A policewoman, Insp Emem Okon, on Friday told an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court that a school proprietor, Timothy Onyiriuka, 45, allegedly defiled a 14-year-old student (name withheld) with special needs in his care. Onyiriuka, 45, who resides at No. 8, Idowu Bale St., Oke-Ira, Kekere, Ajah, Lagos is charged with defilement contrary to Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2011. He is the proprietor of Apex Schools located at No. 12, Edomia St., Power Line, Oke-Ira, Kekere , Ajah, Lagos. Okon, the Investigating Police Officer (IPO) in the case while being led in evidence by the prosecutor Mrs Arinola Momoh-Ayokanbi, informed the court that the mother of the minor came to the Langasa Police Station to lay a complaint about the school proprietor. “On Oct. 21, 2013, the mother of the victim (name withheld) came to the police station in a lot of distress, we were all frightened by the way she rushed in. “She said she wanted to speak to a woman and that her daughter was defiled by her school proprietor Mr Timothy Onyiriuka. ”My superior asked me to take her to one of the offices and report back to him. “I reported back to him that the minor was defiled,” she said. The policewoman said that shortly after the incident, she was sent to Kwara to undergo a course and that a surbordinate took over the case. While being cross-examined by Mr A. C Abarah, the defence counsel, the policewoman revealed that she wrote the two statements on behalf of the mother and the complainant because they could not write. She also insisted that Abarah, saw when she examined the child was suspected to be seminal fluid. A second witness, Dr Oluwabusayo Alfred, a medical practitioner with the Ibeju-Lekki General Hospital, in her evidence told the court her findings when she examined the child. NAN reports that the prosecution allege that the school proprietor who has been remanded in prison, defiled the student who has a speech impairment within the school premises on Oct. 21, 2013. Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos 2011 prescribes life imprisonment for anyone found guilty of defilement of a child. Justice Abiola Soladoye adjourned the case until Jan. 15, 2020 for trial.