Our Reporter  Cummins West Africa Ltd. (CWAL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Cummins Inc., a  Fortune 200 company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) has relocated to a new facility in Ikeja, Lagos.” For Cummins, the largest independent diesel engine manufacturer in the world, the move sends a strong signal that Nigeria is critical to its regional operations. The new location, in the prominent business district between Mobolaji Johnson Avenue and the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway will not only provide better visibility for the Cummins brand, but also easier access for customers and employees”,  CWAL Managing Director, Mr. Ade Obatoyinbo said at the opening of the facility. According to Mr. Obatoyinbo, “Africa has been at the forefront of investment by many global companies. The largest  market  in Africa   is Nigeria. The seventh most populous country in the world is Nigeria. Nigeria offers rich human capital, natural resources, and relative political stability, which are key indicators that companies evaluate for the purpose of making investment decisions”. The facility is a modern redevelopment consolidating three Cummins business units to improve operational efficiency. The office design is based on the Cummins Smart Office concept which improves collaboration across teams, provides flexible spaces that meet the diverse needs of the workforce, and promotes diversity and inclusion. Apart from incorporating world-class Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) standards, it is also fitted with amenities for persons with disabilities. In addition, the  25,300 m2 brownfield development consists of several  building clusters including a: three-floor administrative building, training centre, which also houses the staff canteen, clinic, nursing mothers’ room, and meditation room; warehouse comprising a separate genset and parts storage areas, as well as  parts-sales offices to serve walk-in customers, climate-controlled workshop with a mezzanine office floor for technical staff. The workshop is fitted with a dynamometer for testing loose rebuilt or repaired engines, amongst other modern equipment. 