After eleven years of successful promotion of performing art education, the Society for Performing Arts in Nigeria (SPAN) will on Monday flag off this year’s anniversary event tagged Your Success, Our Victory with West African Latin Dance Festival. This season’s events are to empower more Nigerians in various aspects of performing arts, which are meant to alleviate poverty in the communities. They will hold between November11and17 at the SPAN Community Centre, Marina, Lagos, and The Lagoon Restaurant, Ozumba Mbadiwe Street, Victoria Island, Lagos. Chairperson SPAN, Sarah Boulos who spoke at briefing in Lagos, said that the 12th anniversary programmes will feature filmmakers workshops, dance and music workshops, West African Afro Latin Dance Festival in partnership with Art Dance Alive. According to her, SPAN has reached out to over 2.5million youths and children with unique propositions that had enabled them learn, share knowledge and develop interest in performing arts in the last 12 years of its existence. She said that the society was not satisfied with Nigerians innate selfish habit, which had hindered the growth of most Nigerians. She noted that this habit propelled the society to create awareness on the need to assist others to succeed through empowerment programmes in the performing arts sector of nation’s economy. She explained that successful Nigerians must be able to attribute their success to the victory of others which will help them to assist others more. “SPAN is known for two major objectives which are performing arts education and presentation we are using art as a tool for social change and economic transformation. ”This year, we realised that we Nigerians are becoming very selfish, everybody is working for his own sole interest, trying to survive, to build up his own treasure and less concerned about others’ success. I believe we should be able to help one another to rise and that was what inspired us to come up with the theme Your Success, Our Victory as our theme. ”We all should be able to have at the back of our minds that we are succeeding because other are. ”To shift the narrative, I decided to launch a movement which is based on this theme called your success is my victory to sensitise Nigerians to help someone else to succeed,” she said. Dance instructor Mr Buddy Agedah disclosed that professional Latin dancers from Europe and over 6 West African countries were expected to hold various forms of workshops between November 14 and 16. Coordinator, SPAN Theatre and Film Academy Mrs Deola Gimbiya said that the filmmaker’s booth camp for the empowerment of intending actors and actresses promises to be entertaining and educating. She said interested individuals would be taught on the rudiments of movie production, directing and more. According to her, these people could continue their training with SPAN after the workshop. Achalugo Ezekobe said she has been a product of SPAN empowerment programmes in the past, she was willing to volunteer to be one of the resource persons for the 2019 programme. She said being a member of SPAN had helped her to remain focused and have a sense of belonging as she looked forward to imparting on others. ”My mission here is to help my fellow brothers and sisters regardless of their colour, in as much as they are human and that is the value we should continue to add to one another to grow,” she said.  Among sponsors of this year’s anniversary include Leadway Insurance, Indomie, Air France, Cool FM, 7up, Eko Hotel, SCOA Nigeria Plc and others.