Mary Oshiokhamele and Halimah Balogun A 42-year-old man, Richard Thomas Monite, who has been unable to walk for the past three years has pleaded with the government and well-meaning Nigerians for financial assistance to enable him to walk again. Monite needs N5m for hip surgery. He said it all started three years ago with a minor pain on his left leg but after 11 days of the minor pains, he could not walk again till date. “It started March 2016, when I was then working with Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE). I had worked there for about three months when the incident began. I was on my way to work that fateful day when I felt minor pain in my left leg, but I did not give it attention. “Eleven days later, I was in the office when I noticed that I could not move my two legs anymore and it has been like that till date. I have tried all my best, my friends and families have tried their best but we have not been able to raise the money needed for me to undergo the surgery.” He explained that doctors told him he has to undergo surgery and that his problem is with his hip joint. He said: “I was told that the problem is from my hip joint, that the brain that supplies blood to my bone is no longer supplying blood to the bone, so it is decaying and that is why I cannot move the two legs.” He lamented that he cannot open his legs, he no longer goes out and if at all he has to go out, he chatters a car. “I can no longer work and I am presently doing nothing and I have done all I could on this leg. I have been on pain killers to suppress the pains because when the pains start, I cannot go out. Sometimes I cannot stand up, I will just be on my bed with the pains.” He called on government and well-meaning Nigerians to come to his aid by supporting him financially to ensure he undergoes proper medical care for quick recovery. “I need help. I have to come out to seek help because I have been hiding since and help has not come from anywhere. Surgery is my only option now; I have to bring myself out for Nigerians to help me,” he said. His account is: Richard Monite, Access Bank – 0015572512.