with Ita Emmanuel “The Sky Has Never Been The Limit” What exactly are you capable of achieving? What is a realistic expectation for your life and what constitutes sheer madness? Is there a limit to how high you should aim? The simple answer to these questions is simply that you are capable of achieving anything you set your mind to; if you can think it, then it’s a realistic expectation; and you can aim as high as you want. Man’s potential is limitless. Let’s examine what exactly your potential as a human being is. Firstly, let’s define potential. Potential is all that you can be, but have not yet become. It is all you can accomplish, but have not yet accomplished. It is unexposed or dormant ability. This means that the ability to become and to do is already there. It just hasn’t been brought out and utilized. Consider a fertilized human egg (zygote). That single cell has the ability to form every part of the human body. Everything from your brain to your toenails can be formed by that single cell. It has unlimited potential. your potential is limitless  Lost Senses Gone beyond retreat are the tell-tale eyes A mirror to her soul, yummy as crusty pies Gone is that light-up-the-night smile, Always keeping him in blissful high The sun shone waiting eagerly for the hay, Words unmeasured, spoken stole the gay, Gone yet’s another day bereft of boost, As Grandma’s fowls lumber home to roost  Break the Ice Meaning: To commence a project or initiate a friendship Before the days of trains or cars, port cities that thrived on trade suffered during the winter because frozen rivers prevented commercial ships from entering the city. Small ships known as “icebreakers” would rescue the icebound ships by breaking the ice and creating a path for them to follow. Before any type of business arrangement today, it is now customary “break the ice” before beginning a project.  Lorna Rutto; recycling waste plastic into aesthetic fencing posts She quit her job at the bank in 2010 and ventured into a waste recycling business. Lorna Rutto  had a clear vision of what she wanted. Her company, EcoPost is engaged in collecting and recycling waste plastic into aesthetic, durable and environmentally friendly fencing posts. This idea is aimed at conservation of forests by replacing timber for alternative materials. In 2010, Lorna applied for and won a $6,000 SEED Award and used it to start her business. Also, she won a grant award of $12,700 from the Enablis Energy Globe-Safaricom Foundation. Another business plan competition she took part was organized by the Cartier Women’s Initiative. In this competition, she received a prize award of about $12,000. Some of the biggest investments Lorna Rutto’s business attracted were an equity investment from the Blue Haven Initiative and the Opus Foundation amounting to $500,000. This money was used to purchase the necessary advanced recycling equipment. This success story of Kenyan Lorna Rutto shows how a business can start as a small venture and move to a large manufacturing facility equipped with advanced  equipment.  