Madagascar beat Ethiopia 1-0 in Antananarivo on Saturday to get their 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying campaign off to a solid start. In the first match of Group K, the contest was settled by a solitary goal from Rayan Raveleson in the 19th minute. Madagascar made their debut at the 2019 Nations Cup finals in Egypt. They famously beat Nigeria on their way to reaching the quarter-finals before losing to Tunisia. The win over Ethiopia on Saturday was particularly poignant for Madagascar striker Faneva Andriatsima who had already confirmed that he would retire from international football after the qualifier. The 35-year-old, who plays for Saudi Arabian club Abha, is Madagascar’s all-time leading goal-scorer with 14 goals in 42 appearances. Morocco were skippered by new captain Hakim Ziyech in the 0-0 draw with Mauritania in their first group match of 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying on Friday night. A poor start by Bosnian Vahid Halilhodzic as coach of Morocco continued on Friday when lower ranked Mauritania forced a 0-0 draw in their first Group E match in 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying in Rabat. Morocco are ranked 42nd in the world, 63 places above Mauritania, and the barren deadlock left Halilhodzic with only one win from five matches since succeeding Herve Renard three months ago. Also on Friday, Tunisia thrashed Libya 4-1, Tanzania were late 2-1 winners over Equatorial Guinea and it was 0-0 between Zimbabwe and Botswana. Morocco’s draw with Mauritania was a disappointing start to the campaign for Halilhodzic who has been tasked with taking Morocco to at least the semi-finals of the 2021 Nations Cup in Cameroon. Failure to overcome Mauritania, who competed at the finals of the tournament for the first time at Egypt 2019, suggests much hard work lies ahead for the 67-year-old former Ivory Coast and Algeria boss. There will be little time for Halilhodzic and his team to reflect on where they went wrong, however, as Morocco are away to bottom Group E side Burundi in Bujumbura on Tuesday. Central African Republic, who have never qualified for the Cup of Nations, top the table after a 2-0 home win over Burundi on Wednesday. Tunisia, who finished fourth at the 2019 tournament in Egypt, made an impressive Group J debut by beating north African neighbours Libya 4-1 in Rades near Tunis on Friday night.