A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, Julius Bokoru, at the weekend said that the harsh judgement awaiting the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the November 16 governorship election had thrown the party and its members in the state into a panic mode. Bokoru, who is the Special Assistant on Media and Public Affairs to the Petroleum Minister and former Governor of the state, Chief Timipre Sylva, said having known that the game was up and their alleged regime of sleaze, greed and underdevelopment was coming to an end, most PDP leaders and their foot soldiers were showing signs of frustration. “It is like the signs of the end time. The PDP and its leaders are aware that the people of Bayelsa State have rejected them. So, they are frustrated and their panic mode has been activated ahead of the election”, he said. Bokoru, who is also the Vice-Chairman, APC Media Committee, said having tried different failed patterns to deceive the people and curry their votes, most PDP leaders resorted to personal attacks and smear campaigns against productive members of the APC. He said recently some PDP leaders, who could not cope with the rising profiles of the APC and its members in the state, met and concluded plans to launch sponsored bile against some APC leaders in the state. Bokoru said he had suffered such personal attacks from the PDP members, who thought that doing so would dampen his determination and the collective objective of the people to free the state from misadministration. He said the PDP members were always peeved each time he exposed hidden facts about “the scam and sleaze surrounding the so-called substandard airport built by Governor Seriake Dickson”. He said: “I want the PDP attack dogs to know that there no amount of name-calling and caustic verbal attacks against my person and my family that will stop their defeat at the poll on November 16. “They have tried using violence against me but it didn’t work. Now they have resorted to smear campaigns but that too will never discourage me from supporting my boss, party and our candidate to liberate Bayelsa from the current wicked administration in the state. “Most of them are pained each time I speak about the airport. But the truth is that the governor’s airport project is a conduit to siphon our commonwealth into a private pocket. There are more shocking facts about the airport and at the right time, I will release them to members of the public. “The judgement day is coming and the PDP should be prepared to receive a harsh verdict. Through the efforts of the APC leader in the state, Chief Timipre Sylva, the APC and its Candidate, Chief David Lyon, have carried the message of liberation and better Bayelsa to all the nooks and crannies. The message has resonated and the people are eager and willing to protect their future by ensuring victory for the APC at the poll. “For those sponsoring and carrying out the smear campaigns, I want to tell them that you don’t fight a winning team. You simply join the team. What is at stake is the future of the state and our children yet unborn and we should collectively ensure the end to the self-centered PDP government so as to bring about the desired future”.