KELVIN OSA – OKUNBOR  Turkish Airlines recorded 83.3 per cent improvement in passengers and cargo figures last month. According to a statement from the airline, its October 2019 traffic result indicated that the number of passengers carried increased by 1.9 per cent ­— 6.6 million passengers. It  said domestic load factor was 86.2 per cent while international load factor was 82.9 per cent. International-to-international transfer passengers, which in aviation par lance is described as  transit passengers, increased by 8.0 per cent . The airline said international passengers, excluding those on transit flights, increased by 9.7 per cent  compared to the same period  last year. The statement reads: “Total number of international passengers increased by 8.8 per cent  in October compared to same month of last year, which is the highest growth since the beginning of the year. “In October, the national flag carrier realised double digit increases in number of passengers in Middle East and Far East by 11.5 per cent  and 11,4 per cent, respectively. In the same month, cargo/mail volume increased by 7.9 per cent , compared to the same period of 2018. Main contributors to this growth in Cargo/mail volume are Europe with 10,9 per cent , Far East with 10.2 per cent , and North America with 4.6 per cent  increase. “According to the January-October 2019 Traffic Results the total number of passengers carried was  around 63.1 million and total load factor reached 81.6 per cent . International load factor was recorded as 80.9 per cent, while domestic load factor reached 86.4 per cent . International-to-international transfer passengers carried increased by 4.3 per cent  and cargo/mail carried during the first ten months of 2019 increased by 9.3 per cent   to 1.3 million tonnes.” Meanwhile, its General Manager, Abuja, Mr. Mehmet Asik, said the airline was continously making efforts to improve its services in Nigeria to meet the growing demand of the market. Asik said such improvement was necessary it fosters trade relations.  He disclosed this last week in Abuja, as the official sponsor of the African Economic Congress, which held at the Musa Yar ‘ Adua Centre. He said Turkish Airlines has demonstrated continued support for he growth of the African Continent with its commitment for the event. With over 500 participants, the three-day event with the  theme: “Building the Africa we want: A Scheme into Africa’s Investment Process and Drive”,  focused on promoting collaborations between Africa and the world while addressing challenges in areas like trade and investment, agriculture, and economic policy. We consider it is important that our passengers have an unparalleled travel experience when they are on-board our aircraft. We understand our positon within Africa’s aviation landscape and our support to the African Economic Congress is a way of demonstrating that.” In June, Turkish Airlines launched flights to Port Harcourt, its third destination in Nigeria, connecting the city to over 300 destinations worldwide.