Dr Joel Akande In this article, we will conclude the series on common skin disorders. We will explore diseases that are peculiar to children and some that are common to adults and children alike. Ringworm (Tinea): Ringworm often wrongly called “ezcema” is common to all: women, men, adult and children, but most especially seen in children. Unlike its name, ringworm is not a worm and it’s neither a ring. The disease is caused by fungus that takes opportunity into its hand to grow. Ringworm can be found often in the head and may become very obvious as a pale circular rash on dark skin. It may also appear in the body often on the chest, back, abdomen, groin, hands and feet. Ringwork is infectious, meaning the infection can spread from one person to another. Ringworm, except those affecting the nails that require a more prolonged and sustained treatment, can be easily treated once recognised by the doctor. Boils (Furunculosis). Boils occur where we can find hairs in any part of the body. Therefore, boils can occur on the head, eyes, ears, chest, neck, hands, groin and legs. For this reason, boils do not occur on our soles and palms. When the root of the hairs are infected by germs, boils can result. If the boil recurs more than three times in a year, it’s called recurrent furunculosis and if a big boil occurs it is called carbunculosis. In both cases, germs such as bacteria are the cause. The treatment for both may be by use of antibiotics. For carbunculosis, the doctor may have to open the boil up so as to drain pus that is contained in the boil. Cellulitis: Infection of the skin in parts of the body such as hands, legs, chest, abdomen and face may give rise to a crawling and infection that spread to nearby skin. It may gradually spread to cover large parts of the affected areas. The skin becomes warm, swollen, and painful and the person may become very ill with fever. This may become an emergency due to the ill feelings. This skin disorder may affect anyone, including children. Boils may lead to cellulitits. Any small wound in affected parts may also lead to cellulitis. The treatment is urgent as delay may worsen the illness. Complications such as septicemia (blood poisoning) may also develop if care is not taken. Antibiotics are the main form of treatment.  There are some conditions where frequent occurrence of boils, ringworm and cellulitis may indicate an underlying illness such as diabetes and depressed immunity (the body having low ability to defend itself against infections such as HIV and cancers). What appears as a simple boil that refuses to go away in spite of the best efforts of the sufferer, be it a child or adult, may indeed not be so simple after all. That is to say, that you should take recurrent boils and cellulitis very seriously. Skin ulcers (open wound of the skin): A skin ulcer or “boil” that fails to heal in a normal well-nourished person calls for urgent attention. An ulcer that is recurrent or multiple recurrent skin ulcer is also an indication to see the doctor for attention without delay. Skin ulcer that fails to heal may be due to underlying infections such as STD (see last week’s article) such as syphilis and HIV. Skin ulcer may also indicate tuberculosis (TB) of the skin as well guineaworm. Still, skin ulcer may be an indication of cancer of the skin (melanoma and basal cell carcinoma), or cancer from other parts of the body that has spread to the skin. Yet, skin ulcer, like boils, cellulitis and ringworm may be telling us of other serious illnesses such as diabetes or depressed immunity, anaemia, or heart failure brought upon the sufferers. Strange skin ulcer in children or mentally unwell adults or dementia in and elderly or any vulnerable person is a form of abuse until proven otherwise. Skin ulcer in a person that is physically or mentally disabled who stays too long on any part of the body may be pressure sores. In all these, vigilance and urgency are called for.  So skin ulcer may be a pointer to a killer disease that is lurking underneath. Skin colour, bleaching and wrinkles: Our skin is primarily for protection and each skin of every one of us has been so programmed for the purpose of defense depending on the genes that we inherited from our parents and the environment that we live in. That is why we have different shades of human colour. Along with the influence of genes, the less the sunshine the paler, and the more the sunshine the darker or brownish the person. This darkness or brownishness protects against the ultraviolent rays of the sun, preventing cancer from forming. Bleaching the skin thus exposes the skin to the violent effect of the sun and likelihood of cancer forming. Wrinkles also develop due to bleaching, which would have occurred as we age but is hastened by steroid use and bleaching. Wrinkles can be caused by prolonged illness of any form or malnutrition and anxiety. In concluding, I will advise and strongly too that, though skin illnesses are very frequently encountered by every one of us, our skin can also tell us a lot of stories about the state of our health. I have only covered a small part of skin illnesses in the last few weeks. Skin is not just an object meant for beauty and decoration but a vital organ that protects and defends our body against attack. In doing its job, our skin encounters various insults and assaults to its integrity. It’s our job as skin owners to also take care of the skin that is so much dedicated to taking care of us. Any strange occurrence or feeling in our skin should be taken seriously by visiting our medical practitioner as soon as possible. A stich in time saves nine. If you have been affected by the content of this article and you require clarification, kindly call the helpline 07087733114 for support.