Much as physically-challenged persons living in a colony at Karamajiji, an outskirt of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), do not like to beg, the larger society has continued to force them back into the streets. GRACE OBIKE reports.  The Federal Capital Development Administration is expected to clear the city centre of beggars and hawkers. In 2006, the former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, was accused of stating that Abuja was not meant for the poor. That was after he had destroyed shanties, slums and illegal structures occupied by a huge population of the poorest of the poor. Every day, the administration is faced with clearing the city of beggars who are sometimes relocated to their states. But the government has always complained of these beggars returning to the city after a while. A keen observer in Abuja will most likely observe that most of the cobblers, petty traders, phone accessory hawkers are physically-challenged persons. Most of them are believed to be residents of Karamajiji, a disabled colony behind the National Military Cemetery on the airport road. The tiny colony of mostly well arraigned shanties is said to have been created by El-Rufai as a special location for them. It was supposed to be a place where the government and well-meaning Nigerians can go to help the disabled without them littering the streets of Abuja. But unfortunately, the vision never curbed street begging in Abuja as it has turned out that many of the beggars in the city are able bodied persons. Although some residents of the colony are involved in petty trading in town, a higher percentage of them transport themselves into town every day to beg for alms. However, many of them insist they hate to beg. One of the female disabled beggars and resident of the colony, Sadiya Suleiman, said she felt that able bodied Nigerians and the government enjoy seeing them beg and not being independent. Sadiya, who is a cripple, said several kind people have tried to empower them on many occasions by teaching them how to make soap, detergents and disinfectant. But she regretted that most people don’t feel comfortable buying products made by physically challenged persons. She said in most cases, the products get bad in their possession. In such instances, the products are given out to members of the colony free of charge. According to her, it has been difficult for them to overcome the challenge of rejection. The mother of four said: “People most times come around and teach us skills which we enjoy. But one thing that annoys us is the fact that after learning the skill, people refuse to buy from us when we produce it. I don’t understand why. We have tried making soap, detergents, disinfectants and a lot more. We put it out for sale but people refuse to buy till it gets spoilt. So now we just share it among ourselves, which is one of the reasons why you see us out begging. You told me that I was beautiful remember? Now imagine with all the beauty, me on the street begging. I hate doing it, people see us begging and think that we don’t have problems which is not true. “The truth is that Nigerians enjoy seeing us beg because if they don’t, they will support us as we try to empower ourselves. They can end begging if they want to. Look at the shanty where we live, if they want us to stop begging, then opportunities should be provided for us. They only come here to make promises that they never keep. We feel that they are equally using us to beg. If people start buying from us and we are empowered then our children will not suffer because we will be able to take care of them with our business.” Recently, the International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education (ICICE) took relief materials to the community by providing free medical treatments as well as the distribution of food items and clothing. Director External Affairs, Research and Consultancy of ICICE, Garba Sani, said they found out that the community has generally been ignored by government and humanitarian agencies. Sani said: “We are here to provide free medical services as well as the distribution of food items and clothing for the disabled community of Karamajiji. This is a community that has been generally ignored by either humanitarian support groups or the government itself. We identified the community as one that needs our support. For the support, we first take their details, then their vitals in form of basic tests like malaria, typhoid, blood pressure, sugar level and a lot more. Then we identify if there is any need for medication. They meet with our doctors and our pharmacists dispense the drugs.  “We estimate treating about 500-700 disabled members of the community and their families. All our outings are voluntary so what we are spending here for the exercise in terms of cash is about N700,000. What we found surprising here is that after all the tests, we find this people to be a lot fitter than most able bodied people in terms of blood pressure and sugar level. Basic ailments like malaria are the ones commonly found here. We urge other humanitarian agencies and the government to come to the aid of these people. This is a community where there is no clinic and there is no adequate facility to transport them to the nearest hospital and the government can do it.” Head of the ICICE medical team, Dr. Amina Kumalia, said despite the people being disabled, the environment is reasonably clean. Kumaila said: “Usually, before we take on a community, we pay them a previsit to inspect the place and meet with the community head and discuss before giving them a date. When we met with the head of this community, he said that usually the community members are over 500. Most of the patients that we have seen are cases of malaria, peptic ulcer and the rest. But cases of hypertension and diabetes are not common with the patients we have seen so far. But many of the children have skin infection and a few cases of upper respiratory tract infection. “One thing about this area is that despite the people being disabled, the environment is reasonably clean. When we spoke with them, they said that they have problems of housing and medical treatment. We have two cases here that we took outside to a tertiary hospital for treatment.” Another disabled person, Lawal Maikudi, said he was able bodied until age 27 when he was about getting married. Maikudi who is a cripple, insisted that not all of them staying in the colony are beggars. He said: “I have lived in Karamajiji for about 15 years and I repair motorcycles for able bodied and disabled persons alike. The thought that all disabled persons in Abuja are beggars is false. Most of us have businesses that we are involved in. I used to be a hunter before I got crippled. I was not born a cripple. I was 27 years old and about getting married when I woke up one cold morning after sleeping outside and could not move my legs. The legs dried up by evening of that day and I have been like this since then. It was after the incident that I took to repairing motorcycles. “We need assistance from the government and well-meaning Nigerians to enable some of us improve our petty businesses and those without businesses among us should be enabled. I don’t blame the government for driving us from the streets for begging. You see, I have six children and they are all in school. But sometimes when I find it difficult paying their fees and my other bills, I resort to begging. But when I get customers and have some little money, I don’t beg because I don’t like begging at all. If we are made self-sufficient, we won’t beg anyone for money.” Another member of the colony, Ado Alhassan, is a father of four children. Alhassan said he used to sell petty items in the city centre before he was chased away by officials of the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB). Alhassan said: “Officials of the AEPB disturb us because of begging. But the people that create the greatest nuisance while begging are the able bodied beggars. You see men and women who are very healthy begging all over the place and when the environmental board officials arrive, they run away and we are the ones left to be caught. If, for instance, you drive towards most of the bridges, especially around the Central Mosque, the able bodied beggars will troop out of their hiding places and descend on your car, begging. But if they see one cripple or blind among them, that is when you will see environmental officials coming to chase and catch us. “We don’t like begging but they won’t allow us sell our wares in peace. When we try to, they attack us and cart away our wares. All I have to say is that if the government does not want us inside the city, they should carve out a place for us where we can conduct our business in peace, so we can feed and pay our children’s fees.” 