Twenty nine students of the Oduduwa University Ipetumodu (OUI), Osun State, on Thursday bagged First Class honours at the seventh graduation ceremony. The event which was well attended by traditional rulers, including the Olugbo of Igbo, Oba Fredrick Obateru, who was honoured with doctorate degree, had a total 717 students who had completed their degrees in various departments. The Vice Chancellor of the OUI, Professor Chibuzo Nnate Nwoke said out of 717 students that completed their first degrees from three colleges in the university, 29 came out with First Class Division,  282 finished with Second Class Upper Division while 354 made Second Class Lower Division. He added that 52 students fell into Third Class category. Speaking at the event, the President of OUI, Chief Ramon Adedoyin, while congratulating the Olugbo of Igbo,  said the monarch had the wherewithal to take the institution to enviable heights. He described Olugbo’s acceptance to be an alumnus of the Oduduwa varsity as a blessing. He  praised  the Federal Government and the National Universities Commission for giving ample opportunities to individuals and corporate bodies to invest in education, especially at the tertiary level.  He said it has ‘given bright opportunities  to our children and others who are thirsty for University education.’ He disclosed that that OUI would continue to pursue self-reliance via developmental and entrepreneurial education. The Vice Chancellor (VC) of the school, in his speech, said OUI has solid internal mechanisms to tackle cultism and other forms of insecurity tendencies on its campus and that students with academic excellence would be assisted to become successful in life. The VC said the 10-year-old university that was granted operational license by the Federal Government of Nigeria in 2009 has recorded modest achievements and that its town and gown relation is excellent. He said “Oduduwa University enjoys a serene and scenic location, complemented with modern facilities, which constitute a very conducive environment for leaning. The welfare of our students is of paramount concern to us. We have set up full scholarship scheme for the benefit of brilliant indigent students. “ “Beyond our regular academic programmes, we have several professional and technical centers to cater for the increasing needs of our immediate community and beyond”, Professor Nwoke . said Also represented at the event were  the Information Minister, Alhaji Lai Lawal.