 ALL Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday urged security agents and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to stop an alleged plot by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to use violence and others means to rig next Saturday’s election in Bayelsa State. The APC stated this in a statement in Abuja by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Yekini Nabena. It alleged that the PDP in Bayelsa State had made plans to equip thugs with Navy, Army and police uniforms, with the aims of using them to compromise security arrangements and easily rig the election. While specifically calling attention of the security agencies to some of the revelations, the party also urged them to prevent the PDP from carrying out some of the plans it described as “evil against the people of Bayelsa.” The party also alleged that the PDP had stashed up a huge amount of money with which to buy votes, saying those executing the rigging plans of the ruling party in the state had been instructed to give N20,000 to each voter, in order to sway them to vote for their party. The party, which claimed to have laid hands on the information about plans to compromise security and voting process, revealed that it was given reliable intelligence about the plans in the PDP camp by one of the operatives of the Bayelsa Governorship Special Purpose Election Committee (SPEC), who had resigned from the committee. It was set up and secretly working for Governor Seriake Dickson. The APC further said apart from the intelligence report gathered, some members of the inner circle of Governor Dickson’s camp had also volunteered some of the information on how the PDP was planning to rig the Saturday’s governorship election in the state. The statement reads: “A member of the Bayelsa Governorship Special Purpose Election Committee (SPEC), which was set up and secretly working for Governor Seriake Dickson, resigned recently from the committee and has reported the Governor’s plans to rig the election to us.” 