The N50 stamp duty charge introduced by the Federal Government on Point of Sale (PoS) transactions has continued to receive livid reactions. Seen as counter-productive, some merchants have ditched the POS device. Will the policy hamper the cash-less policy of the Federal Government? JANE CHIJIOKE asks  THE sudden introduction of stamp duty charge by the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has made not a few to avoid the use of the Point of Sale (PoS) machine. The stamp duty, which stipulates a N50 charge on every Point of Sale (POS) transaction of N1,000 on an individual has received much condemnation, thus threatening the effectiveness of the cash-less policy introduced by the government. The POS device was introduced in 2012 by the CBN as an instrument to drive home its cash-less policy. Merchants and customers said the charge was inconsiderate following the excess bank charges on various platforms which include the N50 online transfer charges, N65 after third withdrawal inter-bank fees, N52.50k monthly maintenance fee, N4 SMS alert, N20 per page of a statement of account, the recent charges on deposit and withdrawal of cash above N500, 000 for individual accounts and N3 million for corporate accounts, among other charges. Some merchants have abandoned the use of the device. They complained that the charges have negatively affected their businesses, as they record low patronage. Before now, charges were based on the aggregated transaction on the merchants’ accounts. The Supervisor of Shark Oil Filling Station, Oshodi, Noah Eletu said he has stopped using the POS because customers now prefer cash transactions. “We have stopped using POS because it is affecting our businesses negatively. There has been a constant complaint from our customers on the extra charge, they said they cannot pay N50. Some of them would, first of all, enquire if we charge N50, then they would opt to pay with cash. While some who do not have the cash at hand won’t even buy. We also realised that the normal monthly charges on POS by banks have also increased. So we just had to stop using it completely. We are back to cash transactions,” he said. Mrs. Chinwendu Ogah, who operates a beer parlour business at Magodo said she has to stop using the POS because she realised that it was affecting the level of patronage. “This is a business I run and I would not allow N50 charge to put me out of business. Moreover, people now have cash, on them as they move about; nobody wants to pay through POS device again,” she said. Another retailer at Ikeja, Mr. Joseph Momoh who owns a supermarket said his customers were not willing to pay the N50 even as he said most times, he incurs the cost. But, when he realised that the burden was becoming unbearable for him, he had to completely stop using the device in his shop. Mrs. Mercy Ojo who owns a mini -supermarket at Osolo Way expressed a similar sentiment. She is of the view that as the economy is not favourable, citizens try to conserve what they have and would not want to pay extra. As a result, her customers no longer ask for the device. The mid-year report of the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS) indicates that the value of POS transactions in the first six months of the year was N1. 4 trillion, representing a 38 per cent growth over 1.01trillion recorded in the same period last year. It noted that the growth was driven by retailers across the country. Twenty-Eight per cent of the total transaction volume was consummated in the retail sector, which represents 52.8 million. This is as a result of the increase of retail merchant registration on POS. The fuel station was second in position with 28 million in terms of volume, representing 15 per cent of the total POS transaction. The wholesale market came third with N27. 2 million transactions representing 14 per cent while fast food outlets had 10 per cent with 19. 6 million transactions. Hotel accounted for three per cent with six million transactions. The transactions were carried out over 238,801 active terminals used by merchants across the country. This showed an additional 21,563 terminals deployed this year when compared with 217,283 active terminals as at December, last year. But with the new charges on the device which is fast recording a decrease in usage, these gains recorded might remain a thing of the past. For instance, some Small and Medium enterprises confirmed that the charges on POS are counterproductive on their businesses and customers now frequent Automatic Teller Machines to withdraw cash. This, according to them, accounts for the low usage of the device. For some retail big brands, they shoulder the burden for fear of losing out in the market space. The Supervisor of PEP Store, Osolo Way, Bimpe Adesina is not happy. She is faced with low patronage and also always in a tussle to give balance to customers as they prefer to pay with cash. Hear her: “The charge has spoilt a lot of things for us. Most times customers who would have loved to pay through POS might end up not buying anything because of the charge. Some would excuse themselves to go and use the ATM which is quite a distance from here.” “On getting there, there might be a queue and coming back here might be too stressful for them. So, in the end, you won’t see them again. “The N50 is a big deal to many. Before payment was highly based on POS than cash but that is no longer the case. “Secondly, we retailers are always faced with not having the actual balance to give customers as most of the low denominations are rarely available. “So in that aspect, POS has helped us a lot in solving the issue. But now that customers have resorted to cash, we are back to the challenge.” The Group Head, Financial and Account, Super Saver Stores, Segun Akinpelu, said its brand had decided to bear the burden to remain competitive in the market than to task customers. He said though it is affecting the business, satisfying customers was of utmost priority. To stay aloof, he said, the brand has resolved to cut down on some expenses. Akinpelu, who faulted the charges, noted that it would only be valuable on the masses if the money generated would be genuinely used to address issues that would benefit them. On his part, a customer who identified himself as Joseph said it is insensitive to the plight of the masses and also a barrier to the objectives of cash-less policy of the CBN. “The most annoying aspect of it is that we take anything that the government pushes to us. We are not the kind of people that come together to fight a just cause. They give us crumbs and we cannot address issues of national interest. “What is the government’s reason for these charges and what has the government done with our taxes since 59years59 years ago. This is pure oppression of the citizens,” he said. The CBN directive On September 17, a circular signed by the Director, Payments System Management Department, CBN, Sam Okojere, authorised banks to unbundle merchant settlement amounts and charge applicable taxes and duties on individual transactions stipulated by regulators. The circular mandated banks to charge individual N50 stamp duty on every N1, 000 transactions. The merchant service charged was also reviewed downwards from 0.75 per cent ( capped at N1, 200) to 0.50 per cent (capped at 1,000). Mobile agents react The Association of Mobile Money and Bank Agents of Nigeria (AMMBAN) is convinced that the Federal Government’s move to raise revenue for its expenditure would counter the financial inclusion and cashless policy. Its National Secretary, Mr. Odion Kings, was emphatic that the country would return to cash era if the policy was not reviewed. As a vehicle to achieving a robust financial inclusion of the masses and the cashless policy, the mobile bank agents are situated at every nook and cranny in the country offering alternative financial services. Kings put the situation in perspective when he said the stamp duty charge would deter mostly the unbanked at the grassroots level from being captured into the financial system. According to him, those at the grassroots have refused to make cashless transactions because of the charge. He noted that since CBN introduced the charges, his members have recorded a sharp decline in POS transactions at their various outlets across the country. This he said threatens the sustenance of the business. “All our members are complaining bitterly. We charge N200 and even below for POS service. By the time banks remove their N50 with the normal charges of 0.75, at the end of the day, the mobile agent is left with maybe N50,” he said. “Out of that N50, they pay house rent, shop rent and other expenses in running the business. It is just like we are being used as tools. “For some of our members who charge N50 on customers, they are recording fast decline daily. At my outlets in Lagos, the average per day was 40 but since this new policy I barely get 10” he said. The Chairman, AMMBAN Lagos chapter, Olowu Babs Azeez said the association was making efforts to meet with CBN to exempt the mobile agents’ accounts from the charges. He said the drastic reduction in the use of the device calls for a quick intervention to sustain the businesses of bank agents in the country. “This policy has been in existence even more than 30years ago. If you look at the currency then and now, it is different. Compare the value of a 1,000 then and now is more like N100,000. “So, if at all the policy need to be implemented, it has to be on a N100,000 and not N1,000 because the value of money then and now is different,” he added. From his observation, the Secretary Ifo Zonal chapter, AMMBAN, Ogun State, Mr. Ayodele Ademola, said most of those that live in areas that are quite far from banks have started storing cash in their homes. He said as they cannot part with N50 on POS, they set out a day, to go to banks and withdraw some money that would last them for a particular period. He said areas such as Oja-Odan, Ogere, Odeda, Ifo and others lack bank presence of which mobile bank agents have been able to offer banking services to the dwellers. He reiterated that the bank agents are being put out of business as patronage has reduced. He said some are at the verge of closure as they can no longer sustain them. Ademola, who also want bank agents’ accounts excluded from the charges noted that areas, where there was at least 80 per cent of patronage done daily, has reduced to 30 or even less. “Some that record 50 per day can hardly get 20 patronages now. This business has been able to offer job opportunities to many youths around these areas but now their jobs are being threatened,” he added. Financial analysts react A financial analyst, Dr. Austin Nweze of Pan African University, said the Federal Government made a hasty decision to implement such policy without considering its implication on the masses. He said as the country was yet to fully embrace cashless transactions, a slow and steady approach would have been appropriate for effective result. Nweze, who faulted the policy, stated that citizens should not be charged for going cashless as it would discourage them from accessing such financial platforms. Moreover, he said, as about 50-60 per cent of the money banks are trying to move into the banking sector is in the informal space, banks are supposed to strategise so as to offer incentives to encourage people to have banking relationships. He said the excess charges by banks are reasons some people do not consider saving their money in banks. “Sometimes our policymakers confuse us. How can you make policy and it starts immediately? They should have given a time frame within which the implementation would begin. But the government is not patient enough for that. “Policymaking should be a gradual thing. When you do it immediately, people will feel the impact so much so that the aim of the policy is defeated and unsustainable,” he said. ” I feel that the government would have placed a time frame and do everything they can to encourage people to go cashless. Have a critical mass, let them get used to the convenience, then you can now begin to charge maybe from N10 to N20, you gradually build that up not slamming N50 on every N1,000 transactions. Gains for banks Nweze maintained that the policy would be more beneficial to banks than the Federal Government. He said: “You charge N50, do you know what that means per transaction. One can make 5-10 transactions in a day either as an individual or as a business. Still, at the end of the month, they charge you COT. The banks are in a hurry to make money and they are pushing the CBN to make policies that are not favourable to the industry. Policies are not made for the masses, they are made to protect their interest. “The Federal Government is not directly benefiting from this because it is the banks that are charging, so they are the ultimate beneficiaries. “Banks pay corporate taxes and that is how the Federal government make money unless there is another clause. I have mentioned earlier that if care is not taken, the unemployed would be tasked,” he added. Mr Ayodele Akinwunmi of the Corporate Banking Department, FSDH Merchant Bank explained that the N50 charges are taxes for the Federal Government and not for banks. Moreover, the tax for revenue generation is quite small and one of the lowest in the world. This, according to him, can be hinged on the large percentage of the economy which is in the informal sector and are not taxed. But with the cashless policy, spearheaded by technology, the informal sector can be taxed. Again, a good number of rich citizens do not pay tax. Hence the need to expand the tax base rather than limit it to those within the formal sector. For more revenue generation, deploying technology to ensure tax compliance is what the Federal Government is trying to achieve, Akinwunmi added.