 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday called for the imposition of international sanctions on the national leadership and political office holders in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Also, the party is seeking similar sanctions against the leadership of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the military and the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). The party also called on the international community, particularly the United Nations (UN), the European Union (EU), the Commonwealth of Nations, the African Union (AU) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to immediately impose sanctions on the named Nigerian officials and institutions. The PDP suggested travel bans on the leadership of the listed institutions for abusing their offices and allegedly aiding or allowing acts that led to electoral fraud and violence in the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. Addressing journalists in Abuja, PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said that a wave of terror was threatening “our democracy, our constitutional order, national cohesion and safety of our citizens are now at stake.” Lamenting what he described as official conspiracy by the various state actors, the party chairman said: “As the world witnessed, the official conspiracies, bloodletting and mindless killing of innocent citizens by agents of the APC-led administration in connivance with the INEC to aid the forceful seizure of power in the November 16 Kogi and Bayelsa states governorship elections, clearly showed that our democracy is under severe attack. “In an apparent organised attack, government-controlled police and military, working for the APC, deployed dangerous assault weapons, including helicopters, to coordinate the violent invasion of polling units with maximum force; shooting, killing and maiming unarmed civilians, who were called out by government to perform their civic responsibilities at the elections. “The world watched with horror as killer security agents brutalised voters and carted away ballot boxes to government facilities, where results were written in favour of the APC and handed to a heavily compromised INEC, which has become part of the crime, to announce. “From the report reaching our party, no fewer than 30 innocent compatriots were killed and many more injured in this organised crime against humanity by the APC, the police and INEC. “The only crime of the citizens was their expressed determination to vote for the candidates of their choice as governors of Kogi and Bayelsa states as clearly manifested in the results from the polling centres before the forceful seizure of the electoral processes. “Most distressing is the gruesome incineration of one of our party’s woman leaders in Kogi State, Mrs. Acheju Abuh, in her home by APC thugs, a crime that was abetted by unscrupulous security agents. “Our party holds that this electoral fraud and crime against humanity, including established culpable homicide committed by the APC, security agents and INEC, cannot be allowed to pass.” Secondus said the PDP had thoroughly reviewed incontrovertible pieces of documentary evidence, including video clips, graphic pictures, witness testimonies, manipulated results sheets, proofs of compromise of INEC officials and other hard facts to establish the culpability of the police and INEC in the said electoral fraud, as well as the unforgiveable culpable homicide and crime against humanity in the elections. The party chair said the PDP was in possession of details of the roles played by the police high command and INEC as well as other security agencies during the elections. Vowing to make public details of the party’s findings in the two state elections anytime soon, Secondus expressed regrets that the Federal Government had failed to investigate the killings during the polls or brought the perpetrators to justice. Secondus continued:“In this regard, the PDP calls for the outright cancellation of the governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states as they are products of bloodshed and do not reflect the true wishes and aspiration of the people of the states. “We also demand the immediate cancellation of the Kogi West Senatorial election. This is the biggest fraud of the century. “The PDP, standing with millions of Nigerians, also holds that the INEC and the police high commands must be made to answer charges of electoral fraud and crime against humanity at the appropriate quarters.” “The PDP therefore calls on the international community as well as international organisations, including  the United Nations (UN), the European Union (EU), Commonwealth of Nations, the African Union (AU), ECOWAS to immediately impose sanctions, including travel bans, on the INEC and the police high commands for abusing their offices and allegedly aiding or allowing acts that led to electoral fraud and violence in the elections.” Saying that the primary duty of INEC and the police is to ensure free, fair and credible elections, Secondus said this duty was observed in the breach. According to him, reports of violence, rigging and intimidation during the two elections were documented by party agents, voters, stakeholders and independent observers in the elections. He said that perpetrators must be made to face the consequences to serve as deterrent to others. The party chairman commended the people of Kogi and Bayelsa states for their resilience and resistance against oppressive forces during the elections, saying that their patriotism would never be in vain. He said: “Our leadership also condoles with the families of compatriots who were murdered by the APC. Indeed, their death can never be in vain as the mandate for which they were killed will be surely retrieved. “Moreover, somebody someday will bear the full sentence of guilt at the appropriate quarters, be it within the ambit of our domestic laws or those of the international laws. “In the meantime, we urge all members of the PDP to remain strong and undeterred as we collectively exert ourselves in the defence of our nation’s democracy.”