SIR: Our attention has been drawn to a write-up under the above caption in which the writer; Akinyinka Omoniyi, parent of one of our students, Oluwatoitan Christie Omoniyi (U/18/BA/0279) of Business Administration Department, where he painted our institution blue and black as operating below international standards over the issue of non-release of his ward’s transcript of academic records to enable her transfer to another institution. We hereby humbly submit that while it is the exclusive right of a student to transfer to another institution; and indeed many of our students have done so, just as we have also admitted many transfer students from other institutions both public and private, each institution has in place its official processes which must be followed and adhered to either before releasing the transcript of academic records of a non-graduating student or before accepting a transfer student from another school. Oduduwa University, Ipetumodu, is no exception as we also have a process in place. For clarifications, part of this process includes obtaining clearances from the various departments and units which the students might have passed through during the course of his /her studentship. These departments and units include: Financial Services Department, University Library, Management Information System, Academic Records Unit, Student’s Affairs Department, University Health Centre and the Registry. While our methods may not measure up to your “international standards”, even you will agree with us that all these clearances are necessary processes for any student leaving any institution either as a graduating student or non-graduating student. Even in the civil service, those transferring their services from one agency or ministry to another need to collect clean bill of health from various quarters before leaving or being accepted. All these checks are what maintain a level of sanity, prevent fraud and ensure continuity in the system. We therefore wish to invite your daughter to complete the necessary clearance processes with the relevant departments and units after which she can request for the release of her transcript of academic records to any institution she wishes to transfer to. Oduduwa University, Ipetumodu though a young institution, today stands neck to neck with the best universities in Nigeria because of its believe in academic excellence in line with the visions of the founder to provide qualitative education in line with best teaching practice as observed all over the world.  Oduduwa University, Ipetumodu.