Deola Kamson is a designer and CEO of Delabique Garments and Accessories. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she opens up on how she took interest in arts and crafts while growing up, making things from clothes, paper, shells and scrap as a child. She recalls a memorable moment when she produced 30 outfits from black bin bags modelled during the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria pageant shows. What inspired you to go into the fashion sector? It was more of a love of art and a love for making things, not really fashion per se. I have always loved fine things. I have always loved arts and crafts from a tender age. I remember I loved going into Quintessence at Falomo, Lagos, with my mum and just getting myself lost in the store. There was always a lot to see and admire. I have always had a good eye for detail. And my love and admiration for seeking out fine, colourful objects, art, making things from pieces of cloth, paper, plastic, shells, scrap eventually led me to fashion. What was it like at the beginning? Learning the art of dressmaking with patternmaking was more or less a piece of cake for me. What I did was enrol for a few short courses at the London College of Fashion every few weeks for about a year. I had no difficulty with that. However, I had a lot to learn about breaking into the fashion scene in Lagos at the time. I needed to learn the ropes seriously. It was a ‘No, you can’t sit with us’ kind of scene back then. I also had a lot to learn about the business side of fashion. I’m still learning this. What were the challenges encountered? The main challenge for me when I started was getting skilled labour; it seemed an almost impossible task to accomplish. We eventually were able to overcome this with a training programme we put in place for our machinists. There is a non-availability of skilled pattern-makers/ pattern-cutters even up till now. Most workers are unwilling to subject themselves to the rigours of learning patternmaking/pattern-cutting. Tell us about your designs, how do you infuse culture into what you do? Our designs are for the winning woman who wants to stand out in style. We design, produce and retail women’s clothing, and leather handbags. The unique thing about our clothing is the fact that we have chosen to fuse our cultural heritage with modern fashion. We create exquisite outfits from beautiful batik and tie-dye fabrics made from age-old traditional art forms indigenous to the women of South-western Nigeria. Choosing to use batik and tie-dye fabrics to manufacture our garments, gives us the enablement to empower the women in the communities where these fabrics are made. These women are able to remain in business; and can pass on the beauty, processes and values of these traditional art forms to the next generation. They become economically empowered to take decisions, and make financial contributions to the upkeep and wellbeing of their families. Overtime, there has been a decline in this art form and we want to make a conscious effort to preserve those cultural art forms; that is why we have chosen to use only batik and tie-and-dye fabrics. In doing this, we are making sure that the beauty processes, and the values of these art forms are passed onto the next generation. It is a deliberate attempt at culture preservation. So, that is how we are able to infuse culture into our designs. And the designs now have a modern twist. So, we are using age-old traditional fabrics with art forms to produce contemporary modern fashion. There are motifs that are indigenous to the batik itself. You see the motifs, you see the designs and it is just linked to batik. These motifs are passed on from generation to generation. What has been your memorable moment as a designer? One very memorable time that comes to mind, for me, was in May 2010. The event was the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria Pageant hosted by Silverbird Production. There was a segment of the show where the girls were representing a cosmetic company. The producer of the show wanted us to make it special and unique. So, she requested for outfits made in Nigeria. It was 30-piece collection or more. It was a collection with a strong 50s and 60s influence, inspired by the glamorous full skirt of the 1950s. Each piece was adorned by each of the 30 contestants for the cosmetic segment. And I thought it was so great, something special to have been able to produce 30 outfits from bin bags (polythene bags). We cut them up, put in lining, trimmings and other accessories. We made them up into beautiful evening and cocktail dresses. It was a bit overwhelming but I was very impressed with myself. I was quite impressed that we were able to achieve that feat. It was a challenge and I was happy that I was able to stand up to the challenge and come up with beautiful outfits. Tell us about your bag designs and accessories, what makes them different? Hand bags are a big deal for women. They are more expression of fashion and personality than even functionality. Hand bags are sacred and it is for this reason that they are a big deal. A woman’s hand bag says a lot about her and it is a sacred thing. For us, it is all about the proportion of the bag, the shape, its line, finish, fabric, hardware and all about balance. For us, it is all of those that make our bag unique: Proportion, shape, material, finishing and the fabric, especially the hardware. What other things occupy your time? I love to read and I also love to teach. I am constantly teaching classes on pattern making. I teach my staff and some people also register for training. I always want to do more. Also, I am constantly reading. There is something I am reading every day; it is either a new book or an article. Those are some of the things that I use to occupy myself. I also like building projects and there is a project that I am currently working on. It is about making more impact in our communities. It is in the works and we let it out as soon as we finalise all the little details. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? The most influential people in my life have always been the people closest to me. My family is small but supportive. My parents taught me and my siblings strong work ethics. To aim high, work hard and value our relationships. My parents nurtured me, guided me in the right direction and they held the opinions that I trusted the most. They constantly inspired me to achieve more. My dad is late now but my mum is still very much around. What are some of the lessons you have learnt in life? One of my earliest life lessons was that you become who you hang out with. And this doesn’t change when you get older. I have always tried to be friendly with everyone I meet but at the same time, I have also become pickier about who I spent the majority of my time with. I have learnt to spot certain qualities in people and so I seek these qualities out in my associations. I have also learnt to avoid other characteristics. What I have learnt is that the people closest to you would influence you in many ways. So, I think it is important to be selective. One should surround oneself with people who inspire you and make you a better person. Some friends come and go but the ones who have stayed have a huge impact on my decisions and my happiness. They have supported me and cheered me on. And they have shaped me into this person that I have become. These are female game changers; women who support other women. Clearly, collaboration is the new currency for sustainable women-owned businesses. In connecting with other women, there is a sense of togetherness and a reminder that anything is achievable if you work for it. Tell us about the women you admire I admire strong women who would stand up for other women. Who would be in their corner and support and give a helping hand to the next woman. I particularly admire Dr. Bibi Bakare Yusuf; everything she stands for, I admire and hold in high esteem. If you had to advise Nigerian designers, what would you tell them? I would say talent is not enough. Talent is essential but you need to hone your skills, develop them and take them to the next level. You also need to start thinking of the business side of things; how to truly establish yourself as an entrepreneur. Not just as a production person but as an entrepreneur. How to move the business to the next level of sustainability with the right structures and processes in place, so that our businesses get to outlive us. This way, our businesses become what they are meant to be and stand the test of time. At the end of the day, bottom line increases, profits increase, jobs are created and all the numerous benefits to be gained from establishing a business, setting up a business would be realised. So, I would say get adequate training, which is essential to being able to run a business successfully. It is not just about how talented you are. It is also about good management. Where do you hope to see your brand in the next few years? We hope to become a truly global brand. We want to stop thinking local but global. So, our slogan now for this next phase is ‘Stop thinking local, think global.’ Or simply put, ‘think global’. We are working on getting our products exported to international destinations. We want to be seen alongside with international brands. We want to be able to enter the US and European markets, in addition to having it become a household name in Nigeria. We want to have our stores in every major city in Nigeria. One good thing that would change the way fashion is being done in Nigeria would be to have a fashion hub. A creative fashion hub with illustrators, pattern makers, machines and the designers. A hub where the different elements and components of the production line are well represented and every major part of the production unit of fashion is well represented with skilled labour appropriate to carry out the different tasks that will give us the perfect finished outfits and of course retail and PR companies, so that the items produced are sold. What we need is good production and marketing. The way they have it in the western countries, is that the retail companies do the job. The job of the designer is to get the products ready while the retail professionals take over from that point. If we have this covered for us in Nigeria, then it will be a very lucrative fashion landscape. What are the things that you love to do every day? My daily resolve is to be more and to accomplish more in the world of good. I take each day as an opportunity to make my contributions to the enablement and growth of my environment. I see each day as a chance to build meaningful and impactful relationships in my associations with my contacts. I see each day as one more opportunity to make my contribution to the goodness and well-being of the world.