From Blessing Olaifa, Abuja  With his assumption of office as Sports Minister, Mr Sunday Dare has since rolled up his sleeves, ready to tackle the myriads of challenges confronting the development of sports in the country. Faced with the task of tapping and harnessing the abundant talents embedded in millions of Nigerian youths across the various geopolitical zones. There is no doubt that sporting events have come an enduring symbol of unity bringing together Nigerians from diverse social, ethnic and religious groups. It has been observed that through sports, Nigerians have been able to find strength and solidarity in their diversities, a development that has continued to unite the people more than any other endeavours. So for Sunday Dare, the need to consolidate on the existing national solidarity through sports, has become a task that must be accomplished. However, there is no way the Minister can achieve much without rallying the various sports organisations and agencies under his Ministry. He began on a sound footing by meeting with the different Associations and Federations shortly after he assumed office in August. Among those receiving the Minister attention are the management teams of the various departments and critical stakeholders in the sports industry. Dare has since embarked on a nationwide tour of all sports facilities to see things for himself and to work out strategies for workable templates to address the numerous challenges. Inadequate funding, decaying infrastructure, inter agency rivalry and cases of abandoned projects are some of the issues begging for attention. It is also observed that the country is lagging behind in modern sporting development both at home and at the international arenas. This has greatly affected the performances of sportsmen and women in the country. During one of his tours recently, Dare told journalists that there is now the political will to tackle these myriads of problems, especially those revolving around infrastructure and the upgrading of sporting facilities. He has also identified security issues as part of the problems. As part of the campaign, the minister, a few weeks ago, met with the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu at the Force Headquarters, Abuja to seek the support of the police in ensuring that sport facilities and infrastructure across the country remain safe and protected from vandalism. The police boss had assured that efforts would be geared towards protecting the facilities 24 hours a day. Among the sporting events the Minster plans to uplift include football, basketball, golf, table tennis, boxing, wrestling, lawn tennis, judo and athletics. This, he said, was with a view to making Nigerian sportsmen and women compete favourably in local and international events. Expressing optimism in accomplishing the task ahead, Dare said the present administration has the political will not just to fix decaying infrastructure and facilities, but to make things work. He charged stakeholders on the need to contribute their quota in making the sports industry the most vibrant, positive, productive and result-oriented. According to him, a vibrant and formidable sports culture can address many of the social problems confronting the nation. Sports, he said, can be used to address unemployment, poverty, insecurity, truancy and other societal ills. Stating that government alone cannot bear the financial burden required to fix the sports industry, the Minister called on sports loving individuals and corporate bodies with and outside the country to join the rescue operation. He expressed the belief that Nigeria can still raise new pillars of sports, in addition to the ones on ground to support the industry. Dare commended the effort and contributions of known sports financiers and enthusiasts across the country. Among those he commended for identifying with sports in the country were Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, Mike Adenuga, Tony Elumelu, Folorunso Alakija, Bola Shagaya, Austin Okocha, among many others. 