•Lagos police boss owes a distraught mum the duty of revealing those behind her son’s murder I am begging the Lagos State Commissioner of Police that he should come to my rescue; the suspected killers of my son are being shielded and helped by the police” was the pathetic lament of a mother whose son was murdered in a most brutal manner. Was this just the unfounded allegation of an emotionally distraught woman desperate to find people to blame for the death of her son? The facts do not suggest so. The decomposed and mutilated body of the deceased, 14-year-old Qudus Anifowose, was found by a search party in an uncompleted building in Ire-Agunfoye, Ikorodu, Lagos, two days after he went missing on October 14. Before this discovery, Qudus was allegedly last seen with a 17-year–old neighbour, whose name was not revealed in media reports of the incident. The building where his body was located is reportedly situated behind his last companion’s house. From the state in which his corpse was found, it was obvious that Qudu’s death was a violent one, a result of violent crime. Again, in the words of Mrs. Risikat Anifowose, “My son was just a 14-year-old and why should he die such a painful death with his organs removed? His tongue, heart and private organ were removed and there are still blood stains over the fence on which his body was thrown into the uncompleted building from the suspect’s compound”. True, no matter how strong the circumstantial evidence would appear to be as regards a crime, the police, by their professional training, are still expected to carry out thorough investigations and pursue all leads to ensure that those who are prosecuted and ultimately brought to justice are indisputably the guilty ones. This was at the very least what was expected of the men of the Lagos State Police Command responsible for security in the jurisdiction where the crime was perpetrated in Ikorodu. However, Mrs. Anifowose shockingly alleged that the police in the area, rather than diligently investigating the matter in pursuit of justice in accordance with their constitutional duty, merely advised her to resolve the incident ‘amicably’. And even more damningly, the suspected killer has reportedly been released by the police while both he and his grandmother have been allowed to relocate from the community. Surely, this is not a matter that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Zubairu Muazu, can afford to turn deaf ears to. His prompt and decisive responses to such alleged incidents of miscarriage of justice as well as questionable professional conduct in the state police command in the past suggest that that would not be in his character. We urge Mr. Muazu to urgently inquire into this incident, ascertain the truth and ensure that his men do their duty without fear or favour. So rampant have incidents of violent crime, particularly barbaric murders, become in Lagos and across Nigeria that any case treated with levity anywhere, giving the culprits an unjustifiable escape route, will only embolden others inclined to follow in such despicable paths. The Lagos State Police command thus owes a duty to the victim of the crime, his loved ones, the community as a whole as well as its own organisational integrity and credibility to act in an honourable and professional manner in this case. This case illustrates, once again, not just the ever increasing levels of bestiality in the society as a whole but also the alarming rate at which utterly inhuman behaviour is spreading among the young and impressionable segments of our urban and rural communities. It is a challenge which requires the cooperation and commitment of all: governments, parents, religious clerics, security agents, traditional and community leaders, etc., to urgently confront. 