A 250-room three-star hotel abandoned by the Federal Government for 16 years has become home to the destitute, criminals and reptiles. ANDREW ABBAH reports  Over the years, the Sports Ministry and other stakeholders have been paying hotel bills ruining into hundreds of millions of Naira to private hotel owners for the accommodation of sports men and women and their officials during national and international sport events in the county. Meanwhile, a 250-room hotel, which was started in 2003, nearing 80 per cent completion, has been left to rot. The facility, located within the Abuja National Stadium, now MKO Abiola Stadium, was designed to provide accommodation for sports men and women and their officials during national and international sporting events in the country. Also, the facility was meant to be open to interested members of the public during off season to boost revenue generation for the Sports Ministry. But that is not to be as the otherwise magnificent edifice into which billions of taxpayers’ money had been sunk, has since become home destitute persons, criminals of all shades, reptiles and rodents. Our correspondent could not immediately ascertain actual cost of the hotel project, which was initially meant to accommodate participants and officials in the 8th All Africa Games held in Abuja in 2003. The sports fiesta, tagged Comite d’ Organization des Jeux Africaine (COJA) held between October 5-17, with 53 countries participating in 23 sporting events. But in its 16 years existence, the Athletes’ Hotel, as the authorities named it, has yet to give accommodation to a single athlete or recorded a dime in income. The V-shaped four-storey structure, sitting on a large expanse of land, is overgrown with weeds, providing a sanctuary for vagrants and cover for hoodlums. Located at Package B section of the stadium, the structure can be sighted right from the Abuja City Gate. It is less than three minutes’ drive to the popular 1 roundabout and less than two kilometers to the central area in the city centre. It is also adjacent to the Nigeria Institute for Sports (NIS). But successive Sports Ministers and Administrators have continued to neglect the structure for what many described as lack of patriotism. Our correspondent who visited the location observed that some interior parts of the massive structure are already falling apart. It was gathered that the hotel project was initiated by the then Presidential Task Force raised for the building of the stadium. The organisational aspect of the COJA Games was headed by a former CAF/FIFA Executive member who was then Director- General, National Sports Commission (NSC), Dr. Amos Adamu. While commenting on the objective of building the hotel,  Adamu, who spoke with our correspondent in Abuja, said, “The initial concept was athletes hotel within the stadium. It was meant to complement the Games Village project during the games but could not be completed before the game ended. Another objective of constructing the hotel was for the Ministry to generate extra funds as the hotel will be open to the public during the offseason.” Adamu, however, lamented that successive Sports Ministers came and left the building the same way they met it, saying that it was only one of the past Ministers, Prof Taoheed Adedaoja who made some at reviving the structure but that he could not achieve much before his tenure expired. The Acting Director, Facilities in the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Datawan Duste, said about one billion would be required to fix the hotel and other dilapidated facilities within it. According to him, huge resources would be needed for landscaping and construction of access road that will link directly to the adjoining expressway leading to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport. He added that the hotel would also need modern facilities, including a gym and a multipurpose centre. Also commenting on the state of the facility, the Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Sports, Olumide Osoba, bemoaned the sorry state of the facility. Osoba however, promised that his committee would do what it takes to ensure that the Federal Government gives the facility the required attention. The lawmaker promised that adequate funding would be made available to the Ministry in the 2020 federal budget for the upgrade and renovation of the hotel and other abandoned projects to enable the athletes to have the best preparations before any international competitions. Osoba said Nigerian athletes deserve the best, assuring that his committee was willing and ready to assist the Ministry to address the situation. Minister of Youth and Sports Sunday Dare, who accompanied the lawmakers during the inspection, pleaded with the National Assembly to capture the hotel in the capital project in the ministry’s 2020 budget. Dare said: “I am happy the House committee members are here physically to see things for themselves. The state of abandoned projects within the stadium is alarming. The way they were shocked was the same way I was when I first visited the stadium. The state of dilapidated sporting facilities made me to visit other stadia owned by the Federal Government. We need money to bring it up to date, to meet international standards. Our athletes need the best facilities to excel and we are determined to turn this place around within a given period. It is my belief that having seen things for themselves, they will assist us in upgrading the facility.” 