What should be the time frame for the adjudication on pre-election litigation? The confusion over pre-election matters, which often drag on to the electioneering and post-election period, have made electoral reforms compelling. After presidential, governorship and National Assembly elections, candidates are at liberty to approach the court for redress within 30 days. The cases are expected to be concluded within 120 days. Appeal is for 60 days. Since there is a time frame for the core litigation arising from the conduct of elections, the onus is on the petitioner and defender to gird their loins within the stipulated time. Not so for pre-election matters, including disputes over primaries, eligibility for contest, conflict over age and certificate, conflicting names on INEC forms  and controversy over party membership. Instructively a violation of the time frame by litigants in post-election cases can lead to a technical knock out. The question is: can pre-election matters be resolved in court before the election date, or at least, before the kick off of campaigns? The Bayelsa State All Progressives Congress (APC) was enveloped in apprehension and confusion yesterday  following the court ruling nullifying the candidature of David Lyon, less than 48 hours to the governorship poll. Two days ago, the court also ruled that Lyon’s running mate, Senator Biobarakumo Degi, was on the ballot in error. Both have appealed the judgments, which have left their supporters demoralised. The danger is that, if certain pre-election matters are not resolved in time, it may produce fatal effects when they are eventually resolved. An example was how Celestine Omehia, who had already been sworn in as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governor of Rivers State was deposed when the pre-election matter was resolved in favour of Rotimi Amaechi. Pre-election cases are solely features of the Fourth Republic. In the First and Second Republics, party system was strong and intra-party squabbles were resolved in an atmosphere of party supremacy and discipline. Politicians were highly disciplined and the party leadership, or caucus, was highly respected. It was almost a taboo for a politician to take his party to court over nominations. There was no monetization of politics and tickets were given to trusted and tested party members. No certificate forgery. Party primaries or selection by consensus were mutually agreed upon. Gone were the days of sanity. Electoral reform is an unfinished business in Nigeria. As stakeholders push for the setting up of special electoral offences tribunals or courts for the trial of electoral offenders, they should also spare a thought for the need for a legal time frame for the conclusion of pre-election cases in court, at least, 30 days before the election date. A way out is to review the electoral timetable, which should commence earlier to allow room and time for the disposal of pre-election cases before the poll. Internal democracy should be encouraged within political parties. If the nominations are free and fair, there will be less complaints and disputes. Also, political parties should strengthen their crisis resolution mechanism for the purpose of timely reconciliation and resolution of intra-party electoral conflicts.