Interswitch Limited, a leading technology-driven company focused on the digitisation of payments in  Africa, and Visa Inc. the world leader in digital payments, have announced a strategic partnership that will further advance the digital payments ecosystem in Africa. As part of the agreement, Visa will acquire a significant minority equity stake in Interswitch.The investment makes Interswitch one of the most valuable African FinTech businesses with a valuation of $1billion. Visa will join globally renowned investors, Helios Investment Partners,TA Associates and IFC, as shareholders in Interswitch, alongside Company management. Founder and Chief Executive of Interswitch, Mitchell Elegbe, said: “Sub-Saharan Africa is the fastest growing payments market in the world, with growth driven by a young and dynamic population, rapidly evolving consumer behaviour, and an increasing desire for payment solutions that can be accepted across the continent and abroad. I am delighted that Interswitch has formed a partnership with Visa, with whom we plan to drive the next phase of transformation in the African payments landscape.” Regional President CEMEA, Visa, Andrew Torre, said: “Africa is a priority region for us, and we continually seek strategic partnerships with local players to further strengthenour leadership position and enhance the payments ecosystem across the continent. This partnership aligns with our global strategy to work with and invest in innovative partners, and we look forward to working with Interswitch to provide new consumer and merchant experiences and support the rapid growth of digital commerce across Africa.” Helios’s co-founder and Managing Partner, Babatunde Soyoye, also said: “A strategic investment by Visa, the world’s leader in digital payments, into Interswitchis a substantial endorsement of the company’s expertise in African payments. As an active investor in leading African payments businesses, we see tremendous opportunitiesto digitise payments across the continent and have worked closely with Interswitch’s management team to build a high quality and scalable platform geared to address some of these opportunities. We look forward to further collaboration with the Company alongside Visa.” The transaction is subject to the relevant regulatory approvals and is expected to close by Q1 2020. FT Partners acted as exclusive strategic and financial advisor to Interswitch on this transaction. Founded in 2002, Interswitch disrupted the traditional cash-based payments value chain in Nigeria by introducing electronic payments processing and switching services. Today, Interswitch is a leading player in Nigeria’s developing financial ecosystem with omni-channel capabilities across the payments value chain, processing over 500million transactions per month in May 2019. In 2018, electronic payments in Africa accounted for only 12 per cent of transactions by volume, compared to 54 per cent in Europe and 79 per cent in North America. Sub-Saharan Africa is the fastest-growing digital payments market in the world, with electronic payment volume expected to grow at a CAGR of approximately 35 per cent from 2018 to 2023in the region excluding South Africa. This progress is expected to be driven by the deepening payments infrastructure, population and urbanisation growth, GDP growth above the global average, increased mobile and internet penetration, as well as a supportive regulatory landscape for electronic payments and financial inclusion. Interswitch’s core market, Nigeria, is the largest economy in Africa with a rapidly growing electronic payments market. Point of sale (PoS) and ATM transactions per adult grew at a CAGR of 94 per cent and 59 per cent from 2013 to 2018, respectively. In Nigeria, there were only 11 card transactions per adult per annum in 2018 compared to 92 in markets like South Africa,126 in Brazil and 465 in the UK. Despite this market under-penetration, PoS card transactions in Nigeria are expected to grow at a CAGR of 63 per cent between 2018 and 2023. In addition to its switching and processing services, Interswitchowns Verve, the largest domestic debit card scheme in Africa with more than 19 million cards activated on its network as of May 2019. The business also operates Quickteller, a leading multichannel consumer payments platform, driving financial inclusion across Nigeria with over 270,000 access points, as of 2018, from which consumers can initiate peer-to-peer transfers, bill payments, airtime purchases, and other e-commerce transactions, processing over 42 million transactions monthlyas of 31 July 2019 (equivalent to over N560 billion ($1.5 billion) through direct, indirect and Paypoint channels). Interswitch’s unique market capabilities and strong consumer proposition, has enabled it to deliver consecutive years of sustainable profitable growth. The partnership will create an instant acceptance network across Africa to benefit consumers and merchants and facilitate greater connectivity for communities. Both parties will also retain their respective independent solutions, and Interswitch will retain its scheme neutral strategy.