 WELCOME to another exciting week! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. Today, we shall focus on: Understanding The Virtues Of Praise! We understand from scriptures that praise is appreciating God for His Person.  That is, we just appreciate and worship Him for who He is. Our high rating of God causes His praise to flow from us. As it is written, Praise ye the Lord: for it is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and praise is comely (Psalm 147:1). God is excited and motivated by praise. We can get God cheaply with praise. For instance, David the man after God’s heart became God’s darling by praise. God’s heart was always with him. The whole of Saul’s army could not handle him! If we want to see God back us up, then, we should live a life of endless praise.  Also, praise will launch us into a life of endless miracles; which will stop us   from sweating to start winning in the race of life. I want us to know that praise is a God given weapon in our hands with which to humiliate the devil. It is God’s medicine against the enemy. Every time we obey the law of praise, we silence our adversaries. Everyone who lives in praise carries authority with him because he has the backing of heaven.  For instance, in 1 Samuel 17:50, we saw how David the praise giant, defeated goliath effortlessly because he had the backing of heaven. This shows that praise is the path of life; the winning ticket anytime. With the anointing of praise upon our lives, we become an all-round winner in the battles of life. Furthermore, praise is God’s hotline. We can pray amiss but we cannot praise amiss. Whenever you come to a tough situation, give a tough praise! When we see gross darkness, bring gross light by giving God gross praise. For anything that will take God, give it praise! Praise will disarm any devil from hell any day and anytime. A simple obedience to the law of faith will hook us on to the miraculous line of life. Also, to be ‘Thank full’ is what makes praise genuine. If we are not thankful, we cannot be praiseful. We must first be thankful before we can be joyful and we must be joyful before we can sing, otherwise our song becomes mere noise. What Then Are The Types Of Praise? What Are The Virtues Embedded In Praise? In summary, no reason is strong enough to cast us down. Thus, praise is a weapon of honour that God has put in our hands to make living honourable for us. However, you must be a bonafide child of God to benefit from the virtues of praise. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Understanding the Power of Praise and Wonders of Praise. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.