Workers in the chemical sector of the economy has urged the Federal Government to implement policies that will scale up performance and inclusive growth of the chemical sector. The President of the Chemical and Non Metallic Products Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (CANMPSSAN), Segun David, in his address at the union’s annual National Management/Industrial Relations seminar held last week in Abeokuta, Ogun State, said the government would have to give maximum support to the sector for it to continue to play its leading role in the salvation of the economy. “We contribute immensely to the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of the country, particularly slipping Nigeria out of economic recession and still making the economy more economically vibrant,” he said. Speaking further at the 24th annual seminar themed “An Overview of the Nigeria Corporate Survival and Industrial Relations Practices in the face of economic challenges-Chemical and Non-Metallic Products experience”, David noted that chemical and non-metallic products sector was more diverse than almost any other industry in Nigeria, adding that the sector drives the economy. He lamented that the business environment in which they operate was faced with various challenges such as structural bottlenecks, comatose infrastructure, low capacity utilisation, unemployment, import dependence, poor regulatory environment, insecurity, inadequate long-term financing which hinders real sector growth, multiple taxation, unfavorable interest rate and low corporate governance practices. He said, “It’s unfortunate that we have companies like we have in Nigeria and government cannot provide the facilities and enabling environment needed for them to thrive as we have in the developed economy. “Government should look into these factors if they really want the manufacturing sector to be the driving force of economic growth in the country.” David added that the sector also had to contend with various internal factors ranging from gratuity, downsizing, victimisation, outsourcing, contract staffing and other anti-labour activities. On the border closure, he said the effect would strengthen the policy of diversification, grow domestic industries and boost economic growth. He stated: “As Nigerians, we need to focus on the growth and development of the  domestic economy by boosting local production. No country develop by consuming from other country goods and we are not capable of making any at all. “The value of domestic production create jobs, appreciate naira value at the exchange market, and also make domestic economy vibrant. I therefore charge Nigerians to embrace the policies and programmes of the government, so that Nigeria can become a producing country among the comity of nations.” The immediate past president of the union, Abdul Gafar Mohammed charged the workers to think of retirement while still active at work, bearing in mind that there’s no job security in the country. orkers in the chemical sector of the economy has urged the Federal Government to implement policies that will scale up performance and inclusive growth of the chemical sector. The President of the Chemical and Non Metallic Products Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (CANMPSSAN), Segun David, in his address at the union’s annual National Management/Industrial Relations seminar held last week in Abeokuta, Ogun State, said the government would have to give maximum support to the sector for it to continue to play its leading role in the salvation of the economy. “We contribute immensely to the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of the country, particularly slipping Nigeria out of economic recession and still making the economy more economically vibrant,” he said. Speaking further at the 24th annual seminar themed “An Overview of the Nigeria Corporate Survival and Industrial Relations Practices in the face of economic challenges-Chemical and Non-Metallic Products experience”, David noted that chemical and non-metallic products sector was more diverse than almost any other industry in Nigeria, adding that the sector drives the economy.  He lamented that the business environment in which they operate was faced with various challenges such as structural bottlenecks, comatose infrastructure, low capacity utilisation, unemployment, import dependence, poor regulatory environment, insecurity, inadequate long-term financing which hinders real sector growth, multiple taxation, unfavorable interest rate and low corporate governance practices. He said, “It’s unfortunate that we have companies like we have in Nigeria and government cannot provide the facilities and enabling environment needed for them to thrive as we have in the developed economy. “Government should look into these factors if they really want the manufacturing sector to be the driving force of economic growth in the country.” David added that the sector also had to contend with various internal factors ranging from gratuity, downsizing, victimisation, outsourcing, contract staffing and other anti-labour activities. On the border closure, he said the effect would strengthen the policy of diversification, grow domestic industries and boost economic growth. He stated: “As Nigerians, we need to focus on the growth and development of the  domestic economy by boosting local production. No country develop by consuming from other country goods and we are not capable of making any at all. “The value of domestic production create jobs, appreciate naira value at the exchange market, and also make domestic economy vibrant. I therefore charge Nigerians to embrace the policies and programmes of the government, so that Nigeria can become a producing country among the comity of nations.” The immediate past president of the union, Abdul Gafar Mohammed charged the workers to think of retirement while still active at work, bearing in mind that there’s no job security in the country.