Mixed reactions have greeted the return of toll gates in the country. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo had, during his term, demolished the toll gates because the facilities were not only generating negligible revenue but also because the venture had metamorphosed into a cesspit of corruption. OKWY IROEGBU- CHIKEZIE reports on the planned return of tolls in the country. The decision to scrap toll plazas was taken by former President Olusegun Obasanjo in 2003. He had argued, among others, that the tolls were conduit for some individuals to line their pockets. This has brought about mixed reactions of stakeholders to the proposal to return them. Those opposed to the return of toll want to know if the reasons advanced for their abolishment had been dealt with.  They say the government could explore Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) option and give incentives such as tax breaks to private investors to the project. Almost 80 per cent of Nigeria’s road network can be considered worn out; some are death traps, full of potholes, cracks and creeks along the edges. The reason for this is not just a lack of government investment in road infrastructure; it is also that the scale of the investment needed far exceeds anything government alone can shoulder at this point in time. There is also the important element of mismanagement and misappropriation of funds earmarked for roadwork happening routinely across the federation. Stakeholders speak An estate surveyor & valuer and former National Secretary, Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers (NIESV), Sam Ukpong said he would support tolling, if the government can make them development and growth centres. He said ideally, it should be used to develop communities along the high ways by the provision of infrastructure that can grow and develop them such as hospitals, schools, hotels and markets. Ukpong advised that the tolls should be sited in places that will attract development to the people where they can carry out their businesses. He lamented that rips which should take few hours have become needlessly long, adding that with the decline in security across the country, thevroads have become potentially dangerous. He regretted that all the tolls on the nation highway before now were badly managed and placed into the wrong hands. Ukpong said nothing showed that the former tolling was deployed into meaningful endeavour by the government as the highways remained death traps as they were abandoned and left in a state of disrepair. He advised the government to learn from best practices overseas where people are encouraged to drive in and park and refresh while driving on a long journey. The NIESV chief said hotels, hospitals and supermarkets should be part of the new toll gates. Like it is done in advanced countries people pay tolls and are afforded the opportunity  of driving in well maintained highways with all the road infrastructure benefits he added. He said: “That roads are important to the development of any economy is given. With functional roads, farmers who have tilled the ground, planted crops and harvested them for consumption are able to move their produce from their farms to the markets. Similarly, people move to places offering services and satisfying demands of the society through roads. Without functional roads, these basic human endeavours which in many ways guarantee prosperity are lost”. A highway engineer, and Managing Director, Ethical Business and Management Associates, Afolabi O. Adedeji, said Nigerians might not be too receptive to the facts involved in justifying the re-introduction of tolls on federal roads at this in time when the citizens are in the throes of economic recession.  He said though the previous experience was charecterised by corruption, tolling might provide the answers needed to maintain the nation’s highways. He explained that some of the benefits were revenue collection that would be applied towards recovery of road construction costs, road maintenance and future road development. Others,  he added, were  round-the – clock presence of  security operatives at the toll gates  to enhance safety  on the highways to deter robbers, marauders, kidnappers, and other criminal elements. He said: “It would be needful to have speed limiting and speed control at the approach to toll collection plazas, which have the capacity to reduce accidents caused by excessive speeding. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has been raising discussions about the possibility of undertaking random tests on commercial vehicle drivers for the level of slcohol in their breath (there are established safe limits for this), random eye tests (to ascertain visual acuity), random blood sugar tests (to determine uncontrolled blood sugar level that may lead to diabetic coma whilet driving, and possible fatalities) and others. With proper coordination, this seemingly esoteric aspect of the constitutional role of the FRSC may be enhanced by the reintroduction of toll plazas.” Afolabi said the toll would encourage  further financial inclusion and ‘deepening’ of financial services among Nigerians who might be encouraged to use electronic products as well as electronic channels of various banks for paying their tolls, with an attached ‘price’ of faster passage through the toll gates. This idea was also mooted on the Lekki-Epe Expressway that was concessioned to the Lekki Concession Company (LCC). He said tolling in absolute terms for the poor is double jeopardy, as the cost of daily  transportation in cities and within towns are all embedded on  the current illegal toll plazas,  numerous police checkpoints on inner city roads and the highways. He said: “The average commercial driver in this country already pays through the nose at the police toll plazas, in multiple numbers, throughout their journey.  It must be known that they are not out to detect or deter crime, but merely to extort money from hapless motorists.” Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) President Kunle Mokuolu said while tolling appears to be a good option because roads need funds, a permanent solution would be engaging the private sector with the government acting as the regulator. According to him, it is better for the government to regulate the private sector than regulate itself. He called for the use of technology if government insists on tolling, adding that this would enhance smooth operations since the number of vehicles has doubled. Labour reacts The Organised Labour has, however, rejected the proposed plan by the Federal Government to re-introduce toll gates on federal highways. While the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) said the toll gates would worsen people’s misery and raise the poverty level in the country, the United Labour Congress (ULC) said the only condition for Nigerians to accept a return of toll gates on federal roads is a drastic reduction in pump prices of petroleum products. It contended that the money to be realised from toll gates was factored into pump prices of fuel before they were dismantled in 2003. NLC General Secretary, Emmanuel Ugboaja, said: “It is not a welcome news at this point in time. It is going to put extra pressure on the ordinary people and worsen the poverty level in the country because it will affect the prices of goods and services. The roads are in very bad shape across the country, how can you toll a bad road? If you have fixed the roads and you now talk of tolling to recoup the money spent and to generate money to maintain the roads, people could consider it. But now, it is unacceptable because roads have remained the only means for transportation for humans, goods and services because the rails are not working. It is desperation by government to raise money at all cost.” NLC urged the government to fix the dilapidated roads first before bringing back tolling, arguing that “if people could travel from Lagos to Port Harcourt in less than seven hours, travel from Lagos to Benin City in three hours on road, or from Abuja to Lagos, to Port Harcourt in less than seven hours on a smooth road, people will listen when tolling issue is raised. But today, the roads are in terrible conditions. It is unacceptable because it will bring nothing but more misery to the ordinary man”. The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA)  has also advised the Federal Government to put in place an efficient policy before returning toll gates on federal roads. Its Director-General, Mr Timothy Olawale, urged the government to engage relevant professional and business organisations to fashion out policies that would guide its operations for effective infrastructure development of the nation. “We are conscious of the numerous benefits that the economy can derive from tolling. However, we are concerned about the past failures which characterised the management of the toll system across the nation, which were marred by revenue leakages and unmet maintenance of the tolled roads. “We will like to reiterate that not all roads are viable for tolling, especially subsidiary roads and roads with low traffic volumes,” he said. Olawale also said the government should not place additional burden, in form of any tax or levy on businesses or individuals in order to fund the construction of the toll gates. According to him, businesses and individuals have already been inundated with numerous taxes and proposed additional taxes, including the mobile phone tax, and increase in Value Added Tax (VAT). He said: “All these and many more will reduce the purchasing power of consumers with dire consequences for businesses. Private sector operators should be attracted through PPPs in the construction, maintenance and management of the toll systems, as it is done successfully in other climes, such as Egypt and South Africa.” Olawale also called for the resuscitation of the rail system, as it remained the cheapest and most efficient of all modes of transportation globally. He said the rail system would reduce the high cost of maintenance as it carried more than 90 per cent of domestic freight and passengers. Experience from other climes Use of tolling to help pay for expressways is being increasingly adopted in countries whose highway capital and operating expenditure requirements outstrip public resources to pay for them. Countries as diverse as Australia, Brazil, France, Germany (goods vehicles) India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Switzerland and others have widely adopted road tolling (through various means). Even in the United States (U.S), more than 4,000kilometers of the inter-state highway system are tolled. China, a global leader in building modern, high-standard road network use it to promote economic development, regional integration and social cohesion. Road transport forms a vital and fast growing sector of the transport sector, supporting trade and growth through the movement of goods and people, allowing economic specialisation, spreading skills and enhancing productivity.  The government of China’s position  is that roads improve regional connectivity and help spread the benefits of China’s economic development to its inland areas, including the reduction of rural isolation and improvement of  citizens’ access to jobs, health facilities, education and social services. However, some voices in China have been raised against either the principle of road tolls, or their practical application, or both. Common arguments are: that roads constitute essential social infrastructure and should be provided free to users; that no other country has so many tolled-roads; that as soon as the loans for construction have been repaid tolls are no longer justified. One of the few examples of such roads in East Africa is under construction in Uganda. The multi-million 50-km Entebbe Highway is being funded and constructed by China’s Export-Import Bank under a public-private partnership for highway transportation management. Other private companies involved in the construction of these roads are obliged to construct and maintain them at the highest possible standards based on long-term concession agreements or leases lasting decades. Investors recoup their investment through toll collection during the life of agreement before transferring the highway roads to the government authorities. This method is referred to as Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT). In Ghana, for instance, there are 29 toll stations and 1.1 million vehicles. Ghanaians say they expect visible and tangible improvements on the roads with  better lighting, improved pavements and good management of the road unlike here where some school of thought do not want to entertain anything on tolling citing mismanagement and corruption in  the past. Several  countries in Europe  rely heavily on private roads, concessions, or private-public partnerships as means of funding some of their road infrastructure. In Australia for example, some of its state governments have developed networks of toll roads in partnership with private-sector investors. Some of them have tolling systems to obtain part of their revenue for financing roads. And, in the case of Japan and France, they have linked their tolls with the weight of the vehicle and distance travelled. Similarly, in the Netherlands, tolls known as ‘mobility rates’ are collected for the use of roads as cars enter fee-payment gateways. Even in England, a congestion tax is imposed on vehicles that enter central London during certain hours, just as it is done in the cities of Stockholm and Gothenburg. While this tax is not specifically used for road maintenance, it is however purposed to shift the preferred means of transportation from cars to public transportation, and to pay for the environmental effects of motor vehicle use on the roads, thus preserving them from deteriorating quickly.