Musa Odoshimokhe  Former Kaduna State governor, Balarabe Musa, has called for an improved electoral process. He said the governorship election in Kogi and Bayelsa states was a disappointment. He added there were no free and fair elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, noting they were far from expectations. Balarabe said what took place was a repetition of military backlash and colonial footnote. He explained that it was imposition of candidates on the people. He said: “Just like what happened during the military and colonial times, that is what played out in Kogi and Bayelsa states. “What has happened in the two states in spite of our experience, indicates that this will be the same thing that will happen during elections from now onward. “The only solution is for Nigerians to live in freedom. They should stand up, at any cost, as long as there is free and fair election that will lead to legitimate government.” The former governor said the failure by the people to stand up and fight for better electoral process would amount to a waste of time. The National Chairman of the United Progressive Party (UPP,  Chekwas Okorie, said the two elections were sad commentaries. He added that things seemed to have degenerated to the years before 2015. According to him, Nigerians expected that things would change with the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the centre. He said: “The Kogi and Bayelsa elections had been won and lost, but it appeared to me like the type of victory the late President Umaru Yar’ Adua won. The late President himself declared during his inauguration that the process was imperfect and not meeting best practices. “It was unfortunate, but I am also happy because in a very swift reaction the Senate has direct INEC to commence without further delay the process of ensuring electronic voting. “It means that the off-season elections in Edo, Ondo and Anambra will be a test run for the 2023 elections. With the violence that happened in Kogi and Bayelsa, if electronic voting was not introduced, the 2023 Nigeria will turn to one large theatre of war without boundary.” Okorie commended the Senate for recommending electronic voting, noting that it would allay the fears of Nigerians. 