Adeniyi Adewoyin The Founder and Managing Director of Food Dotors, Awesu Joseph Temitope has revealed that he loves to save life which was why he opted to study medicine but not lucky enough with University admission, he later settled for Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu in 2008 to study Food Science & Technology. In his words “My love for saving lives as a medical doctor was what translated to my saving lives through food”. Having studied Food Science & Technology at the Lagos State Polytechnic, Joseph thought outside the box to carve a niche for himself. He continued that he didn’t give up on his dream He noted not studying medicine didn’t stop his dream of saving live which was what gave birth to his company, Food Doctors Nigeria Limited in 2009. ”When I was in school, whenever I told people I was studying food technology they often asked if I could cook, but when I tell them I am a food doctor, they crave to know more about me. However, Food Doctors Nigeria Limited (FDNL), an indigenous food consulting firm and a registered incorporation in Nigeria with a track record on exceptional and professional performance, poised itself as a one stop shop for Food Safety Solutions, Agribusiness Sustainability and Capacity Development. “At Food Doctors, with our mandate to save Lives Through Food…..We have a large food and agro-allied professional network pool of over 64 faculty working with the organization in areas of capacity development for farmers and food industry. Also a network of registered nutritionists working on zero malnutrition advocacy project in Nigeria” Awesu noted. Earlier this year, on May 9th, 2019 the Orgazation had the Maiden edition of “Food Entrepreneur Rountable Summit” which attracts food Professionals and Food Business Managers across the country to tackle, address and discuss “Food Business Sustainability:Key to Zero Hunger with the Guest Speaker Pat McMicheal, CEO Eat ‘N’ Go (Domino Pizza). This summit was organized by Food Doctors Nigeria Limited having observed a lot of Quick Service Restaurants (QSR) are folding up in Nigeria. Also, currently the company embarked on an initiative tagged “Fruit Break” to encourage schools to have a mandatory fruit break during learning hours as this Improves and promotes Good nutritional status amongst students and helps incorporate a good dietary habit as a lifestyle from an early life. When asked where do Joseph see Food Doctor in a decade? He said, “In a decade, I want Food Doctors Ng to be a leading food and agribusiness consulting firm in Africa”.
Attachments area