 BAYELSA State governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief David Lyon, has accused the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of planning to resort to vote buying in its attempt to win the November 16 governorship election. Lyon, who took his campaign team to different wards in Yenagoa, the state capital, said having seen that it stood no chance to win the poll following the general acceptance of a progressive movement in the state, the PDP intended to induce voters and compromise the process. The APC  candidate, whose campaign train was received by mammoth crowd at Igbogene, Agudama, Opolo, St Peters Down Yenegoa and Amarata, said the ruling party’s reign was over in the state and no amount of money would save the party from defeat. Lyon, who addressed supporters at Agudama-Epie Ward 4, asked the people to remain focused in their decision to vote for him and the APC at the poll. He appealed to the people to collect their money, which he alleged the PDP would share to them at the poll, but to vote the ruling party out to enable the APC to correct all the mistakes of the current administration. He said: “I have already promised you that Bayelsa money is not David Lyon’s money. Bayelsa money is for the development of Bayelsa and solving the problems of our people. “Today, you can see how some people are carrying Bayelsa money as if it is their own. Have you noticed that as we started the APC campaign, workers are now receiving their salaries earlier? Despite the fact that the money was there, were they paying like that before? “This is deception and PDP has been deceiving us in this state. They are planning to bring a lot of money to buy votes at the poll. Remember it is your money they want to give you. If they give you the money, collect it and vote them out.” Lyon said APC would end the perpetual darkness, insecurity in the state and usher in the era of industrial revolution and empowerment of women and youths. The APC candidate promised to drastically reduce fees charged by tertiary institutions, especially the state-owned Niger Delta University (NDU), increased by the current government. He said:“We will provide good empowerment programmes. Can you imagine that they increased the school fees of our university, the NDU? But when we come on board, we will bring all the school fees down. For close to eight years that they have been in power, have they paid student bursaries? I will clear all the bursary arrears when I become governor.” 