From Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa ALL Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Chief Sam Nkire has urged politicians to learn from the defeat of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State. Nkire said Governor Seriaka Dickson kissed the dust the same way pompous despots kissed the ground, in their final hours of humiliation. According to Nkire, the PDP lost in Bayelsa because “Governor Dickson did not believe in zoning, fairness or democracy and therefore, single-handedly chose a wrong candidate for his party”. He said another reason why the people rejected Senator Douye Diri was that Dickson, due to greed, wanted to replace Senator Diri at the Senate, a dream now ‘put on hold’. The erstwhile National Chairman of the Progressive People’s Alliance (PPA),  advised politicians to learn from the despotic governors and political godfathers, who have bitten their fingers. He advised politicians to be humble and show gratitude to God and their people for the opportunities to serve. Nkire said APC will rule beyond 2023. Speaking after the APC National Caucus meeting in Abuja, he said those who think that President Buhari’s exit from power in 2023 will cause the party to disintegrate are in for a huge “democratic disappointment.” He said party has not only come to stay, but to meet needs and aspirations of Nigerians, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. Nkire added: “Muhammadu Buhari is going nowhere. He remains leader, member, vote mobilizer and APC’s talisman even after he exits the presidency in 2023.” On the criticisms and divergent views trailing the achievements and leadership style of the ruling party, Chief Nkire said people in opposition were entitled to their opinions, adding that APC would not be distracted from its set goal of service to the people. The Abia State born political leader also said the ruling party would continue to respect the constitutional rights of its opponents to express their opinions on policy issues affecting the lives of Nigerians. Contrary to the views of opponents of APC, Nkire said the recent victory in Bayelsa and Kogi states showed that Nigerians were appreciative of President Buhari’s achivements. Among those who attended the National Caucus meeting from Abia State were the Chief Whip of the Senate Dr Orji Uzor Kalu, the Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Nkiru Onyejiocha and the Abia State APC Caucus Leader, Chief Sam Nkire.