By AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna The two lecturers Adamu Chonoko of Ahmadu Bello University and Umar Chonoko of Kaduna Polytechnic kidnapped in Kaduna last week have escaped from captivity. Spokesperson of Kebbi Indegenes Resident in Kaduna and Garkuwan Wakilin Sarkin Zurun Kaduna, Garba Muhammad and Kaduna State Police Command confirmed the development on Sunday afternoon. The Nation however learnt the kidnappers had collected N5m ransom on the lecturers but were demanding for additional N10 million when the victims escaped. The kidnappers made away with Adamu Chonoko at Mahuta area of Kaduna metropolis and later held Umar Chonoko, who took ransom of N2million and a motorcycle to them. In a statement by the Commands PPRO, DSP Yakubu Sabo, the Police said, “on 17/11/2019, at about 11:51am, the Command received information from the family of the two kidnapped lecturers Adamu Chonoko from Ahmadu Bello University and Umar Chonoko from Kaduna Polytechnic that, the duo has managed to escape from the den of their kidnappers.”  The Police assured the families of the victims and members of the public that, the perpetrators of the crime will be apprehended and be brought to face justice. According to the Police spokesman: “The Police will not relent on the ongoing investigation to track down the perpetrators of this and other similar criminal incidents with a view to arrest and prosecute them in accordance with the laws of the Land. “The Command enjoins the good people of Kaduna State to continue to support the Command in the current battle against criminality in the state.” Sabo urged. Kebbi indegenes spokesman in his statement to newsmen said: “Yes, the two siblings and indigenes of Kebbi State, have escaped from their kidnappers and arrived the palace of Wakilin Sarkin Zurun Kaduna and were received by the Wakili around 11:51am today (Sunday). We thank Allah for their escape. “Umar Chonoko went to deliver the N2million and a motorcycle ransom to secure his brother Adamu’s freedom, only for the abductors to hold him back and demanded another N5million ransom. “N3million was delivered, making a total of N5million but the abductors made another demand of N10 million. “Their demand could not be met. Just this morning, with the assistance of security agents, both of them escaped. “We thank the media, security agencies and all those who helped us in praying for their freedom.”