Massilia Motors the sole distributors of Mitsubishi Motors in Nigeria teamed up with The Future Awards Africa to host its nominees to a reception last Friday in its Victoria Island, Lagos showroom. The partnership builds on Mitsubishi Motors ‘Drive Your Ambition’ tagline and the brand’s efforts to inspire young Nigerians. The Managing Director, CFAO Nigeria Plc., Thomas Pelletier gave the opening speech, while the Chairman, CFAO Nigeria Plc., Gbenga Oyebode, presented the certificates to the new nominees for the prize  “Young Person of the year.” Speaking at the event, Funmi Abiola, Head of Marketing, Massilia Motors, the sole distributors of Mitsubishi Motors in Nigeria said, “Nigerian youths have consistently proven themselves to be enterprising, innovative, creative and resilient, and they truly deserve to be celebrated through a sustainable and important platform like The Future Awards Africa. Our continent is at a critical point, and our work in supporting them will determine how excellent Africa will perform independently in the global market”. Massilia Motors, which is a joint venture of CFAO and Chanrai Group, is focused on delivering a range of exquisite cars to the Nigerian market including ASX, Eclipse Cross, Outlander, Pajero, Pajero Sport, and the L200 pick-up. “Mitsubishi Motors has consistently been recognized as one of the world’s renowned, forward-looking automobile brands, and we are so excited about this partnership. It is a perfect mix because we understand the brand’s effort to inspire the Nigerian youth and boost creativity and enterprise, which also aligns with our vision,” said Bukonla Adebakin, Chief Operating Officer of The Future Project. The Future Awards Africa celebrates young enterprising Africans who have done exceptional work in their respective fields throughout the year. The reception is a pre-event of the award show where nominees are presented with certificates of nomination, and an opportunity to network with their peers across several industries. The awards event is scheduled to hold on 24 November 2019 at the Balmoral Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos.