Champions Barcelona return to league action after the international break with a trip to the Estadio Municipal de Butarque today as Nigeria internationals and CD Leganes defensive duo of Kenneth Omeruo and Chidoziem Awaziem are tasked with stopping Lionel Messi, Luiz Suarez and other Barca stars. Omeruo has declared his readiness to star in today’s mission impossible as Javier Aguirre’s men face the league leaders and a fit again five-time Balon d’Or winner Lionel Messi. Messi and Suarez have accounted for 18 – 14 goals and 4 assists between them – of Barcelona’s 33 goals so far but Omeruo and Leganes’ defensive wall will test themselves against the South American goalscoring duo. The Cucumber Growers are bottom of the La Liga table but will look to their Nigeria imports to help halt the winning streaks of Messi and his superstar teammates like Antoine Griezmann, Suarez among others in a classic David-Goliath matchup. Omeruo and Awaziem were in the Super Eagles squad that earned impressive victories over Benin and Lesotho during the international break and both should feature from the start against the star-studded Barcelona side who will fight for a result to maintain top position in the table. But Omeruo, the 2013 AFCON-title winning defender is not panicking as he looks forward to making his ninth league appearance for Leganes this season. Read Also: Rohr picks Azeez, Olayinka for Brazil game, as Omeruo, Abdullahi, Awaziem return “Back to work.. big game on Saturday… siovas_dimitrios relax it’s Kennedinho,” Omeruo wrote on his Instagram handle. Awaziem, who is on loan at the Cucumbers from Portuguese outfit, FC Porto has made eight appearances for the club so far. Barcelona have lost three times in the league this term – same number of defeats suffered throughout the 2018/19 campaign en route to securing their 26th La Liga title – with all three disappointments coming away from home, which raises a slight ray of hope for Los Pepineros in today’s lunchtime’s game at Butarque.