Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Tuesday donated 85 patrol vans to security agencies in the state. He said security threats of kidnapping and banditry have replaced communal clashes in Kaduna. El-Rufai, however, assured that intense efforts, including security deployments and operations to contain and neutralise the criminal elements perpetrating the mayhem were being made to address the challenges. The governor, who was represented at the presentation of the vehicles by the Secretary to the State Government, Balarabe Abbas Lawal said, his government cannot relent in tackling criminals who seek to make communities and highways in the state unsafe. According to El-Rufai, “on behalf of the Kaduna State Government, it is my pleasure today to present vehicles to assist the vital work of security agencies in our state. “About four years ago, we presented over 100 such vehicles to our security agencies. Over the years, we have provided additional interventions of vehicles, motorcycles and communications equipment on a continuous basis. “We are here today to present 85 vehicles to further enhance the logistic capabilities of our security agencies. This is a continuation of the robust support the Kaduna State Government has provided to help the federal security agencies in the task of securing our state, its people, their property and livelihoods. “Security is constitutionally the exclusive prerogative of the Federal Government which controls and deploys all the covert and overt security personnel. In practice, every state government has to provide some logistics and other support for these agencies to enable them effectively discharge their duties. “The reality of the security situation today is that it has become a joint responsibility of the Federal Government and the state government. We do our part without hesitation because it is in the vital interest of our people. “We note with delight the reduction in inter-communal tensions and urge our communities to build on this to entrench a reign of peace and concord. We thank the security agencies, traditional and religious leaders, community leaders, our Judiciary and the State Peace Commission for supporting the state government to entrench tolerance and peaceful coexistence among our people. “However, while communal tensions appear to be ebbing, banditry and kidnapping continue to menace our communities and highways. “Apart from boots on the ground, we have acquired and put at the disposal of the security agencies, technology that can assist the state to fight back and reassert its authority. We have also established the Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs to focus and coordinate our efforts and cooperation with the security agencies. “We will continue to devote the necessary resources to address our security challenges and support the agencies that are stationed in our state. As we combat banditry, I urge all residents of Kaduna State to stand together, support our security agencies and report all suspicious characters and activities,” El-Rufai said. Earlier in his welcome remarks, Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan said, with the expanded capacity of its near-completed state-of-the-art CCTV Command Centre, the imminent deployment of UAVs and the arrival of the patrol vans, they will combine with the new infrastructure to greatly improve the state’s emergency response rate.