Our Reporter  The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ado Ekiti Local Government Area has begun campaign for the December 7 local government elections in Ekiti State. The party has commenced sensitisation and mobilisation of its members in the atate capital to woo voters for its flag bearers. Ekiti State Deputy Governor Bisi Egbeyemi, who is the leader of the party in Ado Ekiti, canvassed support for the chairmanship candidate, Mrs. Omotunde Fajuyi, and the councillorship candidates ahead of the poll. Speaking at the inauguration of nine committees to ensure electoral success for the party, Egbeyemi advised members to embark on door-to-door campaign and sell the party’s candidates. The committees inaugurated at a ceremony held at the APC Local Government Party Secretariat in Odo Ado, Ado Ekiti included Elders’ Advisory Council, Contact, Mobilisation, Finance, Security, Logistics, Media and Publicity, among others. Egbeyemi, a former Ado-Ekiti Local Government Chairman, urged party members to be united and shun divisive tendencies to achieve the objective of winning the election. The deputy governor advised party members to maintain decorum and ensure peace to make the election transparent, credible, free and fair. Egbeyemi, who is the Chairman, Elders’ Advisory Committee, explained that the administration of Kayode Fayemi would create a level playing ground for all parties that would participate in the election. He said: “There should no fight, maintain peace and give room for members of other parties to participate in the election. “The governor has warned that there should be no fight and pandemonium during the elections.” The deputy governor stressed that the primary had come and gone, noting that members should work for the victory of candidates. Expressing satisfaction about the primary that produced the candidates, Egbeyemi noted that administration of local government remain a veritable platform for meeting the yearnings of party members at the grassroots. The deputy governor admonished members to shun rumour mongering and rebellion that can cause disunity and disaffection among members of the party. Egbeyemi called on voters to troop out in large numbers on the election day to cast their votes for  Fajuyi and councillorship candidates in the 13 wards to enjoy dividends of democracy in the grassroots. The APC Chairman in Ado Ekiti Local Government, Mike Akinleye, maintained that there was no faction in the party. He described the task before party members as achievable and possible if they are united. Akinleye explained that the various committees inaugurated would mobilise necessary machinery that would guarantee the success of the party at the election. Mrs. Fajuyi promised that development would reach all the nooks and crannies of the council, if she wins the poll urging the electorate to entrust APC with their votes to enjoy good governance in the grassroots. The flag bearer, who unfolded his agenda promised to execute pro-people policies and ensure better life for the people of Ado Ekiti if elected. The Director-General of the Omotunde Fajuyi Campaign Organisation, Tunji Lawal, charged party members to see victory of the candidates as achievable with the goodwill being enjoyed by the party in the state. Lawal promised not to fail in the task handed him and his team adding that they are ready to give their all to ensure that the party wins at the local government election.