AND while we are still on the trail of border closures and the never ending duels between Custom people and crack smugglers and other outlaws of the remote and not too remote outposts bent on outwitting them, it is meet to entertain ourselves with this outlandish tale of a master smuggler in a remote border post of the sandy parched land between Sudan and Egypt. This is a story of human ingenuity, cunning and extraordinary daring as told by a former Station master of a leading Western Intelligence Agency based in Khartoum. In the vast arid stretches of the great Sahara Desert, nomadic mystery often meets Sufi mysticism. Our narrator himself was mystery personified. Having retired in controversial circumstances, he divided his time plying the American eastern coast back and forth in his luxury yacht sometimes coming ashore in some coastal cities to visit friends and to fill his lungs with fresh air. It was on one of these rare berthing that snooper met him in the house of a mutual friend. He was a tall angular man wearing a snow-white gelabiya and had become so acculturated in Arab ways that he could easily pass for an Omdurman dervish or high-caste Omani nobleman.  Conversation initially centred on Arab history and the doctrine of Ibn Khaldun, the great fifteenth century Egyptian sociologist. But after a splendid dinner of lobsters and giant prawns, the old spymaster, a master raconteur, became endearingly voluble. According to him, Jafar el-Sodani was a well-known master smuggler from a village on the lower Nile who had had several brushes with the authorities on account of his smuggling activities. But he was always lightly left off the hook on account of his connections in high places. After one of such confrontations in which he narrowly escaped being executed on the orders of a new no-nonsense Sudanese military ruler, the old rogue appeared to have turned a new leaf forswearing his criminal past. Thereafter a glum and otherworldly-looking Jafar would be seen at the same border post on a regular basis, entering Sudan from Egypt on a bicycle carrying a heavy bag of sand. After rigorously searching the bag of sand, they would let him off, wondering why a sane man would be found lugging a bag of sand from Egypt. It was then concluded that he had either lost his mind or was making some spiritual atonement for his sordid past. But still, something did not add up. Years later, a prosperous and contented Jafar was accosted on the street of Khartoum by a retired custom inspector who seemed to have had a flash of illumination. “By the way, Jafar what were you smuggling all those years?” he was asked by the retired inspector. “Bicycles, idiot”, came the deadpan answer. You can never win with determined smugglers.  