Writers, under the auspices of Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), will not forget Enugu State in a hurry. Thirty-eight years after their inaugural convention held in the state, their recent return to the Coal City for this year’s  edition, tagged ANA Homecoming 2019 left them without a leadership for the first time in the association’s history. The event was tainted by political feud and theatrics. EVELYN OSAGIE reports  They rode into Enugu, the Coal City, and capital of Enugu State, with high hopes of charting a way forward for the Nigerian literature and their craft. The city was instrumental to Nigeria’s independence and is today the seat of Enugu State Government. But, for the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), it was a Homecoming. The maiden edition of its yearly convention held in the state 38 years ago, when the association was established by the patriarch of Modern African Literature, Chinua Achebe, and others. Over 400 delegates, comprising creative writers, literary critics, journalists, academics and other stakeholders, converged on Enugu, determined to deliberate on Literature, Nationalism and the Poetics of Integration, the theme of this year’s convention. But nothing prepared them for the political feud and theatrics that fouled the air at the 38th ANA International Convention held from October 31 to November 3, at the Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Enugu. “What happened at the convention should be an eye-opener to ANA to reinvent itself, flush out the weeds that strayed in and strive to become again the ANA that Achebe founded in Enugu 38 years ago,” said an ANA Trustee and Editor, African Literature Today,  Prof Ernest Emenyonu, who flew in from the United States for the conference.  Theatrics, feud that taint  It was another election year, with four aspirants – Camilus Uka, Ahmed Maiwada, Ofonime Inyang and Chike Ofili – contesting for the post of National President. Excitement was in the air – it was with delight that the delegates began the conference with an evening of cocktails on Thursday. This was followed on Friday, November 1, by cerebral and book activities, including performances. However, like a premonition of what was to come, they were reminded of their role in the society by various speakers at the grand opening. Prof Zainab Alkali urged the writers to rise to their responsibilities, “first as healers of a sick society, mobilisers of collective consciences, moderators of excessive behaviours, tamers of unruly conducts, but, above all, as agents of love”. Prof Emmanuel Egya Sule of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) University, Lapai, Niger State, who gave the convention’s keynote address, warned that literary writing should provide a critical insight to Nigerians in the course of rehabilitating the idea of a nation-state. Veteran poet Odia Ofeimun who lamented that writers, who are supposed to influence the politics of the larger society, have been unfortunately influenced by it; advising that they should lead by the examples of ANA’s founding fathers in their conducts, politically or otherwise. All the pieces of advice seem to have gone with the wind. Saturday, November 2, was characterised by political feuds and theatrics that culminated in the cancellation of the election allegedly on the grounds of “faulty” electoral process. The tension was heightened when the outgoing executive, led by Mallam Denja Abdullahi,  was said to have allegedly brought in “soldier boys” and other security operatives to the venue, perhaps to monitor elections, amid counter allegations of money changing hands, among other malpractices. Aggrieved delegates not only raised the alarm over the move, they also faulted the electoral process. As a result, a new electoral panel was constituted with Prof. Akachi Adimora-Ezeigbo as chairman. Mr. Ofeimun, a former ANA president, Prof. Remi Raji, Diego Okenyodo and chairman of Lagos ANA branch Yemi Adebiyi as members. All hell broke loose when displeased delegates, especially from Akwa Ibom branch, were further aggravated by discrepancies in the list of delegates qualified to vote. This led to a swarm of writers protesting, calling for the cancellation of the election. Fearing that violence might arise, the leadership of IMT, venue of the meeting, ordered that they vacate the hall. And since decisions could not be reached on how to conduct the election, after a long deliberation that ran into the night between Adimora-Ezeigbo-led panel and the 25 ANA branch chairmen, Raji addressed delegates in line with the association’s constitution, saying: “After deliberation between the five-man panel led by Prof Adimora-Ezeigbo and the 25 ANA branch chairmen, it was agreed that election is postponed, and would hold within the next 180 days as enshrined in the ANA constitution. The place or state where it would be held would be communicated to us through the chairmen of the state branches.”  Writers on the convention  The convention has ended but writers have continued to trade blame, while reflecting on the convention. Some blamed the past executives; others blamed the aspirants, particularly the presidential candidates. Some others blamed it on those they called “hoodlums” allegedly “parading themselves as writers”. Many, however, observed that the battle was not about who led the association but a war over ANA land at Mpape, Abuja. Emenyonu observed that it is a reflection of how far the aims and objectives of the founding fathers of ANA have been polluted and debased in contemporary times.  He said: “There are many people in ANA today who do not know what the association is all about.  Some of them roam into it, believing it is one of those political forums where you go to make money.  Thirty-eight years ago when Achebe founded ANA, it was an association of published creative writers. You could be a professor of English, published extensively in your field without being a member of ANA. Today chapters go to secondary schools to recruit members without even reading the ANA constitution. In the early decades of ANA nobody scrambled for offices, nobody campaigned for offices. In some cases new members were invited.   “Today, you have people who go to wayside printers to print trash and thereafter proclaim themselves authors! ANA should purge itself of these loafers and return to the ANA founded by Achebe and follow its lofty ideals and objectives, which had earned it world-wide recognition and respectability. What transpired at the ANA convention was the mistake of some people who tried to see ANA as an organisation akin to a contemporary Nigerian political forum with all its mannerisms and antics.” Former Art Editor, The Sun newspaper, now a university don, Dr. Sola Balogun, said: “It’s so clear now how society has changed our men of letters rather than the other way round. The immediate past president of ANA has, by his conduct, undermined the integrity and sanctity of the writers’ profession.” Abdullahi denied the accusations, saying it was a calculated attempt by a few to disrupt the process. He said: “ANA is an association of intellectuals. Anyone vying for any leadership position must do so with a mind to serve. Leadership is not a do-or-die affair. We know of those who paid for people’s accommodation and were sharing money. Why? What for? It is indeed unfortunate.” On his part, former Rivers State ANA branch chair, Uzo Nwamara, stated: “We keen watchers of ANA were not fooled by the well-planned and executed coup by men desperate for power. We know those who worked so hard to abort the elections because they realised that they would be disqualified because they broke the rules. We know those who could not win free and fair election in ANA and boasted that they will kill ANA and only their regional body where they play god will thrive in the land. “We know their cronies and poster boys deployed to successfully execute their evil agenda against the general interest of ANA members. Let those who trade in violence know that the day a brave man was born in one community was the day another brave man was born in another community. We allowed you to show your lack of leadership capacities and decorum to the world yesterday. You can take this to the bank: ANA will not be led by thugs. “People stood their ground that the whole process must stop and it stopped. Kudos to the electoral committee. Within the next six months, ANA election will be conducted at a neutral place and everyone shall be alright,” Akogun Tai Oguntayo, a lawyer and one of those vying for the post of general secretary, said. ANA Oyo Branch Secretary, Afolabi Tawakalit El-Mubashir called for sanitisation of the association. He said: “ANA needs a total reshuffle to accommodate exigencies. It needs to come up with legislations that will guide its future progress – put in place a streamlined structure that would regulate admittance of members and code of conduct guiding same. Otherwise, ANA would be just a farce!’’  ‘There are many people in ANA today who do not know what the association is all about.  Some of them roam into it, believing it is one of those political forums where you go to make money.  Thirty-eight years ago when Achebe founded ANA, it was an association of published creative writers.  You could be a professor of English, published extensively in your field without being a member of ANA. Today chapters go to secondary schools to recruit members without even reading the ANA constitution’