 NIGERIANS have commended the leadership of the Senate over its proposed five-year ban on textile products.
The Nigerians, who included jobless youths, said the Presidency should support the Senate to create jobs to reduce the large number of unemployed youths. A member of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Lagos State, Mr. Yinka Adegbola, praised the Senate, saying that the ban would take the industry out of the woods. He said the ban was in line with the Federal Government’s efforts to revive the moribund textile sector.
“We appreciate the laudable efforts of the Senate that will assist in improving and not mortgaging our economy. With the proposed five- year ban, the economy will grow under a robust circumstance. We will no longer depend on China and India for things that can be locally produced. “We need to protect our industries because there are various stages of development – when we crawl, fall, stand, walk, and within this period, we scrutinise ourselves for changes. A textile worker, Mr Alaba Arogundade, said the ban would end the unnecessary competition that killed local textile manufacturers. “ The ban will allow our factories to produce excellently. No matter the initial odds against them, the more they produce and are in the market, the greater their chances of improvement,” he said. Few days ago, the Senate appealed to the Federal Government to ban textiles to encourage local production.
This followed the debate on a motion sponsored by Senator Kabir Barkiya (APC-Katsina Central) during plenary on “Urgent need to revamp the nation’s comatose textile industry”. The upper chamber appealed to the Federal Government to provide the infrastructural facilities, especially power supply to local textile manufacturing firms to revamp the industry. It stressed the need the government’s stronger motivation to encourage local textile manufacturing companies, by providing them with soft loans and easy access to credit facilities through the Bank of Industry (BoI).  Debating the motion, Barkiya noted that the industry played a significant role in the manufacturing sector with a record of over 140 firms in the 1960s and 1970s. “The textile industry recorded an annual growth of 67 per cent and as at 1991, employed above 25 per cent of the workers in the manufacturing sector. He said: “The textile industry was then the highest employer of labour apart from the civil service.”
He noted that the industry had witnessed massive decline in the last two decades with many textile companies, such as Kaduna Textile, Kano Textile and Aba Textile, closing shops and throwing their workers into the job market. The lawmaker further said government policies like increased taxation, high cost of production, trade liberalisation resulting in massive importation of textile materials had negatively affected the production of local textile materials. Barkiya said the resuscitation of the industry would provide more revenue and assist the government to diversify the economy. Contributing, Senator Robert Boroffice (APC-Ondo North), said the importation of textile materials was as a result of the comatose level of the industry. “The closure of our borders is an eye opener. China closed its borders for 40 years for its industrialisation and development. “I believe that the closure of our borders should be extended to allow us put our house in order,” he added.
Boroffice, who is the Deputy Senate Leader, said the extension of the closure of the borders would serve as an opportunity to resuscitate the textile industry among others that had been affected by smuggling.