By Omolara Akintoye OUR children belong to the classrooms and not on the streets. They deserve education and not hawking and idling away. Each child is a potential future leader of this state and this country. Getting the right education will only get them closer to that dream and aspiration, and to place them in their rightful positions in the society.” These were the words of the president, Build A School In Africa (BASIA), Dr. Victor Ukorebi, at the inauguration of a new block of four classrooms, two renovated blocks of six classrooms, a borehole, and eight rooms of modern toilet facility to St. Peter’s College, Olomore, Abeokuta in Ogun State. Then project was the initiative of BASIA in conjunction with Latter-day Saints Charities and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The launch which began with the group’s courtesy visit to the deputy governor of Ogun State, (Mrs.) Noimot Salako-Oyedele, was led by the president of BASIA, Dr. Victor Ukorebi. The deputy governor commended the initiative as well as applauded the gesture of giving back to the society. She said the group’s effort has brought hope to the people and is putting smiles on their faces. She went on to affirm the readiness of the administration of Governor Dapo Abiodun to continue the partnership with BASIA and Latter-day Saint Charities in order to alleviate the suffering of their people in getting clean drinking water and, reducing the number of out of school children in the state. Ukorebi pledged BASIA’s commitment in helping United Nations International Children’s Fund (UNICEF) to achieve its goal of reducing the number of out of school children in Nigeria. On his part, the National Director of Public Affairs of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Nigeria, Mr. Ikpe Nkanang, pointed out that the Church of Jesus Christ Charities has within the last five years executed thirty-seven projects, with additional five on-going projects to be completed before December 2019. He enumerated the projects to include the renovation of public health institutions and supply of medical equipment, provision of clean drinking water to twenty-eight communities and schools through sinking of boreholes, the curbing of open defecation through the provision of modern toilets in schools, motor parks and markets, amongst others. “The current infrastructural upgrade in St. Peter’s College, Olomore, Abeokuta, is a testament of shared responsibility and demonstration of commitment to global cause. I call on well meaning Nigerians and organisations to join hands with Governor Dapo Abiodun to touch the lives of these young ones,” she noted.