From Chima Osuji Operators of Korope, the mini-bus used as campus shuttle at the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), have shut operations to protest their demand for an increase in their charge from N50 to N70. On Monday, the aggrieved drivers parked their buses at the school terminus in Tanke area of Ilorin. The development left most students stranded and dispirited as the drivers stuck to their guns. The Students Union (SU) and the school leadership had to intervene to douse tension. Subsequently, an SU luxury bus conveyed the stranded students to the campus. However, this was short-lived in view of the massive student population. One of the drivers told CAMPUSLIFE that the Korope Transport Operators, a body comprising drivers of the mini-bus, have agreed not to operate until the SU signed the agreement put forward by their operators on the new charges. Sources informed CAMPUSLIFE that the drivers’ action was a fallout of broken negotiations between SU and Korope Transport Union, with the latter accusing the former of being unwilling to honour the agreement it initiated. The Sub-Dean, Student Affairs, Dr. Alex Akanmu, who was at the scene, prevailed on aggrieved students to show understanding to the plight of the operators. Akanmu told students that N50 would only prevail for Monday. He  urged the students to accept the outcome of the deal between the institution’s leadership and the transport operators which, according to him, would, henceforth, peg the new bus fare at N60, a bargain Akanmu described as a ‘win-win for all the parties’. However, CAMPUSLIFE learnt that the terms of the temporary agreement brokered by the Akanmu were flouted by most of the drivers, who initially complied to the N60 fare but later backpedalled as none of them was available to convey students to their destinations at nightfall. Korope mini-bus is basically a seven-seater vehicle, whose operators are regulated by SU. Their relationship with the students can be likened to a marriage of convenience—with students always at the receiving end. Sources informed CAMPUSLIFE that Korope commercial drivers had persistently exploited students during peak periods by not covering the agreed distance from campus. Students, going by their population, see themselves at the mercy of the drivers, leaving them with no option than to comply. Ordinarily, the sitting arrangement is supposed to have one passenger on the front seat, with three passengers each occupying the first and second rows. However, at UNILORIN,  two passengers are camped on the front seat, with four passengers each squeezed in the first and second rows. Unfortunately, due to inflation, coupled with the high cost of maintenance, the drivers had to make a fresh demand for an upward review of their charges, a situation that resulted into Monday’s crisis. Earlier last month, SU had issued a statement updating students on the outcome of the meeting between the union and the transporters. The statement signed by SU’s PRO Comrade Odewole Abdul-Jemeel Olatunde, stated that the usual N50 bus fare was agreed upon as the official rate for passengers alighting at a bus stop called Sanrab, while students would henceforth pay N60 as a fixed rate for destinations terminating at the school terminus in Tanke.