 Our Reporter  The Director-General of Senator Smart Adeyemi Campaign Organisation for Kogi West senatorial rerun, Fancy Tiamiyu, has expressed confidence that Governor Yahaya Bello and Smart Adeyemi will win the governorship and senatorial polls holding on November 16. Tiamiyu is also the Director-General of Lokoja Local Government All Progressives Congress (APC)/Bello-Onoja Campaign Council. He said signals from all angles are pointing to victory for Bello and Adeyemi. The businessman-turned politician spoke after the coalition of Kogi West senatorial candidates stepped down for Adeyemi in the rerun and gladly endorsed the candidature of Bello. According to him, the decision of the senatorial candidates was borne out of their conviction that Adeyemi has what it takes to offer quality representation in the Senate, and Bello deserves another term, owing to his remarkable efforts at ensuring equitable distribution of resources and projects across the three senatorial districts. Tiamiyu, who was at the meeting held with the senatorial candidates alongside Deputy Governor Edward Onoja and Kogi Assembly Speaker Mathew Kolawole said: “We are very much comfortable at the ways things are going. The November 16 elections (both the Kogi West rerun and governorship) are done deal for the APC. Victory is sure for Bello/Onoja and Adeyemi. As a matter of fact, signals from every nook and cranny are giving us very clear indication of victory for our candidates. The latest endorsement of Bello and Smart Adeyemi by the coalition of Kogi West senatorial candidates, is just one out of many of such that have brightened our chances of emerging triumphant in both the Kogi West rerun and governorship election.” Some of the Kogi West senatorial candidates are: Olabode Adeyemi of African Democratic Congress, ADC, Princess Roseline Ibitoye of Accord Party, Chief Samuel Atteh of PPA, Olasunkanmi Olayinka of CAP, Noah Abiodun of PPN, Olasunkanmi Aina of PT and others. Olabode said: “As important stakeholders to the November 16th Gubernatorial election and Senatorial election, we have reviewed the obvious realities, appraised the political journey of the past and have resolved collectively, to defer our ambitions till future election year and support the All Progressive Congress (APC) for the November 16th Gubernatorial and Senatorial election. By this decision, we have instructed our agents in all the polling units, canvassers and coordinators across board to campaign, work, mobilise and vote for all the APC Candidates for the November 16th election.”  