The police in Kaduna State have said they arrested 39 suspected kidnappers, bandits and robbers in the past few weeks. Police spokesman Yakubu Sabo made the disclosure at a press briefing on Thursday in Kaduna. Sabo said, “I am pleased to update you on the achievements recorded in suppressing criminal activities in the state during the past few weeks. “This is being carried out by our gallant operatives and the IGP’s Special Tactical Squad (STS) and IRT as well as active community engagement initiative in line with the Inspector General of Police mandate on community policing. “These efforts have gained some remarkable results which led to the arrest of 39 suspected criminals comprising of largely suspected Kidnappers, Armed Bandits, Armed Robbers, Culpable Homicide suspects, Cattle Rustlers and Internet Fraudsters, among others.” Sabo said that the police recovered from the suspects 10 AK47 rifles, four pump action, two locally-made pistols and  one locally-made gun, among others. He said there are challenges in the command, but “we have succeeded in reducing these crimes within our towns, villages and, to a large extent, on our major highways,” Sabo said. He added that the command had been relatively calm, as the bandits can no longer carry out any coordinated attack largely due to our strategic deployment as well as the public support we receive which forced the criminals to resort to soft targets at outskirts and hamlets where there are no firm security structures. Sabo revealed that some of these suspects confessed to a series of kidnapping within and outside the State including the killing of Police Personnel and two other victims at Kangimi after collecting millions of naira as ransom. “In view of the successes recorded and the drastic reduction in crime rate in the Command within the period under review, we cannot afford to relent in our effort to sustain the gains. He, therefore, called on the general public to continue to be supportive of the Police in various ways they could to ensure peace and stability of businesses and the social environment in the State. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, who attended the briefing commended the police for the effort. Aruwan said the state government would continue to support security agencies to rid the state of crime and criminality. He said fighting crime and criminality was a collective effort and urged residents to support government and security agencies in the fight against crime in the state.