Plans by the government to concession some international airport terminals has triggered a debate on what model of running airports can achieve effienciency. Some experts say adopting the template in place across the  globe is a viable option, writes KELVIN OSA – OKUNBOR  Efficient airports are drivers and catalysts of socio- economic development. But, as a critical air transport infrastructure, how such facilities are run to attract passengers, cargo and other activities has become a subject of global debate. According to studies by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in the United States, a few years ago, there are over 43,982 airports and air fields across the globe, under public/private ownership and management. In Africa, there are over 400 airports, majority of which are grossly under-utilised. Experts say the ownership and management of airports are more critical than activities that take place in such facilities. In the last few decades, there has been a shift from direct government ownership, financing and management of airports to greater  private sector involvement. Private sector management of airports has many advantages, such as efficiency associated with greater specialisation;  access to new sources of investment and stimulation of aviation-driven economies. However, private ownership and operation of airports comes with a high degree of market power and monopolistic tendencies, which  result in the benefits not being passed on to airlines and consumers. To drive efficiencies in airports, the  International Air Transport Association (IATA) says governments must take urgent steps to ensure airports are not moved from public monopoly to private monopoly. Since the 1980s, the trend towards airport privatisation has been steadily on the rise, as governments and airports look to private money to fund expansion. According to a recent report by the Airport Council International World (ACI), 14 per cent  of airports have some level of privatisation, from corporation-led management to varying types of public-private partnership agreements. A range of trends are making privatisation more attractive, with the most potent being a rise in passenger traffic. Airports are therefore under increasing pressure to expand infrastructure and services to meet demands. But the rise in operating costs and national budget cuts have made this increasingly unattainable for the public sector. Cash-strapped governments privatise airports to increase investment without impacting their national coffers. Nevertheless, privatisation in some countries is receiving increased pushback from airline organisations and industry commentators. At this year’s IATA general meeting, its CEO and Director-General, Alexandre de Juniac urged governments to take a cautious approach. He said that there has not yet been an example of privatisation that has delivered the promised benefits of greater efficiency for airlines, as well as a better experience for customers. “Our members are very frustrated with the state of privatised airports,” he said. “By all means, invite private sector expertise to bring commercial discipline and a customer service focus to airport management. But our view is that the ownership is best left in public hands.” IATA carried out a research that shows how privatised airports often end up costing passengers more. The argument is that unlike the airline industry – where variety and competition between players drives down prices for consumes – airports can become monopolies, imposing high prices on airlines and passengers. ACI says it is neutral in the privatisation debate. However, in June 2018, it stated that “privatisation has been shown to be a successful means by which to fund infrastructure development, while government spending cannot be relied upon as it has been in the past. “Forty of the highest revenue earning airport groups are fully or partially privatized.” In Nigeria, stakeholders are yet to be on the same page on the rationale for concession or privatisation of the terminals slated for the exercise by the government. The Federal Government last year listed the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos; Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja; Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano and Port Harcourt International Airport, Port Harcourt  among terminals slated for private sector take over. Though Transaction Advisers were appointed for the terminals, lack of industry acceptance of the proposal has continued to erect road blocks on the project. In an interview in  Lagos, last week, Chief Executive Officer, Belujane Konsult, Mr. Chris Aligbe, said concession of airports remained the way forward, but the government must ensure the process of delivering the airports into private hands must be transparent and  free of intrigues. Other industry players disagreed, saying the proposal could trigger a round of job losses as the government was yet to state categorically how labour issues would be resolved. A financial expert and Chief Executive Officer, Katari Consult Limited, Mr. Ali Magashi, said the infancy state of airport facilities would not attract any investor. He said efforts to either privatise or concession airports may not materialise until the government invested sufficient funds in airport infrastructure to make them attractive. He said Nigeria should desist from copying models of airport concession/privatisation in other climes without local input. Magashi said though airports have been privatised /concessioned in Europe, United States and Asia, passenger traffic prompted such initiative. Chief Executive Officer, Ropeways Transport Limited, Captain Dapo Olumide, said airports would only be attractive to investors if a workable template was put in place to drive its implementation. He said investors should be interested in the land area of airport terminals for concession as security and other considerations put the air side under the control of government. Also speaking, the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji, said concession/privatisation of airports had become imperative because many Nigerian airports managed by government were gross under-utilised and under-developed. He said many results from the corridors of air transport research showed that airport expansion and growth favour private equity injection as airport management is more efficient under the private sector. He said: “The last ten years have seen these results in favour of privatisation but there are doubts also about the continuation of this trend in the future. “In Nigeria, the story has been one experiment, too many challenges. The first experiment we had in this sector, which was the build, operate and transfer (BOT) arrangement the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) entered with Bi-Courtney Aviation Services at the Murtala Mohammed Airport local terminal (MM2.), has been riddled with controversies leading to many court cases.” He went on: “For Nigeria, the biggest challenge of privatisation may be job loss from downsizing. Airports absorb many Nigerians seeking job. But, unfortunately, the size of the airports has not significantly changed. “Secondly, the peculiarity of Nigerian airports, development model and the critical role the airport plays where it is seen as a catalyst for business activities, does not necessarily make profit as long as it meets the socio-economic needs. “Thirdly, national security issues, where the nation’s gateway may be open to abuse. “Fourthly, passenger traffic, though Nigeria is a great nation, her air transportation usability is far below her population ratio, making some airports redundant while some are overly active. This is as a result of low middle class capacity.”  ‘For Nigeria, the biggest challenge of privatisation may be job loss from downsizing. Airports absorb many Nigerians seeking job. But, unfortunately, the size of the airports has not significantly changed’ 