By Adeyinka Aderibigbe The Lagos Area Office of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), on Friday, gave dredgers till January 31, to obtain their permits or leave the dredging business. NIWA Lagos Area Manager Saraat Braimah made this known while speaking with stakeholders at the BCIS Garden, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. She said any operator, who did not have dredging permit, would not be allowed to dredge. She said community development should be one of the primary concern of dredgers but the case was the reverse as Obas and Chiefs in the dredging communities did not know those dredging in their areas.That is why we want to monitor the dredging hence, we are advising everyone to join the dredging association because we want to know those we are dealing with, she said. Braimah urged dredging companies to stop causing wrecks and the indiscriminate laying of pipes which block navigation ways. She also asked them to key into Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to help the communities to promote greater understanding. She disclosed that NIWA had approved the take-off of barge transportation but expressed worries that a new phenomenon – waterway transportation complaints – had started trailing NIWA with complaints of containers falling off the waters. She said the barge service was introduced to reduce traffic in Lagos, adding that NIWA was going to give permit to those fit for barge operations. Braimah, while addressing the stakeholders said NIWA was organising a three-day training for boat captains and crew from December 6, at Sea School. She urged everyone who has a water craft or operates in the sector to partake in the training as lecturers would be drawn from across Nigeria, and that the certificates to be issued after the training would be used to register boats from next year. Braimah mandated dredgers to have water sediment pot where waters would be channeled it would not spill into communities. She restated the ban on night travels on the waterways. She addressed the issue of insurance by boat operators, adding that NIWA will no longer take it lightly with any boat operator who fails to insure his boats or water crafts. Some of the traditional rulers at the meeting said they expected the dredgers to know what was right and to do it as doing otherwise may be injurious to the community, and the government would always hold Obas responsible if anything happened in their domain. They observed that it was wrong and dangerous for a dredging company to operate 30 metres close to a house, demanding that NIWA should be play a more active role as the mediator between dredgers and the communities. The past President of Dredgers Association of Nigeria, Mr. Yomi Idowu, an engineer, who represented the President of the Association, said NIWA should consider the economic downturn and reduce dredgers’ charges, arguing that this will increase its revenue as more people will be attracted to the business. The President, National Association of Tourist Boat and Water Transportation of Nigeria (ATBOWATON), Mr. Gani Tarzan, said NIWA, dredgers and every other person operating on the waterways were brothers, and for that reason, “all we are saying is there should be an enabling environment for us to operate by regulators.” He said what we do today is what will speak for us tomorrow. He asked NIWA to introduce a huge waste bin on the waterways, put signage on our waterways. It should not be permit, all the time because there is no way the Federal Government can work without the state or the local governments without the communities.  