A 54-year-old man was reportedly crushed to death along Ogbatuluenyi Road Federal Housing Estate 3-3, Onitsha, Anambra State. The deceased, identified as George Nwanna, was said to have been knocked down by a  Lexus 330, a Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) while crossing the road. The Nation gathered that Nwanna was rushed to hospital where he was confirmed dead. Police spokesman, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident, saying the body was deposited at Iyienu Hospital mortuary for autopsy. He said, “At about 7.40pm, one George Nwanna ‘m’ aged 54 years old (deaf and dumb), a native of Agu-Ukwu Nri in Aniocha LGA was knocked down along Ogbatuluenyi Road Federal Housing Estate 3-3. “The deceased was knocked down by a Lexus Jeep 330 with registration No AKD 801 FAN driven by one Ikechukwu Akubueze ‘m’ of No 5 Umunya Street Federal Housing Estate 3-3 Onitsha. “Traffic Officers attached to 3-3 Division Onitsha visited the scene and victim was rushed to Queen of the Rosary Hospital Onitsha for medical treatment. “Victim was subsequently referred to Iyienu Hospital Ogidi for further treatment where he was later confirmed dead by the doctor on duty.” He said the case was being investigated. Also, one person was confirmed dead, while 12 others were seriously injured yesterday when two commercial buses crashed in Awka, the Anambra State capital. The incident happened at Enugwu Agidi Junction in Dunukofia Local Government Area, along Awka -Onitsha Expressway. The Mitsubishi L 300 had the federal government’s inscription, SURE -P. PPRO Mohammed confirmed the incident on Sunday. He said the casualties were rushed to Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital and Princeton Orthopaedic Hospital in Awka  for proper medical care. Mohammed said one of the victims that looked like one of the bus drivers was confirmed dead, and his body deposited at the Ojukwu teaching hospital. “Police patrol team attached to Abagana Division visited the scene and rushed casualties to Princeton Orthopaedic Hospital Ngozika Estate and Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital Awka for treatment,” he said, adding that the incident was being investigated. Though the Federal Government has started work on the Onitsha-Awka Expressway, The Nation gathered that the accident may not be unconnected with dilapidated state of the road. Police Commissioner, Mr John Abang, cautioned motorists and road users to refrain from recklessness to avoid such incidents.