By Precious Igbonwelundu  The Department of State Services (DSS) on Wednesday said #RevolutionNow crusader Omoyele Sowore was still in their custody because the appropriate persons to take him were yet to turn up. This was contained in a statement released by spokesman Peter Afunanya where the agency insisted it was only appropriate that those who stood as sureties for Sowore have not come for him. The DSS also denied reports that its men shot at protesters who stormed the agency’s Abuja office on Tuesday to demand Sowore’s release. According to Afunanya, operatives maintained professionalism and upheld global security practice in spite of unwarranted provocations. He claimed that DSS operatives only defended the facility when alleged unruly attempts were made by some persons to forcefully break into the place and release Sowore. The agency also took a swipe on activist lawyer Femi Falana (SAN) for allegedly mobilising miscreants to subvert the DSS instead of advising his clients, supporters on the right process. Afunanya said: “Despite serial and unwarranted provocations, the service, as a professional and responsible organisation, did not shoot at the so called protesters. It could not have done so. “For emphasis, the service reiterates its avowed readiness to release Sowore once the processes are concluded. It maintains that the appropriate persons have still not turned up to take delivery of Sowore. “While all those that have so far shown up are not directly concerned with the matter and therefore unqualified, many others have either chosen to grandstand or politicise it to achieve hidden interests. “In the last few days, the service has continued to witness deliberate campaigns of calumny, threats and aspersions against it. It will not, for any reason, join issues with its mudslingers. The media is called upon to be neutral and remain champions of the truth. “It is only appropriate that those who stood surety for Sowore present themselves and have him released to them. It is even more disappointing that Femi Falana, who is a senior lawyer, would wrongly guide his client and supporters. “He is rather playing to the gallery and mobilising miscreants to subvert the service and other state authorities. He has excellent relationship with the DGSS. But in the circumstance, he has refused to reach out to him over the case like he had on previously related ones. “For the avoidance of doubt, the service restates its commitment to the rule of law and particularly respect to the court. It, therefore, calls for calm but states that it will not be intimidated or harassed into hasty actions. “It reassures the public that it will not waste a second to release Sowore if the proper processes are followed. And Falana, sure, knows what these are.”