Shippers and freight forwarders have urged the Federal Government to stop the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) from dismantling the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA), operated by OMS Limited. The scheme, which provides security to ships coming to the Apapa and Tin Can Island ports in Lagos, is believed to be saving ships $225,000 on each call at the ports, reports MUYIWA LUCAS  It was a gathering with one accord. Last week in Lagos, shippers and freight forwarders rose with one voice to urge the Federal Government to call to order, the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) over its plans to dismantle the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA). The body said contrary to claims that SAA leads to increased costs of shipping, security at the SAA platform helps international shipping lines to save about $225,000 on each trip to Lagos ports. SAA is an area outside the Lagos port that the Nigerian Navy and OMS defined as a secure place where vessels can anchor from pirate attacks. The National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) National President, Uche Increase, said they were surprised that the NPA, which was part of a tripartite committee on maritime security, that created the SAA in 2014, has reneged and wants to dismantle the facility. Increase, who leads the largest association of international trade experts in the country, said it had become necessary for the shippers and freight forwarders, who use the services of shipping lines to resist the dissolution of the SAA. He said: “If we do not add our voice to clarify the facts, the government may be misled and the country will be worse off as far as maritime security is concerned. We do not want this SAA to be disrupted so as not to expose our cargoes to the risk due to hijacking of ships and kidnapping of crew. If the SAA is disrupted, ships will go to neighbouring ports of Cotonou, Togo and Ghana. We don’t want to go back to the old order. We are asking the Federal Government to look critically at this issue so that the SAA is not dismantled. “We understand that the SAA is a child of circumstance created after a steering committee set up in 2013, by the Nigerian Navy, NPA, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) and other agencies of government that are stakeholders in the maritime environment. “At that time, we knew that the committee held meetings for over five months to address the issues of security for ships the Lagos waters. There were critical issues at that time, which included illegal arms importation, piracy, and robbery at sea, which were making Nigeria waters to be given the designation of High Risk Area (HRA) by International Maritime Bureau (IMB). Those meetings led to the creation of the SAA, among other demarcation, on the water for ships who wish to anchor there while waiting to berth at the ports.’’ Increase insisted that maintaining the SAA was a far cheaper and safer option to manage security, adding that it was costlier to ferry mercenaries to provide the security. He explained: “Before the establishment of the SAA, vessels coming to Lagos would carry mercenaries onboard, to provide security for them. One of such mercenaries would cost $2,500 and a ship would carry three for not less than 30 days. That costs as much as $225,000 and even more, when the mercenaries have to be onboard for more than a month. “As freight forwarders, we are major port users of shipping services, moving cargoes across seas to Nigeria. We are comfortable with the service and we urge the Federal Government to let the SAA be so that the multinational shipping lines can continue to patronise our seaports. “This issue between OMS and NPA is major; there is need to deepen capacity to see that maritime agencies continue to work in synergy. If the parties bringing the SAA have not come to dissolve it then, for one of the agencies to want to dismantle it may be seen as creating undue problems. “OMS should be allowed to provide its services as it does with the Navy at the SAA. The NPA should continue its security services, too, as there is also a general anchorage for vessels who wish to use it.They all mean well for the nation. “From our findings, the SAA is situated 10 nautical miles outward into the deep sea from the Lagos Fairway Buoy. The NPA Act gives the authority limit administration from the Fairway Buoy inward to the ports. The SAA is 10 nautical miles offshore from the Fairway Buoy and that is the area controlled by NIMASA,” Increase said. The NAGAFF boss, who is also a member of the Governing Council of the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarders in Nigeria (CRFFN), said while he was not speaking for OMS, the company was not using Nigerian Navy boats, since it provided security boats, platforms and logistics to the Navy to secure the ships waiting to berth at the SAA.  He continued: “The boats are bought by the company and they are even registered with NIMASA because you can’t bring in any boat or operate them without NIMASA’s approval and paying their dues and tax. The NPA is just one of the agencies that created the SAA, so why does it want to dismantle the facility alone? We appeal to the NPA to see reasons to rescind its reported decision to dismantle the SAA. “We, the concerned shipping and ports services users, want to advise the government that this arrangement should be retained and all agencies of government in the maritime environment should continue to support it. Today, NIMASA, the Navy, and even the DPR and the NPA itself and other maritime stakeholders are comfortable because of the good effects of the SAA on security of ships,” Increase said. NPA has notified the Nigerian Navy of its decision to dismantle the SAA. It insisted that the security of the waterways was the statutory responsibility of NIMASA, Marine Police, and Nigerian Navy. The NPA in a statement said: “One, by virtue of Port Act (1954), an Anchorage Area is an integral part of NPA statutory responsibility while NIMASA, Marine Police and Nigerian Navy ensure a safe and secure Nigeria’s territorial waters. ‘’Two, the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA) (Centre Point 06 17’30N/003 12’00E) established by OMSL is located within the port limit, which should be strictly under the management and control of the NPA. “Three, it is established that vessels are directed and regulated to this facility by OMSL, who NPA does not have contractual agreement or other with. However, the Navy has a Memorandum of Understanding with OMSL and is providing security to the anchorage. ‘’Four, the continued operation of this facility by a private entity could pose security threat to the nation.” NPA further stated that the operations of SAA added up to high cost for vessels, which pay $1,500 each daily.  