The 6th edition of the All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA is set to have music lovers thrilled to an array of over 30 African superstars at the largest music event in Africa, AFRIMA Music Village, themed ‘Wild & Wow’ on Thursday, November 21, 2019 at the Agege Stadium, Agege, Lagos. The show which starts at 6pm will feature top music stars from across the five African regions, African artiste in the diaspora, past AFRIMA winners, as well as past and present nominees of AFRIMA. Gracing the AFRIMA Music Village stage, Afropop Diva, Tiwa Savage, who recently bagged a recording deal with Universal Records Group, will join Ghana’s dancehall artiste, Stonebwoy, South Africa’s Nasty C, Sho Madjozi and Master KG will also join their African counterparts on the 6th AFRIMA Music Village stage. For a first time AFRIMA appearance, the international Congolese music veteran, Awilo Longomba will bring his extraordinaire energy and sensual dance moves to play. Also performing is, Sauti Sol from Kenya, Rayvanny from Tanzania, Daphne from Cameroon; Anna Jone from Angola, Toofan from Togo, Aminux from Morocco, and Kanvee Adams from Liberia.  In addition, Nigerian artistes who will be performing at the Music Village stage will include 2Baba, Teni the Entertainer, Ycee, Pasuma Wonder, Rudeboy, Saheed Osupa, Small Doctor, Skiibi, Niniola, Falz, DJ Spinall, Mr. P and others. Others are; Dj Cuppy, 9ice, Fireboy, Atawewe, Harrysong, Toofan, Q.dot, Obesere, Slimcase, Mr. Reel, Mayorkun, Reminisce, DJ Neptune and many more. “It is no doubt this year’s AFRIMA Music Village attendees will leave with utmost fulfilment,” said Project Lead and Head of Media, AFRIMA, Sola Dada. “The decision by the International Committee of AFRIMA to change venue and take the concert closer to the grassroots in Agege Stadium, Agege Lagos where die-hard and loyal music lovers are, is to avail them the opportunity to experience their favorite African stars perform live on stage. From its inception, the concert has catered to its audience creating an experience that stays with them for a long time. “The previous edition in Ghana at the 100,000-capacity Independence Square in Accra left the crowd yearning for more, and the 6th edition will surely surpass previous on.” In partnership with the African Union Commission, AFRIMA is committed to the stimulation of conversations among Africans and between Africa and the rest of the world about the potentials of the cultural and creative economy for real enterprise on the continent, contributing significantly to social cohesion and continental integration as well as sustainable economic growth and development in Africa by lending its voice to promotion of education and campaign against extreme poverty and preventable diseases.