BA in Business Administration is the ideal course for students seeking to make a career in the business world. It is a well-established and popular course suitable for any ambitious person who wishes to go into business management. Business administrators are expected to possess a strong understanding of business management principles, technical know-how and interpersonal skills. The Bachelor’s degree conferred on business administration (BBA, B.B.A., BA, B.Sc.) is structured to give students a broad understanding and knowledge of the functional aspects of a business and its interconnection. Eventually, it will help to build student’s managerial, communication and business decision-making skills. Graduates who have obtained a Bachelor’s degree in business administration will qualify for several roles in private, public and non-profit organisations. They will be suitable for positions such as business analyst, marketing specialist, human resources generalist, operations manager, among others. Not only that, as a business administrator, you will also be fit to set up your own small venture as an entrepreneur. The opportunities available for business administrators too are numerous to mention; every business requires the services of business administrators. You may also provide services as an independent business consultant. Let’s examine the benefits of a business administration degree Almost all businesses require the services of business administrators which translates into competitive remuneration and good career opportunities. The degree can open various pathways that could lead to good remuneration, job satisfaction and other career opportunities for growth. Let’s closely examine the benefits and other career opportunities of a Bachelor’s degree graduate of business administration   Employment opportunities for a business administration degree holder Looking at the employment opportunities for a business administrator from the industry sector perspective; ideally, they can work in any organisation, for-profit and non-profit. However, let’s look at the employment opportunities of a business administrator from a job-role perspective. A business administrator can work as a sales manager, business consultant, financial analyst, market research analyst, human resources (HR) specialist. Other opportunities including loan officer, meeting, convention and event planner, training and development specialist, marketing specialist, brand specialist, business manager, consultant risk management, among others. Academic path to acquiring a business administration Bachelor’s degree Students interested in enrolling for a Bachelor’s degree course in business administration can do so by enrolling into a recognised institution awarding degrees in business administration. Depending on the institution and country, the requirement may slightly differ. Students may be required to have a WAEC or equivalent, including writing the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) exam. Also, they maybe be required to write a post-UTME exam as part of the entry requirements. Alternatively, acquiring a recognised diploma (ND, OND, HND or equivalent) may qualify interested students for enrolling in the programme. Direct entry form and other stipulated assessment tests may be required from the student, this, however, may depend on the institution. In addition, the direct entry process will require the student to begin from their programme from 200 Level in most cases. Unicaf University BA in Business Administration Unicaf University offers a top-quality Bachelor’s degree in business administration. In particular, the programme prepares students for business leadership locally and internationally. The course will enable students to become efficiently equipped with all the necessary skills and knowledge to advance in international organisations. Also, it will ensure their readiness to achieve positive results when operating in executive positions. During this course, students will be able to study the principles of business processes and concepts. They will gain profound knowledge of management and administration procedures to successfully function in managerial positions. Unicaf University academic delivery model and application method Unicaf University academic delivery method is mainly online; a Virtual Learning Environment (VLE). Students can study online or on-campus. Specifically, they can access these classes through the university’s VLE using their personal computers, tablets or smartphones. Interestingly, this will allow the student to blend their study with other personal endeavours. Students with an interest in Unicaf University’s BA Business Administration can apply by visiting the application page here. They should fill out the application form to express interest in the programme. Afterwards, a student adviser from Unicaf University will respond to applicants within 48 hours of applications.   More about Unicaf University (UU) Unicaf University is a pan-African institution, with established campuses and learning centres in 11 African countries. The institution offers undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes of top quality through online and on-capus study system. Unicaf University’s education system brings an array of opportunities for students seeking internationally recognised degrees. Candidates can also study in their home country through the online study system of Unicaf University. Unicaf’s Scholarship on BA Business Administration Unicaf offers partial scholarships to Nigerians seeking international education. USD 90 million has been awarded to various international students under the Unicaf platform. However, these scholarships are partial scholarships, which has benefited 25,000 students across Africa. Okeke Vincent Chidozie (Entrepreneur, writer & digital education consultant) 