 Nigerian businessmen and women hope to build a synergy of cooperation with their counterparts from Asia, especially China, in the area of commerce and industry. This was the summary of the interface and discussion session at a symposium to flag off ceremony of the Special Business to Business (B2B) Fair at the Lagos International Trade Fair, at Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan, Lagos, which ends today. At a symposium organised by the UAEC, in collaboration with MD Perspective Nigeria Limited, stakeholders involved in distributive trade across the automobile, textile, electronics and engineering value chain said there is room for improvement as far as collaboration among China and Nigeria is concerned. In a brief remark by the National President of the Nigerian Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu she said the bilateral relations between both countries can be further strengthened in the interest of all. While delivering his keynote address, the Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) Muda Yusuf titled, ‘Distributive Trade as Nigeria’s hidden economic treasure: A case of four sectors,’ he said there are immense opportunities for growth in the different commanding heights of the nation’s economy. Also speaking at the event, the LCCI President, Chief Ruwase noted that China is Nigeria’s largest source of imports, stressing that the total trade between both countries within the first half of 2019 stood at $8.6billion. “The ties between our two countries continue to wax stronger on growing bilateral trade relations and strategic cooperation.” Echoing similar sentiments, President, Fashion Designers Association on Nigeria, Mrs. Funmi Ajila-Ladipo, former President, Association of Traders, Alaba International, Chief (Dr.) Emeka Dike said opportunities abound for improved bilateral relations, stressing that all that is required is prospective businesses to uphold standards and international best practices in order to be competitive within the global trade market. Speaking earlier, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had urged Chinese textile firms operating in the state the need to set up production factories in the state. According to the governor, the state government will continuously seek collaboration with organisations from Asia prepared to operate in the state by creating the enable environment for businesses to thrive. Specifically, he said, “We will continue to encourage Chinese textile companies that want to come and invest in Nigeria. However, inasmuch as we want you to come and invest, our greatest desire is for you to come and set up shops and production factories here.” Speaking further, he said, the Chinese companies must consider establishing textile hubs in Lagos so as to boost the capacity of local participants as this can have rippled positive effect on the economy as a whole. In his opening remarks, Mr. Liu Junsheng, Commercial Consul of the Consulate General of the People’s Republic of China in Lagos, said China remains a strong trading partner with Nigeria even as he assured that the Fair affords another opportunity for greater collaboration with businesses within Lagos State and beyond. Justifying the need for the B2B Fair, the chief host and of the organisers of the Fair, Mr. Ni Liqun, President of United Asia International Exhibition Group and CEO MD Perspective Nigeria Limited, Chief Mrs. Morenike Dele-Alimi, said the forum was an avenue to bring together people of various business interest, even as they expressed optimism that the outcome would be mutually beneficial to all the parties. Speaking separately, Mr. Zhang Tao, the Secretary General of the Sub-Council of Textile Industry, China Council for the Promotion of International Trade and Ms. Lin Lin, the Vice President of China Printing and Dying Association, said Chinese companies were open to all forms of collaboration that would bring about enduring legacies for both countries. The Special Fair, the brainchild of the United Asia Exhibition Company (UAEC) in collaboration with MD Perspective Nigeria Limited, brought together exhibitors drawn from the Nigeria International Textile Industry Fair (NigeriaTex), “International Automotive Parts, Equipment and Service Trade Fair (AutoEquip)”, “International Housewares and Gift Fair (Home Show Nigeria) and “Premium Mechatronic Brands China (PBC), respectively. 