Animal scientist Prof F. O. Ahamefule believes the West African Dwarf (WAD) goat can meet the meat and dairy needs of 60 million people in Nigeria’s rain-forest and derived/guinea Savannah ecological zones. Can it? ROBERT EGBE asks  They jump on your car, eat your flowers, knock over your rubbish bin, chase pre-schoolers walking home alone from kindergarten and, sometimes, (the male) put even adults off with their foul smell: but there’s more to the West African Dwarf (WAD) goat than a public nuisance. Prof F. O. Ahamefule knows the animal and its potential well. As a lad – the second son in a family of 17 – domestic animals captivated him. Years later, Ahamefule followed his passion and bagged an Animal Science degree at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). Recently, the lecturer from UNN’s Department of Animal Production and Livestock Management delivered ‘Rhymes from rainforest dwarf caprine: ancient and modern’, the 7th Inaugural lecture of his alma mater’s College of Animal Science and Animal Production (CASAP). In Rhymes from rainforest dwarf caprine: ancient and modern, Ahamefule makes a bold claim: the WAD goat, properly harnessed, can solve the meat and dairy needs of no fewer than 60 million residents of its natural habitat: mostly southern Nigeria.  WAD goat’s natural habitat The bases for Ahamefule’s conclusion are difficult to disprove. The researcher noted that the WAD goat is widely found in the humid and sub-humid zones of Africa and are distributed across 15 countries. “In Nigeria, it thrives within the rainforest as well as in the derived/guinea savannah ecological zones of Nigeria, which covers the area surrounding the South-East, South-South and the Western States of Nigeria (Nuru, 1985). “The rainforest belt is characterised by tropical forests which have been preserved over the years. They are characterised by dense vegetation with high ambient temperature all year round. The trees found in this zone are multi-tied with a dense canopy that scarcely allows sunlight to penetrate. The annual amount of precipitation does not exceed 1600 mm. It is home to the wildlife of various forms. Insect vectors abound prominent of which is the tsetse fly. The humid climate, dense undergrowth and animal population makes the environment conducive for proliferation of tsetse flies.”  Super ruminant? Why the WAD goat is important The WAD is raised or kept for two major products, meat and milk. The former, also known as chevon, has since been the principal motive for production of WAD, lately, however, the growing awareness of the importance of milk and its relevance in family nutrition has reinforced interest in the capability of WAD goat to meet this demand locally especially in the wake of costly imported milk products. Goat milk is very nutritious. It is easier to digest than cow’s milk. It is typically digested in 20 minutes whereas it would take 24 hours for humans to digest cow’s milk. People who suffer from lactose intolerance may find goat milk a better alternative. Goat milk does not contain complex protein compounds that stimulate allergic reactions to milk. Goat milk is rich in antibodies and low in bacterial counts and is free from tubercle bacilli -an aetiological agent that causes tuberculosis. It is valued for the elderly, sick babies, patients with ulcers, and more so, preferred milk for raising orphan foals or puppies and those convalescing. As a source of meat, the WAD is highly relished, making it favourite for festive and religious ceremonies. The WAD goats are useful to humans during periods of cyclical and unpredictable food shortages. They also help balance the energy and protein supply during normal variations between seasons and years. Smaller carcasses are also easier to market and can be consumed in a short period. This is important as most rural areas lack proper storage facilities. An adult goat can be consumed by one family over a few days, unlike cow. Goat meat also has less fat than sheep, because goats form fat mainly around the organs and not between the muscles as sheep does. One striking feature of goat meat is that it is usually leaner than mutton and beef, and the distribution of fat on the carcass differs as fat in goats are concentrated around the kidney and pelvic regions before developing pockets of fat behind the shoulders and over the ribs.  Ability to adapt Ahamefule observed that in animal production systems, the relevance of any species increases by its ability to adapt. He noted that years of natural selection under humid tropical conditions have made the WAD goat breed highly adapted to the humid forest zone. Ahamefule said: “In marginal environments, this goat remains the only domestic species that can survive. The WAD goat is tolerant to trypanosomiasis and this has made it possible for the animal to thrive in the humid tsetse fly-infested region. “Their rusticity also allows them to be grazed on land not available to other domestic livestock. Their easily adoptable backyard systems of management as well as their cultural significance contribute to their popularity. Their relatively short legs and stocky disposition enable them to traverse the vegetative terrain and often bushy landscape characteristic of the zone. “Its unique feeding behaviour, the efficiency of feed use and disease tolerance enable WAD goats to thrive on natural resources left untouched by other domestic ruminants. Its small body size and low metabolic requirements enable the animal to minimize its requirements where food sources are limited in quality and quantity. “Coat colour which varies plays an important role in the adaptation of this goat breed. Dark brown and black are the most common but white, red and multi-coloured goat do occur. Reproductive fitness as manifested by prolific breeding is also a major factor of adaptation.”  Reproductive performance Another reason for Ahamefule’s conclusion is that, unlike temperate goats, the WAD is a continuous or non-seasonal breeder. He said: “The import of this is that the does can be bred at any time of the year. WAD goats are early breeders, reaching puberty at 6 to 7 months of age. The age at which they first kid is between 16 and 18 months. The WAD goat is prolific and under traditional village conditions kid three times in two years. Gestation length is approximately 150 days. Twins are the usual with single and triplet births also common. Less frequent is quadruplet litter. The kidding pattern indicates that the prolificacy of WAD goats increases with age, reaching its peak at four years of age. West African dwarf goat is very prolific and possesses high frequency for kidding.”  Hardiness The WAD goat is hardy, resilient and, as a ruminant, it has the advantage of utilising marginal lands, poor fodder and agro-industrial wastes, converting them into high-quality protein (meat and milk). Ahamefule said: “The goat is considered superior to other ruminant species in the utilisation of poor quality and high fibre forages for body maintenance and production. “Defence mechanisms against infectious agents enable this small ruminant breed to thrive well in the hot humid tropics. The WAD goat resists gastrointestinal parasites more effectively than any other breed of domestic goat. The breed can thrive and survive under harsh environmental conditions of heat and humidity. It also can digest a broad range of diets, resistant to high humidity pathogens and tolerant of gastrointestinal nematodes. “They are described as trypano resilient since, in the face of parasitic challenge, they maintain positive weight gain and record low mortality rates.”  Milk production He noted further that the WAD doe gives “a surprising quantity of milk for its size. “Its production ranges from 0.5-4kg of milk per day with an average doe producing about 2kg of milk per day. Production depends however on genetics, parity, quality of feed, and management. “Since it breeds year-round, it is possible to stagger breeding in a herd, for year-round production of milk; thus, they are ideal milk for most families. The milk has a higher butterfat content averaging 6.5%.” According to Ahamefule, the WAD goat’s lactation potential became prominent in the early colonial era when they were transported from Africa on the ship to Europe as food for captured carnivores kept in zoos. The survivors were then maintained in herds. The animals that exhibited exceptional dairy traits were selected and bred resulting in the dairy WAD goats we know today. He added: “Their anatomy compares favourably to those of proven dairy breeds. The dairy potential has become even more enhanced in the last 20 years. It is the only miniature dairy goat breed. Their milk can be higher in protein relative to kinds of milk of other goat breeds. They produce lower absolute quantities of milk than cattle, however, when their body weight is taken into account, their milk yield is higher than other species, with the possible exception of camels. “WAD goats convert their feed more efficiently into milk than any other dairy breed. It is the sweetest, richest milk of all the dairy goat breeds. Given their relatively small size, it can be easier to handle and house than the large dairy goat breeds. They can be accommodated both in the rural and suburban environment.”  Meeting diary, meat needs of 60m Nigerians Ahamefule believes the WAD goat parades outstanding attributes which should be of foremost interest to everyone. He said: “This indigenous small ruminant breed holds staggering potential capable of meeting the animal protein needs of over 60 million Nigerians who live within the rainforest and derived savanna zones that constitute the natural habitat for this breed. The resilience, fecundity and ease of handling make it a choice animal for improvement. “Considering its dairy and meat (chevon) potential, it is possible to develop a base population with a full expression of these traits upon which improvement of this animal species could leverage. “A wide range of unconventional feedstuffs both of forage and concentrate origin abound which can further be exploited for the productivity of the WAD goat.” He lamented that Nigeria “blessed with such indigenous potent animal species” has remained recalcitrant to its development. Ahamefule warned that until research findings concerning the WAD goat and other livestock species “begin to find expression in our smallholder animal units, mixed farm enterprises and integrated animal farms, the food security we clamour for, especially in the animal subsector, would continue to remain a mirage. He observed that it is possible to transform the WAD goat from its present local profile to an internationally acclaimed meat or dairy breed, like the Boer meat-type goat of South Africa.  What must be done Prof Ahamefule believes everyone – government, the private sector, non-governmental organisations – have a role to play in harnessing the WAD goat’s potential. He makes the following recommendations: The WAD goat resists gastrointestinal parasites more effectively than any other breed of domestic goat. The breed can thrive and survive under harsh environmental conditions of heat and humidity. It also can digest a broad range of diets, resistant to high humidity pathogens and tolerant of gastrointestinal nematodes.