MR Ernest Ndukwe on Tuesday relinguished his directorship  from Access Bank as  as an independent Non-Executive Director. This was contained in a statement issued by Mr Sunday Ekwochi, the bank’s Company Secretary and posted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) website. “The Board of Directors of Access Bank hereby announces that Ndukwe has indicated his intention not to seek re-election during the bank’s 2020 Annual General Meeting (AGM). “Accordingly, he has resigned from the board, effective March 31, 2020, to enable him focus on his current and additional responsibilities. “Ndukwe has confirmed that he has no disagreement with the board and there are no issues relating to his resignation that needs to be brought to the attention of the bank’s shareholders or the regulatory authorities. “The board is identifying the right candidate to fill the resultant vacancy as soon as possible, and further announcement will be made in this regard, in due course,” the statement said. The board expressed its appreciation to Ndukwe for his “immense contributions to the bank these past years”. Meanwhile, the bank celebrated the World Savings Day with customers across the country. It engaged school children in the six geo-political zones on the importance of building an early savings culture and improving their future through financial independence. The essence of the World Savings Day, which was celebrated by financial institutions and other related organisations in October 31,  was to increase public awareness on the importance of savings both for households and for the national economy. This also encompasses the CBN’s initiative to bridge financial literacy and inclusion particularly for children in Nigeria. Following the allocation of schools by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to licensed banks, Access Bank visited schools in Lagos, Taraba, Nassarawa, Jigawa, Akwa Ibom, and Enugu States. In addition, Access Bank’s CEO, represented by other Senior Management, visited the Ebonyi University Staff School, called the ‘CEO School’ in Abakaliki, and celebrated with the students. Addressing the students, Herbert Wigwe, represented by the Zonal Head, Commercial Banking East, Access Bank Plc., Fidel Ibeabuchi, said, “Imbibing a savings culture is an important aspect of child development, and as parents, guardians and teachers, it is our responsibility to instill in them this mentality. In addition, it encourages a sense of discipline and planning, which can also be applied in other parts of your lives. As you grow up, pay attention to your finances, because whatever habits you learn and adopt now will lay a foundation for your future.” The World Savings Day celebration follows other commendable projects of Access Bank to promote a savings culture among Nigerians, which also include its partnership with MTN at the mPulse planet to educate pre-teens and teenagers on the importance of practicing good savings culture through new and interesting ideas.