Sir: It is neither coincidence nor conspiracy that negative reviews have trailed the just concluded governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states. It is also no fluke that election observers are speaking in one voice, condemning the complicity of the police in the conduct of the governorship election in the states, especially in Kogi State. The Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections was expected to provide an opportunity for all election stakeholders especially the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Nigerian Police and political parties to improve on the conduct of the February general elections. Unfortunately, the process was blighted by several complicities, which undermined its standard in virtually all ramifications. It is even more sad that all election stakeholders, especially INEC and the Nigerian police, saw this coming as there were available warning signals of voter inducement and electoral violence. Few weeks before the elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, an article underscoring early warning signals of violence and voter inducement was published along with myriad of other concerns raised by election stakeholders. The concerns were either met with assurances or neglected. Similarly, the report on recruitment of thugs and stockpiling of arms was widespread all over communication platforms and its almost impossible to imagine the security agencies didn’t take heed to this critical warning signals before it escalated. It is even more ominous that despite the setting ablaze of a political party office and attack on a female candidate contesting in the election during the stakeholder meeting in Kogi, in the full glare of police chiefs, security apparatus didn’t prepare to curtail the impending violence in the state.  Just two days to the election in both states, YIAGA AFRICA hosted both the Public Relations Officers of both Police and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSDCDC) on its weekly program to discuss election security ahead of the polls.  As expected, security agencies gave all the assurances left in this world saying at least 35,000 Police officers have been deployed to Kogi State with over 10,000 NSCDC personnel to support. Security officials appeared on various fora and meetings ahead of the election to boost electoral officials’ confidence on the safety of personnel and materials while also assuring citizens safety of their lives and properties. One of such meeting was the early warning scan organized by Search for Common Ground; another Civil Society Organization who observed early warning signals before the elections. At the meeting, stakeholders including journalists raised major security concerns, which was met by assurance by the police chief at the event saying the police force is embarking on visibility policing to track any unwanted incidences that may want to disrupt the process. Assurances upon assurances was what the citizens got from security agencies before elections but it’s so unfortunate that the police service commission claim the force was overstretched to manage just two state elections. The challenges that faced the Kogi elections lies squarely on the failures of security agencies, the police in particular, political parties, the major candidates and their state and non-state accomplices. These stakeholders deliberately worked to undermine the election. They appeared to be more concerned about electoral victory than the credibility and legitimacy of the process. Until the law and those that implement it have the guts to shame and prosecute culprits of electoral complicity, Nigeria may just begin to give up on its electoral democracy. While waiting for stakeholders charged with the responsibility of conducting a free, fair, credible and peaceful elections to take responsibility, there is further need for the executive and legislative branches to expedite necessary actions on electoral reforms.  YIAGA AFRICA, Abuja.