By Sani Muhammad Sani, Gusau The All Progressive Congress (APC) in Zamfara state has given the state house of assembly  seven days ultimatum to revert the suspension of Shinkafi local government chairman in order to avert political instability in the state. The party Chairman Hon. Lawali M. Liman in a chat with The Nation on Saturday, said the end of the number of days in the ultimatum is already wining up, explaining that the signal was sent to the PDP government last Monday, adding that the PDP government should rescind their decision on the local government chairman by Tuesday next week. Liman said: “The party in the state has witnessed some evil actions and pronouncements by the unpopular government of the people’s Democratic Party Zamfara state, ranging from from illegal arrest, detention and harassment of our members and suspension of some duly elected local government chairmen.” These action according to Liman has unfortunate effect of heightening political tension in the state, adding that many of such incidences were reported to the police but no Action has been taking for reasons best known to them. Liman recalled that the first victim of the Zamfara state legislators was the chairman of Muradun local government Hon. Abubakar Ahmed who was elected under the flat form of the APC and suspended three months ago, based on his total rejection of an attempt by the PDP governor to violet the federal government directives on non interference with local government’s fund’s by the executive in states using unverified allegations written by some sponsored petitioners who lack courage to defend their petition. He said: “to our greatest surprise, the same lawmakers has on Thursday 31st of October, this year suspended the executive chairman of Shinkafi local government area, Hon. Sani Galadi who was also elected under the APC for a baseless petition by some sponsored petitioners who yet to even affirm their signatures as confirmed by the house resolution dated 31st October, 2019, ref Nos ZMHA/LEG/088/VOL1/016 and ZMHA/LEG/088/VOL 1/081 respectively.” These resolutions according Liman are unconstitutional and are totally rejected by the party, stressing that the so called resolutions of the state house of assembly clearly indicates that, some of the petitioners are ghost as they refused to appear before the house committee to defend or affirm their signatures on the petitions as clearly mentioned in the resolutions. Liman also said the suspension of the duo democratically elected local government officials is unconstitutional and such a decision is ultra vires, null and void with no effect. “it is unfortunate that the PDP led government which emerged through court technicalities not by the people’s mandate, is expected to be respecting court processes as both local government election and the petition in question against the Shinkafi local government chairman are before the court and the house was duly served hence automatically prohibits discussion on the issues pending the determination of the court law,” he said.