Hundreds of traders on Tuesday stormed the Lagos State House of Assembly protesting  the demolition of the Ikosi/Isheri produce market in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the protesters, mostly women, arrived at the assembly en masse, chanting different songs and carrying placards with various inscriptions. Among the inscriptions on their placards were: “Re-modeling is a political coined language to sell our market, we say no to it; “Nigerians of conscience should come to our help. Governor Sanwoolu please help us”. Others were “Our market is not to be sold in any form. We will explore all legal options to stop the satanic demolition of our market. OYESCO should be called to order; Iketu/Ikosi market belongs to all, it must not be sold”. The leader of the protest, Mrs Adebukola Adejuwonbi, said the market was being destroyed without proper notification from the appropriate body. Adejuwonbi indicted the Chairman, Ikosi/Isheri Local Council Development Area, Mr Abdulfatai Oyesanya, as the prime mover of the demolition of the market. She said, “We came from Ikosi/Isheri fruit market. I am one of the sellers at the market. On Friday morning, caterpillars came to demolish our market without any notice. “Our leader, as well as the chairman of the local government said that if we wait, they will kill all of us. “We were told they have sold out the market to a contractor to build an estate where we are selling our produce. “We cannot challenge them. They even fired guns at us. Some people died, while some people sustained serious injuries. “Amidst all this, the Chairman of Ikosi/Isheri Local Government, Fatai Oyesanya was standing upstairs telling the caterpillars to move on and if anyone waits, they should kill all of us.” Adejuwonbi said that they had to run for dear life since they did not have any weapon on them. She said, “This is why we decided to come here to plead with the Lagos Assembly and the governor to come to our aid and deliver us.” Also, another trader, Mrs Yemisi Balogun, urged the government to come to their aid by helping them to get their market back. Balogun said that their livelihoods depended largely  on the market to cater for the needs of their children and households. She said, “Since they say the government is for the people, so, we are here to cry to them that they should come to our aid and deliver us from the destruction of our market. “It is from the market we get money to send our children to school. By doing this to us, we are going to suffer. That is why we are here to come and plead for intervention in this issue.