Leading e-commerce platform, Jumia Nigeria, has called on sellers on its platform to prioritise offering the best deals and quality products during its upcoming Black Friday campaign. Its Chief Operating Officer, Omolola Oladunjoye, who spoke during a meeting  with sellers during the company’s Annual Sellers’ Conference  in Lagos, restated the firm’s commitment to selling only genuine and quality products. She urged the sellers to align with the company’s quality control process by uploading correct images that correspond to the packages that are eventually delivered to consumers, especially as Black Friday – scheduled to hold between November 8 and 29, 2019 – approaches. She emphasised that selling of good quality and genuine products on the platform is consequently tied to the sellers’ revenue. “If you listed a sub-par products on the Jumia platform and a consumer discovered it after a purchase, the product will be returned to the seller and the consumer will be refunded 100 per cent. What this means for you as a seller is zero revenue. But as a business, that’s not the kind of experience we want to give our consumers. The satisfaction consumers derive from buying genuine products has good implications on your revenue too,” she aid. Jumia also offered a free masterclass to the sellers on how they can make their products attractively competitive for consumers during the upcoming Black Friday campaign. “You need to start thinking of the deals that will attract and appeal to our consumers. We have shared with you data on some of the fast moving products on the platform. One strategy to drive sales during Black Friday is to make as many deals as possible available and ensure your prices become relatively cheaper than competition,” Salma Bencherif, chief marketing officer at Jumia Nigeria said. Over half a dozen sellers were rewarded with award plaques across several categories such as: Top Sales Award of Excellence; Jumia Commercial Sales Award; Jumia Top Rated Seller Award; Jumia Lifetime Seller Achievement Award; Quality Award of Excellence; Referral Winner; and Assortment Challenge Winner. The Annual Sellers’ Conference holds a few weeks before the company’s annual Black Friday campaigns.  