By Oziegbe Okoeki  Dr. Shefiu Abiodun Muritala, has been appointed as the Lagos state new Accountant General. He will also double as permanent secretary in the State Treasury Office, STO. He took the oath of office on Monday at a brief ceremony in the governor’s office, Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja. He was sworn-in by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu along with another new permanent secretary for the ministry of health, Dr. Olusegun Ogboye. Muritala, a PhD holder in Strategic Management until his new appointment was General Manager (Finance) of the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC). He takes over from Mrs. Shukurat Umar, who has been redeployed as permanent secretary to the Office of Debt Management. Ogboye succeeds Dr. Titilayo Goncalves, who retired from the civil service Monday after 35 years of service. Sanwo-Olu said the choice of the appointees to positions of Permanent Secretary and Accountant General spoke to his administration’s vision for economic growth plan and wellbeing of the residents, noting that the appointees’ selection was based on their competence and track records in service delivery. The Governor charged the new appointees to align their activities with the development agenda of his administration, stressing that their engagements must simplify governance and promote professionalism in civil service. He said: “The sectors, which you are appointed to supervise, are critical to the realisation of our administration’s development vision. I believe you will justify the confidence of Lagosians and put in your very best. We hope your best would improve service delivery to every citizen of Lagos State. “It is only when we have right people in right places, that’s when the true dividends of democracy can be felt by the people. We are in government because we want to remove red tape slowing down governance and make life better for our citizens. We are in government because we want to build a tomorrow that is better than the one we see today. We have capacity to surmount our challenges and make our State better for living.” Two other permanent secretaries were redeployed and they are: former Permanent Secretary Ministry of Transportation, Olawale Musa now Permanent Secretary, Chief of Staff office; former Permanent Secretary Chief of Staff Office now for Ministry of Transportation.