Alao Abiodun It’s been such a busy week with so many activities hence you may have missed some of our most interesting stories. We take a moment every week to bring you top stories you might have missed. Maina and son’s bail grant, Air Peace boss Onyema’s money laundering case, Nigerian Law School call to bar and others topped this week’s news. To make sure you’re up-to-date, The Nation brings you a brief round-up of the major stories this week. Alao Abiodun Reports. Here is a recap of the week’s big news: Maina gets N1b bail, son gets N60m bail A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted bail to former Chairman, defunct Pension Reform Task Team (PRTM), Abdulrasheed Maina at N1 billion. Maina is standing trial before the court on alleged diversion of public funds estimated at about N2billion, among other money laundering related offences. In a ruling on Monday, Justice Okon Abang equally ordered Maina to produce two sureties who must be serving Senators. The serving senators, the judge said, must not be standing any criminal trial in any court in the country. The judge added that the two sureties, who must each sign a N500m bond, should always accompany Maina to court. Similarly, the Federal High Court in Abuja has also granted bail to Faisal, the 20-year-old son of former Chairman of defunct Pension Reform Task Team (PRTM), Abdulrasheed Maina. Justice Okon Abang, in a ruling on Tuesday, granted Faisal bail for N60 million and a surety in like sum. Justice Abang said the surety could be from any part of the country, but must be a serving House of Representatives member who must have landed property in Abuja. The judge said the surety must undertake to accompany the defendant to court at every proceedings till the end of the trial and that should the surety be absent in court without any justifiable reason, the bail shall be revoked. Faisal, who is said to be a final-year university student in Dubai, was arraigned before the court on October 25, 2019, on a three-count charge of money laundering and related offences. His father is also being tried before the same court on related offences in a separate 12-count charge. In earlier proceedings, Justice Abang gave a ruling in case involving Faisal’s father, and admitted some documents, mostly bank statement, tendered by the prosecution, but which the defence objected to. Buhari orders completion of Ajaokuta Steel firm Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Mr Olamilekan Adegbite, has said President Muhammadu Buhari had given the marching orders to his ministry for the completion of Ajaokuta Steel Company. Adegbite stated this in Abuja at a media briefing on the proposed Nigerian solid minerals downstream workshop scheduled to hold December 2. The minister, who spoke through his Special Adviser (SA) on Special Duty, Mr Sunny Ekozin, stated that the ministry had been working round the clock to actualise the “presidential directives”. He added: “For the past three months, we have been doing everything possible to ensure we make progress. We are happy to let the nation know that the President has given us full backing in this assignment. “The support given by the President includes political backing to ensure that Ajaokuta works. By the grace of God, it will work soon.” Adegbite also said part of the President’s directives was for the sector to solve long, intractable problems bedevilling the solid minerals and ensure Nigeria could rely on the sector to diversify the economy. End poverty, unemployment with agric, Buhari tells Nigerians President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to embrace and invest in agriculture to create jobs and eradicate poverty in the country. The President spoke in a visual message at the 23rd edition of Farmers Day celebration organised by Agip and its partners, (NNPC/NAOC/Oando) under the Joint Venture (JV) programme for their hosts communities at Obie in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area of Rivers State. The event, with the theme: Farm and Fortune, held at the weekend. President Buhari said it had been the agenda of his administration to revive and grow the agricultural sector into a hub in Africa. The President explained that the Federal Government under his watch had put huge amounts into the sector since he assumed office in 2015 to realise the dream. $44.9m wire deals: EFCC special panel to investigate Air Peace boss Onyema The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has waded into the $44.9 million wire fraud and money laundering case against Air Peace Chief Executive Allen Ifechukwu Athan Onyema hours after his indictment in the United States (US). The EFCC, it was learnt, on Saturday raised what sources referred to as a ”special panel” to investigate the matter shortly after receiving the charges against Onyema. Onyema was indicted along with his finance officer, Ejiroghene Eghagha, by the US Department of Justice (DoJ). They were accused of “moving more than $20 million from Nigeria through some United States banks in a scheme involving false documents based on the purchase of airplanes.” Eghagha, who is the international airline’s Chief of Administration and Finance, was also accused of bank fraud and committing aggravated identity theft in connection with the scheme. The EFCC is also investigating two Nigerian banks for allegedly facilitating the transfer of the money to the US and processing letters of credit to buy planes for Air Peace. The probe, The Nation gathered, would cover the activities and inflows into the accounts of four non-governmental organisations (NGOs)/non-profit groups sponsored by Onyema. They are Foundation for Ethnic Harmony, International Centre for Non-Violence and Peace Development, All-Time Peace Media Communications Limited and Every Child Limited. Onyema has since denied the allegations against him and stated his readiness to travel to the US to defend himself. Woman kills husband by squeezing manhood Men of the Edo State Police Command have arrested a middle-aged woman identified as Eki Ekhator for allegedly killing her husband by squeezing his manhood. The incident was said to have happened at Ukhiri community in Ikpoba-Okha local government area. Sources said the woman had a quarrel with her late husband after accusing him of infidelity. She was said to have always had fracas with her husband any time he returned home late. On that fateful day, the source said the deceased slapped his wife after a fracas and the woman went for his trousers and held onto his manhood in a violent manner. 147 make First Class as Law School calls 4,458 to Bar The Nigerian Law School on Tuesday called to the Nigerian Bar 4,458 candidates who were successful at the August 2019 Bar final examinations. The school’s Director-General, Prof. Isa Ciroma, in his address at the call to bar ceremony in Bwari, said that the figure comprised three candidates from the previous bar final examinations. He said that 5,689 students sat for the examinations out of whom 4,455 came out successful, while three others were from the previous examination. According to Ciroma, 147 candidates made first class, which is 2.58 percent of the total figure, 741second class upper division, making 13.03 percent, while 2,247 made second class lower division, with 39.50 percent. He added that the candidates, who scored pass mark, were 1,321, making 23.22 percent. The director-general, who rated the performance as outstanding, said that it justified the huge investment and sacrifice made by all and sundry. He said that the school would stop at nothing to sustain and surpass the record attained, with strong determination, as long as the students were willing to excel. Lalong proposes N71 billion for 2020, Makinde presents N208.8bn budget for 2020 Plateau state governor Simon Lalong has submitted a budget estimate of N71.5 billion to the state house of assembly as the budget for the 2020 fiscal year with a promise to commence payment of new minimum wage from next year. The 2020 budget estimate a capital expenditure of N74.4 billion representing 43% of the total budget while the remaining 57% goes for recurrent expenditure. Of the entire sum, the water and energy sector got the lion share of about N16 billion followed by works sector with about N15 billion. Lalong who tagged the 2020 budget estimate as “Budget of Rescue and Infrastructural consolidation” said, our approach to sustainable governance policy implementation and staff welfare will continue to be given priority consideration. Similarly, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State on Tuesday presented a budget proposal of N208, 802, 972, 878 for the 2020 fiscal year before the House of Assembly. Describing the budget as the “Budget of the Masses”, the governor said the new fiscal bill is in keeping with his administration’s roadmap for accelerated development in the state, noting that every kobo in the proposal will be accounted for. In the new proposal, infrastructure (works) takes 23.93 per cent, closely followed by education with an allocation of 22.37 per cent, health care at 5.18 per cent and agriculture at 4.43 per cent. Giving a breakdown of the proposed expenditure, the governor said the state is aiming at at least 70 per cent budget implementation, adding that the yearnings of the people of the state were well captured during the various budget town meeting held across the state before the budget was finally presented. Border Closure: Benin must mend its ways with Nigeria, says Obasanjo Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, has urged Nigeria’s west coast neighbour, Benin Republic, to change its ways for a harmonious bilateral relationship between the two countries. Obasanjo made the remark during a news briefing on Tuesday in Addis Ababa on the margins of Policy Dialogue of African Business Associations on Implementing the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreements. The two-day policy dialogue was co-organized by the African Union (AU), African Development Bank (AfDB) and the African Export – Import Bank (AFREXIMBANK). Other co-organisers are The AfroChampion Initiative and the Coalition of Dialogue Africa (CoDA). Obasanjo, who is the Chair of the CoDA Board of Directors, explained that Benin’s notoriety was not new, as Nigeria had for long been enduring the practice which undermined its economic well-being. 