Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday said the party’s standard bearer in the November 16 Bayelsa State governorship election, Duoye Diri, is the best candidate in the race. PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, led other  leaders of the party to the grand rally in Yenagoa, which was also attended by a big crowd of party faithful. Governors of Sokoto, Aminu Tambuwal; Bauchi’s Bala Mohammed, who is the Chairman of the PDP Campaign Council; Imo’s Emeka Ihedioha and Delta State’s Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, graced the occasion. Other governors at the event included Oyo’s Seyi Makinde, while Governor of Ebonyi State was represented by his deputy, Dr. Kelechi Igwe. Dignitaries who spoke at the rally included former Senate President, Adolphus Wabara; Senate Minority Leader, Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe, and PDP National Women leader, Hajia Mariam Waziri. Some other PDP National Assembly members, various youth and women groups, who turned the event to a carnival, also attended the rally. But Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and ex-President Goodluck Jonathan did not attend the rally. Secondus, who presented the flag of the PDP to the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri, described Bayelsa as a PDP state and warned security agencies against compromising the election. He said the PDP was on ground in the state, alleging there was no federal presence of the APC in Bayelsa. He said the APC took the control of the Federal Government from former President Goodluck Jonathan, a son of Bayelsa, and appealed to voters to shun the APC. Secondus, who derided the APC candidate, Chief David Lyon, said there was a huge difference in qualification between him and the PDP standard bearer. He said while Diri was tested, trusted and educated to govern Bayelsa, Lyon lacked the academic qualifications to represent Bayelsa as a governor. He said: “There is a great difference between our candidate and their candidate. Lyon cannot represent himself. It is not enough to say I want to be a governor. It is not a village affair. We don’t want people who will go there and will not represent Bayelsa. “If they wished Bayelsa good, will they bring that kind of candidate? Douye Diri has been tested and has performed. He will not hire professors. He is professor himself. With Douye and his running mate, what else are you looking for? Don’t be deceived. “We call on security agencies not to allow themselves to be used by the APC to rig this election. We know that the APC is not on ground but they are planning to come with evil.” Secondus, Dr. Peter Obi, Dickson and others were unanimous that the APC was no option in the governance of Bayelsa.  Diri promised to consolidate on the achievements of Dickson in education, infrastructure and health.  He said his administration would surpass Dickson’s achievements and create prosperity for everybody in the state. Tambuwal said the crowd at the event was a clear testimony that Bayelsa belonged to the PDP and urged the people to come out en masse and vote for the PDP. Dickson on his part said the event was an opportunity for the people to thank the PDP for being their party. He said: “We are too formidable. The ongoing campaigns have shown the underbelly of the lies of APC in their campaigns. In wards after wards, local government after local government, communities after communities even in their own communities, the people have demonstrated again and again that they are with the PDP and not with the APC.”