Infinix Mobile has introduced the S5 smartphones to the market. At the unveiling in Lagos, its Managing Director, Benjamin Jiang, said it is a device with the biggest Infinity-O display. S5 has the best price in the range of N75,000, one of the few devices with a 32MP AI front camera, the only device with AI quad rear camera offering the best memory options – 4GB RAM+64GB ROM and 6GB RAM+128GB ROM. S5 is expected to empower users with excellent smartphone experience in its price range whilst enabling them to do the most. “At Infinix, we’re committed to bringing the latest technologies to young consumers in global emerging markets, keeping them trendy and up-to-date, whilst empowering them to be out standing in their communities. The launch of the S5 is a great manifesto of our brand purpose, as well as the mission of the S series for great selfies and placing consumers at the center of attention. With so many ‘bests’ in this price range, we’re confident that our customers will be able to stand out from the crowd.   Also, Director Africa and the Middle East-MediaTek, Rami Osman, said the device is powered by MediaTek Helio P22 processor giving consumers the latest smartphone features and great technology at an affordable price, like support for 32MP In-Display selfie camera and 4 AI rear cameras. “The power-efficient Helio P22 allows MediaTek and device makers to bring ‘New Premium’ devices to market and reshapes expectations of what an affordable selfie camera smartphone can deliver,” he said. He said one of the key highlights of S5 is its 6.6-inch HD+ Infinity-O Display, which makes it the biggest display for smartphone under N70,000 in the market. The Infinity-O Display adopts a slimmer, bezel-less design, which allows S5 to achieve a 90.5per cent screen-to-body ratio. “With a 20:9 screen aspect ratio which follows the current cinema screen trends, S5 will provide users with a brilliant viewing experience. Immerse yourself in video streaming, gaming and image capturing,” he said.