The Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) on Tuesday said its primary task is not to jail people. Acting Executive Director, Project (EDP), Dr Cairo Ojougboh, told The Nation that it was mandated by President Muhammadu Buhari to recover all funds illegally applied by the NDDC. Ojougboh, who spoke in Abuja, said the negative media trailing the inauguration of the IMC was needless and misdirected. According to him, Niger Delta Affairs Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio, did not unilaterally create the committee, rather he executed a presidential directive for a forensic audit of the NDDC. Ojougboh said IMC is to, within a short time, “midwife, guide and to support the forensic auditors who are coming”. It will also produce a report of the forensic audit, detailing how the place was run and who collected money for projects without executing them. He emphasised, however, that the committee was not set up to witch-hunt or victimise anyone. NDDC defaulters, he explained, would get two options:  immediately return to the sites for which they were mobilized and complete the job or refund the entire sum collected. “Our job is to midwife, guide and to support the forensic auditors who are coming. As soon as that is addressed, that is the end of our job. “It is an interim arrangement and the president has all the right and prerogative to so appoint, he is the Chief Executive Officer of this country, it is his duty to direct which way to go and he has so directed. “We are not interested in sending anybody to jail. Our job and our interest are recovering every money that is due to the people of the Niger Delta, that has been misappropriated, misapplied and that has been stolen. “If you have a contract that was awarded to you and you have failed to do the contract, it’s either you go now and complete the project, or you refund the money. Which way you want to go is your choice. That is what we are there for. “At the end of the day, we will have to present our report to both the president and the people of Nigeria. That report card is what they are afraid of. “At the end of our assignment, the whole country would have known the correct position about the finances of the NDDC. The monies that have been stolen and misappropriated, we would have known who, how and where the money is. “I can assure you, as it is happening now, more people who got jobs and didn’t do them are now rushing to site to go do the jobs and finish their contracts”, he explained. Ojougboh said those sponsoring the attacks on and calling for Akpabio’s removal were afraid of being indicted by the commission’s report. “All the people against us, what they want is for the corrupt system in the NDDC to continue and that is what the president said no to. Niger Delta people should appreciate President Buhari for what he’s doing for the Niger Delta, you will see the changes that will occur. “The cleanup of Ogoni will be expedited, the corruption in the NDDC is going to be addressed and the Amnesty is going to be streamlined, under the complete leadership of Akpabio”, he assured.