 No fewer than 15 school pupils were on Monday teargassed by officials of the Lagos State Environmental Taskforce along Agboyi Road, Alapere. There were allegations that some of the pupils also sustained gunshot injuries while fleeing from a fracas between Taskforce officials and motorcycle operators. Trouble was said to have started in the morning after the Taskforce officials stormed the area to prevent aggrieved motorcyclists protesting against their leadership. The Nation gathered that violence broke out after some boys wielding bottles and cutlasses who came with the police allegedly started impounding motorcycles. It was learnt that the protesters resisted the move by the officials and their ‘thugs’ which lead to sporadic gunshots and pelting of stones, bottles from both sides. Video footage of the incident posted on social media showed the Taskforce officials carrying one of the injured pupils, while their patrol vehicle blared its sirens. According to sources, many residents were physically assaulted and sustained injuries while shops looted by the hoodlums. They also accused the Taskforce of arresting innocent people and looting properties. A man who posted information about the incident said the pupils were of Agidi Comprehensive High School, adding that they were hospitalised as a result of the teargas. “The policemen were sporadically shooting to scare residents while the thugs were asking people to go inside. These did not only create panic around the neigbourhood but also loss of property. “The policemen came with thugs armed with cutlasses and crates of bottles which they carted away from shops. “The attack by the security men especially by the armed ‘thugs’ in their midst caused panic. They were arresting innocent people in the neighbourhood. “About 15 students from Agidi Comprehensive High School compound were affected by teargas and hospitalised while hundreds of motorcycles have been seized including one taken from a gated compound located at 2, Ogunlana Street, off Agboyi road belonging to one Mr. Ayobami Olajide who is not a commercial okada rider. “ln fact, the okada is not working as at the time of the raid. Also, a car parked at Aina Obe junction had its glass smashed by the thugs. Three innocent persons were beaten up by the thugs and arrested by the policemen at the same street. Their names are Lekan Adewoyin, Abiodun Giwa and Dauda Oriade who is a cobler he only came to stand in for his mum. “Opeyemi was hit by broken bottles thrown by one of the boys. Doors and fence were broken by the thugs before the police’ arrest of innocent people who are not Okada riders. “There were reports of looting of shops along Agboyi road as crates of bottles were freely thrown creating panic and destruction of innocent residents. “The harassment continued at Mile 12 police post as a lady’s phone was collected while a man was teargassed. The fate of innocent people arrested are yet to be determined as at 7pm,” he said. The man who said he asked who the armed boys with the police were, explained that a cop told him they were paramilitary men working with the Taskforce. Several calls to Taskforce’ Public Affairs Officer (PAO) Taoffik Adebayo were neither picked nor returned at the time of this report.