By Ozolua Uhakheme, Assistant Editor (Arts)  Twelve years after former Director-General, National Gallery of Art (NGA), Chief Joe Musa, initiated plans to build a befitting art gallery for NGA in Lagos or Abuja, the management of the 26-year-old federal agency has renewed its determination to realise the goal. NGA Acting Director-General Dr. Simon Ikpakronyi said the  edifice meant a lot to the art community and remained a major priority of his administration. He noted that without a gallery edifice where NGA could hold its events, the government and the people will not acknowledge or appreciated its functions. According to him, if NGA has an edifice it will host exhibitions of its works that are rotten away in stores. “Such exhibitions will be opened to Nigerians and foreigners to appreciate the quality of artworks by Nigerian artists, living or dead. This is my major concern and direction,” he said. Ikpakronyi, who spoke on his six months in office, described the lack of such facility as a huge setback  to the growth of Nigerian art and artists, adding that the poor conditions of some artworks in the stores wouldn’t have arisen if NGA had its edifice designed to host as many shows as possible on periodic basis. “Periodically, artworks in our collections would have been exhibited for months and later returned to the store for preservation. Artworks are supposed to be kept under certain conditions and space that enhance their preservation or conservation. As we speak, we cannot guarantee such appropriate conditions and spaces where the works are now. We have over 3000 artworks by the masters in our collection. By cramping them together we are denying the artworks life,” Ikpakronyi lamented. He stated that he has been part of the NGA journey and now is the opportunity to make a difference.  Working towards the goal During my defence of NGA budget at the National Assembly recently, I made it clear that my dream and direction is for NGA to have a befitting gallery. The good news is that the two committees (House and Senate) on culture and NGA are on the same page on this matter. ‘’NGA has been at the Federal Secretariat Complex, Abuja for some years now. And you cannot find any identification to show NGA exists there. Yet, we have about 26 outstations across the country. ‘’We may adopt Public-Private partnership arrangement to raise funds for the project. I know for sure that building such an edifice is not a day’s work, but we can start from somewhere. And it will grow from there,’’ he said.  Overcoming challenges It is a huge challenge running a parastatal like NGA. Till date, many top government officials cannot differentiate the functions of National Commission for Museums and Monuments from that of NGA and National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC). To this end, we are planning to host members of the two National Assembly committees on culture to rub minds on these key agencies’ needs and mandates including having edifice that represent the quality and quantity of works Nigeria has. Again agency like Centre for Black and African Arts and Civilisation (CBAAC) deserves same edifice that will house its collections, which maybe in poor state like those of NGA and NCAC. Resuscitating major art programmes and image of NGA ‘’Truly, NGA has been doing some of its programmes but in few months these will be forgotten. However, we will still do the major ones, but we have not been able to hold major ones, such as ARESUVA, that we transformed to Biennale. This is worrisome.  In fact, we need to resuscitate these programmes and possibly trim them. ‘’As for the Aina Onabolu Complex in Lagos, it is unfortunate that as at today, it is the only property NGA has. Yet, we have not given it adequate attention. But it is going to be of priority to us now. We will soon be in Lagos for a Christmas exhibition featuring works from our collection. Hopefully, we will turn the complex around.   Celebrating producer of FESTAC mask, Pa Joseph Igbinovia Alufa On November 26, NGA will hold an exhibition of the artist’s works and images in Benin City. Already, a documentary is being done on him because up till now, no single write up on him. Remember that Pa Alufa rescued the Black race from British embarrassment when Britain refused to return the original Queen Idia mask that was used for FESTAC 77 symbol. On this note, we decided to put a search light on him and project his works to the world. The exhibition will be accompanied with a book  Scorecard in the last six months “I came in at a time programmes of NGA were no longer coming up as regularly as before due to paucity of funds. Even though the Gallery account was almost empty at the time, I was convinced that we could bring NGA back to reckoning again. For me, programmes are the soul of any government organisation. There are no excuses for not executing them on a regular basis. As a foundation staff, I looked back to NGA’s glorious past and I was poised to turn the table, money or no money. Hence, I rolled up my sleeves and dared management and staff of NGA to think outside the box and bring back that glory. On July 8, at Cyprian Ekwensi Centre for Arts & Culture, Abuja, NGA held a programme tagged, Rainbow art: Unlocking creativity designed to tap the hidden creative genius of children and youth to the admiration of the culture community. Between July 16 and 20 at Exhibition Pavilion, Opposite Radio House, Abuja, NGA staged a major art exhibition featuring the works of Nigeria’s revered artist and scholar, Prof. Jimo Akolo titled, Jimo Akolo: Eminent Scholar and Painter. A comprehensive book publication documenting the life and works of the Professor emerged from the programme. Also, between July 26 and 28, at the same Exhibition Pavilion, Radio House, Abuja,  NGA held another major exhibition and a standard book showcasing and documenting the works of the iconic artist and architect, Demas Nwoko titled, Demas Nwoko: Renowned Artist and Outstanding Architect emerged. From August 22 to 24, NGA was in Benin at the Conference Hall, Protea Hotel, staging another major exhibition tagged, Art of Benin Kingdom: Complementing Coronation and Igue Festival. A rich publication on Benin Art was equally presented at the occasion. On August 30, NGA was at Igbo-Ukwu, Anambra State where it had a successful and colourful art exhibition to mark this year’s New Yam Festival. The exhibition was received with applause by the indigenes and visitors. On the 2018 Senior Staff Promotion, I released funds for it to be conducted. The result barring any delay will be released soon.  Arrangement is also ongoing for that of 2019 and all things being equal will be held before the end of the year.  Staff welfare Welfare is a priority to me. It is a motivation that the staff needs to perform at optimum. So, when I met backlogs of security and cleaners’ salaries among others, I had to deal with the issue decisively. I began by offsetting three months at once from the meagre allocation the organization received. I have since then been able to maintain regular payment to them. I ensured that a considerable amount is set aside to offset backlogs of Staff Welfare stipends.   ‘I came in at a time programmes of NGA were no longer coming up as regularly as before due to paucity of funds. Even though the Gallery account was almost empty at the time, I was convinced that we could bring NGA back to reckoning again’