A Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday voided the candidacy of the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Saturday’s governorship election. Justice Inyang Ekwo held that Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo gave false information in his CF0001 form submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to contest the election. Ekwo said he found no nexus in the name on his school leaving certificate, first degree (BA), Master’s and the affidavits to which he he sworn. The judgment was in a case by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), its governorship and deputy governorship candidates – Senator Douye Diri and Senator Lawrence Ewhruojakpo. Defendants in the suits were the APC, INEC, Degi-Eremienyo and the party’s governorship candidate, Senator David Pereworinmin Lyon The judge noted that all the documents the APC deputy governorship candidate tendered documents bore different names. He further noted that the names on the school leaving certificate obtained in 1978, the WASC/GCE certificate of 1984, the first degree and master’s certificates were all different. The judge proceeded to disqualify Degi-Eremienyo  on the grounds that he presented documents of academic qualifications with various variations of names different from the name that appeared on his Form CF001. The different names  on the documents attached to his Form CF001 were listed as  Biobarakum Degi-Eremienyo, Degi Biobaragha, Degi Biobarakuma, Adegi Biobakunmo, Degi-Eremienyo Wangagha. Degi-Eremienyo was said to have claimed to have obtained “his First School Leaving Certificate in 1976” and presented to INEC “a First Leaving School Certificate of one Degi Biobaragha other than the one bearing his name Biobaragha Degi-Eremieoyo as shown in his INEC Form CF001”. He was equally found to have said he “obtained his West African Examinations Council General Certificate of Education in 1984” and presented to INEC, “a GCE certificate of one Adegi Bibakuo other than the one bearing his name Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieoyo as shown in his INEC Form CF001.” Justice Ekwo said there was no evidence to prove that the documents with different names were those of the deputy governorship candidate. The judge said: “I further hold that the information given by the 3rd defendant on Form CF001 that the documents thereto attached are his, have not by any iota of credible evidence been so established. “The information is false in all material particular as none of the said documents have any nexus with the name of the 3rd defendant (Degi-Eremienyo) on the said Form CF001.” Justice Ekwo went further to declare “that the information which the 3rd defendant submitted to the 2nd defendant in his INEC Form CF001, that, affidavit in support of personal particulars of person seeking election to the office of the Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State is false contrary to section 31(5) of the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended).” ”A declaration is hereby made that by virtue of the mandatory constitutional and statutory provisions of sections 6(6), 186 and 187(1) and (2) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the 3rd defendant stands disqualified from contesting the forthcoming Bayelsa State governorship election as deputy governor, slated for November 16, 2019 or any other state thereabout on the platform of the 1st defendant (APC) or any other political party by reason of the fact that the 3rd defendant has presented false information as to his educational qualifications or name in INEC Form CF001 in support of his nomination contrary to section 31(5) and (6) of the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended). “A declaration is hereby made that the 3rd defendant cannot present his names, official documents and, or educational certificates to the 1st and 2d defendants in the following variations as: (a.) Biobarakum Degi-Eremienyo (b) Degi Biobaragha, Degi Biobarakuma, Adegi Biobakunmo, Degi-Eremienyo Wangagha all variously contained in different certificates or personal documents being paraded by the 3rd defendant and presented dcuments bearing all the said names to the 1st and 2nd defendants without any valid change of name. “A declaration is hereby made that by virtue of the mandatory cnstitutional and statutory provisions of sections 6(6) and 187(1) and (2) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), and section 31(5) and (6) f the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended), the 3rd defendant, who swore on oath vide his 2019 INEC Form CF001 – affidavit in support of Personal Particulars of persons seeking election to the Office of the Deputy Governor that he obtained his West African Examinations Council General Certificate of Education in 1984 and presented to the 2nd defendant a GCE certifcate of oen Adegi Bibakuo other than the one in his name Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieoyo as shown in his INEC Form CF001, has presented false information in support of his nomination to the 2nd defendant contrary to section 31(5) and (6) f the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended). “A declaration is hereby made that by virtue of the mandatory constitutional and statutory provisions of sections 6(6), 186 and 187(1) and (2) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the 3rd defendant stands disqualified from contesting the forthcoming Bayelsa State governorship election as deputy governor, slated for November 16, 2019 or any other state thereabout on the platform of the 1st defendant or any other political party by reason of the fact that the 3rd defendant has presented false information as to his educational qualifications or name in INEC Form CF001 in support of his nomination contrary to section 31(5) and (6) of the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended).” “An order is hereby made disqualifying the 3rd defendant as the deputy governorship candidate at the 1st defendant in the November 16, 2019 Bayelsa State governorship election by reason of the 3rd defendant presenting false information to the 2nd defendant (INEC) in support of his nomination contrary to section 31(5) and (6) of the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended).”