A LECTURER in the Faculty of Science, Lagos State University (LASU) Dr. Ogunwande Isiaka Ajani has gone to the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) to challenge his dismissal from the university over allegations of sexual harassment. According to court processes obtained by News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Ogunwande was dismissed by LASU following complaints by a female student, Miss Yusuf Abosede, who reported Ogunwande’s alleged amorous overtures towards her which she found distasteful. In the suit filed through his counsel, Akinyemi Oladipo, the claimant joined the Governing Council Lagos State University, the Vice-Chancellor, the Registrar and the Chairman Joint Council/Senate (Academic) Disciplinary Committee Lagos State University as co-defendants. Ogunwande, in his originating summons, alleged that he was not given fair hearing during the investigation conducted into the matter by the defendants before he was dismissed. The defendants, however, in their joint response through their counsel, A. O. Agbola of Cheakley Chambers has asked the court to dismiss the suit on the ground that it is frivolous and baseless and totally lacking in merit. In her complaints against Ogunwande, the student had alleged that the lecturer harassed her sexually. While appealing to the authorities to save her from the harrowing experience, hinted that the lecturer was going to conduct a test for them on Friday February 17th, 2017. To ascertain the truth about the student’s allegation, the security operatives were placed on alert. After the test, the lecturer was said to have invited the female student to his office where he told her to forget about the test she just wrote with her colleagues as it would not be counted for her. According to the documents filed in court, the claimant was alleged to have told the student that a special private tutorial session where she would re-write the test has been arranged for her in his office the following Sunday, February 19, 2017. The female student informed the authorities in details her discussion with the lecturer. Unknown to Ogunwande, security operatives were monitoring the situation and at about 11.00 am on Sunday, February 19th 2017 when the student entered, they waited for the right time before they swooped on the lecturer and the student. Both were arrested while the script for the re-write test was also seized. 