From Sam Ibok and Mcdouggie Ekperikpe  Governor Udom Emmanuel has pledged to turn Akwa Ibom State University (AKSU) to a centre of excellence, conducive for learning and research. The governor made this known while addressing the fourth and fifth convocation of AKSU held in its main campus at Ikot Akpaden, Mkpat Enin. He said his administration places premium on education and human resource development and promised that more infrastructure will be provided to enhance the capacity of the school to produced graduates that can compete on the world stage. Emmanuel announced post-graduate scholarships to two best performing graduates of the university in any country of their choice. He congratulated the graduating students on their diligence to acquire the Golden Fleece, urging them to be true ambassadors of the university. Making a donation of N10 million to all the recipients, Emmanuel charged them not to rest on their oars after graduation but to explore opportunities in a competitive global society.  The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Eno Ibanga, announced that AKSU is set to start post-graduate studies in the programmes of the institution and thanked Emmanuel for his support, especially in providing funds for the accreditation of all academic programmes. Ibanga lauded the governor for the landmark infrastructure development across the length and breadth of the academic community both at Ikot Akpaden and Obio Akpa campuses of the university. At the event, the patriarch of Ibibio and Chairman, Akwa Ibom State Council of Chiefs, Nteyin Solomon Etuk, was awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters. Okuibom Ibibio, who is the chancellor of the University, expressed delight about the award. He described as memorable the honour done him during the 10th Anniversary of the institution. The monarch applauded the giant strides recorded and thanked Emmanuel for his commitment to make AKSU a centre of excellence. Awajimokpe Adasi, one of the graduands from the Department of Political Science, told CAMPUSLIFE that he was excited to be a graduate. “Securing a first degree has been the joy of my life” he said. About 2,000 students graduated; of which 41 bagged First Class; 509, Second Class Upper; 1,094 got second class lower; 352 made third class and four had pass degrees. High point of the convocation was the presentation of a souvenir to Emmanuel by Ibanga.