Airline operators, Nigeria Police Force, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and other insurance consumers have accused insurance operators of delayed claims and non-payment of claims in some cases. They have threatened to dump local insurers. OMOBOLA TOLU-KUSIMO reports. The customer is king school of thinking and how to treat him has always formed a major discourse when analysing customer service. Besides, experts have said customers’ satisfaction is central to the sustainability and success of every business, insurance inclusive. But consumers of insurance products have complained of operator’s poor customer service, mainly over delayed and non-payment of claims. To ensure better delivery of quality services to policyholders, National Insurance Commssion (NAICOM) organised a forum for consumers. The event tagged ‘’Interactive session with major consumers of insurance products’, which was ttended by airline operators, including Air Peace, Dana, SkyJet, as well as the Nigeria Police Force, Ministry of Defence, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), and Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN),which engaged the operators, accusing them of not paying genuine claims after collecting their premiums. They threatened to boycott operators and insure abroad where they were sure of getting value. The operators blamed consumers who have encountered non-payment of claims, for not reading through policy documents to know the terms of conditions. SkyJet Aviation Services Limited Chairman, Alhaji Kashim Shettima said insurance firms do not have the capacity to insure airlines. Shettima, who is also a member of Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), said it had become difficult getting insurance firms to pay claims. He said: “I used to insure my aircraft and its maintenance with a broker in South Africa under the Lloyds of London and was paying foreign currencies. I did this because I was getting value but at some point I decided to obey the Local Content Act just to support my country by insuring with local operators. But now, I believe I made a mistake taking this step. I have four aircraft, which I insured with local insurers and use to pay $22,000 premium quarterly. Nigerian insurers got 85 percent of the business while 15 per cent was given to a foreign insurer. At present, I have a $700,000 claim and they do not want to pay me. They come up with different excuses not to pay. “The broker even asked to get things sorted for me while I share claims with him. This is the kind of thing that is going on in the insurance industry and yet NAICOM is insisting that we must insure 70 per cent of our business in Nigeria. What is NAICOM doing to curtail the malpractice and lack of capacity of the insurance operators? Enough is enough and very soon, we will boycott local insurers, if they do not change and give us value for our money.” The Managing Director, Air Peace Airline, Oluwatoyin Olajide, said insurance firms deliberately refuse to pay claims. She cited a fire incident at the Air Peace warehouse in January 2017. “We had a fire incident at our maintenance and facilities at the local under writer here and filed for claims from the underwriters. They sent their loss adjusters to come and look at incident and evaluate how much claim was due to us. At the end, the claim was valued at $973, 291. This was done in June 2017 and we started following up with them for the payment. But we could only get $290,235.37 from the claim. For two years, we wrote to NAICOM, complaining about the non-payment of the remaining claim but got no response. “We later got response from the lead underwriter who informed us that they couldn’t get their reinsurer to pay and so we the insured will have to wait. They made us to suffer and at the end we had to engage the services of a lawyer to assist us because after writing to NAICOM, we still didn’t get a favourable response. NAICOM even told us in one their responses that we should cooperatete and listen to the plea of the underwriter. After like over two years, the underwriters came to us for final settlement and offered to pay $478,138. So, this made Air Peace to take a loss of over $200,000. This is why I said it is really a challenge getting insurance companies to pay your claim when they need to.” Nigeria Civil Aviation authority (NCAA) General Manager, Mrs Oyerinde M. O., said their position was that NIACOM and airline should rejig the NAICOM Act. She noted that claims should be paid promptly, so that airlines could maintain their aircraft. She disclosed that the airlines had written NCAA and they found out that there were a lot of issues and that it was on this ground that they wrote to NAICOM. ‘’We have also reported the issues at the ministerial level,’’ she said. She, however, proposed that the NCAA, NAICOM, insurance companies and airline operators should come together and speak on the issues first to see, if they could be resolved. The representative of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Martha Eche, said the underwriters had not been paying death benefits promptly to the Next-of-Kin of deceased officers. “We operate under the Office of Head of Service of the Federation and we have been on life insurance policy. The areas that bother us is the length of time it takes for claims to be paid. This is despite that it takes time for a next-of-kin who has lost loved ones to come forward. When they eventually come forward, the insurers will not want to pay their claims. At the end, we always bothered in the office by the NOKs,’’ she said. NCRIB President, Mrs Bola Onigbogi, advised consumers to engage a broker to avoid having problems with their claims. Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Olorundare Sunday Thomas, said: “Policyholders remain a key component of our primary constituency and, therefore, must ensure they are treated fairly and protected as enshrine in the relevant laws; while balancing the supervisory role of ensuring financial soundness and reliability of insurance institutions. “Suffice it to say that consumers are faced with challenges that may vary from one individual or entity’s experience to another while the provider is faced with constraints that may also differ from one company to the other. But there are no doubt regular interactions such as this one will, among others, foster a better understanding and synergy that will result to better services to the consumer. The President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), Eddie Efekoha, said debunked claims that underwriters do not pay genuine claims. Efekoha, who is also the Managing Director of Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc, explained that the insured don’t understand the terms of their policies. On insurers not having capacity, he said: “It is true you will say insurance companies in Nigeria are small companies and not capitalised but insurance is about spreading of risks. No country’s insurance industry has been able to insure his own risk 100 per cent. Even in the United Kingdom, British Airways is not insured 100 per cent in the country. Emirates is also not insured 100 per cent in the United Arab Emirates. The same applies to Nigeria.This is why we have the reinsurers and the retrocessionaire, meaning that you’re the insured, we are the insurers, there are reinsurers and then the retrocessionaire. So, the risk sharing goes on like that. I think we just need to understand how insurance operates. “Just like the airlines are in business to make profit, insurance companies are in business to make profit. We have been using our capital to subsidise our clients’ claims because premiums are going down and claims are increasing, so, what do we do? It’s not your fault, it’s our fault because competition is forcing us to do so many things but as I said our consumers are kings and I believe we can resolve all these problems. NAICOM intervened on the issue between the market and Air Peace. Yes, they appointed a lawyer. But, honestly, we value the aviation clients. We are doing well. As I said in every relationship, there will be differences. How do we resolve the differences? I think that is what is important? If you say you don’t want to insure here at all, if NAICOM permits, no problem. “I know that the Air Peace CEO has been rigidly conservative with the facts because we all know what happened. They left Nigeria and paid premium abroad and when the claims happened they wanted the insurance companies here to pay. NAICOM, as a regulator, is aware of the situation but I agree that we should have a close door and whatever is right we do it so that both parties and all parties can get their value. This will be my recommendation.”