 The Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Monday expressed joy about the victory of Governor Dapo Abiodun at the Appeal Court sitting in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. It described it as a reaffirmation of his divine mandate. The Appeal Court yesterday dismissed the appeal filed against Abiodun and APC by the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) and its candidate, Mr. Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade and upheld the victory verdict earlier given by the Election Petition Tribunal in Abeokuta. Addressing reporters at the party secretariat on Abiola Way, Abeokuta, shortly after the appeal judgment, the Publicity Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, said the victory verdict was a true reflection of the overwhelming wishes of Ogun people as freely expressed in the March 9, 2019 governorship election. Oladunjoye, therefore, urged politicians and non-politicians who genuinely desire the peace and progress of the Gateway State to join hands with Governor Abiodun, who believes in politics without bitterness, to take the state to the next level. He said: “The All Progressives Congress (APC),  in Ogun State, wishes to give glory to Almighty God for the reaffirmation of the divine mandate given to our party and governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, with the dismissal of the appeal filed by the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). “We see the judgement of the Appeal Court as a true reflection of the overwhelming wishes of Ogun People, freely expressed in the March 9, 2019 governorship election. “The party believes that the latest judgment from the Appeal Court will put an end to the side distractions of this budding political association touting unmerited mandate. “We wish to express our profound appreciation to the people of Ogun State, not only for the given mandate, but also for the support they have continued to give to the Dapo Abiodun-led administration. Same goes for the mass media. This unconditional support, we assure, will not be taken for granted. “In line with the campaign promise of His Excellency the governor, the administration has been running and will continue to run an inclusive government. “It therefore behoves politicians and non-politicians who genuinely desire the peace and progress of our dear state to join hands with our governor, who believes in politics without bitterness.” Abiodun described his victory as a triumph of truth and democracy. The governor, who spoke yesterday in Abeokuta, said: “Today’s victory is a triumph of truth and democracy. I give all the glory to the Almighty God, for I remain a testimony to his faithfulness. We specially thank our team of lawyers led by Prof. Taiwo Osipitan for their exemplary professionalism, diligence and masterful delivery of points of law. “We appreciate the leadership of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), for their steadfastness and support.”