The increasing failure rate of indigenous carriers is forcing airlines to think out of the box to avoid being listed among disappearing airlines. To reverse the trend, some airlines with half a decade of operational experience have embraced sustainability models, such as route scheduling/planning, fleet variety, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports.  Aircraft fleet variety is increasingly becoming a strategy adopted by Nigerian carriers to keep their operations afloat. Fleet variety is a model adopted by an airline to have various brands of airplanes: Boeing, Embraer, Bombardier, Airbus, MacDonald Douglass, ATR, Fokker, Beecraft, Learjets, Hawker Siddley, among others, in its fleet. This is opposed to an arrangement called fleet commonality, where an airline uses the same airplane type – Boeing, Airbus or Embraer – in its fleet. Such a decision, experts say, is key for airlines, which are economic enablers moving passengers and cargo from one point to another. Airlines as key players in the logistics value chain are thinking out of the box on how to deploy suitable equipment in delivering on their mandate. To achieve this feat, operators are evolving models that meet the needs of airports and passengers to keep their airline profitable. Data from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) shows that out of the active scheduled airlines- Aero, Arik, Medview, Dana Air, First Nation Airways, Overland Airways, AZMAN Air and  Max Air, in the last five years, only Air Peace has embraced fleet variety as a strategy to keep its operations profitable. An official of the Authority confided in The Nation, that at the inception of the Air Peace on October 24, 2014, the airline seemed to have worked out an operational model of fleet variety to drive its profitability in the harsh business environment. Experts say the use of the right aircraft, route scheduling and planning remains key in keeping any carrier profitable. In the last decade, many airlines have kissed the dust because their managers failed to adopt models that would have achieved cost recovery. Former Secretary-General, African Airlines Association  (AFRAA), Mr Nick Fadugba, said carriers fail  because their owners failed to adopt the right strategies, which include wrong choice of equipment, over taxation by aeronautical authorities and failure by the owners to think out of the box. Investigations by The Nation revealed that Air Peace seems to have put its strategy on track when it designed the hub and spoke  model a few years ago. Hub and Spoke is an arrangement that allows airlines to serve fewer routes using few but suitable aircraft that allows for passenger connections. It helps airlines to improve the efficiency of their services. To achieve this feat, the carrier kicked off the “No City Left Behind initiative “to integrate cities across the country with low capacity aircraft. This model, experts say, is critical to connecting the entire country into the national air link to promote economic activities across the value chain. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the carrier Allen Onyema said many Nigerian carriers failed because their managers do not understand the appropriate operational model that will enhance the efficiency of operations. He cited fleet variety and its management as a key factor in airline success. Experts say the growth trajectory of an airline could be attributed to its modest route expansion programme driven by passengers needs assessment. To drive the route expansion of the airline, Air Peace in September signed an agreement with United States aircraft manufacturer – Boeing Company for the acquisition of 10 Boeing 737-800 aircraft. The reason for the new generation aircraft type was driven by its fuel economy and suitability for long and medium-haul flights. With the acquisition, the carrier became the first airline in West Africa to add the equipment to its fleet. Boeing Vice President, Sales for Middle East, Turkey, Russia, Central Asia & Africa, Marty Bentrott said: “Africa is a growing market for commercial airplanes and we are proud that airlines like Air Peace are selecting Boeing aircraft to be part of that growth,” adding: “This order reflects the strong demand that we are seeing for the 737 MAX as airlines choose the airplane’s superior performance and reliability.” The Sales Director, Boeing Commercial Airplanes (West and Central Africa), Mr. Larry Tolliver, said such strategy by an airline to get the right fleet for its operations was enough demonstration of understanding dynamics in the rapidly-changing market.  Options for Boeing 737 Max airplanes Investigations by The Nation revealed that the carrier opted for the Boeing 737-800 Max airplane because the equipment offers 130 to 230 seats and the ability to fly up to 3,850 nautical miles. Besides, the aircraft type will save the carrier more than 20 percent fuel costs compared to its single-aisle airplanes. “We are excited to add the 737 MAX to our fleet as we expand our network to offer more destinations and serve more passengers. The fuel efficiency and superior operating economics of the 737 MAX will ensure that the aircraft will play a major role in growing our business in the years to come,” Onyema said, adding that the MAX 8, in particular, offers airlines 13 more seats than its closest competitor, seven percent lower costs for each of those seats, and 300 miles more range.”  Embraer to the rescue To confirm the airlines’ preference for variety, the firm many months ago signed an order for 10 Embraer regional jets, with purchase rights for 20 more jets. Onyema said the carrier will exercise its purchase rights for the 20 additional Embraer planes by the end of the year to expand its domestic and African routes. He said: “We need those Embraers; they’re very beautiful planes,” he said. “We may call up those rights very soon. There are so many places to serve in Nigeria, west and central Africa and down to the southern part of the continent. “It’s also great that we will be the first E2 operator on the African continent. We already have the ERJ145s in our fleet. So, we understand the high standards of Embraer products.” “Deliveries of the 10 E195-E2 planes will start next year and will be deployed to domestic, African and Southern European destinations. “We are operating a mixed fleet of 25 aircraft including Boeing 737s and 777 widebodies, Embraer ERJ145 regional jets and Dornier 328 planes. Air Peace plans to grow its fleet to 45 aircraft as the new Embraers join in 2020.”  Appraisal of  five years in  operations Investigations by The Nation in the last five of operations by Air Peace reveals that besides having the highest number of serviceable aircraft also has the highest number of flights. Data from NCAA shows that Air Peace last year flew not any fewer than three million passengers. The carrier, it learnt, would exceed the milestone in the year as some of its aircraft ferried out for offshore maintenance arrive the country. In a statement, the airline’s Chief Operating Officer, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Olajide, said through effective deployment of a variety fleet, the carriers have altered the travel narrative. Olajide said: “In 2020, Air Peace projects it would more than double the number of passengers carried to about seven or eight million people as it introduces more long-haul services and gets deliveries of more aircraft.  City pairs /Under-served airports To ensure every part of the country is linked by air, the carrier a few years ago launched its novel initiative christened: ‘No City is Left Behind’ to capture secondary airports not served by other carriers. This drive, experts say, has seen direct flight connections using medium-range equipment, such as the Embraer Regional Jets and Dornier Jets to cater to the needs of passengers on the Lagos-Abuja-Kebbi, Lagos-Akure, Lagos-Makurdi, Lagos-Asaba, Lagos-Benin, Lagos-Osubi, Lagos-Kano and Lagos- Sokoto routes. These routes network, experts say, has created a hub and spoke connection for the airline using suitable operating equipment. International aero: Politics /evacuation As Nigerians slug it out with foreign carriers, which have invaded its market carting away millions of dollars yearly in ticket sales, agitation remains rife on why the government should intervene by either reviewing the bilateral air services agreement it signed with many countries or at the least reduce multiple entry points into its market. Air Peace has, in the last five years, been calling on the government to empower indigenous carriers by getting more involved in international aero politics. The absence of a national carrier in the last one and a half decades exposed the underbelly of the industry in what role such airline could plan in times of national emergency. But, Air Peace rose to the occasion about two months ago, when its Onyema volunteered two Boeing 777- 500 to evacuate Nigerians trapped in xenophobic attacks in South Africa. The patriotic gesture by the carrier was  commended by the Federal and state governments and individuals as well as the National Assembly. Experts say the carrier was used an instrument of diplomacy.  Regional /Intercontinental operations Though many indigenous carriers were designated on regional and international routes, many that activated the designation have since disappeared from the flight radar for several reasons. But, in the last five years, through the deployment of a variety fleet, and adequate planning, among others, Air Peace has maintained the lead in flights in the West African subregion. Besides, Accra in Ghana, Lome in Togo, Dakar in Senegal, Banjul in The Gambia, the carrier has remained consistent with its flight’s connections to boost trade, investment, and tourism in the sub-region. Only recently, the Republic of South Africa gave the nod to operate daily flights between Lagos and Johannesburg. Experts say the carrier, with its suitable variety of aircraft fleet, continues to stimulate competition on the Lagos-Dubai route with its operations into Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates, a move calculated to break the dominance of the Gulf carriers – Emirates, Qatar Airways and Etihad Airlines. It is believed that the airline’s foray into Dubai will be a forerunner for its proposed flight operations into London, India and New York.  Clamour for Govt’s intervention Operators believe sufficient intervention by the government will assist indigenous carriers to develop the air transport sub-sector. They said reduction or harmonization of aeronautical charges would reduce the burden of operators, who, they said are faced with a myriad of challenges, which include an absence of local refining of aviation fuel, poor airport, and air communication facilities. Onyema said of the challenges: “We thank President Muhammadu Buhari for creating an enabling environment for the growth of aviation in Nigeria through waving customs duties on commercial aircraft, engines and spares as well as granting value-added tax (VAT) waiver. “Without these noble gestures from the government, airlines would not have been able to achieve this level of growth  growth. Indeed, if this tempo is sustained, then stakeholders are convinced that Air Peace will soon become what Emirates airline is to UAE to Nigeria.