 A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in Gwagwalada, Abuja, on Thursday granted bail to former Chairman of the Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, and his former Secretary, Mrs. Ann Igwe Olachi. Justice Abubakar Kutigi, in the ruling, granted Maina bail at N100 million, while Olachi got bail at N10 million. The ruling was on their separate bail applications, which they filed after they were arraigned on November 20, 2019. Maina and Olachi were accused of  dishonestly receiving stolen money, estimated at N738 million. Justice Idris ordered both defendants to produced two sureties, who must be responsible citizens and residents within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The sureties, the judge ordered, must show evidence of tax payment for three years and must deposit statutory certificates of occupancy (C of O) on the property. He said the sureties most provide addresses to be verified by the court’s Registrar, and that they submit their two recent passport photographs to the court. Justice Idris also ordered the defendants to deposit all passports and travel documents in court; enter into an undertaking not to interfere with investigation and to be present during trial, and must report to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) every fortnight. The EFCC is the prosecuting agency. On November 25, 2019, a Federal High Court in Abuja granted Maina N1 billion bail in another charge in which he is accused of diverting public funds and laundering about N2 billion. Maina is standing trial before the court on alleged diversion of public funds estimated at about N2 billion, among other money laundering-related offences. In a ruling on November 25, 2019, Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court also ordered Maina to produce two sureties who must be serving senators. The sureties, the judge said, must not be standing any criminal trial in any court in the country. The judge added that the two sureties, who must each sign a N500 million bond, should always accompany Maina to court. He said the sureties could be from any part of the country, but must have landed property fully developed in Asokoro or Maitama District of Abuja with statutory C of O issued by relevant departments in the Ministry of Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “The Chief Registrar of this court shall, in writing, ascertain the validity or otherwise of the certificates of occupancy,” Justice Abang said. The judge said the sureties shall each submit three years’ tax clearance certificates. He ordered the defendant to deposit his United States (U.S.A) passports with the court’s Chief Registrar, pending the conclusion of trial.  