Duku JOEL, Damaturu The new chairman of Yobe State Universal Basic Education Board and immediate past Vice Chancellor of Yobe State University Prof. Musa Alabe has announced his intention to take up a teaching job at the primary school in the State. Prof. Alabe who spoke to journalists Tuesday in Damaturu after taking over the helms of affairs of the board said he want to bring in dignity, quality leadership and show the primary teachers that they have one of the best profession on the surface of earth. “This is a call to service. This is a state service I have developed the Engineering Department when I was the Dean of Faculty of Engineering at Bayero University, Kano, I developed the promotion guidelines for Covenant University. I have done so many things. Our Basic education is the most important for all sector of education. We are building the future of our state and I am happy to part of that. “A collapsed education system will lead to a collapsed future. I know not even a Phd holder has held this office before in our state. We need the highest even if there someone that is more than a professor to come and rejig, retool and rejuvenate and redirect the system. I want to tell you here categorically that I will take over teaching in primary school to show the importance of teaching in primary school. In Germany for instance, if you are teaching in primary school, you earn one of the highest salaries in the land but here we look at it differently. I want to bring out the importance of teaching in primary school and by so doing I hope to start next week. Every week, I will be going round to teach in the primary schools. I want to be part of the teachers and make them proud and show them that they have the best profession on the surface of the earth,” Prof. Alabe declared. The former Dean of Faculty of Engineering at Bayero University, Kano who also build the State university from the Scratch said he is not unware of the challenges of basic education in the state which he noted need to be rejigged, retooled and rejuvenated in line with the vision of Gov. Mai Mala Buni. “I am not new to assignments like this. Everybody knows that when I took over Yobe State university, it was virtually an empty university but by the time I left eight years later, it became a full fledged university with all the courses accredited. It was a great challenge working for eight years 24/7 to build that university. I known that the expectations are very much but we will pray, work hard, commit ourselves and we will see light at the end of the tunnel,” he said. Speaking about his zero tolerance to corruption and sub-standard work, the Civil Engineering professor warned unscrupulous contractors to stay off from the board as his tenure will not comprise on quality of work. “Like I mentioned earlier, I was in Kukareta on a private visit because I know there was a problem there and I said it publicly so that everybody will know that this new leadership will not compromise standard non-condone sharp practices by contractors because that has been the bane of our problem. They put substandard buildings and after three month or so they go back for renovation to spend more money. We cannot tolerate that. We will also make sure that our teachers are train and re-trained to meet the best standard,” Prof. Alabe assured.  Speaking on his strategy to mop up low enrollment especially among the female children, the new SUBEB boss said; “We are going to employ a lot of strategy. Some I know but some I don’t even know them. But as I sit and take briefs from everybody, we will get to know some of the challenges and how to deal with them squarely. The governor is aware of these challenges and he is passionate in turning around basic education in Yobe State. He is passionate in transforming education in Yobe State. Our task is to assist the governor to achieve his goal”. He noted that his leadership will be up and doing to attract more interventions to the board in addition to the existing linkages of SUBEB to donors and agencies. “Already, SUBEB has a lot of linkages but I think that is not enough. We need to go out and look for our interventions because we are in a disaster area. I will go out and look for these helps. I cannot seat in this chair and be rolling here in Damaturu and expect those interventions to come and meet us here. I know it’s a heavy task and I am ready to go out to rejuvenate education in the state.”