   African Democratic Congress (ADC), Labour Party (LP) and 78 other parties that participated in the last general election in Ogun State have expressed satisfaction about Governor Dapo Abiodun’s style of governance. The 80 parties also passed a vote of confidence in Abiodun, saying the destiny of the Gateway State is in “safe, capable and prudent hands,” having proved himself to be a competent manager of the state’s resources. The parties made this known yesterday when the team led by the Chairman of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), comprising 81 political parties in Ogun State, Comrade  Abayomi Arabambi, visited the governor at his Oke- Mosan Governor’s Office, Abeokuta, and expressed their  readiness to work with the government to take the state to the next level. Arabambi said all the parties that contested for the March 9 governorship election in the state, except “the only one that is in the Court of Appeal”, have examined the activities of Governor Abiodun and concluded that he has identified the issues that brought failure to the state in recent years and has also put measures in place to sort them out. He said: “We found out that you have extensively identified policies and programmes that brought us failure as a state and set up various interventions, using the instrumentalities of the law to pursue the aspirations of Ogun State people. “These various remarkable interventions have highly impacted on the performance of your government in key sectors such as education, health, housing, security, agriculture, financial discipline and other core government businesses. “You have consistently and strongly justified your rating as a big name in the business of managing men and resources. In a short space of time, you have remained committed to all matters of development in the state. “It is now clear that the destiny of our great state is in the hands of a capable, prudent and competent manager of resources. Your government shall not just make a difference, but shall be different.” Comrade Arabambi, who is also the state chairman of the LP, called for the establishment of a joint Government/IPAC platform for an inclusive partnership that would include major stakeholders in the state. The former Political Adviser to President Olusegun Obasanjo, Dr. Gbolade Osinowo, said the governor has written his name in gold by deliberately promoting an inclusive governance that embraces all political divides. Osinowo, who is the chairman of ADC in the state, added that Abiodun has continued to demonstrate that he is not a “lone ranger who claims to know it all.” The foremost politician noted that the governor is desirous of tapping from the experience of the people, irrespective of their political leanings, to run his government