The President of the International Olympics Committee (IOC), Thomas Bach has just paid a two-day working visit to Nigeria for the commissioning of the headquarters of the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA), SEGUN OGUNJIMI reports.  The President of International Olympics Committee (IOC) Thomas Bach was overwhelmed with the reception accorded him by the Federal Government led by Minister of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare on Wednesday, November 13 at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport. The Sports Minister reeled out the significance and benefits of the visit of the IOC boss to Nigeria. He disclosed that the visit of the IOC President to the country will help re-emphasise that Nigeria is highly respected in sports among the comity of nations. The minister said: “You will agree with me that for Nigeria, the visit by the IOC President and his team is quite significant as it shows the place of Nigeria in the heart of the International Olympic Movement and it is also a clear sign that Nigeria is highly respected in the sports sector among the comity of African Nations. “There is no doubt that Nigeria is in the vanguard of promoting the noble ideals of the Olympic Movement in Africa, which is well displayed by the country’s commitment to the construction of the headquarters of the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA), especially since 2006 when Nigeria won the bid to host the headquarters. “The visit of the IOC President to Nigeria to specifically commission the secretariat is a clear indication of the commitment of the present administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure the development of sports in Africa as a whole and Nigeria in particular. It is further a testament to our return to greater transparency in sports administration, which is engendering trust in Nigeria’s capacity to implement international best practices.” The IOC President also visited the Moshood Abiola Stadium where he inspected the facilities of both Package A and B of the stadium and also asked questions regarding the facilities. Bach also paid a courtesy visit to the Presidential Villa in Abuja where he was warmly received by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in the absence of President Muhammadu Buhari. The IOC President met with Olympians, Olympic scholarship holders and he informed them of many programmes and opportunities of upgrading themselves through so many programmes on the IOC online platforms.  ANOCA headquarters in Jahi, Abuja The Sports Minister on Thursday, November 14, broke a ten-year jinx as he led an international delegation with the President of the IOC to commission the secretariat of the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA). The development effectively makes Abuja the Olympics City for Africa, according to the IOC President. The minister described the event as “a landmark in the development of sports on the continent of Africa. It is a day that the entire black race should be proud of. And as Nigerians, we are proud to be a major contributor to the actualisation of this day. “Aside from the obvious fact of the commissioning of the building that would from today be the administrative and technical hub of sports administration on the continent, we also have in our midst, leaders of the world governing body for sports, ably led by the President of the International Olympic Committee, Dr. Thomas Bach. “The journey to this day started some 13 years ago when Nigeria alongside six other African countries bided to host the headquarters of ANOCA and become the Olympic capital of Africa. After a rigorous selection process, Nigeria was eventually selected as the host country for the umbrella body of the Olympic movement in Africa at the General Assembly, which took place in Kenya in June 2006. “With the selection and signing of the Headquarters Cooperation Agreement on February 21, 2007, the ANOCA Secretariat, hitherto in Yaoundé, Cameroon was moved to Abuja, Nigeria. “While biding as a host country, the Federal Republic of Nigeria had promised to build a benefiting headquarters for the continental body. On the road to fulfilling that promise, the foundation laying ceremony for the building was performed on July 6, 2009, by Dr. Jacques Rogge, the immediate past President of the International Olympic Committee.  “I must say we are indeed lucky to also have present here today to commission the building, the current President of the IOC, Dr. Thomas Bach. “Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of Nigeria to the completion of this edifice have been unwavering. It is for this reason that the Federal Government ensured the continued funding of the project from inception to completion. “It is my sincere hope that the vision for which the project was executed would be achieved for the benefit of all stakeholders,” he said. The minister, who earlier conducted the IOC delegation around the Moshood Abiola Stadium, revealed that “After 10 years of trying to get approval for the domestication of the anti-doping bill, the Federal Executive Council approved the domestication of that convention, that is historic.” Thomas Bach formally named Nigeria as the Olympics headquarters of Africa. He said: “Today, we are writing a sports history with the inauguration of the magnificent headquarters. You are establishing Abuja the capital of sports in Africa. With the inauguration, you are setting a new milestone for the development of sports. “You all know how close Africa is to Olympic movement. I am honoured to share this historic moment with entire Africa. This building is motivation, the inspiration for the unity of sports in Africa.” He further expressed his belief in the Nigerian sports community who according to him, has kept the Olympic spirit alive. “What impressed me most is seeing how much the Olympic spirit is alive here in Nigeria. I had meetings with the schools, athletes, government officials and I saw everyone living with the spirit. The athletes I spoke to have the attributes of true champions. “The Vice President, Sports Minister and every other government officials recognise the contributions of sports to a better society and a better future for the youths in the country,” he said.  