Dr. Eddy Olafeso is the National Vice Chairman (Southwest) of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, he explains why the party took the recent Supreme Court judgment in good fate, how the party is preparing for 2023 polls and what to expect in the November 16 governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states.  What is your reaction to the Supreme Court judgment on the 2019 presidential election? The remark of our national chairman, Chief Uche Secondus, is the position of every PDP member across the country. We have left the battle in the hand of God and the court of the people. And obviously, if a system is bad, you expect that things will not go right. Our prayer is for Nigeria to get out of the decadence of the last three years, so that we can begin to practice democracy, the way it should be done. The country is desirous of the rule of law, where every Nigerian will be equal before the law. For us, the court case between President Muhammadu Buhari and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is gone. The Supreme Court is the highest court of the land, whether fallible or infallible, it has made its pronouncement. We went to court to attenuate our own belief in our country and the constitution. And if the court has spoken, we have nothing beyond that. What is the next step for the PDP? We are on overdrive to strengthening our party. We are making sure that our party members, who are equally going through what every Nigerian going through, are properly positioned to vote out the APC in 2023. Our party is cohesive, those who believe that our party is not organised are merely speculating what is not there or what is real. Some even predicted PDP’s death some four years ago, but today we have 15 governors, very tangible number of senators and House of Representatives members. Our enemies have always wished us dead, but we have risen beyond their own bad wish and survive their predictions. Nigeria needs a very strong opposition, especially when the lack of plan by the APC has rendered everybody hopeless. There are no infrastructures; the foreign direct investment to Nigeria has nosedived from S4.4 billion dollars in 2016 to S2. 8 billion dollars in 2018. It is so tragic that the capital flight is almost about N2 trillions. We are sitting on a keg of gun powder and uncertainty. Buba Galadima said the ruling party is yet to make its impact among the ordinary people… Absolutely, the old man spoke the mind of everybody. That is the reason I said the hopelessness in this country will continue to multiply over time and not because one is wishing Nigeria bad. Look at the budget submitted to the National Assembly, out of N10 trillion projected, they are not sure where half of the money will come from. They are rather looking at increasing the Value Added Tax (VAT). In this extreme case of poverty and you continue to tax people arbitrarily, you are only encouraging them not to do anything. Everybody is running away from this country because it is not working. For me, Galadima spoke our minds and that is the mind of every Nigerian. The burden is too much, but the President is flying all over the world. He has visited over 40 countries, yet he has not been able to bring investment into the country. Those Galadima is talking to, know exactly what is happening. We have banditry, Boko Haram, kidnapping, infrastructural decay, dead economy and all manner of abnormalities. As far as I am concerned, it is so sad that we found ourselves in this quagmire.  How will you assess the Nigerian border closure with its neighbours? I am not averse to ensuring that we protect our sovereignty. So, that people don’t just use us as dumping ground. For me, it would have been a situation where Nigerians would be alerted and informed that this would be our position. And that it will take place from this period to that period. We are doing this in order to strengthen out things. This is done in order to check the in-flow of arms and ammunition into our country. This is done in order to check in-flow of contaminated and expired goods to our country. And you put our neighbours on the alert that you have been doing this, but we will not allow you to do that again. The way they did it without preparing the minds of Nigerians is too hard. Though, I am not in sympathy with any neighbouring country, which wants to use Nigeria as a dumping ground. You must recollect that even China closes it boarders. But all these affirmative pronouncements like rice farmers are now able to sell their products, but for how much? A bag of rice is now sold for N25,000, but how many Nigerians earns N25,000 as minimum wage. It is so tragic, it is unfortunate, but for me, it is part of growing up and development of our nation. Again, if it appropriately done, it is welcome. How is the party prepared for the Bayelsa and Kogi states elections? We will do our very best if the umpires play their own role. There is no Nigerian that had not gone through the weight of this severe economic depression that we are going through. The economy is growing at less than two percent per annum. That is abysmally low and unfortunate; this is a nation that recorded over 700 percent growth under the PDP. The poverty in Kogi had actually shown the door to the APC, the outstanding performance in Bayelsa is enough to retain the PDP in government. We will win the two states. The PDP will win Kogi West Senatorial District, that is where Dino Melaye is contesting from and I know that the total rejection of APC is at hand because Nigerians had suffered so much. Why are you so confident about the elections? Go to Bayelsa and see the developmental stride of the PDP. That Bayelsa had taken a quantum leap in the area of education, health delivery which the ordinary man on the street can see, this is never in doubt. In the area of infrastructural development, Bayelsa had gone far beyond what the APC left behind and that is exactly what we are showcasing, not only in Bayelsa but in all the states were we govern. Go to Rivers State and other states, you will see that there is the hope for development. People are working in tandem with the government. Now that the Supreme Court had decided on the presidential election, where will the party pick its next candidate from? The position of my party is yet to be taken. We have organs of the party, the National Working Committee (NWC), the National Executive Committee (NEC) and Board of Trustees (BOT), they will meet and take decision about 2023. Our ultimate concern at the moment is for unity among us, proffer condition for the future and bring back those glorious moments. It is something that we are going to work at, we have not taken decision. So, whoever is speculation now is merely trying to gorge our feelings. For me, 2023 will take care of itself when the time comes. Atiku said he will continue to fight… You know that Alhaji Atiku is a fighter and he explained this to you. It is done for the betterment of Nigeria. In every capacity you find he finds himself, Waziri Atiku Abubakar will continue to fight. All his investments are in Nigeria and for you to be able to fight against poverty he must fight and empower the people. In any capacity one finds himself, whether as President, former Vice President or private citizen, what is most important is the Nigerian project. Like he said that he will continue to fight, I believe, he is a leader that should be believed. He had proven himself over the years and there is no reason for you to think that he should not fight. For me what he said means, we will continue to fight for Nigerians.  We are on overdrive to strengthening our party. We are making sure that our party members, who are equally going through what every Nigerian going through, are properly positioned to vote out the APC in 2023  