Minister of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare has urged the newly inaugurated board members of the Commonwealth Youth Programme (CYP) in the University of Abuja to work out a programme that will lead to the award of a post-graduate degree. Dare made the call while inaugurating the members of the board in Abuja on Tuesday. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the CYP Diploma in Youth Development Distance learning started in Nigeria in 2006 with an agreement and MoU between the CYP Secretariat in Zambia, the Federal Government, and the University of Abuja. CYP and the Federal Government are to provide 50 per cent funding each, while the University of Abuja will deliver the programme and confer the diploma and certification. According to him, the CYP Diploma programme is an 18-month pilot cycle programme, whose implementation was initially scheduled between April 2006 and Jan. 2008. He explained that in 2009, the government constituted a committee to observe lapses in the conduct of the programme and make recommendations that would uplift the standard in tune with the desired objectives of the commonwealth youth programme. He, however, noted that dwindling financial resources in the ministry and new directive from the National University Commission (NUC) that Nigerian Universities should stop running Diploma programmes, hampered the operations of the programme since 2011.  “I wish to state the need to sustain this specialised platform for capacity building in youth work as was considered appropriate to work out the programme to award a post-graduate degree. “It is with this thought that the ministry deems it appropriate to reconstitute membership of the board of the centre to champion this noble course,” he said. He explained that the programme would be under the Centre for Gender and Security Studies and Youths Advancement (CeGSYAD). He, therefore, advised the newly inaugurated board members, chaired by the Vice-Chancellor, University of Abuja, Prof. Abdulrasheed Na’allah to show sense of discipline, integrity, and commitment in operating the programme. Also, the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr Olusade Adesola, represented by the Director of Education and Youth Development, Mr Ede Ogaba stressed the need to build on the capacity of youths in the country. “Delivery of quality youth work services from trained youth work professionals is the right of young people. “It also benefits institutions and society when adequately funded and comprehensive training is provided to practioners,” he said. The committee chairman who is also the vice-chancellor of UniAbuja, assured the minister that the mandate in line with the Commonwealth youth programme would be more successful than in the past. Na’allah, represented by the Deputy Provost, College of Health Sciences, Prof. Gadzama Ali said that the programme had developed a new curriculum, which would be used to run the programme effectively. Similarly, Prof. Ekundayo Ocholi, the Director, Centre for Gender and Security Studies and Youth Advancement, UniAbuja said that the programme, which would be under the centre would cater for the needs of Nigeria youths. “We are out to see that the youths in this country are not stagnated. “This programme is a landmark and we are hoping that the lot of the youths will be moved forward,” she said. 