KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR Aviation consultant Mr. Chris Aligbe has called on the Federal Government to ignore the proposal by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Ahmed Kuru, to convert Arik Air and Aero Contractors to national carriers. He urged the Minister of Aviation, Captain Hadi Sirika, to take urgent steps to facilitate the formation of Nigeria Air. Aligbe, who spoke in an interview in Lagos on Monday, said there was no going back on achieving a national airline because of booby traps associated with converting the two carriers – Aero and Arik Air – private carriers, into a government airline. He said if the two carriers were owned by government , they would have been taken over by the Ministry of Aviation and not AMCON which major brief was to recover debts. Aligbe said the option of converting two carriers not doing well into a national carrier  was fraught with lots of challenges, which will serve as disincentive to would-be investors. Aligbe said the clamour for national carrier has become imperative because of the grossly inadequate operational strength of domestic airlines. He said: “Today, virtually the entire industry and, indeed, the vast majority of stakeholders are either clamouring for or desirous of a befitting national carrier. “There are still a few who believe that Aero and Arik are airlines that belong to the government. It is not true. If they were, they  would be under Aviation not AMCON that has no statutory responsibility on aviation but rather on debt collection.  “Any attempt to move outside this statute will occasion international litigations that could be unresolved for many years. This is because both the original owners and creditors will head to court to challenge the Federal Government.” He posed a few questions : “Can any healthy and virile establishment be founded on the back of unhealthy and struggling entities? “Will any sensible investor invest in such establishment? “Where no investors come, such a national carrier will exist on 100 per cent  government equity, just like the liquidated Nigeria Airways. “Have we so soon forgotten the bane of Nigeria Airways? “Can AMCON’s liabilities from Aero and Arik, vicariously or inferentially, be assigned simplicter to the Federal Government? Ditto the assets? “If not, then the argument of Federal Government owning two airlines – Aero and Arik fails to sail.” “Have AMCON and Supporter – Proponents stopped to consider the “Outline Business Case” (OBC) of its proposition on the use of Aero-Arik merger to float a national carrier? “I ask these because in our present dispensation, all such proposals/promoters must first submit an OBC to the Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Council (ICRC) for evaluation, guidance and approval. Aligbe said for those who are not aware, the Nigeria Air national carrier project had gone through this process, passed two to three approvals  by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), and successfully concluded the Development stage and was at the procurement stage in compliance with ICRC approvals and guidance. “My simple advice to the Minister of Aviation is to just ignore Kuru and his AMCON and move on,” the expert maintained.