There were disagreements by two Niger Delta groups on Sunday on who should supervise the forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to avoid cover-ups. A group of former militants, the Iduwini Volunteer Force (IVF), wants a credible international accounting firm to handle the audit. It is concerned that the NDDC Interim Management Committee (IMC) may not be transparent and may be beholden to the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, who appointed the members. But, the Ijaw Youth Consultative Forum (IYCF) urged the people to support the IMC for a “cleaner NDDC.” Also on Sunday, Senator Chris Ekpenyong, who represents Akwa Ibom North-West (Ikot Ekpene) District, urged Akpabio to leave NDDC better than he met it. IVF, in a statement by one of its leaders, Johnson Biboye, alleged that the IMC’s appointment and its activities were upsetting the peace in the volatile region. The group also called for NDDC’s “urgent return” to the Presidency’s supervision. Noting that it has supported the government’s anti-corruption drive, the group warned against “cover-up of huge financial atrocities” that have been committed in NDDC. It urged the President Muhammadu Buhari to inaugurate the substantive NDDC board already cleared by the Senate. IVF said services of “a reputable and globally recognised accounting firm” should be secured employed for the forensic audit. The group said an independent audit supervised by persons with no vested interest is the only way the rot in the agency can be uncovered. “The already screened board of the NDDC nominated by your very self be given a matching order to resume just as you should appoint reputable and globally-recognised accounting firm to carry out the proposed forensic probe,” the group said. It added that failure to do the needful may force them back to the creeks. “While we look forward to your early resolution of this impending avoidable crisis, we want to say that our present peaceful disposition should not be taken for weakness as we are still capable of striking when we are pushed the wall,” the group stressed. The IYCF Chairman, Ebizimor Preye, said called for support for the IMC. It said: “If only we can all see the bigger picture of the ongoing forensic audit which is set up to strengthen transparency and accountability in the commission. “No doubt, this move is part of the agenda to curb corruption in all sectors and promote accountability and good governance. “We call on all Niger Deltans and Nigerians at large to support the ongoing audit of the NDDC and allow the interim board to manage the affairs of the commission. “Let the place be cleaned up, awaiting the new board. We need cleaner NDDC, better reforms. Let’s support Dr Gbene Joi Nunieh-led interim board for a new NDDC that will reposition and prioritise the development of the Niger Delta region.” Senator Ekpenyong, who spoke during an interview with reporters in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State capital, at the weekend, said Akpabio should concentrate on the task of restoring NDDC’s glory. The senator is Akpabio’s opponent in the forthcoming rerun election in Essien Udim Local Government Area ordered by the Court of Appeal. He praised President Buhari for ordering forensic audit, saying it would help correct “all the anomalies perpetrated by political gladiators, who turned the interventionist agency into a platform for selfish gains”. “As a senator representing a section of the Niger Delta region, it is my belief and that of other leaders of Niger Delta that this position of Mr President on this matter is right. “I, therefore, want to advise my brother, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, to make judicious use of this opportunity to ensure that the region gets due attention in terms of physical infrastructural development and in addressing myriads of environmental challenges confronting the region over the years. “This is the time for the minister to walk the talk so that the tag of uncommon transformer that he is known for would be effectively cemented. “He should avoid unnecessary distractions and set his eyes on the big task of cleaning the Augean stable at the NDDC for holistic growth and development of the region”. “The NDDC has no development template and the challenge facing him now is to make the NDDC functional in to achieve set goals. “These include fixing critical regional infrastructure, such as the East-West Road, Ikot Ekpene-Calabar-Itu-Odukpani Road, Ikot Ekpene-Aba Raod, Ikot Ekpene-Ariam-Umuahia Road, Abak-Ikot Abasi Road, Ekparakwa-Iwukem Road and others scattered across the region.” Ekpenyong added that “the effective galvanisation of such regional development master plan will enhance economic integration as envisioned by Niger Delta leaders”, who fought for the13 per cent oil derivation principle and NDDC’s establishment.