By Adedimeji Quayyim Abdul-Hafeez The BBC investigative report titled: ‘Sex for grades: Undercover in West African universities” recently hit our television screens, bringing to light some of the realities in our tertiary institutions. The sexual exploitation of students by lecturers couldn’t have come to light at a better time. Truth be told, the pillage for sex in exchange for marks and grades by lecturers is not a new thing on Nigerian campuses. ‘Cold Rooms’, which may have been a relatively new term to Nigerians, had existed in all sorts of places on campuses – from staff offices, staff hotels, staff clubs, pavilions, student hostels – and other places where students are sexually devoured far from the gaze of the public. Exploitation also comes in different forms – it may be the lecturer exploiting the students or students exploiting the lecturer. On the other hand, it may even be both parties exploiting each other by bartering sex for marks, as well as pleasure for good grades. Men and women across all strata of the society have encountered one form of sexual exploitation or the other when they are trapped in circumstances in which they desperately need help. Sex abuse transcends our campuses – the hydra-headed monster lurks in corporate bodies, institutions, government parastatals, among others. It all comes in various guises and garments to get under the skirt. Well, the saddening thing is that voices are stifled in silence to enclose the woes this menace encloses in its garbs. No one is willing to talk about it. We all bow and cower to intimidations, threats, fears and reprisals. Most stories on abuse fade into clouds of hearsays, masking the plights of victims. Students cower under fear and threats of failure, suspension, and expulsion from these lecturers. These had hindered justice for tthe victims, while the abusers struts the street with impunity. As students, we all have rights against sexual exploitation. No individual has the right to stifle our voices in the expression of the infringements to our fundamental rights. Section 39(1) of the 1999 Constitution enshrines the right of our free will to hold opinions and express them in public. It provides that: ‘every person shall be entitled to freedom to hold opinions and impart ideas and information without interference.’ These criminals should be brought to book and this is the only way to achieve this. Victims of various forms of abuses ought to be protected from the machinations of these evil lecturers. All of us needn’t’ be whistle-blowers or witnesses in courts before we get protection from government. Victimised students should be protected and anonymity should be ensured when these stories are told. Due investigations should be carried out and lecturers responsible for such misconduct arrested and if found guilty, flushed out of the system. Also, the identities of these lecturers should be made public to serve as a deterrent to others. Only then would the student be confident to tell their stories of exploitation from these wolves and predators in deceptive garbs. Students should rise in unison in this present crusade. Let’s tell the whole world how our rights are being violated. Let’s tell the public how we are intimidated to subjection by these ‘predators’ evil whims. We all owe the society justice. We all have the duty to bring these men to book. Let’s cleanse the society of this filth. 