The United Nations House, Abuja, which was bombed by the Boko Haram insurgents in 2011, has received a facelift eight years after. VINCENT IKUOMOLA reports  It was a period when bombing became a common incident in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Nigeria’s seat of power. Fear became the order of the day. Nowhere seemed safe or exempted from attacks by the rampaging Boko Haram terrorists. First, it was the Niger Delta militants who detonated two bombs at intervals on an auspicious day when the country was celebrating its 50th Independence anniversary. The occasion, which was held at the Eagle Square, had the then President, Goodluck Jonathan and other top dignitaries, including some past leaders on stand. Then in two quick successions, two bombs were detonated, leaving behind sorrow, tears, and blood. No fewer than ten lives were lost on a day that was supposed to be joyous. It turned out that the bombings were carried out by members of the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND). This was followed by the bombing of the Louis Edet House, the Police Headquarters, where the then Inspector General of Police, Hafiz Ringim escaped death by the whiskers. He seemed to be the prime target, as the suicide bombers, on June 16, 2011, drove a bomb-laden car behind his convoy to gain access to the building. That marked the beginning of suicide bombings in parts of the country by the Boko Haram insurgent. The bloody attack claimed several lives and destroyed property worth millions of Naira. Fear gripped residents of the capital city at the time as one bomb explosion followed the other as residents started avoiding nightlife. The fragile peace was shattered two months after, when the UN building came under bomb attack on Friday, August 26, 2011. The building, located in the central area of the city housed 26 humanitarian and development agencies under the UN. An explosive-laden vehicle had approached the security post pretending to be on a legitimate mission. Suddenly, the driver, who was on a suicide mission, rammed through two security barriers and hit a section of the building. And the entire place went up in flame and smoke. Again, it was Boko Haram. Twenty-three bodies were retrieved from the rubble and about 60 persons suffered varying degrees of injury. The Federal Government offered to reconstruct the structure and a $15 million budget was drawn for the project in 2012. The construction giant, Julius Berger Nigeria got the job. And on October 24, the UN building in Nigeria got back its groove, coinciding with the commemoration of the International Day of the UN.  The reopening of the UN House in Abuja demonstrates our collective commitment to continue addressing the complex challenges facing Nigeria, West Africa, and the whole world  The new-look UN House boasts three police posts, body and baggage scanners and closed-circuit television cameras in strategic locations. Movements in and around the area have also been restricted, except for those having legitimate business to do in any of the agencies in the building. During the handover ceremony, the UN representative in Nigeria, Edward Kallon, captured the tragic occurrence on a fateful day. Kallon said: “What started as a normal working day at the U.N. house on Friday 26th of August, 2011 quickly turned into a disaster to the United Nations staff, families and some of our partners. It was indeed a dark day for the United Nations.” Mark Lowcock, United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, said: “The Nigerian Government handing over this building to the UN is a symbol of our shared commitment to continue supporting the people and Government of Nigeria.” Lowcock, who represented the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Antonio Guterres at the event, noted that the attack was the first to be carried out on UN building in the country. “This was the first attack against a UN facility in Nigeria; the building has since been rehabilitated by the Nigerian Government,” adding that Nigeria has been a key factor since it became a member of the United Nations in 1960. Lowcock added: “Today’s reopening of the UN House in Abuja demonstrates our collective commitment to continue addressing the complex challenges facing Nigeria, West Africa, and the whole world”. According to him, the opening of the UN House was a show of refusal to be cowed in the face of terror. “We stand together to say that we will not be cowed by violence. We will continue to support the Nigerian people to fulfill their dreams of a future of prosperity and security”, he said.  Lowcock also paid tribute to the fallen 23 UN colleagues, contractors, and visitors who lost their lives that day, and many others who were injured, saying that their sacrifice will never be forgotten. “My thoughts today are above all with the families and friends they left behind. Today, I want to dedicate this official handover of the UN House to all whose those lives were irreversibly changed on that fateful day in 2011.” “Dayo, an OCHA driver who I spoke to yesterday, was only a few meters away from the explosion. He told me that he does not know how he survived the blast and he still has to undergo regular treatment. “Baby Fesse was not even working for the UN. As a student, she had come to do some research and to visit her mother who was working here. Her life was forever changed when she lost her leg in the explosion. “The UN House security guards who continue to devote their lives to protect others every day. And there are many others to whom we pay tribute today.” The re-opening of the UN House, Lowcock said, “is one small way we can honour them. But today is not only about the past. Today we must also look to the future.” 