Oyo — beg your pardon — Ibadan politics! Have we not seen all of this before? Each time the Ibadan muscle their way to the gubernatorial diadem, no matter the party of consideration, the all-too-clear shortfall of clannish politics comes mocking with a savage laugh. Now, Femi Lanlehin, African Democratic Congress (ADC) gubernatorial hopeful in the 2019 general election, who nevertheless withdrew for PDP’s Seyi Makinde that eventually won the tie, has started moaning, alleging non-consummation of pre-election support terms. After that would come a groan, then a curse, then a growl, and finally a fit and a roar: To your house, o Ibadan! Let everyone bear his political father’s name! Makinde has ruptured the alliance! Now, that sentiment won’t be peculiar to Makinde. Exchange his name with Lam Adesina, Ladoja or Ajimobi, that sentiment would still hold true, if you flash the story back to 1999! And it is fitting too, that Lanlehin could well be the face of this now dormant volcano that might soon erupt, if Makinde didn’t do the needful — and fast too! Aside from former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Lanlehin is perhaps the most peripatetic politician in partisan wanderings, except that Atiku plays at the centre, while Lanlehin has been limited to two states, Lagos and Oyo states. Lanlehin, in 1999, started as Lagos State Governor, Senator Bola Tinubu’s aide, under the Alliance for Democracy (AD). By 2003, he had crossed to Oyo State, in support of Ladoja, under PDP. Under ACN, he became senator in the 7th Senate. Then, he teamed up with Ladoja, under Accord Party (AP) to wrestle — but failed — to scuttle second term-aiming Ajimobi. His perennial bust-up with Ajimobi, and the need to teach the rather razor-tongued former governor a nasty lesson in political gang-up, made him to surrender his ADC guber ticket to back Makinde, the PDP candidate. The covenant, according to Lanlehin: “In order to prevent the reoccurrence of the Oyo State gubernatorial election of 2015, in which a governorship candidate won the election with a minority vote of 32 per cent, I, Senator Olufemi Lanlehin, the governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) … decided to drop the mandate of my party in order to support the candidature of Seyi Makinde of the PDP …” Then, the Lanlehin expectation of legitimate pork: “This in essence meant that at the end of a victorious election, unity government would be formed, comprising the coalition parties in the ratio agreed upon before the election.” Makinde had better jump off his high horse and do the needful. Otherwise, the whip that so badly tanned Lam, Ladoja and Ajimobi, now menacingly nestling in the rafters, may come whipping down with a whish! But where would that leave Ibadan politics — and politicians — in the eternal grabbing for Oyo’s political soul? Back to square one, with old clannish combatants feuding to the death in new political wars! It’s high time Ibadan crowed less about its sheer number and think more about a cohesive ideological bloc, among Oyo State’s other power centres. There is a limit to clannish politics, driven by the demographic accident of huge numbers.