Osagie Otabor, Benin The All Progressives Congress(APC) in Edo State has rejected the action of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party in upholding purported suspension of the State Chairman, Barr. Anselm Ojezua by some members of the party. It said the NWC under Comrade Adams Oshiomhole was biased. The statement accused Oshiomhole as the sponsor of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), “a splinter group he has created to destabilize the party in Edo State”. State Assistant Secretary of the party, Mr Ikhuenobe Anthony, in a statement on Thursday said the NWC did nothing to authenticate the signatories to the infamous document relied on by the Officers concerned in removing Ojezua. Ikhuenobe noted that the speed with which the NWC accepted the unconstitutional attempt by some members of the State Working Committee under the sponsorship and supervision of Oshiomhole to remove Ojezua from office without recourse to the State Executive Committee called for concern. According to him: “In any case, the State Executive Committee of the party in Edo State had met on November 12, 2019 and passed a vote of implicit confidence on the Chairman, Anselm Ojezua. “Nothing was done to authenticate the signatories to the infamous document relied on by the Officers concerned. Having accepted the charade presented to them, they tried to shroud their shameful act in a garb of fairness by purporting to set up a fact-finding panel. This raises very strong doubts whether in fact, a meeting of the NWC actually took place. “The scandalous mishandling of the issues relating to Edo State House of Assembly and the naked abuse of power exhibited by the National Chairman in that regard in June 2019 is still very fresh in the party’s memory.” Ikhuenobe urged Nigerians particularly members of the APC across the country to disregard the purported suspension of Ojezua. He called on the party’s National leadership to recuse itself from any matter concerning Edo State and allow the National Working Committee of the party to attend to the issues and matters raised. Sent from my iPad