The State of Osun has slated its Economic and Investment Summit for next week. Governor Adegboyega Oyetola said the summit will open up investment opportunities that abound. He spoke during an interview at the weekend. SIMEON EBULU was there. Why the need for a summit? The summit is being organised because we are trying to expose Osun to the entire community of investors. This is because unless you have the opportunity of knowing what goes on, you will not know how much investment opportunities that are available in Osun. For instance, in the area of agriculture, Osun is the place to be. In the past, our state was the leading producer of cocoa, which used to be the major revenue earner for the Western Region and even Nigeria at that time. We are still the third largest producer of cocoa in the country today. We are blessed with abundant mineral resources. We have a lot of them in Osun. Although there has been a lot of illegal mining, what we are trying to do now is to regulate it and ensure that we provide the enabling environment required for investors to come around and invest their money. There are other opportunities in the environmental sector, for example, waste to wealth. There are opportunities ready for investors in information communication technology since we have about the largest number of tertiary institutions in Nigeria. For culture and tourism, it is on record that we have the UNESCO-designated Osun Groove through which we host people from virtually every part of the world who come to look at what we have there. We also have other interesting tourist sites such as the Olumirin water fall, Ayinkunugba and many others. My attitude to investment is that it is better it is better to have partners. I believe that government does not have any business doing business. The best concept is to drive all these investment through Private Public Partnerships. This is why we are creating the enabling environment for people to come and invest. We have a much secured environment. Our State is adjudged to be the most peaceful in Nigeria and we still maintain that rating. In addition to that, we have also beefed-up our security arrangement. We just acquired twenty additional vehicles, in conjunction with other Southwest states that we are launching any moment from now. We have also put helipad in place for the surveillance the entire state, in the event that any crime is committed. Then, in terms of ease of doing business, we have put in place everything that an investor needs to be able to have a smooth inroad into Osun. We also have the Certificate of Occupancy fast rack in place to enable people pick up their C of O within 90 days. When you look at the totality of what we have, we have created a good environment for businesses to thrive, in line with our State Development Plan, which is based on four pillars: economic development, infrastructure development, human capital development, and security and sustainable environment. All our programmes have been tuned to address these areas, and in doing that, we have created opportunities for investment. But, then, why should investors invest in Osun? Osun is a place to be for a number of reasons. We have a large expanse of land for agriculture. Our vegetation is very conducive for agriculture. We have abundant mineral resources – gold, fespar, granite, and many others, waiting for investors. What we have now are artisanal miners. We want to regulate them and encourage local and international investors to come in and invest. Again, we have a very secure environment. We place a lot of premium on security. We have not less than eighteen hours of electricity supply every day. Most of the companies that relocated to Ghana did not know what we have in Osun. Then, we have the political will to guarantee investment. I am from a private sector background. At least, I have spent thirty years of my postgraduate working experience in the private sector and I know what it means to allow businesses to thrive. It is the private sector that drives the economy, government should only provide the enabling environment to ensure that they have opportunity to drive the economy. With all these, we believe our State is the best for investment and that is why we are going all-out to showcase our potential to the world What kind of incentives are you offering to allow investors come into Osun? We have lots of incentives for interested investors. For instance, in agriculture, we have a Land Bank where we have made land available for investors, and saved them the trouble of going into the communities. Government is providing land to investors. We are also a State that believes so much in the rule of law. Once agreement is made, it is binding on the government. So, I don’t see any problem. Osun is blessed with abundant mineral resources, but they are still largely untapped. You talked about regulation; what are your plans and what are you doing to inculcate artisanal miners in the scheme of things? Talking about the miners, the Federal Government has set up the Presidential Artisanal Mining Initiative. Osun and Kebbi are the two pilot states. The intention is to encourage our youths to go into mining and find a way of accommodating them. Since Federal Government is diversifying from oil, mining is a key aspect of that plan. Even the Federal Government is working to ensure that artisanal miners are properly trained. That is why we talk of regulation. If you leave them entirely to what they are doing, there will be lots of damage to the environment. Again, you might end up discouraging major investors. The essence of this is to ensure that they are not left out of job and to support them by increasing their skills in mining. Osun, on its own, have nine Life Academies, which are actually technical and vocational schools, for which we are proposing to designate one of such in the mining area around Osu as fully equipped to support training in artisanal mining because of the alluvial deposit in Osun. As I speak, we are registering all miners in Osun. This is to ensure that we are able to flush out criminals that come under the guise of mining. We have commenced the process of capturing the data of all miners, artisanal or investor, so that we can at least know precisely that whoever comes to do business in Osun is safe. We are trying to map all the titles that we have and to try to do a proper enumeration of who is doing what and where. We have registered a few thousands already and we have given them a RFID-enabled card to enable us track them. We also have their landlords which we call Seriki who are guarantors and through which we can reach out to them. We are also trying to protect the environment. We are working hard to avoid the kind of situation we have seen in the Niger Delta and other resource-rich areas. In terms of readiness for investors, it would interest you to note that although mining is on the Exclusive List, Osun is one of the very first few states that proactively reached out to the Federal Government and bought its own mining titles, which is about the largest in the country currently. It would also interest you that one private sector company is currently in Osun and has put Osun in the global mining map as about the only gold mining state recognised in Nigeria. The reported size is about 1.5 million ounces of gold, which is worth over 2 billion dollars. We have about sixteen mining titles – about eight are in Osun while others are across Nigeria. That should also tell you that Osun is ready for business. What is the data on the mineral reserve in Osun? We are doing our resource estimates in partnership with the Nigerian Geological Agency. We already have tidbits of what is available. However, we are partnering with investors who will do proper exploration to determine the commercial quantities. On the ease of doing business, what more should investors expect? We have seen many states hold economic summits, but what we see is not impressive. Can you give any timelines as to when we expect to see some of these things come to fruition? We don’t have the luxury of time to run a talk show. What we want to do is to show Osun to the entire world. Ordinarily, we should have been asking you to come and see things for yourself, but if Muhammed does not go to the mountain, mountain must be prepared to go to Muhammed. That is why, through this summit, we are asking you to come around so we can show you what we have. Again, the abundance of mineral resources may not have been known to many people. The average supply of eighteen hours of electricity is enough incentive for everyone to come and invest, especially light manufacturing companies. These are opportunities not known to people. It is a question of trying to show what we have to the entire world, and we are serious about it. We already have an investor who is signing an MoU with us and has committed huge resources. People are already showing interest to invest in Osun because they are getting to know our potentials. We also have good relationships with many donor agencies and development partners such as the World Bank, DFID and the French Development Agency. We are doing a lot with World, for instance, on RAMP, SLOGOR, YESSO. They are supporting us because we are also doing so much. They are supporting us both technically and in terms of grant. Only recently, we won a grant in our health sector that has made it possible to revitalise 352 primary health centres across the state, and that makes it one health centre per ward. This is because we believe that health is wealth. These are some of the initiatives we have taken on our own. We have been given awards by most of these agencies. On the third day of the summit, we are holding a roundtable with donor agencies and develop partners in the state to be able to strengthen existing relationships and establish new ones. When you were talking about artisanal miners, my mind went to Itagunmodi. Itagunmodi is a place where there are many artisanal miners and their activities are already causing damage to the environment. What is the state of the Itagunmodi mines at the moment? Itagunmodi is one of the major mining sites that you have alot of artisanal miners, and I am sure it is part of the areas where investors are willing to invest in. That is why we believe that the first thing is to create that enabling environment for investors to be able to do their business without being molested. As I mentioned earlier, we have begun work with the artisanal miners to be able to regulate and put them in check for the benefit of all. Does Osun have business clusters you are hoping to project as targets for investors? Part of the things we are trying to achieve with the summit is to see if we can find people who willing to invest in Industrial Parks where you have opportunities for businesses to be sited with some degree of amenities. Another area is the Free Trade Zone, which we already have in place, for investors to come to use. Let me also mention that we recognise the need to have a value-chain for our raw materials. We are not just looking for people who will use our State as just a base for raw materials, but we are creating opportunities for value-chain development. For instance in cassava, we are already looking at ethanol and others, and that is part of what we are selling to the entire world. We recognise that having viable agro-allied industries in the State will boost revenue and provide lots of opportunities for our people, so that it is a win-win situation for all. In your quest for mineral exploration, how do you intend to interface with investors so that they don’t leave a challenge for you as they go about doing their businesses and run their businesses in an environment-friendly manner? For the new partners we are taking on board, we are ensuring that we are implementing the World Bank standard to contain environmental and social risks. Part of the things we are also doing is studying the livelihood sustainability around our mining areas to ensure that the social and environmental risks are considered and integrated in the agreements we sign with partners. Currently, we are speaking with the Solid Minerals Development Fund to support us in the area of looking at the damage done ecologically by the activities of artisanal miners. This is part of the recourse we are currently putting in place. What is the taxation regime like in the State of Osun and how do you want to remain friendly with investors? We believe that taxations have been so specified. In terms of taxes that people should pay ordinarily, for instance, when it comes to company tax, it is purely that of the Federal Government. What the states charge, perhaps, would be in the area of premises charge and so. I don’t see much of challenges in terms of taxation, except the taxation on policy and profit, which is beyond the control of the State. How are you addressing infrastructure to ensure that the cost incurred by investors is reduced to the barest minimum? The State of Osun has done much in the area of infrastructure. If you come to Osun of recent, you would notice that there has been so much improvement in that area. Additionally, the Federal government is working on rail lines which will pass across the State to the North. The quality of infrastructure in our State makes us very accessible. Now that you are exposing Osun to the world, are you going to continue with the Airport project in Ido Osun? The airport project was conceived before we came in about 10 years ago during Governor Oyinlola’s administration. It was supposed to be a partnership between the state and the Federal governments. It was supposed to be a 50/50 arrangement. Osun started but the Federal government was not forthcoming. But, realising the fact that if you want to encourage movement of produce, a cargo airport is desirable, we have taken it up. We are looking forward to investors that may want to take it over and we give them twenty five to thirty years lease on a Build, Operate and Transfer basis. Quite lot investors are already showing interest in the airport because they believe, it is viable. It is part of what are marketing to the entire world during the summit. It is a laudable project that would create employment opportunities and commerce for our state. Ars lease on a build operate and transfer basis. Quite lot investors are already showing interest in the airport because they believe, it is viable. It is part of what are marketing to the entire world during the summit. It is a laudable project that would create employment opportunities and commerce for our state.