 Traditional ruler of Umunya, Oyi local government area of Anambra state, Igwe Sir Kris Onyekwuluje on Saturday said the present administrative strides of Governor Willie Obiano portrayed great potential to the state. He said the Development Plan Committee for the Anambra Vision 2070 recently inaugurated by the governor would offer economic benefits to the state and society at large. Addressing newsmen in his palace, Onyekwuluje said the 50 years development plan would project the state as the world best tourist attraction capable of surpassing Dubai. He said the vision would identify specific sectors the state should focus on, develop measurement frameworks, determine critical milestones and success factors. He said, “Anambra State will experience a paradigm shift from political backwardness, vis-a-vis politics of calumny to politics of projection for the betterment of the people and society. “The vision 2070 will project Anambra to be the next state for tourism. The projection will surpass Dubai, making the state, the world best tourist attraction. “It is no doubt that the composition of the members of the Committee was on bi-partisan basis. They are men and women with high intellectual values who had in one way or another contributed to the economic growth of the nation. “Indeed, Obiano is not just a leader, but a visionary leader with lofty ideas to transform the nation. He is planning for tomorrow which success is determined today. By this Vision, he has projected Anambra to the global map.” Onyekwuluje who doubles as Chairman Oyi Local Government Traditional Rulers’  Council, further praised the governor for touching every sector, especially the health sector, which he observed had ameliorated the sufferings of the citizenry. “Let me also appreciate the governor for marching words with actions in the ongoing construction of the access roads to the International Airport City. “The completion of the airport city will be a landmark achievement that will attract global attention,” Igwe added. The monarch urged the people of the state not to be distracted by few disgruntled individuals who never meant well for the state, but continue to support the governor to further actualize his dream.