By Nsa Gill, Calabar  There was a melodrama in the Federal High Court room2 in Calabar on Tuesday as the trail for a journalist, Agba Jalingo began with the star witness under the cover court order to remain masked. The unusual was noticed in the early morning hours as heavy security presence as never before noticed in the court premises. At least two dozen armed policemen from the State Command of the Nigerian Police Force as well as a dozen personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps had surrounded and taken positions within the Court premises as early as 8:00 AM with those going in searched thoroughly. Officials of the Nigerian Correctional Service arrived around 9:48 AM in a green-colored van marked “Calabar Prisons” with Mr. Jalingo. The first matter to be addressed by the court was a pending application where the defense lawyer, Adeyinka Olumide-fusika SAN had challenged the earlier order of the court approving the prosecution to mask their star witness. Justice Simon Amobeda in his ruling, having taken arguments from the counsels at the previous sitting, said that it cannot sit as on appellate on its own order made October 23, 2019. The Judge held that there are exceptional cases to that position of law, but argued that the counsel to the defendant/applicant Adeyinka Olumide-fusika SAN failed to cite the exceptional cases in his argument. Olumide-fusika SAN had in his argument on October 30th submitted that the names, addresses and other details of six out of seven witnesses were already stated in the prosecution’s proof of evidence and while relying on a paragraph of the ruling which said the order to mask witnesses can be modified, urged the Court to vary or modify its order to be restricted to witness seven marked as ‘XYZ’ in the proof of evidence. But, Justice Amobeda in his ruling said it agrees with the prosecution that the application of the defense was an invitation to the Court to sit on appeal on its own order and asked the defense to approach the Appeal Court. However, he agreed with the defense that there was no evidence that the witnesses of the prosecution had been threatened as the deponent of the affidavit supporting the application of the prosecution to mask witnesses had failed to provide details of the scenario. Olumide-Fusika SAN had also argued that there was no way the prosecution’s witnesses could have been threatened on the 28th day of August 2019 when the initial charges were filed on August 30th 2019 and served on the defendant on September 3rd, 2019. The matter is stood down till noon. When the court resumed sitting afternoon hours, the trial was set to commence with the setting up of a witness cubicle with dark cover material. The prosecution requested that the courtroom be vacated as per the order of the court to protect the identity of the masked witness. Court officials and policemen swung into action and ushered journalists filming and photographing the setting up of a stage for the masked witnesses as the secret trial begins. Three Lawyers in Mr. Jalingo’s defense team were also asked out of the Courtroom at the instance of the prosecution counsel, Mr. Dennis Tarhemba. Two police sergeants who act as security officials for the Court, as well as one Court clerk, effected the orders. The correctional officers who accompanied Mr. Jalingo from the custodial center were also asked out of the Courtroom. Jalingo is facing charges bordering on conspiracy, terrorism, treasonable felony and attempt to topple the Cross River State government. Agba Jalingo had in July, published an article where he demanded the Cross River State government comes clean on the whereabouts of the NGN500 million approved and released for the floating of the Cross River Microfinance bank. In August he was invited by the Cross River State Police command for an interview based on a petition against him bordering on his article. The interview was first slated for August 19, 2019. It was later rescheduled for August 26th and September 3, 2019. Mr. Jalingo went public with his decision to honor the invitation. However, he was arrested in a Gestapo style operation by Police officers detailed from Cross River State to his Lagos residence on August 22, 2019. He was then driven by road to Calabar, the Cross River capital where he arrived on August 24, 2019. He was detained for 32 more days at a police black site facility with limited access to him until his arraignment on September 25, 2019, for the hearing of his bail. The trial has suffered so many setbacks with the Court denying admitting Mr. Jalingo to bail on two occasions; October 4th and October 30th.