 Chijioke Ifeasinachi a student has narrated how she jumped out of a moving vehicle to save herself from kidnappers on November 16, at Ikorodu, Lagos. Ifeasinachi stated that on her way home from Church at Agric Bus Stop on Ikorodu Road around 12:30 pm that day, “I hailed and boarded a taxi at Agric Junction to Garage junction, where three men – two in the front and one at back were already in the cab. The driver asked if I had N50 change and I said ‘Yes’. I brought out my phone and earpiece to listen to music. “The driver stopped at the Jumo Park Bus Stop and made to look as if a passenger wanted to drop but said he would not drop the man that sat beside me, because he noticed he had a lot of dollars inside his bag. He asked the man to explain how he got the money else he would take him to the Police station. “The man pleaded with the driver when he demanded for 10,000 dollars out of the money, begging me to plead on his behalf. I then asked the driver what he wanted the man to do as I was soon going to drop off at my stop. After we passed Aruna bus stop, the driver made a right turn instead of going straight which made me uncomfortable. I asked why they did not go through the normal route but they said that was the route they wanted to pass. Not long after, I told them to stop the car and called my dad on my phone. I spoke with him in Igbo that it seemed I had entered kidnappers’ car. All the men were Yoruba but it seemed the driver understood what I said, he told me they were not kidnappers, and then he made another turning. At this point, I started shouting and putting my head and hand out of the window of the car shouting ‘thief,’ ‘kidnappers,’ help me! The guy beside me then gave his colleague a gun. Immediately I saw the gun, I opened the door and jumped out. “I fell on the ground, injuring my elbow with aches on my head and back. I noticed a man was driving behind us; he was the one who effected the arrest of the kidnappers, he came back to meet me where I fell, my father and my brother also came, we all went to the police station and I was later taken to the hospital,” she said. Her father, Fidelis Ekechukwu, thanked the man, saying it was the man God used to keep his daughter. Ekechukwu also thanked the human right that attended to the case and took it up. The Human Right of TeensPlight Foundation for Health and Development, Titilola Oladejo-Davids said Ifeasinachi, came to their office to report the incident and she took it up. “There was a case of Kidnap at the St. Augustine Catholic Church, Okeria Bus Stop near Agric Junction, Ikorodu on November 16 which the survival reported to my office. The girl was about to be shot when she was not cooperating with the kidnappers but she bravely kicked the door and risk jumping out of the fast-moving vehicle, which resulted in bruised hands and serious pain. She jumped out of the car and nearly escaped being hit by the coming vehicle, the other driver noticed the girl must be in danger for her to jump out of the vehicle in front of him, he bravely followed the kidnappers till he pinned them down at Solomade, and called the police to arrest the kidnapers before going back to the scene of the crime and carried the girl, who had already fainted, revived her and took her to the police station in order for them to see the proof. After which he left the scene, and refused to drop his phone number because he told someone that he could not trust that police would not turn the case against him.  