 Lagos begins clampdown on traffic offenders, others By Our Reporter  Lagos State government yesterday began a massive clampdown on illegal activities in various areas of the metropolis. It arrested traffic offenders, street traders and suspected miscreants in Oyingbo, Idumota and Apapa. Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Fredric Oladeinde, expressed the government’s determination to ensure sanity on Lagos roads. He assured the residents that the enforcement activities would be sustained until the government rid the state of criminals. The commissioner said it had become obligatory for road users to remain disciplined while plying the roads, adding that the state government remained committed to developing a network of roads that would ease business operations. Referring to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s Executive Order directing the removal of impediments to free flow of traffic across the state, Oladeinde said his ministry  had developed an inclusive plan to find lasting solutions to the perennial challenge of traffic congestion. “We have had several engagements with chairmen of local government areas and local council development areas (LCDAs), members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Association of Market Women and Men as well as other relevant stakeholders on the need to support the government in this crusade of ridding our roads of illegal activities,” he said. Oladeinde stressed that the exercise would be extended to other areas, including Ketu, Ikorodu, Maryland, Lekki/Ajah, Iyana Ipaja and Ikotun corridors. The commissioner warned traffic offenders not to fall victim of the enforcement, saying the government would prosecute anyone found contravening the law. On the recent gridlock in some parts of the states, he said the development was man-made. According to him, the enforcement team will ultimately ensure sanity on all roads across the state. “When you have commercial vehicles parking to pick or offload passengers at wrong locations while traders display their goods on the walkways, how do you achieve orderliness on the road?” he queried. The Special Adviser (SA) to the governor on Transportation, Mr. Oluwatoyin Fayinka, who was also in the enforcement team,  said roadsides and walkways are not designated for trading. The governor’s aide said those contravening the law must desist from such acts. He added that the monitoring and enforcement team had been mandated to arrest and dislodge illegal traders on the road at any time of the day.