THE International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) Nigeria, Abuja chapter on Wednesday raised the alarm on the increasing cases of rape across the country. The Chairperson of FIDA, Abuja, Rekia Adejo-Andrew said this during a sensitisation at Utako Market and Jabi Motor Park as part of activities to mark 16-day activism for the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women in Abuja. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 16 days activism is an international campaign that kicks off annually every November 25 and runs until December 10 marking Human Rights Day. The theme for this year is “Orange the World: Generation Equality Stands Against Rape!” “The situation of rape in the FCT is alarming; now, we have a case of a three-year-old child that was raped by a 70-year-old man. “Another case is that of man who raped his step-sister; we have this kind of cases on a daily basis, we don’t prosecute; we depend on government agencies to do the prosecution like the Police and Ministry of Justice. “There is a provision to apply for fiat. Fiat actually means a legal, authoritative decision that has an absolute sanction,” she said. Adejo-Andrew said sex offenders register was a welcome development saying it would serve as a tool to name and shame those convicted or reported to have engaged in sexual abuse or exploitation. She, however, appealed to men not to allow their name to be registered, adding that the register was accessible to members of the public and security agencies. Adejo-Andrew urged victims of rape to speak up and not be afraid of stigmatization. The Chairperson, Prison Watch Committee, FIDA Abuja, Lady Ngozi Okogbue said the continuous advocacy would reduce the prevalence of rape in the country. The FCT Commissioner for Nigerian Girls Guides Association, Mrs Ilesanmi Obafunso said the association had been carrying out sensitisation in schools to create awareness among students on the issue of rape. Obafunso explained that speaking up as part of the healing process psychologically. 