Following the Bible verse in the book of 1st Corinthians 13:13, which says; “And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love”, best describes the nuptial values Vice President Yemi and his wife, Dolapo have applied since the beginning of their union till their 30th anniversary as husband and wife. The above Bible verse, aptly shows that love played a key role in the sustainability of their vows, which has kept them waxing stronger over the years. Indeed, who would have imagined that Prof. Yemi worshipped at the temple of Venus, the ancient Greek god of love, so much that he knows the spirit and letter of love this much? However, the celebration of their 30th wedding anniversary, revealed this hitherto hidden side of him. The two love birds, could not hide their romantic feelings as they both gushed over each other on social media. Yemi and Dolapo, could not ask anything more from their creator, as they have both witnessed the grace of God on their lives as a couple.  The grand daughter of late Premier of Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Dolapo on Tuesday, 25th of November, wowed all when she shared an epic 30-year-old photo taken on her wedding day with her husband and wrote: “Hand in hand on the 25th of November 1989. it’s our wedding anniversary to the glory of God.” This further showed the world that love, endurance, perseverance, emotional support, faith, hope, patience and many more, were secrets to the strong foundation of their union. Society Rendezvous gathered that, the duo had a quiet private palour celebration, where close friends and family members were in attendance  and shared in their joy. The private gathering started with a prayer session, where they further committed the paddling of their nuptial boat to the hands of God for continued love and more life together as couple. The duo never failed to display their vocal dexterity by serenading guests with their voices and dance steps. They both mimed to their favourite love song accompanied with sounds from a piano. They were both seen holding hands together like new lovers who just discovered their love language. For a toast to more years together, they cut a gigantic cake to celebrate their love.