The Anglo-Dutch oil giant – The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) has been honoured for providing opportunities to talented secondary school pupils in the Niger Delta to participate in the United Nation’s Model Conferences in the United States. Founder and Country Director of Future Trust Initiatives, Dr. Maureen Egbuche, announced the award at the Second African Future Trust Model United Nations Conference in Port Harcourt. “It is truly long overdue for society at large to appreciate all Shell’s strategies at securing the future for our younger generations,” Egbuche said. According to her, “Shell’s Environmental Conservation Clubs and the Sustainable Development Club laid the foundation for students’ participants in the United Nations Model Conference, USA, a simulation of real life UN sessions by student delegations from around the world.” Namibian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mr. Humphrey Geiseb, presented the award to SPDC’s General Manager, External Relations, Igo Weli.  Weli said: “We are glad that our programmes have enabled young people from Nigeria to showcase their talents to the world. Here, in Nigeria, Shell has been at the forefront of commitment to Nigeria’s economic and social development for over 61 years and we continue to show belief in the Nigerian project, supporting the development of the Nigerian people.” For six decades, Shell Companies in Nigeria have continued to deliver a suite of youth development programmes in education, sports and entrepreneurial and skill acquisition, he said. Apart from scholarship for secondary, graduate and post graduate studies in Nigeria and overseas, Shell Companies support schools by donating ICT centres, libraries, laboratories and school buildings among others, he added. They are also leaders in sponsoring and promoting sports. For 20 years, they have promoted and sponsored the NNPC/Shell Cup, a championship that has helped to identify and develop young talented footballers in secondary schools, some of whom have played in the Nigerian national teams, Weli said. 