 The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Adesola Adeduntan, has said the introduction of FirstGem, a female-focused product by the bank has contributed to the development of the Nigerian economy. Speaking at the FirstGem third anniversary conference held in Lagos, the bank chief said he was delighted that FirstGem,  was already in its third year during which it has promoted savings culture, financial literacy, loan management, wealth creation and healthy lifestyle for women. Present at the event are Mrs Ibukun Awosika, Chairman, First Bank of Nigeria Ltd, Prof .Mehta Kandarp, Senior Lecturer, IESE Business School and  Soji Apampa, CEO, Convention on Business Integrity among other personalities. Adeduntan said the product has a wide array of advisory, health and current awareness services for the discerning woman. He said:  “Three years ago, specifically on 28 October 2016 we launched this women-centric account, designed specifically to meet the financial needs of both corporate and entrepreneurial women. This product, apart from being an account dedicated solely to women, is lifestyle-enhancing. It provides a total lifestyle support for discerning women to enable them meet their economic needs and aspirations. It goes without saying that economic stability does impact overall stability of individuals, institutions, communities and nations. With FirstGem therefore our long-term focus is on national economic development. I believe that with the indices we have so far FirstGem is on the right performance track”. He reiterated FirstBank’s commitment to the empowerment of women adding that the bank understands their story and recognise their invaluable contributions to the economy of our nation in particular and the global economy in general. “Having identified the gaps in their lives, both in corporate Nigeria and in the entrepreneurial space, we are committed to bridging those gaps effectively by providing the tools required for women’s empowerment. Through FirstGem, we have organised and participated in several women empowerment programmes, international conferences, seminars and workshops as well as roadshows across different cities and states of Nigeria and offshore. One month after the launch of FirstGem, in 2016, we participated in the Benue State Women Empowerment Programme which held in Makurdi and was hosted by the First Lady of Benue State, educating women on building personal wealth and financial independence,” he stated. Adeduntan disclosed that in the first quarter of 2017, FirstGem was launched in Oyo State, in collaboration with the First Lady of Oyo State. During the launch, women of Oyo State were availed various opportunities in trade and commerce, savings and investments, food and agriculture, fashion, tourism, education and lots of other economic empowerment initiatives.