  A major emergency in the educational sector that will bring about an overhaul of the educational system in Lagos State has been declared by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The governor said it is being done at different levels. “We are fixing the infrastructure, we are also fixing the curriculum, we are fixing training, we are fixing development of the teachers, we are also fixing recruitment of teachers. “So the entire value and eco-change educational sector we are actually doing because we realise that based on experience, all the things we need to do very quickly is fixing those schools,” Sanwo-Olu said. The governor spoke yesterday at the swearing-in of members of the Committee on the Rehabilitation of Public Schools in Lagos State, at Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja. The four-member committee is chaired by Mr. Hakeem Smith. Other members are: Yetunde Holloway, an engineer, Arch. Adebanjo and Babatunde Ishola. He urged the members to help the state put together extensive regulation in most of the schools, saying: “We’re starting with first about 300 of them. And we would imagine that from the things we’ll be doing, it will be spread around all the nooks and crannies of the state. “We have used this system before, so that’s why you’ve been chosen very competently. So, we believe that you will help us to have projects that are long lasting, befitting of the status of Lagos State that we all are truly proud of. “I’m happy to say that not only are we always female, gender sensitive, but also very youth sensitive, because the future of the state does not belong to us alone, it also belongs to the coming generation. So we need to begin to train ourselves. “So, we should ensure that we spread out in those areas so that we can see very tech driven school set, and we will be open to innovative ideas, we will be open to functional projects that will be coming out from your committee,” Sanwo-Olu said. He also inaugurated the Projects, Finance and Process Audit Committee saddled with the responsibility of realigning and looking at how performances procurement, finances and outstanding liability of contracts on capital projects have been independent. The committee Chairman is former Lagos Head of Service, Mrs. Josephine Williams. Other members are: Justice Yetunde Idowu (retd), retired Chief Judge of Lagos, Mr. Hakeem Smith, Tayo Bamgbose Martins, an engineer and Mr. Folusho Mustapha.     