 Information minister in the Ibrahim Babangida military government, Chief  Alex Akinyele is dead. A son of the deceased, Constantine Akinyele, said the former minister died on Thursday night following a brief illness. Akinyele who died at the age of 81 served as Information minister before he was deployed to the National  Sports Commission (NSC) as Chairman. He was born in Ondo State on April 24, 1938 and attended his primary and secondary education there. President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday commiserated  with the  Akinyele family, the government and people of Ondo State  on the loss of the public relations consultant. He urged them to take solace in the lasting legacies of the former colorful minister, who also served as Chairman of National Sports Commission and Chairman of National Reconciliation Committee. Buhari said that Akinyele’s scrupulousness, discipline and diligence were always obvious to those who worked closely with him, and his love for the nation, which was zealously demonstrated through providing exemplary leadership.  Tinubu condoles late Information Minister’s  family, professional colleagues All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has commiserated with the family and professional colleagues of former Information Minister, Chief Alex Akinyele, who died on Thursday at 81 after an illness. Asiwaju Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State, described the late Akinyele as an elder statesman who contributed immensely to Nigeria’s development. In a condolence message released on Friday in Abuja by his Media Office, the APC leader said the late minister would be deeply missed by the country he served to the best of his abilities. He said: “Chief Alex Akinyele was an elder statesman. He served the country to the best of his abilities. He did his best as Minister of Information and later Chairman of the Nigerian Sports Commission. “He was also one leader who was very proud of his Yoruba, indeed Ondo heritage, and demonstrated this often in his appearance and conduct. “Chief Akinyele radiated warmth and tenderness. To meet him is to like him. He was full of life. He was unmistakable with his sartorial elegance.The country he did his best for will sorely miss him. “My thoughts are with his family, friends and relations at this moment. May they find the strength to live through his passing. I mourn with his professional colleagues, the Public Relations practitioners and members of the Nigeria Institute of Public Relations. “My condolences also go to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and the government and people of Ondo State. “May the soul of Chief Akinyele find eternal rest in the bosom of the Lord.” Late Minister made sound and meaningful impacts in his active days of service to the nation- Akeredolu Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi  Akeredolu,  has expressed heartfelt condolences to the immediate family, Ondo Kingdom and indeed the good people of the state over the demise of High Chief Alex Akinyele. According to a statement signed on his behalf by the Commissioner for Information and Orientationation, Donald Ojogo,”Alex Akinyele was a man of many parts who made sound and meaningful impacts in his active days of service to the nation. “The urbane, quintessential personality and glamour which he blended with an alluring cultural carriage provided an enviably distinct style that was proudly Nigerian. His highly tasteful social life never diminished his love for the Yoruba culture; it rather attracted and exported admiration. “No doubt too, the former Information Minister created a different perception of Public Relations which he nurtured zealously. His was not just PR. His human relations exuded a perfectionist’s bend that took Information and Perception Management to a different pedestal in the country. “Going the way of other mortals is a debt for all. The difference is time. As our icon, Alex Akinyele pays his and moves on, ours is to pray for the repose of his soul. This is even as his legacies are there for all, especially PR practitioners to maximize. His love for the family while alive, shall clearly remain undying even in his absence. “On behalf of the government and the good people of Ondo State, Governor Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu ,SAN, shares this moment of loss. It is a personal loss to him in some significant respects. “Aside being a respected Nigerian elder and opinion leader of Ondo State origin, the late Aleco like I and many other Nigerian patriots, is a proud product of the Great Ife, the nation’s pride and excellence symbol. Great Ife will miss him greatly. Every alumnus feels this vacuum. The former minister was said to have died yesterday in Lagos. A journalist who is an indigene of Ondo town said his ‘Alex Akinyele street,Ebun-Oluwa, Ondo has been under lock and key for the two years. With his death now, life will return to the residence as preparations for burial will begin in earnest.  Akinyele’s death, a monumental loss – Lai Mohammed The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has described the death of Chief Alex Akinyele as “a monumental loss to his family, the people of Ondo State and Nigerians in general.” In a statement issued in Abuja on Friday, Mohammed expressed deep shock and sadness over the death of the former Minister of Information. The statement was signed by Mr Segun Adeyemi, Special Assistant to the President (Media) Office of the Minister of Information and Culture. The minister, in the statement, described Akinyele, to whom he was well acquainted in his lifetime especially in the realms of public relations, as ‘an astute administrator and a highly-respected public relations practitioner’. He said Akinyele’s tenure as Minister of Information, and later as the Chairman of the National Sports Commission, was characterized by his uncommon passion for Nigeria. Mohammed said the family of the deceased, as well as his friends and associates, should be comforted by his legacy of service to humanity. He prayed to God for the repose of Akinyele’s soul as well as for strength and comfort for his family.