 Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has reacted to threats by Miyetti Allah Kauta Hore that governors must establish cattle colonies or know no peace. In a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) and made available to The Nation, the governor told Miyetti Allah Kauta Hore that they are not above the law. The statement said: “We have read with shock a statement in some newspapers credited to the National President of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, Abdullahi Bodejo, in which he threatened that governors who refuse to establish cattle colonies also known as Ruga settlements will not know peace. “He was quoted as saying that ‘you are a governor and you want to enjoy peace in your state, you don’t need any long meeting, just create a particular area for the Fulani and equip them with modern amenities.’ “Utterances such as those of Bodejo are inciting and direct invitation for anarchy. No group should be above the law to be dictating to states on how to accord preference to it at the expense of other Nigerians. “We call for the arrest and prosecution of the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore national president for persistently making statements capable of causing crises in the country. “Bodejo in the same media reports had singled out Governor Ortom for vilification, saying the governor has been playing politics with the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law to win sympathy and gain advantage. “Bodejo also accused Governor Ortom of killing Fulani pastoralists and demanded that he should apologise to them. The Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore national president vowed that the Fulani will never allow the Benue State Law on Ranching to stand. “We find the statement not only as a real threat to peace, but also as prelude to another round of attacks on Benue communities by herdsmen militia. “This is the same manner the group threatened in May 2017, a few days after Governor Ortom signed the Ranching Law that they would mobilise their members across West Africa to invade Benue and resist implementation of the legislation. They carried out their threat on the eve of 2018 New Year when their armed militia murdered 73 innocent persons, destroyed property worth millions of Naira and displaced over 500,000 people in Guma and Logo local governments. “As a state, Benue will not take the current threat by Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore lightly. The law of the land is sacrosanct and must be obeyed by everyone. Any individual or group who wants to breed animals in the state should be prepared to ranch them.”  