Kehinde Lijadu’s death in New York, USA, on November 9, at the age of 71, brought back memories of her stellar musical years alongside her identical twin sister, Taiwo. Known as the Lijadu Sisters, they were not only musically active from the 1960s to the 1980s, when female lead singers were rare in Nigerian pop music, they also made music that was distinctively theirs. Kehinde was one half of a popular act whose death ended a musical partnership that hadn’t ended, despite a long lull. According to a music writer who interviewed them in 2014, “They had told me about their plans to release an album of new music, on their own label, and that their socio-political agenda hadn’t diminished one iota.”  The dream died when Kehinde died. Taiwo described her as “my soul mate.” In their heyday, the sisters had released the albums IyaMiJowo (1969), Danger (1976), Mother Africa (1977), Sunshine (1978), Horizon Unlimited (1979) and Double Trouble (1984).  Their music was eclectic and had features of jazz, afrobeat, raggae, disco, soul and waka.  Their popular track, OrereElejigbo, for instance, in which they sing about “trouble in the streets,” demonstrates their social consciousness. They were quoted as saying:  “Music teaches us to reach out and do something about what is going on, socially, morally, financially, spiritually and politically.” The Lijadus benefited from the rise of radio and television in Nigeria as their music enjoyed airplay on radio, and the sisters appeared on television shows, which contributed to their popularity. They achieved stardom in Nigeria, and attracted attention abroad, which was testimony to the quality and appeal of their music as well as their effort to succeed as musicians. They reflected a sense of independence that was in tune with modern thinking about women. Kehinde was quoted as saying that being a female musician in their active days was “a big struggle.”  “After we made our record, we tried to find a way of having our own band but at the time we had a lot of obstacles from men,” the sisters said.  Their performance with drummer Ginger Baker’s band Salt at the 1972 Munich Olympic Games in Germany was a significant stage in their musical career. In the UK, they were featured in English director Jeremy Marre’s 1979 documentary Konkombé: The Nigerian Pop Music Scene.  Also, their music was featured in a 14-episode world music TV series entitled Beats of the Heart in the late 1980s. The sisters moved to America in the 1980s, possibly to enhance their musical career. They performed at various places, notably backed by African Beats, popular Nigerian juju musician King Sunny Ade’s band. Kehinde’s spinal injury in 1996, however, affected their growth. The Lijadus were out of the spotlight for many years until the 2000s. Four of their albums were rereleased in 2012 and a compilation of their recordings, The Lijadu Sisters: Afro-Beat Soul Sisters. In April 2014, they performed at an all-star event at the Barbican Centre in London. The following month, they were on stage in New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Their resurgence showed the enduring quality of their music. They were quoted as saying: “Mum told us, don’t write any kind of music that is just for today, because two years later, nobody will want to hear it. She said, ‘Write the type of music that people will always hear hundreds of thousands of years later and still [be able to] relate to.’” The immortality of their music compensates for Kehinde’s death.  She was more than a singer and songwriter. The Lijadus were cultural stars who projected the power and possibilities of music.