By Caleb Ijioma In commemoration of this year’s International Day for Tolerance, some students of the University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID) and other youths in Borno State met penultimate Saturday to discuss the essence of religious cooperation in the Northeast region. Facilitated by the Global African Christians for Liberty Initiative (GACLI), a non-governmental organisation, the youth were taken through series of impactful sessions on the need to respect divergent religious beliefs in Nigeria and be made a blessing rather than a curse. At the event, it was agreed that the protection of varying worshippers could foster a free society and prosperity in spite of the population diversity. Religious tolerance, according to Habu Tijjani Kale, the Coordinator of Borno Social Media Frontiers, emanates from the freedom to incline one’s mind towards a person, or thing regardless of popular belief. On the experience of Boko Haram insurgency, he suggested that “greater emphasis needs to be placed on educating the people”, as a cure to the extremism of the terrorist sect.  “Efforts should also be made to teach youths about tolerance and human rights, and other ways of life”, he added. A Fellow of the North East Regional Initiative, NERI, a USAID-funded NGO, Yazid Abubakar, also said that youths have an indispensable role to ensure good fortune for the nation. Instead of inciting violence across the ethnic, religious and socio-cultural divides,  they were encouraged to ally for innovations that would make Nigeria great. For Chukwuemeka Ezeugo, the president of GACLI, the Nigerian spirit can suffice for positive impacts across the different national sectors. He emphasised that: “We can have a free and prosperous society that thrives on innovations by individuals from various backgrounds, in various economic sectors. “In fact, religion should not be a criterion for admission into higher institutions, neither should it be used as a basis for employment, be it in the civil service or the private sector. “Equal opportunities should be served based on merit and qualifications, and in the spirit of one Nigeria”, he said. The event was sponsored by the Network for a Free Society, based in the United Kingdom.