ELETU: Dear Ma, this is the third appeal letter I have written to you without any reply either to me personally or published in The Nation newspaper. And I don’t miss any Wednesday newspaper. Therefore, consider me and help me out before I die. My name is ELETU from Ilorin. I was born on June 10, 1950. I joined Nigeria Customs Service on September 25, 1975. I retired on October 25, 2017. I am on Level 09/Step 10. I was verified on December 6, 2017 at PTAD headquarters Maitama, Abuja. Up till today, I have never received a kobo either pension, gratuity or any retirement benefit, both 33% arrears and other backlog retirement arrears since then. I have travelled to PTAD headquarters more than 100 times. All I was told was wait small,  but till when? I have written appeal letters to President, Vice President and even to the former Executive Secretary of PTAD, Mrs. Sharon Ikeazor. I have sold all my properties I acquired during my working time to treat myself and my aged, sick mother. Even my family is now going about begging. After serving my country for many years, is this how government will pay me back?  Save me and my family from suffering. I am on my sick bed now. Please appeal to PTAD to pay me. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. MBA: Dear Omobola, my name is Mba, I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired from service in September 2009, on Grade Level 15, Step 9. I have done my verification and have done that which is expected of me, yet nothing is forth coming. I have not been paid gratuity or pension. Kindly help me to get my little entitlement. From Owerri, Imo State. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. MRS. FLORENCE: I am Mrs. Florence from Akwa Ibom State. I am the pensioner whom you helped get PTAD to pay her pension that was skipped last year. I am still grateful to The Nation newspaper. But my second request is payment of my federal share of gratuity pending since May 2005 when I retired. Please, help me to get them to pay me as you did last year. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. JOEL: Please will you kindly differentiate or explain the difference among these three pension terms: Lump Sum, Programmed Withdrawal and Annuity? I can’t comprehend how each works. Your assistance on this is highly needed. Thank you so much. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PENCOM. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news.