Food experts have okayed  Ajinomoto(Monosodium Glutamate), a food seasoning for consumption. They made this known at the just-concluded 43rd Conference and Annual General Meeting of the Nigerian Institute of Food Science and Technology (NIFST), at the Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre, the Awka, Anambra State capital. The conference’ theme was, “Traditional food processing: Prospects and challenges.” Citing globally recognised research on MSG safety, the nutritionists said findings had confirmed the food seasoning, which has been in existence for over a century, as okay. Ajinomoto is produced by the West African Seasoning Company Limited (WASCO). In her presentation titled, “MSG: A safe food enhancer,” Dr. Helen Henry-Unaeze, a lecturer at the Department of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, College of Applied Food Sciences and Tourism, Michael Okpara  University of Agriculture, Umudike,  said no food  is tasty without glutamate. “Ajinomoto enhances the taste of food. It brings out the flavour of a wide variety of savoury foods and makes them palatable. MSG can also be used to reduce the amount of sodium in foods – it contains 1/3 percent less sodium than table salt,” she said. She told participants, mostly food professionals drawn from the academia, industry, government and research institutes, that due to growing consumer concerns,  studies were carried out on the safety of MSG. According to her, MSG has no  health condition. “The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Centre for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition commissioned an independent review of all scientific findings on MSG, which found it to be safe and has since been classified as Generally Recognised as Safe (GRAS) by the FDA. Also, the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) has since conducted a study on MSG and published its findings, which also found it to be safe,”  Henry-Unaeze said. Chairman of the plenary session, who is a professor of Food Science and Technology from Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, Prof. Greg Onwuka, said Ajinomoto was not only safe for consumption, but also an enhancer. “WASCO has taken time to educate the public on the safety of its product. It is a safe food enhancer. Irrespective of false reports on social media, MSG is safe.” Corroborating his colleagues, Prof. Iro Nkama, the head of Department of Food Science and Technology, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, acknowledged the safety of Ajinomoto. The don advised the producers to do more to sensitise market women and food vendors on its use. “The level of usage is the problem and not the safety,” the professor of food science and technology noted. The WASCO’s Corporate Communication Officer, Mrs. Francisca Ikediashi, commended participants for “dispelling unfounded insinuations about Ajinomoto and educating the people more on its safety”. She urged consumers to work with facts and dispel misconceptions about Ajinomoto, pointing out that the food regulator, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), had also approved the product.