Nigeria’s unheeded pleas to her neighbours to stop aiding and abetting smuggling, which is damaging her economy, led to the closure of her land borders in August. The action, which was to last 28 days, has entered the third month with January 31, 2020 as its end date. Operators, however, say the closure may render many jobless, TOBA AGBOOLA writes.  The Federal Government has said its policy on border closure may not be reviewed until next year. The government had, on August 20, ordered the closure of the borders, citing massive smuggling as the reason. Within this space, also, Nigerians have listened to the Federal Government reel out how rice smuggling and other communities in neighbouring countries threaten domestic rice production and frustrate the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) Anchor Borrowers Programme. Stakeholders said the closure aimed at checking smuggling may also be counter-productive if it is not urgently reviewed. They said although the measure might have yielded much revenue to the government, it has also led to rise in the prices of staple food items. Aside this, they said there is a threat to job security as many manufacturing companies cannot export their products to neighbouring countries. They expressed concern about introducing such a policy without palliative, arguing that the policy in their estimation remained an unjust man-made code that neither squares with moral laws nor uplifts human personalities, as it possesses the capacity to render many Nigerians jobless and hungry. Speaking with The Nation during their National Executive Meeting (NEC) at Sango Ota, the President, National Union of Chemical Footwear Rubber Leather and Non-Metallic Products Employees (NUCFRLANMPE), Comrade Goke Olatunji, said the border closure was threatening over 200,000 jobs in the sector, as many companies are threatening to downsize. He said some member companies are lamenting over poor sales because some of their products cannot be exported to the neighboring country. He said what the Federal Government needed  to do was to put in place effective monitoring of the border, effective controlling measures for curbing illicit importation and exportation of outlawed commodities. Olatunji said: “The economic situation of our dear country is not improving but instead, it is nose-diving . Recently, with a view to controlling illegal importation of rice and other items, Federal Government closed the land borders totally without consideration for other locally produced products but meant to be exported to the neighboring countries. The strategy is likened to throwing away the baby with birth water. “Nigeria economy cannot be better because of the land border closure. By closing land borders, some other sectors of the economy are suffering and if the options are weighed, better it is for us to open the border while putting in place efficient and effective monitoring and controlling measures for curbing illicit importation and exportation of outlawed commodities. “Some of the companies under us are lamenting seriously for poor sales because their products are for exportation in which the land-border closure strategy has constituted a great challenge. These are signals that if things do not get shape on time, we may have to contend with more redundancy things ever before, thereby further causing membership decline to our union.” He said for the economy to bounce back better, there was the need to  go back to the basics. He said mining, agriculture and manufacturing sectors need serious attention. “It is high time we adopted value-adding strategy instead of exporting our commodities and resources in their raw forms. The monolithic nature of our economy for years has paved the way for our backwardness, petroleum is not enough. We urgently need diversification of the economy for a better growth and development,” he said. He said the infrastructure were insufficient to cater for the upsurge in the population, adding that no good roads for easy movement of people and goods, no pipe-borne water, power supply is ineffective, and medical facilities are either inadequate or not meeting up to the world best standard. “It is pathetic that unemployment is on the increase day by day. Yearly, about 500,000 graduates are being drifted to the employment market by our higher institution of learning without commensurate employment opportunity , thereby leading to high rate of crime and all sorts of civil unrest. “Insecurity in the land has taken another dimension. Ever before now, one could determine unsafe regions in the country but presently, everywhere is unsafe. Boko Haram , herdsmen invasion, bandits, kidnappers and ritual killers are on their prowl, thereby making investment in Nigeria to be difficult because only mad person will invest in a crisis laden area. Government of the day needs to take some emergency measure in addressing socio economic and political misnomers in the country. We do not need to play politics of down play welfare issues as the experience shows presently,’ Olatunji said. The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) has also expressed concern over the extension of the closure till January 31, 2020, as ontained  in a circular signed by the Comptroller of Customs in charge of Enforcement. Speaking in Lagos, Director-General of NECA  Mr. Timothy Olawale said: “While we acknowledge the trade imbalance between Nigeria and its neighbours and the security challenges facing the country currently, the citizen’s welfare and business prosperity should not be sacrificed for the inefficiency of our border policing.” He said coordination and management of fiscal policies should be geared towards enterprise competitiveness, job creation and alleviating poverty as against impoverishing the people by such policies of government. Olawale said: “Despite the many merits that comes with the border-closure, we are concerned that the policy comes without any palliative for legitimate local businesses, which negate the attempts at alleviating poverty and reduce unemployment. The continuous closure also possesses the capacity to render many Nigerians jobless and hungry”. “The policy was more consistent with income generation and not in agreement with the harsh effect it has on households, businesses and investors’ confidence in general. Since the advent of this policy, prices of goods, especially food items had increased tremendously, further making the average Nigerian vulnerable as 70 per cent of poor households budget is spent on food.” Olawale reiterated the need to address the fundamental challenge of smuggling and insecurity. He averred that the government must take a broader look at the fundamentals of its assumptions that led to closing the borders. He noted that the government should not stifle legitimate businesses because of the inefficiency of the Customs Service to keep the borders safe. “If the borders are safe and government enforces the bilateral and multilateral agreements it had signed with other countries, there won’t be need to close the borders. Efforts should be stepped up to equip the Customs to live up to its responsibilities of protecting the borders and nip smuggling in the bud,” Olawale said. The Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Muda Yusuf, said while the chamber appreciated the concern of the government on security and economic sabotage, which informed the closure in the first place, the demands of sacrifice imposed on businesses and the citizens by the closure were s disproportionate and becoming unbearable. Yusuf said the effect was perhaps more pronounced in the Southwest  being the financial and commercial hub of the country and the sub-region. He listed unintended consequences of the closure to include complete shut down of cross-border trade [imports and exports] between Nigeria businesses and their counterparts in the West African region. This, he observed, has grave consequences for investments and jobs, adding that industries have invested in products registered under the Ecowas Trade Liberalisation scheme (ETLS). These are investors whose business models are anchored on market opportunities in the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the investments have been completely disrupted and dislocated. He said majority of the victims of the border closure were small businesses, most of them in the informal sector, warning that their means of livelihood had been put in great jeopardy. “This class of traders do not have the capacity to move their products by sea because of the modest scale of their operations”, he said. The Northern Textile Traders, through their spokesperson, Alhaji Gambo Danpass, said their sector’s losses may hit N3 trillion if the closure persisted. Dampass said the government should remember that the policy was not only about rice smugglers, it was impacting negatively on other genuine business. He said: “For the past 15 years we have been engaged in genuine businesses of importing and exporting textile materials, due to the death of textile companies in Nigeria as a result of lack of power. We are not doing illegal business. “We have over N3 trillion products trapped at the borders, both the ones that were supposed to come in and the ones for other African countries which have all been paid for. In no time, we will become debtors as the interests on the capital will continue to mount if the situation persists.” He said the government should have consulted stakeholders in the export and import business before unilaterally taking the action they did. “If this had been done, there would have a time frame by which the goods coming in going out would not have been trapped. This would have also earned government more revenue as duties would have been paid on them. “The textile companies like the United Nigeria Textile Ltd (UNTL), Kaduna Textile Mills, Arewa Textile, Gaskiya Testile, Asaba Textile and Lagos Textiles, with several others, are no longer operating and their equipment has gone bad. Where do we get the materials to sell if not imported? That is why government must be sensitive to our feeling,” he added. The Comptroller-General of Customs, Col Hammed Ali (rtd) has said that the closure of the borders is in the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians as rice farmers who previously lacked patronage are now making a fortune as millers are rushing to buy the rice off them and they are happy. Also, Ali said that in less than six months of closing the borders, Nigeria has made over N2.5 trillion from seized rice and other contrabands. But Dampass differs with the CG and said that millions of Northern business men would soon go bankrupt .  ‘ We have over N3 trillion products trapped at the borders, both the ones that were supposed to come in and the ones for other African countries which have all been paid for. In no time, we will become debtors as the interests on the capital will continue to mount if the situation persists ’ 