 IN its name, governments demand sacrifices. For its sake, citizens endure deprivation. To be in tune with its requests, trusting patriots gladly embrace policies that deny them the goods of life. National interest is the proverbial Oyo door: it hardly gives; it just keeps taking. To be sure, governments appeal to such other abstract entities as the public interest and common good in defence of policies. But while there are certain cat-in-the-hat tricks that could reduce the public interest or common good to the interests of blood and flesh citizens, national interest is in a league of its own. Public interest is the interest of the public where the public is the summation of all its members. Ditto for the common good, which is the good that is common to all, and therefore shareable by them. National interest is superior to either of these Perhaps, following the examples of common good and public interest, we could define national interest as the interest of the nation. Sure, but we would be quickly advised that the nation is an irreducible or indivisible entity. It is a collective that has no individuation. Except in the case where an individual appropriates the state as in l’etat c’est moi attributed to Louis XIV of France who made himself the personification of the state and ruled with absolute authority. In that case, the interest of the nation, national interest, is the interest of the king. And when a government policy or action is defended by appeal to the national interest in such an environment of absolute rule, clearly the subjects don’t matter. A republic is supposedly an advancement over earlier forms of political authority, founded, as it is, on the rule of law, rather than the rule of woman or man. Therefore, policies are to be justified by appeal to the interest of citizens. How might appeal to national interest measure up to the requirement of republicanism? It requires identifying the nation whose interest is in question with the people who make it up. More importantly, however, the identification that is necessary is over and above a second or third-party identification. It requires self-identification, a one-to-one relationship with the subject of the interest. It requires every citizen’s internalization of the Sun King’s famous affirmation: I am the nation. This requirement is easily satisfied when citizens have an awareness that their interest(s) is(are) implicated in specific issues confronting the nation. A good example is the case of an imminent foreign invasion. American leaders had taken no decision about the nation joining the Second World War until the Japanese invaded Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, a date which President Roosevelt declared “will live in infamy”. More than 2,000 people were killed in the Japanese invasion. Americans judged that invasion unjustified and knew that their leaders were forced to declare war on Japan. Besides, they could not predict what the Japanese and the Axis Powers would do next if Americans decided on neutrality. The issues were clear to citizens, and they responded with voluntary enlistment. The Greatest Generation aligned their interest with the interest of their nation at war. They made voluntary sacrifices, including the supreme sacrifice of more than 400,000 military deaths. It should be obvious that we don’t always have such cases where individual citizens or groups of citizens see a convergence of their interest with the interest of the nation as declared or espoused by leaders. And we don’t have to move from the United States to see the flip side in the Vietnam War. There was no significant difference in the make-up of the citizenry between 1941 and 1964 when President Johnson declared US involvement in Vietnam. The difference was that many citizens failed to see the need for US intervention in a foreign war, while others opposed it because they saw it as a war against Vietnamese independence. Leaders therefore found it difficult to justify the American involvement on ground of national interest. Americans generally highlight a shared interest in democratic norms and the rule of law. Of course, historically, they have hardly lived up to the requirements of these principles and norms. Sadly, race and ethnicity still unfairly dominate social and political life in ways that are detrimental to the health of the republic. All these make contemporary appeals to national interest ring hollow in minority quarters which bear the brunt of social and political injustice. For instance, law and order, should normally be in the interest of everyone. But when African-American men account for 37% of US male prison population versus 32% for White men, and African-Americans are only 14% of the US population, it is not hard to see this as the height of injustice. In our own corner of the world, appeal to national interest is more problematic because we haven’t even come to terms with our identity as a nation. While many Americans migrated from different nations and still identify as Italian-Americans, Irish-Americans, Jewish-Americans, African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, Asian-Americans, etc., many of these hyphenated Americans still self-identify as Americans first. And many more would if America lives up to its creed that all humans are created equal with inalienable rights that the state must protect and promote. In the case of Nigeria, the original sin of colonial imposition and corralling together of diverse nationalities into the canopy of one nation under Britain has been a formidable fortress against the development of a common national sentiment. And without this sentiment, it is not a surprise where we have found ourselves more than a century after amalgamation. It is, of course, uncharitable to blame Britain for all our woes, including the most important one of division and disunity. If we didn’t care to be one, we could just have decided to part ways in 1960. We achieved independence. Nothing was at stake. Oil wasn’t a known entity. We could just have ended the relationship, and each could have moved to its tent. Our leaders decided to give nationhood a try. That was audacious. It called for mutual understanding and shared sacrifices. The commitment to these crucial conditions was unfortunately not there. So, we marched on with each listening to different bugle tones, emphasizing different primordial interests. We still do. There can be no national interest that appeals to everyone when each nationality, no matter how small, is engrossed with its own sense of its interests. Take the case of the recent border closure. Presumably, it is to boost indigenous production and help local farmers as it is to prevent neighboring countries from feeding fat on our appetite for imports, which drain foreign reserves and slow our pace of industrial development. What has been our reaction? Arguments have been offered suggesting that “it is not in the interest of zones close to the borders”; “other borders have not been closed, why ours?” etc. In other words, we look at this important policy, which CBN has adjudged to be working effectively, from the perspective of its impact on our nationality or zone. I am not pronouncing any judgment on this mindset. It would be unfair to do so, because I know that every nationality looks for its own interest. The zone that has the presidency now has expressed an interest in holding on to it on the ground that zoning is unconstitutional, and merit should be the basis for filling the position. If it does, can it honorably advocate that a policy is in the national interest and expect others to applaud? In the final analysis, therefore, in the unfortunate context of our divisive political tendencies, in which each ethnic, linguistic, religious, and nationality group, sees itself apart from everyone else, looks for its own interests and seeks to promote such as it sees fit, it is unfair for any group in power to continue to appeal to a spurious national interest in which it doesn’t have a scintilla of belief. What is more, it is disingenuous and deceptive. If this outcome rightly makes us uncomfortable, we must call on our political leaders to put on the mantle of genuine national leadership, seeing the entire nation as their constituency.