Business mogul, Mr. Femi Otedola, last night gave out N5 billion to the Save The Children charity in support of its intervention in the Northeast. The Executive Chairman of Geregu Power Plc made the donation through his daughter at the ball organised by the Cuppy Foundation. Save The Children is the 100-year-old United Kingdom-based charity. It is the biggest children-focused organisation in the world after UNICEF. Cuppy Foundation is the non-profit organisation founded by Florence Ifeoluwa Otedola (aka DJ Cuppy), Mr. Otedola’s daughter. Speaking at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, venue, Otedola said: “God has been so kind to me in life and I feel highly privileged. The only way I can show my gratitude to Him is to use my resources to support those who are underprivileged. This I intend to do for the rest of my life.” He added: “In a world full of conflicts, diseases, calamities and inequality, we all need to show the  milk of human kindness, to reach out and comfort the sick and give a helping hand to the weak.” DJ Cuppy is a Board Ambassador for Save the Children and a Member of the organisation’s Africa Advisory Board. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo led dignitaries to the event. Also there were: Senate President Ahmad Lawan represented by Senator Gabriel Suswam; former Senate President Bukola Saraki; APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole;  Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Oando MD/CEO, Wale Tinubu,   Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum, former military administrator of Lagos state, Gen. Buba Marwa, Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun and Lagos  State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Others were Minister of Trade and Investments, Adeniyi Adebayo, Minister of Women Affairs Mrs Paulen Tallen and Hajia Bola Shagaya. Miss Otedola said: “I stand before you with a big vision for our country and the less privileged.  I founded the Cuppy Foundation to give to the less privileged in our society and for people living with disability. The idea for this Gala came two months ago, when I visited Maiduguri and met a sick girl that urgently needed blood transfusion. There were many unfortunate children like that. Some were even unlucky and they died. The experience was shocking for me. My heart broke . Ever since,  my determination to serve the Nigerian children has been ingrained.  I need help from you to help me in fulfilling my calling, not just as a DJ, but as a philanthropist, she state. Osinbajo commended Mr Otedola for donating what he called the single largest donation to philanthropy in the country. He said by the gesture Otedola had further demonstrated his commitment to the poor and the less-privileged in the society. Stating that North-East needs help. He also thanked DJ CUPPY for spearheading the initiative. The event was designed to focus on conversations based around some of Save the Children’s initiatives such as bettering the lives of children in Nigeria who are in conflict and also tackling malnutrition. The gala featured various segments including a cocktail reception and a private dinner with special performances. “This is just a start in driving awareness and creating change for our precious Nigerian Children. Save the Children believes children are our future – they are, and the future is now.” DJ Cuppy added. Otedola, a well-regarded philanthropist, has been donating to good causes. In 2005, he instituted a N200 million scholarship for Lagos state undergraduates. In the same year, he donated N300 million for the completion of the National Ecumenical Centre in Abuja. He, at various times, donated N100 million to the Lagos State College of Primary Education, N100 million to the Central Mosque, Ilorin (Kwara State), and N100 million to the University of Port Harcourt (Rivers State). He has committed to building and donating a faculty of engineering valued at N2 billion to the Augustine University in his hometown, Epe in Lagos State. Recently, he made life-saving interventions by footing the medical bills of Christian Chukwu, former captain and coach of Super Eagles; Peter Fregene, former international goalkeeper; Majek Fashek, celebrated Reggae artiste; Sadiq Daba and Victor Olaotan. The Cuppy Foundation tackles issues surrounding young females, education for girls, and persons with disabilities (minorities). The Foundation was born out of a passion deep within her founder to give individuals who have been forgotten and relegated to the background of society a chance at building the life they desire, a chance that every individual deserves. Save the Children was established in the United Kingdom in 1919 in order to improve the lives of children through better education, health care, and economic opportunities, as well as providing emergency aid in natural disasters, war, and other conflicts. The organisation operates in over 120 countries around the World. Save the Children is working in Nigeria because one in five children in Nigeria dies before their fifth birthday. About 40% of children miss out on school and have to work to survive while nearly 2 million children have lost one or both parents to an AIDS-related disease.