By Wahab Shittu  To address emerging challenges in criminality, and to strengthen its enforcement mandate, the EFCC as part of its reforms, created additional departments and sections. These include: the Asset Forfeiture Department, the Forensic Department and the Public Affairs Department. After the creation of these other sections in the Commission, the EFCC launched a major onslaught on the hitherto sacred cows in the society, who have soiled their hands with corruption including very senior military officers and their civilian counterparts implicated in the $2.1billion federal government’s arms procurement fraud. Investigation by the Commission allegedly revealed that top military commanders charged with the responsibility for the prosecution of arms for prosecution of the war on insurgency in the country’s Northeast took advantage of their positions to line their pockets and embarked on a spending spree to acquire choice assets both within and outside the country. While the alleged free stealing and looting lasted, hundreds of soldiers were dying on the battle field, thousands of innocent lives lost, women were raped and abducted, children were rendered orphans and houses and other properties worth billions of naira were destroyed. The two million displaced people in internal refugee camps across the country, though grateful to be alive, contend with the harsh realities of living life on the brink. In many other parts of the country, compatriots continued to live in fear, grief, pains and sorrow, due to national insecurity, which could have been contained if the arms procurement funds have judiciously been utilised. As the sufferings continued, a few big individuals in the big cities wined and dined on what has now been called, “Blood money.” (Investigations by the EFCC revealed that in a single stream of transaction, the sum of $2.1billion moved through the office of a one-time National Security Adviser to some individuals for fictitious services that were never rendered.) The money allegedly found its ways into huge private estates of certain individuals and they acquired properties worth billions of naira across the country even as some allegedly stashed away millions of dollars in their bedrooms. So far, the EFCC has recovered several properties and funds worth millions of dollars from people indicted in this fraud. The operations of the upstream and downstream sector of the Nigerian oil industry has for many years been a source of concern with allegations of heinous corruption. Over the past three years, the EFCC has conducted massive investigation into transactions in the sector, leading to the indictment of some former officials of the Petroleum Resources Ministry and their accomplices. Notable names being investigated by the Commission include a former petroleum minister, Diezani Alison-Madueke and her associates, Jide Omokore and Kola Aluko, a fugitive of the law, who is believed to be hibernating overseas. The country’s oil subsidy regime which was once characterized by massive corruption was also investigated by the EFCC and many corrupt oil marketers were arrested and arraigned before various courts across the country. The subsidy fraud which was perpetrated in connivance with government officials drained the country of billions of dollar. The commission has, however, secured the conviction of some of the defaulters including the conviction and sentencing of three prominent oil marketers to three years imprisonment. While these revelations rankle, most Nigerians were also shocked to learn about how the country’s common patrimony was frittered in bribes for votes schemes in the 2015 general election.  The sum of $115 million was allegedly shared among top politicians and staff of the Nigerian electoral body, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to rig the election. Dozens of staff of INEC and influential political figures including former ministers and state governors are currently being prosecuted in court for their roles in the scam. Some recoveries were also recorded by the Commission in this area. Judges and very senior lawyers are equally standing trial for corruption. They include: Justice Rita Ajumogobia and Justice Nwali S. Ngwuta among others. Also being prosecuted are Senior Advocates on Nigeria, SAN, including Ricky Tafa, Joseph Nwobike, who was convicted and sentenced to one year imprisonment for perversion of justice, amongst others. Still on the National Anti- Corruption Strategy objective which places emphasis on enforcement and sanctions, the EFCC using aggressive and diligent prosecution of corruption cases in courts throughout Nigeria has been distinctive in its conviction record. The significant milestone regarding the convictions recorded in 2018, was the 14 years jail terms handed to two former state governors, Joshua Dariye, who is a serving senator and Rev. Jolly Nyame, for corruption. Indeed, slowly but steadily, the EFCC under the leadership of Magu is altering the narrative of criminal prosecution in Nigeria, and setting a standard for law enforcement agencies, within and outside of the country. Global confidence has been restored as several donor organizations and foreign law enforcement agencies collaborate with the EFCC which is opening fresh lines of partnership and collaboration. The agency has displayed that courage and dedicated leadership can bring an end to the menace of corruption in Nigeria. Many have queried the capacity of Magu to continue to act as acting chairman of EFCC. This position fails to consider the impact of Section 11 of the Interpretation Act Cap 123 No. 1 of 1964 LFN which provides on appointments as follows: “(1)      Where an enactment confers a power to appoint a person either to an office or to exercise any functions, whether for a specified period or not, the power includes- (a)        Power to appoint a person by name or to appoint the holder from time to time of a particular office; (b)        Power to remove or suspend him; (c)         Power, exercisable in the manner and subject to the limitations and conditions (if any) applicable to the power to appoint- (i)         To reappoint or reinstate him; (ii)        To appoint a person to act in his place, either generally or in regard to specified functions, during such time as is considered expedient by the authority in whom the power of appointment in question is vested. (2)        A reference in an enactment to the holder of an office shall be construed as including a reference to a person for the time being appointed to act in his place, either as respects the functions of the office generally or the functions in regard to which he is appointed, as the case may be.” The above shows clearly that only President Buhari can determine whether the acting position of Magu as EFCC chair will continue or terminate. And given the import of Section 11(1) (c) (ii) of the Interpretation Act above, the President is entitled to retain Magu in Acting capacity as long as the president wishes. The position of Ibrahim Magu as Acting Chair of EFCC remains unfettered at the pleasure of the President. But sincerely, given the stellar achievements of Magu detailed above, is it right for us as a country and as a people to continue to live in denial of the extraordinary achievements of this anti-corruption czar? The 9th Assembly of the Senate is strongly advised to put a final stamp of approval on the candidacy of Magu if and when the president presents his name for confirmation. 