AgroNigeria, the “Voice of Nigeria’s Agriculture”, is set to hold the “Farm2Fork Dialogue” slated for December 3 through 4 at the Main Auditorium, Government House, Ilorin, Kwara State. Themed “Eliminating the Impediments to a Prosperous Commodity Agribusiness”, the event, which is being hosted by the Kwara State Government, is targeted at fashioning the modalities to usher in a prosperous era in Nigeria’s agricultural sector. This is in light of the current realities plaguing the country’s agricultural commodity business. The Co-Convener of the Dialogue, Richard Mark-Mbaram, is of the view that the platform is imperative to facilitate the needed solutions to challenges bedeviling agri-business in the country. According to him, the event, which is being organised in conjunction with the Agricultural Trade Group of the National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industries Mines & Agriculture (NACCIMA), Organized Private Sector Exporters Association (OPEXA), and the Federation of Agriculture Commodity Associations of Nigeria (FACAN), will among other things leverage on the positive momentum generated by recent economic actions of the government with a view to ensure that the Nigerian economy and its critical stakeholders benefit there-from.  “The dialogue will hinge on the key narrative that the Nigerian private sector in agriculture is keen on fostering a Proactive Partnership for Prosperity (PPP) with the public sector. Right from local production to processing, logistics, consumption and exports, there exists cross-cutting challenges which can only be comprehensively addressed by having all stakeholders around the table. “This is what the Farm2Fork Dialogue seeks to achieve. In essence, the Dialogue is designed not only to interrogate the causative issues resulting in the current reality of agro-commodity deficits in the country, but to evolve a trajectory for short-medium and long-term solutions – this premised on an inclusive template”, he said. AgroNigeria is an integrated agro-centric media and communications company famed for its cutting-edge reportage of critical happenings in the Nigerian agricultural landscape and bringing government and its agricultural policies closer to realities in the space. The organization also hosts the annual Feed Nigeria Summit (FNS) and The Nigeria Agriculture Awards (NAA). 