Sani Muhammad Sani, Gusau Zamfara state police command have arrested 24 notorious criminals belonging to different syndicates of Armed robbers, Rapist, serial snatchers of Motor cycles, tricycles, Kidnapping and other heinous crime in different locations and hideout in the state. The state commissioner of police CP Usman Nagoggo revealed this to newsmen at the force headquarters in Gusau, Wednesday. Nagoggo revealed that, thirty two different brands of motorcycles and seven vehicles. Others are four plasma TVs, Three Generators, one sewing machine, Two Gas cylinders, Two Ceiling fans, one, one Iron Stone, one Carpet, one Z pad x 7 table, one Nokia handset, one Techno handset and other numerous exhibits reasonable suspected to be stolen. Another feat achieved by the command is the arrest of a suspect Mohammed Dahiru Alias “Emeka Pastor who belong to the a notorious gang of armed robbery and kidnapping which also led to the arrest of other members of his gang, Abubakar Ahmed, Sani Garba, Sama’ila Abubakar, Abubakar Ibrahim Nagoggo explained that exhibits recovered are during these raids are one mark rout pistol breech No. 2537 with two 2 Round of live ammunitions, two Toyota Corollas, one Honda vehicle and one Toyota Hilux Vehicle belonging to NDE office of Zamfara State was recovered These hoodlums Nagoggo said have been terrorizing innocent people of Gusau and its environs with criminal activities ranging from armed robbery, Houses and shops breaking, snatching of vehicles and Motorcycles on gun point. Their recent atrocity according to the police was at the house of coordinator National Directorate of Employment NDE Zamfara State where they went to his house, robbed him, and made away with his official Toyota Hillux Vehicle at gun point, and later took the vehicle to Niger Republic for sale. All the suspects according to the CP confessed to their past and present crimes and further led the police investigation team to Suleja in Niger state as well as Niger Republic where three other stolen vehicles belonging to one Nura Garba Daura, of Federal University Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi state was recovered. Nagoggo stressed that all the vehicles were stolen at gun points while women were raped in some of the robberies and subjected to all forms of humiliation adding that the searches in their houses led to recoveries of so many stolen items. Aliyu Alhaji Riskuwa was also arrested in connection with a case of kidnapping of three persons where the sum of twenty million naira was demanded.