 The Vice Chancellor of Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, Prof. Lanre Fagbohun, has called for more investments from the government and individuals to revamp the educational sector. He spoke at the weekend at the 45th anniversary lecture of Eko Club with the theme: “Lagos State University through Time: An Instrument for Global Relevance. The weeklong celebration, which witnessed a lot of activities, came to a climax yesterday. Fagbohun said what LASU was enjoying was as a result of investment and forthrightness of some individuals, organisations and past leaders of the state, who did not only limit their focus on the future of the school, but also invested in the sustenance and standardisation of the institution, hence the need for more investments in the school to propel it to greater heights. The vice chancellor, who listed some of the achievements of LASU, said one of the biggest challenges facing the school was the limited capacity to admit the rising number of students seeking admission. He, however, praised the efforts and cooperation of the lecturers, students, members of staff, as well as the Governing Council. “Let me tell all of you in this main auditorium that Lagos State University has changed positively. What has happened in the positive change is not about the vice chancellor, but about the great minds of the people there. The people there comprise the management, the generals, the academic staff and non-academic staff. That’s the difference and that is exactly what has changed the narratives of the institution. LASU is now where you can have a legacy, hence my appeal to all of you to come and invest heavily in the school,” Fagbohun said. The chairman of the occasion, Justice Obafemi Adamson, hailed the initiative behind the establishment of Eko Club. He said the initiative has brought progress not only to the members, but also the state at large, as members have served in capacities and proved to be good ambassadors of the club. The club President, Mr. Ade Dosumu, thanked the members for sustaining the club and developing it over the years.