Gaining admission into Covenant University (CU) Ogun State could be likened to securing a future, but having an academic mileage is not automatic, it must be earned. Those were the words of the Chancellor of Covenant University, Dr David Oyedepo at the 18th convocation ceremony of the university yesterday. Addressing parents and new students during the institution’s matriculation for the 2019/2020 academic session at the university’s premises, Oyedepo challenged the new students to prepare for tough times ahead, saying the institution would never bend the rules for any student regardless of their parents’ status in the society. Oyedepo said the hallmark of the institution, which began operation in 2002, are discipline and the God’s factor, which he said have catapulted it to the top. He said the institution was able to thrive based on certain homegrown programmes as well as uncompromising stance when it comes to discipline. He said: “I will advise you all to get values and be empowered by the training you will be equipped with here. “The testimonies we receive about our products today showcase the validity of the mode of training we inculcate. “Covenant University exists to raise a new generation of leaders through qualitative and life-applicable training system that focuses on values and skills development. “For instance, examination fraud has no place here. Once you are caught, there is no two way about it. We don’t want to know you or who your parents are; you are on your way out. “If you fall below in the exam, you will definitely do it (failed courses) next year. That is our standard here.” Oyedepo said the institution champions a huge shift from the traditional mindset of delivering results to value creation and action. He said the university’s custom-built programme such as the total man concept (TTC), entrepreneurial studies, leadership skill and towards a total graduate (TTG) are all geared towards producing graduates that are intellectually sound, entrepreneurial minded and imbued with leadership traits that would address leadership lacuna in Africa and liberate the black man from intellectual and economic slavery. The fiery cleric admonished the new students to avoid peer pressure and allow truth be their watchword. “You can only succeed by being truthful and not by tricks,” he warned. “Whatever you acquire through tricks shall come back to punish you. “Remember the story of Jacob in the Bible. Jacob used tricks to collect his brother’s blessings, but paid back later when he suffered as a pawn for 14 years in the quest for a bride.” Earlier, the CU vice Chancellor, Prof.Aaron Atayero, said over the years, the institution has built the CU brand and today boasts that its product are making significant contributions all over the world. “The institution equips our students with the spiritual, mental and physical capacity to positively impact their world,” he said.