SIR: The much talked November16, Kogi/Bayelsa elections have come and gone. Expectedly, the winners were announced by the Independent National Electorate Commission (INEC) even as the next phase of the battle shifts to the courts. In Kogi, Governor Yahaya Bello, was declared the winner. Although, the candidate of PDP, Engineer Musa Wada and his party have rejected the result of the poll, INEC has since issued the certificate of return to Governor Bello. Notwithstanding the pocket of violence, ballot snatching, votes buying and other malpractices that characterized the polls, President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Yahaya Bello and described his re-election as well deserved. In Bayelsa State, the outcome of the election surprised many Nigerians and even political pundits. In the last 20 years, Bayelsa has remained a PDP state. However, with the emergency of David Lyon of APC as governor-elect, the ruling party has gradually extended its influence in to South-south states which in the previous elections proved a hard nut. Now, Bayelsa has become an APC state. The outgoing governor, Seriake Dickson should carry the blame for the PDP’s resounding defeat at the poll. The failure of PDP to win the election was a self-inflicted problem hatched by Dickson. He imposed his candidate and failed to carry other party stakeholders along. Now, it is history. There are numerous lessons to take from the just concluded polls.  Election in Nigeria is still a do or die affair. Both in Kogi and Bayelsa states, there were reported cases of disruption of elections by the armed political thugs. The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), in its reports put the death toll at over 10 people in Kogi State alone. Even after the election, it was reported that a PDP women leader was set ablaze by suspected political thugs. The desperation of our politicians to win election at all costs has continued to pose great challenges for the growth and development of our democracy. We keep pointing accusing fingers on the electoral umpire for its imperfections or shortcomings but fail to remind our politicians that election should not be a matter of do or die. There is the need to play the game according to the rules. Sadly, in the last elections, our politicians failed to conduct themselves within the ambit of the electoral laws. It seems also that performance which should serve as a requirement or criteria for electing our leaders have been discarded to the dust bin. While in developed democracies, political leaders are elected based on their track record of services delivery, in Nigeria reverse is the case. Imagine a governor having to knell down during the campaigns to apologise to the electorate on behalf of his party candidate saying that his candidate was young and bound to make mistakes. Does it mean that the electorates should continue to elect leaders even if they have failed to discharge their constitutional responsibilities? With the conduct of Kogi and Bayelsa elections, our democracy is still at rudimentary stage. With the reported cases of violence and other electoral malpractices that marred the polls, unless we change our attitudes, 2023 elections would be worse than the previous ones. 