Africa’s Most preferred smartphone brand, Tecno, said it was proud to have partnered with the organisers of this year’s Lagos Fashion Week. It said it is in line with its determination to promote every facet of human endeavour in the country. Speaking on the occasion, its, Deputy Marketing Manager, Attai Oguche, said the firm was particularly excited to be part of the show as it coincided with the launch of its Camon 12 Series in the market with its camera-centric focus. “We are proud to be a part of this year’s edition of the Lagos Fashion Week, being official mobile partner is a feat, we proud of. “This partnership is coming at a time when the brand just launched its Camera-Centric mobile line the Camon 12 Series. The world of fashion is another medium to explore the limitless possibilities of its camera and that is what we are doing here today. Camon series is a phone loves by creatives and fashionistas”  He said Tecno showing its presence in everything Nigerian including arts, style and now fashion, stressing that the brand is truly for Nigerians. The four-day event, held at Federal Palace Hotel provided a platform for designers to exhibit their new designs and collections on the runway and maximise their exposure within and beyond the industry.  It also offered guests the opportunity to showcase their sense of fashion to the world. Tecno was there to capture individual creativity of attendees and creativity on the runway. Every day of the event attracted models, fashion enthusiasts, potential buyers, designers, celebrities and the media to the Tecno Fashion Booth, which was one of the major highlights and the most visited booth of the event as they had the opportunity to experience creativity captured with the Camon 12 Series. Visitors at the booth had the opportunity to have their images taken by two celebrity photographers Emmanuel Oyeleke and Abdulsalami Photography, as well as the top three from the just concluded CAMission camp.  All images taken at the booth were taken with the Camon 12 Pro, an evidence of its excellent camera output quality. Also present at the booth were Ex-Big Brother Pepper Dem Housemates: Sir Dee, Isilomo and Esther who came around to take pictures with their fans. Nollywood Actress Toni Tones also came around to take pictures in the booth. 