 The House of Representatives has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to furnish it with details of the agreement he signed with the Russian government on the completion of the Ajaokuta Steel Company. This, the House explained, is to enable it monitor the processes leading to the completion of the plan. The position was reached following a motion by Uzoma Nkem-Abonta, while informing the House of the need to complement the efforts of the President towards the completion of the Ajaokuta Steel Company, which has remained at 95 percent completion for over 30 years. Abonta recalled that the 8th National Assembly had passed the Ajaokuta Steel Completion Fund Bill in 2018 and transmitted it to the President for assent but was declined. He disclosed that the Bill has been reviewed to address the concerns raised by the President, regazzeted and passed First Reading in the current Assembly. According to him, the President, determined to complete the project, signed a government-to-government agreement with the Russian President, Vladimir Putin at the recently concluded Russian -Africa summit in Sochi for the Russian Engineering and Construction Group, MetProm to undertake necessary work to bring Ajaokuta Steel Company into operation. This is  with the support of the State-Owned Russian Export Center JSC and the Cairo-based African Export-Import Bank. According Abonta, Section 12 of the 1999 constitution as amended, provides that no treaty between the Federation and any other country shall have the force of law except to the extent to which any such treaty has been enacted into law by the National Assembly. He expressed concerned that the National Assembly as an Arm of Government responsible for making laws, is also passionate about national development, including revamping the moribund Ajaokuta Steel Company is not privy to the details of the agreement signed by President Buhari and his Russian counterpart. Abonta commended the action of the President in taking pragmatic steps towards ensuring the full operation of the Ajaokuta Steel Company, adding that the House need to take cognisance of the statutory provisions regarding the ratification and or implementation of treaties or international agreements to be followed so as to streamline government efforts carried out by its distinct arms for the overall benefits of the people. Contributing to the debate, Tobi Okechukwu (PDP, Anambra) said there was the need for both arms of government to work together in ensuring that the Ajaokuta Steel Company is completed, adding that both the executive and legislative arms of government need to be on the same page. He said it as unfortunate that the five percent portion of the company remaining has remained uncompleted for the past 30 years, adding that the government must get it right this time. While commending the steps taken by the President to complete the project which he said has the capacity to generate about 10,000 jobs, he said presenting details of the agreement did not need to come to the house as a motion, but something that should have been done seamlessly. The House mandated its committees on Steel and, Treaties, Protocols and Agreements to interface with the Minister of Mines and Steel Development on the agreement in order to ensure a seamless ratification of such agreement and report back within four weeks for further legislative action.