Nigeria is challenged in so many fronts but the most dangerous of these challenges has been the inability of a vast majority of the populace to be economically relevant, the Founder Felix King Foundation, Dr. Felix King, said on Tuesday in Lagos. Unveiling the StartUp Africa, a platform developed by the foundation to empower young innovators to realise their dreams at Lagos Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, he said talent and skills abound in this country with a strong population made up of 65 per cent young and able people. He said most people would place the blame squarely and solely on the government. “I agree with this to a very limited extent. The truth is that while our various governments, past and present, have lived below expectations in terms of harnessing and harvesting the energy of the Nigerian youth for our collective economic prosperity, there are also various questions that we, as individual members of the society has to answer with regards to how much we have been able to provide the leverage needed by those around us to realise their potential,” he said. According to him, startups are hyper-innovators driven by ambition and insight to charge into the unknown. Quoting the 2018 Global Entrepreneurship Index (GEI), he said was clearly stated entrepreneurs improve economies and people’s lives by creating jobs, developing new solutions to problems and creating technology that improves efficiency. He said the Foundation was driven by the desire to help the too many great talents in Nigeria and Africa to realise the dreams, will provide $10.000 to local business idea which will solve indigenous problems. “As humans, we are often consumed by what we most often erroneously consider to be our personal goals, ignoring the reality that somewhere down the road is a nexus that links us to others without whose success we just might as well be trapped. “StartUp Africa is therefore our response to the need to wake the manifest entrepreneurial energy of many young Nigerians whose vision to change the world around them are being challenged by paucity or total absence of capital and mentorship. A report recently released by Nigeria’s Dr Ayodele Odusola, Chief Economist, at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Regional Bureau for Africa said Africa’s economy will experience massive growth between now and 2023. Already, the continent is recorded to have had the highest rate of return on inflows of foreign direct investment when compared with other continents. Dangote Group was reported to have posted a turnover of $4.1 billion in 2017. MTN Group made a whopping $10 billion same year. What these numbers show is that there are vast opportunities for young people on the continent. It also means, if we probe deeper, that some of these big corporations are likely to do even better with an empowered youth population creatively revving the economic multipliers that will resultantly increase the appetite of the African market for consumption. “We want to prepare and empower the generation of young people that will further unlock the potentials of Africa for productivity. ‘I strongly believe in the ability of young Africans to birth the innovative business ideas that can change the world for the better. And we are willing to provide the help and support needed to actualize this. I have always believed that if you are a billionaire and all you think about is about your immediate family; how your children would attend the best schools, ride the best cars, live in the best of luxuries without a thought on how to lift others, then you are a poor person in your soul. We are not in this project because we have a surplus. On the contrary, we are driven by our conviction and belief in the saying that “we can only rise by lifting others. Africa can only be great when we lend the hand to lift one another,” Dr King said.