Chris Oji, Enugu Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) Monday celebrated post humously, the 86th birthday of the late Biafran leader, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu with lamentation over the decay of infrastructures in Igboland. The group’s leader, Uchenna Madu in address on the occasion made a number of demands from lgbo leaders and stakeholders that would assuage the sorry state of the region. Said the MASSOB leader: “We demand that Igbo political, Religious, Economical, Traditional leaders must sit up now in advancement of Igbo political, economical, Traditional and Religious emancipation from Nigeria’s anti Igbo policies of subjections. Igboland have been abandoned by successive government of Nigeria to decay and rot. All the federal roads in Igboland and few infrastructures that promote social stability in Igboland have been abandoned, neglected, cursed to perish by Nigeria federal government. “Educational systems and operations in Igboland is the worst hit by Successive government of Nigeria even though Ndigbo have the most brilliant and best Students in Nigeria since introduction of WAEC, NECO, GCE, JAMB and NABTEB. “Primary and Secondary Education system in Arewaland and Yorubaland in Nigeria are free sponsored by Nigeria Federal government since after the Nigeria Biafra war but such academic and educational leverages are not extended or applied to Ndigbo. “Though Nigeria government have deliberately abandoned and neglected Igboland and Ndigbo to suffer, why must Igbo political, religious, traditional and economic leaders complement our oppressor’s deliberate and constant government policies against our people’s survivals in Nigeria? “Why should elective and self -acclaimed leaders in Igboland continue singing praises of our oppressors and political enemies? What happened to Second Niger bridge, Onitsha sea port, Aba dry port, Onitsha — Enugu expressway, Enugu –Port Harcourt expressway, Onitsha – Okigwe federal highway, Umuahia — Arochukwu – Ibibio – Ikot Ekpene – Aba federal highway, Umuahia – Ikot Ekpene – Uyo federal highway, Onitsha – Orlu – Mbano – Umuahia federal highway, Owerri – Mbaise – Umuahia federal highway, Onitsha – Adani – Nsukka federal road? “Erosion menaces have devastated Igboland with glaring dangers of collapsing; the dangerous erosion sites at Nkwoagu Amuda Isuochi and Uturu Isuikwuato both in Abia State, Nanka Orumba North and Ozubulu Ekwusigo in Anambra state etc are all sign of utmost neglect. Even though many Igbo leaders are cowards who cannot defend the course of their people, MASSOB still have utmost regard for some Igbo leaders who eloquently defend and upholds the interest and cause of Ndigbo in Nigeria. “Ndigbo have committed more harmful, dangerous and sacrilegious crimes against Igboland with their nonchalant attitude and selfishness against our ancestors. “ 75% of infrastructural, economic, academic, commercial, technological and agricultural developments in Lagos, Kano, Abuja, Kaduna, Jos, Ibadan, Ilorin and other major cities outside Igboland are established by Ndigbo. Ndigbo have abandoned the legacies and visions of Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu (Eze Igbo Gburugburu) even his image, personality and name are no longer respected or regarded in the political, economic, social, traditional and religious lives of Ndigbo. Ojukwu and our ancestors are not happy with Igbo leaders. ” MASSOB further demanded and mandated “that South-East Governors must start eulogizing the name, person and image of Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu in their respective States through establishing Mechanic Villages in Ojukwu’s name, which will create more Mechanical Innovations and inspirations among our teeming Youths whose future are at stake in Nigeria. “We also demand and mandate that these Igbo Governors must start naming prominent Institutions, Roads and Public Squares after the Name of Dim Chukwuemeka Odumejwu Ojukwu. We also hail Anambra Government for naming her State University after the Name of Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu.”