A young Nigerian, Gideon Olanrewaju, has developed education-in-bottles, an educational intervention that provides basic educational infrastructure through waste plastic bottles to support access to quality education and empowerment for marginalised girls and vulnerable women in educationally-deprived communities. For this feat, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex invited Gideon to the United Kingdom to share the inspiration behind this life-changing project. WALE AJETUNMOBI and Anjorin Philip (200L Mass Communication) writes.  With an ambitious plan to build informal community learning centres with waste plastic bottles, which would enhance access to alternative learning and empowerment for the under-served and disadvantaged populations across Nigeria, a young Nigerian has become the guest of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex in the United Kingdom (UK). Gideon Olanrewaju, an education development practitioner and quality education advocate, was invited by Prince Harry and Megan Markle to Windsor Castle to share how his non-profit organisation – Aid for Rural Education Access Initiative (AREAi) – had been boosting access to alternative learning and empowerment opportunities for girls and women in Nigeria. Gideon, an Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) Young Leader for United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), was one of the 10 inspiring young leaders around the world selected by the British royal family to join a high-level roundtable discussion focused on gender equality, inclusion, education and empowerment of women and girls. The Duke and Duchess convened the meeting, given their roles as president and vice president of the Queen’s Commonwealth Trust. The roundtable also formed a critical component of the 10th One Young Summit in London, where over 2,000 young leaders who are accelerating social impact globally gathered to discuss on various themes towards the attainment of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Participants at the event with the Duke and Duchess, among others, deliberated on how to achieve best practice in empowering women and identifying international commonalities in gender equality. While sharing their individual projects and activities that support gender parity and inclusion in various disadvantaged countries, which include South Africa, Nigeria, Iraq, Malawi and Bangladesh, the young leaders listed their achievements and progress, showcasing how their works and efforts had empowered people in their local communities to overcome complex challenges and obstacles. Gideon, who represented Theirworld, the UK leading education charity, as its youth representative at last year’s United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), told Prince Harry how AREAi has designed alternative strategies and implemented accelerated yet effective education programs to close the gaps between education and employability for girls, youths and women who did not and cannot attend conventional schools. He recounted how his organisation started in 2014 by providing technical and infrastructural support to under-resourced schools in rural communities, after which it decided to scale up the impact to facilitate access for more girls, especially those in hard-to-reach communities. Responding to a question about the effectiveness of the global education systems, particularly in Africa, Gideon pointed to a widening gap in education access and quality in many African countries. He said: “Disadvantaged countries on our continent are at crossroads education-wise, given that a quarter of a billion young people and children are out of school. If we do not urgently address this situation, then we will fail a whole generation who would not have the necessary skills to build their future or engage within the community as active citizens.” Giving details on strategies deployed by his organisation in addressing the situation, Gideon explained that AREAi leveraged alternative approach to provide education infrastructure in disadvantaged communities and committed resources and efforts to engender accelerated learning programmes, which, he said, had improved access to quality education for beneficiaries. He said further that the mission of AREAi over the next 10 years is to build on the progress achieved in alternative learning and create more empowerment opportunities for the out-of-school population, vulnerable women and youth, and also equip them with skills that would better prepare them for employment.Gideon added that the organisation is implementing this intervention in three remote communities (Kaida Sabo, Orozo and Ruga) in Abuja. He said: “In the past, we have worked with over 6,000 children, enriching their learning experiences and outcomes through various programmes. But now, we want to provide access to education, training and empowerment for youth, children and women through a traditional innovation that expands access to quality life-long learning opportunities for thousands of beneficiaries. This approach using waste plastic bottles means we are providing education infrastructure for the under-served populations and ensuring environmental integrity in the same vein.” He continued: “The Education-In-Bottles programme has a bi-dimensional learning model that emphasises the need to develop a blend of entrepreneurial, vocational, life, cognitive and technological skills. We are deploying this as a school readiness programme through an accelerated learning experience. “Using a holistic model that seeks to close gaps between education and employability, we will curate and deliver alternative learning programs that holistically meet the educational and empowerment needs for our beneficiaries to access quality education.” “Across 12 months, our beneficiaries are exposed to non-formal education programs including ‘skill workshops’ and ‘vocational training courses’ that expand their skill sets allowing them to be well equipped, self-confident and productive members of their communities. Amazed by Gideon’s revelation and projections, the Duke of Sussex hailed the Nigerian for making an impact, expressing his delight at the details given to strengthen quality education access in disadvantaged communities. Prince Harry expressed hope in the prospects of Gideon’s ideas, saying: “I hope to visit Nigeria soon and see how your organisation is growing.” On his experience after the meeting with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Gideon described the event as a “humbling privilege”, noting that he was honoured to represent Nigeria on the global stage and amplify the voices of young people working to ensure people’s right  to education is guaranteed. He said: “I felt so honoured and inspired to have physical engagement with the UK Royal family and share the work that I and many other volunteers at AREAi have done in the past few years to promote quality education and access. I remain grateful to my sponsor who enabled me to attend the One Young World Summit that facilitated my engagement with the Royal family. I consider this the greatest honour of my lifetime.” At the end of the event, the participants formed an informal global taskforce team of young leaders to be known as #Action10. Participants also agreed to ensure gender parity and accepted the responsibility of building, and maintaining a consortium that would research and share global best practices aimed at amplifying the impact of empowering women, promote working with communities that are hard to reach, facilitate the feasibility of projects with the right facilities and devise creative approaches to longstanding challenges facing women and girls in accessing education opportunities. 