The Edo State Government has re-opened the school at the Children Correctional Centre on Welfare Road, Ugbekun Quarters, in Benin City, the state capital. The re-opening of the school is part of events to mark the World Children’s Day. Speaking at the event, the Edo State First Lady, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki, said the state government will not relent in rebuilding the Edo State Children’s Correctional Home. According to her, “Governance is about the people, it is as a result of bad leadership that people are involved in various social vices, ranging from human trafficking, child labour and other illicit acts.” She urged the inmates at the Centre to be of good conduct, tasking them to aspire to become better citizens, noting, “I will strongly support this project and I urge other staff of the ministry to rise up to the challenge.” Commissioner for Social Development and Gender Issues, Hon. Maria Omozele Edeko, said the World Children’s Day is celebrated every November 20, to raise awareness about the problems that children face globally and to improve their welfare. The World Children’s Day is also known as Universe Children’s Day, which is promoted and coordinated by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). Former Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs. Josephine Anenih, said the state government understands human development and is ready to resurrect the Correctional Center and improve its standard. President, Federation of Female Lawyers (FIDA), Barr. Roseline Otoboh, said they are proud to identify with the governor in his effort to better the lives of the inmates. She urged the inmates to cease the opportunity to learn and develop their talents. Present at the occasion were Commissioner for Youths and Sports Development, Hon. Damian Lawani; Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General of the State, Prof. Yinka Omoregbe, Chairman, Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (Edo-SUBEB), Dr. Joan Oviawe, and Organizing Secretary, APC, Dr. Aisosa Anadasun, among other dignitaries.