By Adebisi Onanuga  A Lagos High Court sitting at Igbosere heard on Friday that the mode of collapse of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) guest house was inconsistent with structural defect. A professor of building and structural engineering Patrick Nwankwo who stated this in continuation of his evidence on the collapsed guest house of the church before Justice Lateef Lawal-Akapo. Led in evidence by the defence counsel, Olalekan Ojo (SAN), Professor Nwankwo said a building with structural defect would not collapse like a pack of cards but will collapse partially or sink on one side. “For a building with structural failure and defect, the mode of collapse should be gradual, it cannot be catastrophic or simultaneous because of the processes of hinges formation and the occupants will sufficiently notice cracks and deflections to enable them move out before it collapses. It is not possible for it to collapse like a park of cards as seen in the case of Synagogue”, Prof, Nwankwo insisted. According to the international professor of building and structural engineering: “the synagogue guest house, with rigid frame structures, which had been completed over a year, the whole twelve frames could not have collapsed in the mode in which it happened, it would have been partial and never catastrophic as it seen”.
Nwankwo, who is the eighth defence witness in the on-going trials of the contractors and supervisors of the collapsed building which claimed over a hundred lives on September 12, 2014 said he carried out an independent and thorough investigation on the collapsed guest house of the church in order to get to the root of the cause. Giving evidence further, Professor Nwanko said he carried out structural analysis using Orion Design Software modeling on the beams, columns, foundation, anchorage, expansion joints, rigid zones and mechanism vis-a-vis the internationally accepted Codes of practice for engineering which is British Standard (BS) which all professionals in the field of engineering use guiding principles to arrive at his conclusions.
Prof, Nwankwo demonstrated his findings clinically with power points and with standard codes for every aspect of civil and structures. On beams and columns of the collapsed building, he said: “the issue of slenderness was immaterial. There was no any under-reinforcement as the main beams, edge beams and columns were adequate and correct and as such couldn’t have been responsible for the collapse in any way”. On the foundation and anchorage of the collapsed building Prof. Nwankwo stated: “ the foundation, made of pad type as recommended by the geo-technical analysis on the soil, remained intact without punching, deflection or tilting while the anchorage which was fixity type, was adequate and sufficient for the building and as such, could not have been responsible in any way for the collapse of the building”. On the rigid zones and expansion joints, the erudite scholar said: “the building was adequately provided with rigid zones with the two staircases, in-filled block walls and rigid frames while the expansion joint was unnecessary because expansion joint is a function of temperature and the temperatures in Lagos adequately accommodate the collapsed guest house and therefore could not have anything to do with the collapsed building of the church”. On the controversial mechanism alleged to have occurred in the building by the prosecution, Nwankwo who had carried out different investigations on troubled structures and handled many highrise buildings across the globe stated that Mechanism did not occur on the building. “Before mechanism occurs, there should be elasticity, yielding and plasticity of the elements and this was never the case in the collapsed Synagogue guest house. Otherwise, all tests carried out on the elements could not have retained their original strength which can never happen once there is mechanism. Therefore investigations clearly showed that the collapsed building was never structurally deficient in any way”, he said. Justice Lawal-Akapo has adjourned the hearing to December 13.