Recent calls for African countries to establish shipping lines in preparation  for  the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) may not see the light of the day, without some conditions being met. An industry expert and former Secretary-General, Maritime Organisation for West and Central Africa (MOWCA), Magnus Teye Addico, explains why, MUYIWA LUCAS writes.  Former Secretary General, Maritime Organisation for West and Central Africa (MOWCA), Magnus Teye Addico, has warned that African countries,  Nigeria and Ghana inclusive, should forget the idea of  establishing shipping lines at this point in time. He said the huge financial outlay needed to purchase and efficiently run vessels, coupled with the changing fortunes in trade at the moment, would not support such gigantic ventures. Rather, in his opinion, governments should adopt other fiscal measures, including generous tax holidays to attract investors into the shipping sector.  Viability of National Shipping lines Addico warned that Nigeria and Ghana should not venture into buying ships for national shipping lines. “My position is that shipping is a servant of trade. It is not trade that is serving shipping. Before you go into shipping, you must have a purpose you are coming to serve. Before Ghana started the “Black Star Line”, the volume of cargoes and need to have vessels to move them was very glaring to all; hence, the ships were brought in for that purpose, and it served very well at that time.” The former MOWCA scribe clarified that it was wrong to think the Black Star Shipping Line failed due to corruption, inefficiency or mismanagement, saying:  “those were not true. The truth is that the trade is no longer there. When the trade is no longer there, what is the need for the ship? he queried. He said shipping was capital intensive and that it would cost over $60 million to acquire one. “This was why I said shipping is a servant of trade,” he submitted. The shipping expert said most of the countries that got involved in the venture had to use scarce resources that should have been deployed to health, road construction, education and others to procure ships, in the hope that ships will reduce unemployment. “This is not the situation anymore. Those days in Black Star Line and Nigeria National Shipping Line, a ship used to have 50 crew members onboard running a conventional ship. Combo vessels that had spaces for containers and bulk cargo had about 40 persons on board. But with modern ships, everything is now automated and all you now need is 13 to 18 crew members running a big vessel,” he said. He further warned that no one African country should go into buying ships to compete with multinationals because such ventures are capital intensive. According to him, maritime transportation cannot be branded as no one cares who owns it or where it comes from, adding that the entire cargo owner wants is that he gets his cargo delivered in good time at minimal cost to country of destination. “Things have changed so much that the shipping we knew is not the shipping we have now. That is the danger we have with our maritime academies. We are churning out cadets that cannot get jobs, not that they are not competent, the jobs are not enough. The academies should also prepare cadets for entrepreneurial ventures too. This may look difficult because of its capital intensive nature, but it could be worked out. Things have so changed that maritime jobs are not waiting for graduates anymore. The percentage of people who get employed as they leave school is decreasing,” he said.  Manpower in shipping According to him, African continent has enough manpower in running a shipping line. However, what the various governments are not getting right is taxation. “African governments think taxation will create all the monies needed for development. Shippers have a way of changing trade routes. While our shipping lines were looking at Europe as trading direction, shippers started looking at Asia. Too much bureaucracy kills ship ownership business. Like I said, this is not a terrain for government. We have manpower that should not be boxed into bottlenecks in a competitive sector. Tell investors they won’t pay tax for some years or promise them tax reduction if they take your maritime academy cadets and see how they will rush in,” he urged.  Maritime financing “We in MOWCA had agreed that Nigeria should host the Regional Maritime Development Bank. We heard the Nigeria Minister of Transport is working on it. It will do what the average commercial banks cannot do to grow the shipping industry. It will have experts that will help governments and private sector players to reap much from the maritime industry. The bank will understand maritime investment gestation periods and grow the industry better,” Addico said.  