Last week marked 50 years of the internet.  It was birthed with a simple message sent from the University of California, Los Angeles, United States to the Stanford Research Institute. Technology has since evolved to become the driver of modern economy. To leverage the many advantages of this development, there is need for hotchotonous technology agenda to drive competitiveness, writes LUCAS AJANAKU.  The fourth industrial revolution is driving change and digitalisation at an exciting pace. In a progressively digitised world, information and communication technology (ICT), and especially operational technologies (OTs) have assumed critical importance for governments, industry, and the general public globally. The industry is undergoing transformation with Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) robotics, machine, learning and so many others. Added to these is cybercrime, which is estimated to cost companies $6trillion yearly by 2021. To take advantage of the opportunities and convert challenges to opportunity, experts have stressed the need for technology agenda. A leading business and technology solutions firm, Verraki Partners, has urged the Federal Government, to  collaborate with the private sector, to urgently develop and begin to execute a national technology agenda that will be distinctly Nigerian and  improve the nation’s competitiveness in the global economy. Senior Manager for Technology Application Services at Verraki, Olatunde Olajide, who facilitated the Nigeria Economic Summit’s Industry Breakfast Meeting on ICT, stressed the need for the country to overturn its perceived unwelcome stereotype. Olajide urged the country to emulate countries, such as Israel, China, Singapore and South Korea, that have articulated and implemented a national agenda which has in turn helped them to create specific niches, improve their reputation and fostered economic growth. Nigeria boasts of Africa’s largest young population, bursting with entrepreneurial energy, tremendous resolve, resilience and creativity, the nation is yet to articulate a holistic agenda as a counter-narrative to the damaging reports of fraud, corruption and unemployment. He said this biased perspective has a negative impact on the country’s perception, creating a drawback to its ability to attract new investment and ultimately our future economic potential. Earlier this year, BloombergNEF analysed 40 national industrial digitisation strategies. They then ranked countries based on the ambition of their digital efforts, the alignment of public- and private-sector goals, and the capital, workforce and technology employed to digitise at greater scale. Of the top 10, four countries are Asian, and four are European. BloombergNEF’s analysis identifies key commonalities between the countries that have been most successful in using internet-enabled technologies, such as the IoT and AI to make domestic industries more globally competitive. The most successful models align private-sector goals with national digital policies that focus on a few strategic areas. Digitilisation is not just for wealthy economies (the top 10 include Singapore, with a gross domestic product (GDP) of $94,000, and China, with a per capita GDP of $17,000, but the skills gap is a concern everywhere. And every country fears falling behind in AI strategies, even the perceived leaders such as Germany, the U.K. and Israel. Olajide said: “Following its release of an AI Development Plan, China outlined AI as a national priority, expressed its commitment to building a domestic AI industry worth $150 billion and leading AI globally by 2030. “China has already introduced AI pilot programmes in hundreds of schools and training teachers to implement the new curricula throughout the country. Nigeria must define what its strategic ICT agenda is, in the global economy and work towards this. “There is a lot Nigeria can do in a global economy; Nigeria is home to the leading hubs for entrepreneurship on the continent thanks to several strengths, including our resilient entrepreneurs, a growing number of engaging international investors, a huge population with increasing access to technology, a growing number of startup support organisations active in the ecosystem, over 84 million hectares of arable land with less than half cultivated for agriculture production, our creative industries especially music and Nollywood, a booming billion dollar film industry. We must harness these strengths to determine how best we can play in the global economy.” Olajide stressed the importance of local content and skills in the country’s IT agenda and encouraged local enterprises and governments to patronise companies with research & development (R&D), Product Development and Manufacturing operations to help in developing natonal technology competence. “China, South Korea, Japan’s competencies were not built in a day. I remember people scorned Asian (Japan, South Korea and China) cars some decades ago. The path to development is an iterative process and we must encourage our local players so they can improve. Given the low national literacy level of 66 per cent, we need to aggressively scale digital literacy training for teachers, students, and others while also establishing systems and structures for protection of contents and IP rights of our inventors and entrepreneurs”, he added.  The 25th edition of the Nigerian Economic Summit, a public-private dialogue held recently in Abuja and was supported by Verraki Partners. Since its inception, NESG has promoted its activities around six fundamental principles of the economy. It includes a commitment to a Free Market Economy, encouragement of Private Sector Investments, Creation of an Enabling Environment, Good Governance in the National Interest, Rule-Based Economy and the Establishment of Economic Foundation for Democracy. Verraki is focused on implementing technology and business solutions designed inherently for Africa and fit for purpose, while curating business ventures that would contribute to unlocking new sources of growth across the continent. Led by foremost corporate professionals as well as former Accenture leadership in Nigeria, Verraki will apply its global expertise and local insights to partner with enterprises and governments to accelerate the development and transformation of Africa by providing business solutions uniquely tailored for Africa.   