Moses Emorinken, Abuja The National Primary Health Care Developmental Agency (NPHCDA) has revealed that not less than 4,000 Primary Health Care (PHC) centers across the country have been renovated with support from states and developmental partners. The Executive Secretary of the National Primary Health Care Developmental Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, made this known in Abuja at the first year anniversary of the Technical Support Programme (TSP) of the agency aimed at providing technical assistance for sates primary healthcare boards and agencies upon request. According to him, “We are very mindful that we are working in a tight fiscal space, so what it means is that we are not expecting that overnight all 10,000 PHC centers will be available. “So far, since President Muhammadu Buhari launched the revitalization of 10,000 PHC centers across the country in Kuchigoro in 2017, working with states, donor and development partners, about 4,000 PHC centres have been renovated. “However there is still the gap that requires electricity, water, commodities, and drugs; all of these will have to work but we will have to take it in phases. “Maybe what we all need to agree is that within the first 2 to 3 years, at least 50 per cent of Nigerians should be able to access any PHC center and get essential services; in another 5 years, 70 per cent; then maybe in another 7 to 10 years, by the time we are measuring the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2030, all Nigerians should have access to PHC services that can actually treat their conditions that will not lead to catastrophic financial hardship as a result of paying out of pocket”. It would be recalled that in 2017 the federal government kicked off a scheme to revitalize over 10,000 primary healthcare centers (PHCs) across the country, in its bid to achieving Universal Health Coverage for all. Dr. Shuaib further explained that for the very first time in the history of Nigeria, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, there was a fund set aside to the tune of N55 billion in 2019 towards providing basic health care services for all Nigerians. The Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) is one per cent of the federal government Consolidated Revenue and contributions from donor grants set aside to fund the basic health needs. According to him, “What we have done at the federal ministry of health, the NPHCDA, the NHIS, and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), is to look at those funds in line with the provision of 2014 Health Act, and say – how do we identify one PHC centre per ward that this fund will be directed to in a way that the funds are not kept in Abuja but are sent to the states and the PHC centres? This way the funds will be used for renovation of the PHC centres. “The Basic Healthcare Provision Fund (BHCPF) is for the provision of electricity, water, human resources – nurses, midwives, community health extension workers, drugs, commodities, engaging with the communities, and creating demand for the services. “In terms of proportion, 45 per cent of these funds are for basic health care services through the NPHCDA gateway, while 50 per cent is through the NHIS. 5 per cent goes to the federal ministry of health and the NCDC”. Minister of Health, Mr. Osagie Ehanire, in his keynote address lauded the Technical Support Programme (TSP) initiative by the NPHCDA as being very effective in ensuring that that every citizen has access to optimum quality healthcare irrespective of social status. Represented by the Director of Public Health of the Federal Ministry of Health, Mrs. Evelyn Ngige, he said, “The approach to the TSP is prompt and aimed at ensuring that the agency achieves its mission which is to deliver technical support to states primary healthcare boards and agencies. “The first approach focuses on developing and institutionalizing a system to deliver the needed support to the states while the second focuses on systematically building agencies staff capacity to effectively operationalise this system. “These strategies if well implemented will achieve a healthy health system and also enhance government ownership of interventions for effective delivery of public health programmes at the primary health care level. This programme is well on track with visible successes across the six intervention areas”.