 MORE knocks came for federal lawmakers on Wednesday over the Social Media and Hate Speech Bills. Notable Nigerians, including His Eminence John Cardinal Onaiyekan and Chief Afe Babalola (SAN)  as well as the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), through its Director, Legal and Public Affairs, Kwamkur Vondip carpeted the lawmakers. Rev. Onaiyekan said: “I am basically against capital punishment. I reject any idea for a law that is not so clear as hate speech and that Nigerian lives should be put on line. Seriously, hate speech is bad, when it is done it can cause a lot of damage. Therefore we should do all we can to avoid it. It is my own strong opinion that the laws on the ground are enough to handle this issue. There is no need for another law. “The worst form of hate speech is when it is packaged by government agencies. And we should not forget that the hate speeches that have caused the worst damage have been government-inspired hate speeches. “And we need to do something about the kind of propaganda we push out in our country – both from the point of government and from opposition. These are the matters we should sincerely face. “Whatever the bill may say, it should be stopping capital punishment and not introducing more. Our problem in Nigeria has not been laws, but the implementation of the laws. That bill is useless. Hate speech becomes dangerous, especially when government is behind it.” Aare Babalola, who is the Founder of the Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD), kicked against the proposed Hate Speech Bill. According to him, the bill is an attempt to undermine democratic governance by taking away the people’s inalienable constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of speech. Noting that Section 39 of the 1999 Constitution explicitly guarantees freedom of expression, the Senior Advocate of Nigeria said that democracy can only thrive when people are given the free will to impart information and ideas without modicum of restrictions. The foremost legal luminary spoke at ABUAD in Ado Ekiti, while receiving an Award of Excellence from the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Ekiti State council. The award was presented to the legal icon in recognition of his unquantifiable and immeasurable contributions to education development, humanity and nation-building. Babalola said: “The provisions of the proposed bill are clearly antithetical to the principles and ethos of democratic governance, noting the sustenance of the nation’s democratic status is under serious threat.” The legal icon described the ‘obnoxious bill’ as undemocratic, dictatorial and unnecessary, noting Nigeria already has a preponderance of constitutional provisions and extant law to sanitise public expression space. He said: “I believe this is the beginning of dictatorship. There are enough laws like defamation, libel and slander to deal with anybody who publishes falsehood against someone and it comes by way of taking the person to court. “So, there is of no need for making new laws to deal with somebody who publishes falsehood. There was no need whatsoever for additional laws to deal with that. “Though, people are complaining, because the police are not doing well by delaying prosecution of offenders.” He added: “Irreparable damage has done to the judiciary since the very day when the Department of State Services (DSS) ransacked the houses of judges at night, because no judge will give judgment against a government when he has the impression that his house will be searched at night.” He urged the Federal Government to focus attention on the rehabilitation of dilapidated federal roads in Ekiti State; He said all the roads in the state are in bad shape. “Ekiti has four major federal roads – Ado-Ijan-Ikare; Ado-Ikere-Akure; Ado-Otun and Ado-Aramoko-Efon, all of them are in bad shape. Some have even cut off like the one at Erio,” he said. Vondip advised the lawmakers to dissipate their energies on issues of national development rather than the ones that will limit Nigerians from expressing their view on governance. The CAN official said: “I think the hate speech bill is for the purpose of checking publications that will damage a system, or threatening a system. What is a major concern by the content of the hate speech bill is the fact that it makes provision for capital punishment. To be honest, every Nigerian needs to be concern about that. When laws like that are made, one could read a lot of meanings into it. “The fact that it is coming from politicians, and the fact that it is difficult to define what hate speech is. If is the court that is supposed to define what hate speech is. So when you make a law like that you are likely to expose innocent people to unwarranted danger. “CAN will never be a party to such laws and we will never support it in its entirety. Any law that will shut the mouth of the citizens, we will not support such. “That law violates the provision of the fundamental rights of the citizens as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution as amended. Every Nigerian has the right to speak or comment. And to make a law that would prevent Nigerians from lamenting on issues at this critical time is worrisome. “We call on all Nigerians to resist it, and also call on all the members of the National Assembly to resist same. We also want to warn them that the law they are making today may turn against them tomorrow. We have laws in Nigeria that provide for defamation, and libel. They should take advantage of such provisions in the constitution.” 