 THE Founder/President of Belemaoil Producing Limited (BPL), Tein Jack-Rich, has signed a multi-million dollar contract for a state-of-the-art mother and child hospital in Daura Emirate of Katsina State. The 100-bed facility that is to be delivered for use by August 2020 will be handled by five contractors. The project is to be executed in collaboration with Elizabeth Jack-Rich Aid Foundation, NNPC/Belemaoil Joint Venture and Belemaoil Aid Foundation to eradicate the high maternal and infant death prevalent in the area. The Project Manager, Mansur Korfi, said the community members recommended what project they needed most. Korfi said the hospital will have incubators, a theatre, several consulting rooms, at least three Doctors’ quarters, private and open wards , labour room, kitchen, and mortuary. He assured that the project will meet the health care needs of the community. “I am from the state but not from Daura community, I know the state of the area, healthcare facility is scarce there, that is why the people of the area through their traditional rulers demanded for the facility. In his effect, the project when completed will serve a tremendous relief to the people and reduce the maternal and infant deaths in the community and it’s environs. “There is presently high rate of child death in the community, women trek several kilometers with babies on their back  before they can access functional hospital for either treatment of their sick child,  antenatal care or delivery, sometimes the babies die before they could get to the hospital, it is a pathetic situation,” he said. He added that the state of the art equipment that would be provided to the hospital with go a long way in improving the health burden of the area, and reduce pregnant women and child’s death toll. Responding to the gesture,  the the leader of the four-man team who represented the community at the signing ceremony, Ahmed Sanni-Daura, thanked Belemaoil and NNPC for the gesture and noted that they have earlier provided state of the art water supply facility that is currently functioning in the community. The Former Assistant Inspector General Police (AIG)  said the project is meant to help the people of the state and added to the water the Firm(Belemaoil) has earlier given to the communities in the North, the lives of the people would be highly improved. He said: “This is not the first time Belemaoil and under the NNPC Joint Venture have done something so marvelous in Daura. They recently provided facility for potable water supply to the community, some others in Sokoto and Gombe states, the hallmark of Belemaoil and we really do appreciate that. “This hospital that is meant for women and children is a laudable project that is well received by the community, and I believe it is going to provide a lasting legacy as what Belemaoil has done to the people of our community,” he said. Sanni-Daura pledged the community’s commitments to ensure that the project was protected and sustained after completion. The former AIG disclosed that dispute that there are several state of the-art hospital in Kastina State, including the recently built and well-equipped Air Force hospital. Briefing the participants on Wednesday, the Corporate Affairs Manager of Belemaoil, Abel Jumbo, a lawyer, said four companies would be involved in the project as well as the Project consultant company. They companies are Eagle Scientific and Laboratory Equipment Limited (supply, installation of laboratory equipment), Barb International Limited(external mechanical installation), Alfdeen Construction Limited (Construction of project), Leya Engineering Limited (external electrical installations), while Multi Systems (Consultants), they are to supervise the construction of the project. Jack-Rich said: “The project is for humanity, and it is important that it is so recorganised. It is meant to showcase love and not any form of arrogance, it is designed to display humility and reorgance the importance of human race. “The hospital will go a long way to  helping our brothers within Daura Emirate, Kastina and the environs and I pray that the contractors who are going to handle the project consider it as an important legacy for them and also ensure a successful execution of the same and ensure it is maintained and kept as new at all times” He charged the contractors on the need to put the best technology to bay in the place and also ensure that the operators and their successors are enlightened, trained on the engineering works and facilities for sustainable use. Jack-Rich prayed that the project would really unite the South and the North and define the relationship between them. The Vice President of Belemoil oil in charge of new business development, Chuks Izuogu, assured the people of Daura of a befitting facility and appealed to the contractors to be alive to the responsibilities given to them. He warned against the supply of substandard materials, equipment assuring that funding would not be a problem for quick completion of the facility.