 Cordros Asset Management Limited (CAML) on Monday opened application list for the initial public offering (IPO) for its Cordros Dollar Fund, opening up new avenue for investors to hedge risks and earn stable returns. Cordros Dollar Fund is offering $2 million in 20,000 units at $100 each with a minimum subscription of five units or $500 and subsequent subscriptions in multiples of five units or $500. The fund will be open-ended meaning investors can continuously add new subscriptions. Application list opened yesterday Monday November 25, 2019 and will close on Friday, December 27, 2019. To subscribe to the Cordros Dollar Fund, investors will need an active domiciliary account and all payments must come directly from their domiciliary accounts in US dollars. Group Managing Director, Cordros Capital, Mr. Wale Agbeyangi said the Cordros Dollar Fund will help investors to diversify their portfolio while also helping those with US Dollar obligations to hedge against currency risk. According to him, the fund’s objective is to achieve capital appreciation in short to medium term for investors with US Dollar and convertible currencies. The Cordros Dollar Fund is coming at a time when speculations are surrounding the strength of the Naira and investors are looking to diversify with investments denominated in foreign currency. Managing Director, Cordros Asset Management Limited, Mrs. Morenike Da-Silva, explained that investors who have been discouraged by the high entry levels for US Dollar based investments will now have easier and convenient access through the Cordros Dollar Fund. Portfolio Manager, Cordros Asset Management Limited, Adegbolahan Aina added that Cordros Dollar Fund provides professional management and will help investors to hedge their savings from the eroding effects of inflation as the underlying assets are high-quality Eurobonds and USD money market instruments. He noted that having earlier launched Nigeria’s first ever Target Date Balanced Funds with Cordros Milestone Funds 2023 and 2028 in 2018 as well as the Cordros Money Market Fund in 2016, the Cordros Dollar Fund is another addition that strengthens Cordros Asset Management Limited’s position as a growth-oriented investment manager, who continuously offers investors a wide array of sound Investment solutions.