Have you ever had challenges with some of your home appliances? Have you bought a piece of equipment that didn’t perform up to your expectation? That was the exact experience of James Dyson when in 1978, he was dissatisfied with his Hoover vacuum cleaner because whenever the dust bag was filled with dust, its pores became clogged and the suction reduced. Other people would moan and groan about the problem or simply get a replacement for the device if available, but that was not Dyson. He started to think of his own invention that would solve the problem. He was inspired by a 30-foot-high conical centrifuge of a local sawmill that made use of cyclonic separation. Dyson imagined that if the technology could be scaled down, it would be possible to create a vacuum cleaner without a dust bag and that wouldn’t lose suction. For a man who spent only a year at the Byam Shaw School of Art and then proceeded to study furniture and interior design at the Royal College of Art, it was quite an audacious dream. The lofty dream, however, was not without its challenges. Dyson went on to work on 5,127 prototypes within five years. I guess we can say he failed or made mistakes 5,126 times before he got it right. Recounting the experience, Dyson noted that by his 2,627th attempt, he and his wife were counting their pennies; and by his 3,727th attempt, his wife had to start giving art lessons to make some money. Finally, he created a successful model. And that was the end of the joyful story? Certainly not! Next came the challenge of sales. One would have thought such an invention would be received with great excitement but not so. After he launched his “G-Force” vacuum cleaner in 1983, no manufacturer or distributor in the United Kingdom was interested. The rejection was because the existing industry had built its profit around the sale of dust bags and filters, both of which Dyson had eliminated in his design. His experience at the United States was also disastrous. For three years, Dyson travelled the world trying to sell his product without success. A reasonable person would wonder why Dyson was so obsessed with the invention. After all, he wasn’t the first person to be dissatisfied with a product and he definitely won’t be the last. “Why put five years of your life on the line, producing 5,126 useless prototypes?” one would ask. “Why travel the world to try and sell your product?” The answer is clear but not an easy one. It took all the failed attempts to get to that desired success. He failed, yes. He made mistakes, yes. But he succeeded, YES!!! Dyson was able to launch the vacuum cleaner in Japan using catalogue sales. G-Force, which was manufactured in bright pink and was only available in Japan, sold for £2,000 equivalent and soon became a status symbol. The product went on to win the 1991 International Design Fair Prize in Japan. In 1993, fifteen years after Dyson set out to invent a vacuum cleaner, he established his company, Dyson Ltd, in the same United Kingdom where it was initially rejected. According to Forbes, as of 2019, his real time net worth was $5.7 billion. His company also employed more than 5,800 engineers, has about 60 consumer products, and is reported to spend $10 million a week on product development. So, you think you’ve failed? And you believe you’ve made mistakes? Who would you consider a pathological failure if not someone who failed 5, 126 times? Yet, it wasn’t failure at all but steps on the journey to success. You are not a failure until you stop trying. Join me again next week as we break down the story of Sir James Dyson and bring out valuable lessons that can aid our journey to success. Thanks for reading my article today. I would really love to hear from you. So, do share your views with me by sending SMS to 07034737394, visiting www.olanreamodu.com and following me on twitter @lanreamodu. Remember, you are  nothing compared to what you can become. This can be your year if you want it to be! 