By Taofeek Babalola  Boluspor FC of Turkey defender Sincere Seth believes that the Olympic Eagles have the quality to pick one of the three tickets at U23 Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Egypt and qualify for men’s football event of the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. Seth is one of the 21 players picked by the team’s head coach Imama Amapakabo to represent the country at the third edition of the U23 AFCON which starts today in Egypt. He told NationSport from their training camp in Cairo that that the team is blessed with great set of players that can make Nigeria proud in the tournament. He, therefore, pleaded for support from Nigerians to enable the team achieves its goal. “I will like to solicit support from Nigerians at home to support us 100 per cent.  The truth about this team is that we have good individual player. “So collectively we are going to add unity to our game and come out on top in the tournament. We are begging the fans to remember us in their prayer and with everything they can to support us so that at the end we all achieve one goal which is to win the tournament,” Seth told NationSport. “Definitely, it won’t be easy because there are good countries in this tournament and they are very good team. They have different set of individual players too. For us Nigerians, we always have mentality of winning and this won’t be an exception. “And playing i n the last U23 team has given me more experience to know what we have to do and what is coming at us. I think that will help a lot and we are going to add that to our game and help the team to play better. It won’t be easy but we will come out top and qualify for Japan,” he assured. The Olympic Eagles won the title in the second edition of the competition in Senegal four years ago and Amapakabo men will begin their title defence today against Cote d’Ivoire before facing Zambia and South Africa in their remaining Group B fixtures at the Al Salam Stadium. The top three teams at the eight-nation finals will qualify to represent Africa in the Men’s Football Tournament of the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, Japan.  