By Emma Elekwa, Onitsha About six lecturers of the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu University, Igbariam, Anambra state, have been fingered in a sex-for-grade. The Nation gathered that the lecturers had sexually harassed several female students while others who would not succumb to their sexual advances were witch-hunted. It was also reported that a particular lecturer allegedly turned his office to a hotel room where he would either sleep with female students or suck their breasts. Some female students of the institution, in a statement on Monday, vowed to liberate the institution and its students from the molestation. A statement titled, “Sex for Grades in Anambra state University: A Scandal of Gigantic Proportions,” released by some former and current female students of the institution, described the act as shameful. The students alleged that about six lecturers in the institution were fingered as involved in the act. The petitioners urged the institution’s Vice-chancellor, Prof. Greg Nwakoby, to urgently do the needful to save the situation from the scourge. The statement partly read, “This shameful act is happening in departments such as English, Political Science, Mass Communication, Banking and Finance, Micro Biology, Philosophy and so on. “We recommend that close-circuit television (CCTV) cameras be mounted in and around staff offices in the institution. “Dear amiable vice chancellor, a lot is happening in our Alma mater; but many female students are afraid to speak out because of the fear of being victimised by other lecturers, who are friends to the ones exposed. “We suggest that you set up a more accessible process, where such evil cases could be reported. Also, plant your spies in all departments, if you can. “These monsters will fight back and deny, but we want them to know that we are fully armed to the teeth and ready for them.” Reacting, the Vice-chancellor of the institution, Prof. Greg Nwakoby, said he had set up a committee to investigate the allegation. He promised to protect any student who summoned courage to approach the committee or to his office with any case against any lecturer. He said, “We have set up a committee to investigate cases of sexual molestation levelled against some lecturers of the university by some “faceless ex-students” of the university, currently trending on social media. “The general public should also be rest assured that some mischief makers are at work, because, there is no petition on my table on this matter. “No student has reported any case of sexual harassment to my office or to any officer of the university.” The VC however said he would not rely on social media gossips to take disciplinary actions against the indicted lecturers.