Nigeria’s goal of achieving daily crude oil production of 2.5 million barrels per day, by 2025, would be a mirage, if the industry’s policies and programmes are not well implemented by the Federal Government. Also to be affected is the projection of 3million barrels of crude oil per day in 2030, by the Federal Government. This was the submission of a former County President, Association of International Energy Economists (AIEE), Prof Wunmi Iledare, in a chat with The Nation at the weekend. Presently, Nigeria produces between 1.6 and 1.7 million barrels per day (mmbpd) despite its huge oil reserves. According to Iledare, any attempt by the Federal Government, to slow down the process of implementing the laws guiding the operation of the industry, would have significant effects on its activities. He regretted that the delay in the passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) bill is affecting the fiscal spendings of the government. “The Federal Government would not have had problems increasing crude production and foreign reserves, if the bill has been passed into an Act. The bill has suffered much delay in the National Assembly.  The result is near in-competitiveness of Nigeria among oil producing member states of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC),” he said. According to him, the Federal Government needs not bother itself with the issue of amending the Deep Offshore Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract (DOIBPSC) Act, if it has succeeded in passing PIGB into law. Iledare observed that while the target of 1.5billion from the Deep Offshore Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract is a good one, the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill would have aided it to rake in more revenues for the government. He therefore, challenged the current leadership of the National Assembly to look more closely at what was done in 2016 to 2018 and build on it, in order to speed up the growth of the nation’s oil and gas industry. It would be recalled that NNPC said the country is working towards 2.5 million daily crude production. Its Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, said the Corporation would in the future, strive to achieve the target, amongst providing solution to other industry’s problems.