By Adekunle Yusuf  As an underpenetrated market,  the country’s health care sector presents a massive opportunity for disruption by startups that can use the right mix of technology, innovation and smart operations to dig deep into the untapped goldmine. In this regard, MeCure SmartBuy, a  healthcare mobile app that offers free doctor tele-consultations along with home delivery of medicines and diagnostic services anywhere in Lagos, seems to have hit a sweet spot, clocking nearly 50,000 user registrations and thousands of orders within six months of coming on stream. Launched in March, the SmartBuy, which recorded over 34,000 registrations within its first three months, is a product of MeCure’s vision to provide access to primary healthcare services in the most affordable and convenient way possible. “Traditionally, access to top quality doctors has been the very first problem for all of us. We are resolving this by removing barriers using technology. If you are sick today, just download the app and book a tele-consultation with our panel of qualified doctors. They will give you a call, assess your health condition and advise on the way forward. In case a physical examination is needed, they will refer you to a qualified doctor closest to you. For simple ailments that can be treated with over-the-counter medication, consumers can get it home delivered within 2-3 hours anywhere in Lagos,” Dr. Adekunle Megbuwawon, Chief Medical Officer at MeCure, said after the launch of the mobile app. To continue its growth momentum after clocking 50,000 users, the diagnostic giant said SmartBuy now targets the B2B segment through tie-ups with health maintenance organisations (HMOs), hospitals and corporate institutions by offering them attractive discounts on medicines for their customers and employees. On this, Dr. Megbuwawon said MeCure has so far started pilot operations with more than 10 organisations and is in various stages of discussions with several more. “MeCure is already a leading diagnostic brand in Lagos for the last 10 years and we already have amazing partnerships with most of the HMOs and big corporate institutions for diagnostic services for years now. With MeCure SmartBuy, we are leveraging this existing relationship and providing additional value to all of our clients by taking care of medication needs for their employees or end consumers. “Consider this, as a responsible organisation, you would want your employees and customers to have access to genuine medication at an affordable price. Right? Nigeria is already infamous for counterfeit drugs and furthermore the pricing and availability is highly volatile.  With SmartBuy, all of these concerns are addressed since we offer 100 per cent genuine drugs at a flat discount with doorstep delivery! It is technically a no-brainer for our clients and hence we are witnessing rapid growth,” said Dr. Megbuwawon. However, from a tech and operations perspective, the frenetic pace of success the MeCure SmartBuy has recorded within a short time has also come with its own challenges. Explaining how the challenges were addressed, Adil Shaikh, Chief Technology Officer at MeCure SmartBuy, admitted that it was really hectic attending to voluminous demands at one point in June when the app received about 4000+ signups in a single day, which stretched the team and the technology support infrastructure to their limits. “It was a crazy time for our tech team, as we had to ensure our network infrastructure could scale and support this huge spike in traffic. While we did run into some minor issues, it gave us a clear indicator with regards to the demand for our offering and validated the magnitude of the problem that we are trying to solve. From the time an order is placed on the app till the time our delivery agent hands over the medication to the customer, we track each and every interaction minutely. We can track the exact location for each of our delivery agent in real time. This helps us understand bottlenecks and optimize our operations on a daily basis. “Constant feedback from our customers is also helping us improve and expand our offerings. Tech is only an enabler; executing to delight the customer is key. I think if you look at our reviews from customers on the app stores, you will understand how seriously we pay attention to details. If your customer is not happy, nothing else matters,” said Shaikh.