Traffic officers agree that the way to go in protecting lives and property on the roads is to deploy technology, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE  The tale told by Bola Omole, the Special Adviser to the Ondo State Governor on Transportation, set the tone last Wednesday, for the yearly conference of the directors/chief road traffic officers at the Events Centre, Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos. At the launch of the state’s computerised vehicle inspection centre, he had insisted that the cars on Governor Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu’s fleet be tested and the governor’s car, which was the first to be tested, had failed the test. “That was a car every one of us had assumed was okay. Yet, the computer test detected a brake failure. The experience punctured all assumptions that a governor’s car cannot have mechanical failure and further emboldened our desire to advocate that all cars, especially that of all public officers be tested,” he said. Omole’s experience signposted the need for the deployment of technology in all spheres of life, especially in the transportation sector, which resonated with the theme of the Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) conference. VIS’ officials have insisted that checking the health status of any vehicles on the road is beyond debate. They argued that since the safety of lives and property is hinged on the healthy status or otherwise of all vehicles on the roads, it becomes imperative that to protect the lives, they must ensure that vehicles are certified. At a four-day yearly conference of directors/chief road traffic officers  in Lagos, last week, traffic officers across the federation again brainstormed on their responsibilities and how they could better deliver. Speakers challenged traffic officers to put the torch on its activities. They said the majority of those who have died by road crashes could be traced to the discretion or lack of it by VIOs who failed to take an unworthy vehicle out of the road before it constitute danger to other road users. Declaring the conference open, the Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation Dr Frederic Oladeinde, charged the VIO top echelon at the conference from across the country, to formulate a policy framework that would address the incidence of tanker accidents and wanton destruction to lives and property. He said the conference, which had as theme: Employing technology to enhance compliance and safety on our roads, is strategic as it epitomised the desire of the organisation to deploy technology to mitigate risk and increase the rate of traffic compliance by road users, thereby reducing road hazards to the barest. He said it is only by proffering such solutions that the nation could end the carnage that petrol-laden tankers and containerised trailers had become on the roads. He observed that while the VIOs seemed to have achieved landmark success in sanitising the health of smaller vehicles, the nation is facing the greatest threat as a result of the unhealthy status of articulated vehicles, which he described as “rickety” and accidents waiting to happen. Oladeinde listed among other technology initiatives deployed by the government in transportation to include the computerised vehicle testing centres, 15 of which are  opened in various parts of the state, the acquisition of AutoVIN (AutoVehicle Identification Number) machine, the first of its kind in the country to boost forensic activity, which has boosted the VIO’s forensic laboratory and aided the performance of her pre-inspection of all vehicles in the state. “There is also the Automatic Number plate Recognition (ANPR) devise, which condicts random enforcement by capturing plate numbers while simultaneously checking the data from a synchronised server, generate a fine which must be paid otherwise the system blacklists the vehicle and could be arrested anytime it is on the road again.” He reiterated that accident investigation has been a responsibility of the VIS and implored the public to call on the VIS Accident Investigation Unit anytime. The Managing Director of Temple Investments, operator of the Lagos State Computerised Vehicle Inspection Centre (LACVIS), Prince Segun Obayendo, said by adapting technology, such as the compterised vehicle testing, VIOs could reduce incidences of human error, thereby increasing the chances of saving lives. He said it was double jeopardy if the roads were not good and were using unsafe vehicles. He said it was gratifying that the  computerised vehicle testing, which started in Abuja, has been embraced by 15 states. The Chairman, Nigeria Insurance Association (NIA) Mrs Yetunde Ilori, challenged the VIS leadership to come up with policies aimed at promoting safety culture and voluntary compliance. According to her, because the road is a shared asset, it behooves on all to ensure compliance to acts capable of making it safe for all, adding that in preventing undue exposure to the risk occasioned by accident, insurance is available as the burden bearer.  Mrs Ilori said the NIA has established an Insurance Guard to move from street to street and bus stops and garages spreading the awareness of the need to patronise insurance companies to help bear the risk in case of accidents. The Lagos Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Hyginus Omeje, charged the VIOs to rise from the conference and resolve to go beyond talking to practise and leverage on technology in the discharge of their assignment. “The prevalence of broken down trailers and trucks on our roads called to question the integrity of the worthiness check the VIO have conducted on the vehicles,” he said. He charged agencies working in the road safety sector to put an end to the in wrangling among them and “work for the protection of the lives of the average road user, who could be anybody, including members of our family”. The Chairman of the conference of directors/chief road traffic officers (VIOs) of the federation, Sir Paul Bepeh, said VIOs adopted the theme because of their resolve not to be left behind by other parts of the world. He therefore charged his colleagues to join states like Lagos, which is deploying technology as the technology alternatives has proved to be more effective for better service delivery. “Many states of the federation have shifted from the manual vehicle inspection, which was cumbersome and less reliable to the more reliable computerised vehicle inspection scheme,” Bepeh said. He said the VIOs should come up with solutions aimed at controlling and regulating motorcycle and tricycle operations, which has become the most neglected across the federation. The Lagos State VIS Director Mr Akin George Fashola praised the government for its robust investments in technology which has made the state to stand out. He said the VIS journey, which began in 1963, when it was carved out of the Nigeria Police has become central to and has contributed to the safety of lives. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Mr Olawale Musa, charged the VIOs to be more committed and devote themselves to ensuring the safety of lives. “Your action and inaction have a major impact on the safety of us all. If you do not perform your duty and you allow vehicles of doubtful status on the road you may not know whose life or lives such may claim. That is why we enjoin you to do your job and help sanitise the roads by taking away all vehicles with doubtful health so that they do not constitute danger to others,” Musa said.