Emma Elekwa, Onitsha It was jubilation for nursery and primary school pupils in Idemili North local government area of Anambra state during the commissioning of modern equipped libraries in five schools in the area by Zaccheus Onumba Dibiaezue Memorial Libraries, a non governmental organization. The beneficiary schools were Central Nursery and Primary School, Nkpo, Akpakogwe Nursery and Primary School, Ogidi, Nsukwu Nursery and Primary School, Abatete. Others were Uruaneke Nursery and Primary School, Umuoji and Union Nursery and Primary School, Eziowele. Speaking at Nkpo during the event, the Education Secretary, Lady Angela Orakwue said she had to leave her hospital bed to attend the event in view of the seriousness she attached to the gesture. She said they had longed for a library to improve their reading culture as there was no such facility in the area. She said: “I and the pupils are overwhelmed with joy. I was even in the hospital up till this morning, but their coming made me get up from my sick bed and start coming. “We don’t even have a library not to talk of standard one.
Since January we heard about this, we’ve trained over 77 teachers per school to man the libraries for effective service.” Describing the gesture as a dream come true, Orakwue thanked the organization for its magnanimity, expressing optimism that it would further improve the reading habits of the students. She also pledged judicious use of the materials to ensure their durability. Chief Executive Officer of the organisation, Ego Mbagwu noted that the library was aimed at promoting education which served as a store house for the impartation of knowledge. She said, “Library plays an important role in students’ academic achievement because it facilitates the work of teachers and ensures that students have access to other materials outside the recommended text to make them independent readers. “Part of our aim is to establish libraries in public schools to make materials available to pupils and students who cannot afford them. “So far, we have established 19 Oasis libraries serving 38 schools and 6,765 pupils in Lagos State. We extended our services to Anambra state where we set up 10 Oasis libraries, serving 16 schools and 2,040 pupils. “We have also established 4 DEAR their time libraries in Lagos State with 73 book boxes serving 1,025 pupils.”