Oloko Omobolanle Many couples’ relationship face a downward that often ends in separation. It is possible to prevent stale moments from occurring by strengthen the substance of a relationship in a way that minimizes their impact and diminishes their frequency to a significant degree. · Having realistic expectation At the beginning of a relationship, things are as rosy as it gets. Both partners try to project the best versions of themselves to the other. But after the honeymoon phases is over, the reality sets in. You get to see your partner for what they really are, and that, most likely, would be a disappointment if you compare with what they had been at the beginning of the relationship. It is important to understand that everybody has flaws. They might not surface in the period of courtship, but they are there. Having realistic expectations and preparing yourself to deal with your partner’s latent flaws and can prevent you from the post-honeymoon period disappointment. It will also set up a positive and durable foundation for your relationship that will help your relationship to sustain longer. · Acknowledge each other’s strengths and weaknesses Many couples end breaking up because they fail to acknowledge each other’s strengths and weaknesses. They either feel like they are competing against each other, Relationships are not like that. They are not created out of convenience; they are formed out of love, trust, friendship, and respect. . Reward the company of each other When a couple has managed to face the ups and downs of rearing their children up and working towards a comfortable life for all the family members, the rewards in such a relationship are immense. Life has many glorious moments to offer to you as a couple. The smartest love relationship advice for all the couples in the world is to appreciate what life has to offer to them in each other’s company. · Avoid the blame game Blaming each other for things that have gone wrong is a catalyst for breakup. This is because there’s no need to find faults in each other for the sole reason that you two are in this together. Hence, whatever takes place in your relationship, good or bad, is a product of both your actions. · Don’t show your partner bad light in front of friends and family Complaining about your partner to others might like some harm less venting exercise. But this can dig a hole so deep in your relationship that cannot be repaired with any amount of effort. Revealing your dissatisfaction with your partner’s traits, habits to family or/and friends, or using condescending tones to converse with them in public, is something most people have done sometime in their marriage. But this can pent-up resentment in the relationship. Not to mention, it also kills the mutual respect couples have for each other’s relationship. · Listen When working towards a long lasting relationship, you should be always willing to listen. You not only hear your partner’s voice, but pay attention to every detail. By listening you learn what’s in your partner’s heart, and they learn what’s in yours. You two then find ways on how to improve your relationship. · Don’t relegate your relationship when you have children. After becoming parents, most couples devote the maximum amount of their time in parenthood related obligations. It’s true that children deserve extra care and a good portion of your time daily, but neglecting your partner and relationship can have adverse consequences. If not much, try and devote at least some of your days’ time to your relationship. · Adapt and Absorb Every partner has something to offer to his or her mate. You will have to learn to appreciate what others have to offer to you instead of doing your best to change them to fit your ideas and templates of how love and life should be lead. Sooner or later, you will have to start accepting the fact that your partner is fallible.