From Christianah Awogbemi  Former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi has  blamed public office holders for their poor leadership, which has led to underdevelopment and high rate of unemployment in the country. He said political leaders failed to take a cue from organised systems abroad. Obi, who was the keynote speaker at the maiden convocation of Chrisland University, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, told the seven pioneer graduates of the institution, that his (Obi’s) generation and those before them had failed. According to the former governor, the surge in unemployment coupled with the failure in the country’s economy had become so huge that the youth should gird their loins and toe the path of entrepreneurship. Obi spoke on the theme: ‘’Creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship: A critical intersection for economic development in Africa.’’ The former governor recalled that the country had a lot of economic prospects in the 70s, 80s and and up to 2000. He noted that due to greed, corruption and poor investment in education, the leadership frittered away what could have put the country on a rock when placed side by side countries within its status. He said: “As at 1980, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of China was $340 billion while their per capita was $10. Same year, Nigeria’s per capita was almost $820. In terms of savings, Nigeria’s reserves at the time were about $5.5 billion while China was $5 billion. Today, China has savings of about $3 trillion , while Nigeria has $500 billion. We must remember that China is a country with which we both started at the same time. That simply explains the enormity of the problems on our hand.’’ Obi noted that in Nigeria the fate of professors, teachers, doctors and other intellectuals are determined by politicians who not only earn more than them for doing next to nothing, but often deny these egg heads their entitlements. He wondered how Nigeria could attain greatness as being repeatedly mouthed by its leaders in the face of dwindling budgetary allocation to education. Obi, therefore, challenged the youth to embrace entrepreneurship, saying as against industrial economy, knowledge economy is what would rule the world in the future. He advised them against jetting out of the country, but rather be ready to contribute their knowledge to Nigeria’s greatness. He urged the young graduates to learn from global entrepreneurs, such as Bill Gates, Steve Jobs and Jeff Bezos, who started small but with zeal and determination, attained greatness, despite that the challenges. Obi continued: “Things are changing fast. Smaller countries are rising to the occasion and challenging the status quo. On our part, we are not going to do much; that is why you must take on that mantle of leadership and change the narratives. For years, you have been hearing rhetorics that things would change for the better. I’m afraid things are not going to change as much as we all expected. All you will continue to hear are rhetoric but no action.” Earlier, the Vice Chancellor of the institution Prof Chinedum Peace Babalola, described the graduands as ‘stars’, saying it was not about the number but their worth. He said the graduates were not only certificated, but imbued with various entrepreneurship skills that would make them flex muscles with their counterparts globally. Similarly, Miss Onemu Laureta, a graduate of Psychology, emerged the Overall Best Graduating Student with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of five. 