The power sector seems to be passing through one of its worst moments as some generating plants were shut due to gas shortage. The development is having grave consequences on the sector as it cannot boost output to remove the strain on the economy, writes AKINOLA AJIBADE.  Recently, 10 of the 27 power generation plants in the industry were shut due to lack of gas supply. The plants were unable to add a single megawatt (mw) of electricity to the grid since they were built due to lack of access to gas. On September 11, the plants were declared unfit for generating electricity because they could not access gas for operation. Out of the 10 plants, six were built by the Federal Government under the National Integrated Power Project (NIPP) scheme, which is managed by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company of Nigeria (NDPHC), while four were owned by the government. The Federal Government’s objective of establishing the NIPP was to improve electricity generation and distribution. The plants, which were shut down are Sapele, Alaoji, Olorunsogo, Omotosho, Ihovbor and Gbarain power stations, inciuding Afam 1V &V, Ibom IPP, AES and ASCO IPP. Of note is the development has culminated in the reduction of electricity generated to 2,866 megawatts (mw) from 3,141mw as indicated in the report of the Nigerian Electricity System Operator (NESO). Prior to this period, the sector had suffered a similar setback as six of its gas-fired generation plants were shut down in June 2018. The issue, which was second of such incidents in June last year, was attributed to operational hitches, mainly shortage of gas. The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) listed the plants as Omotosho, Ihovbor, Azura, Geregu, Olorunsogo and Egbin. Like others in the past, the six plants produced lesser volumes of electricity daily during the period. It is interesting to note that Egbin Power Plant had earlier suffered similar fate. Reputed to be largest plant in Nigeria as it contributes about 1,300 megawatts of electricity to the national grid, the plant for some time was not having enough gas for production. Record shows that the management of Egbin Plc, had at some point in time, struggled for gas, a development which led to shutting down some of its six turbines. The hydro power stations were not left out in the search for materials for production. Though the plants provide 30 per cent of electricity in the sector, they are not without their own problems, chief of which was shortage of water. They are Kainji, Shiroro and Jebba. Though the problems facing hydro power stations are not in the same degree like that of thermal plants, nevertheless, the plants sometimes struggle to produce optimally.  Stakeholders’ views Expectedly, the issue of dormant turbines, which once characterised the sector, has ignited reactions among stakeholders who argued that the challenges facing the sector were systemic and regulatory in nature. According to them, the sector must look inward to solve its infrastructural problems if the industry must record growth. The Director of Energy Information, Centre for Energy Studies in Nigeria, Prof. Wunmi Iledare, said generating plants could become dormant once they are not getting enough gas. He observed that problems such as inactivity of the turbines and attendant poor outputs were common in recent times, adding that the problems revolve round three factors. The sector, Iledare said, would continue to witness cases of dead plants, until the three issues were addressed. Iledare said: “Three things, perhaps, come to mind when we are talking about the issue of turbines that were shut down by their owners, which may be government or the private investors, who bought the assets of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) during privatisation. “The first is the issue of accessing gas to power the turbines, the second is the issue of evacuation of electricity when it is needed, while the third one is about the price of the product – electricity. According to him, the gas pricing regime, which was implemented years ago, by the Federal Government, favours few operators in the value chain. The International Oil Companies (IOCs), IIedare said, produced gas mainly for the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG), adding that the IOCs made a lot of money from gas exports and paid little in return for domestic users of gas, which are power generation companies.  He said once a fair gas pricing regime is in place, all parties involved in the production, sales and use of gas for production would benefit. He said when this happens, power firms would not have problems accessing gas. The power distribution firms would be able to supply electricity and shortage of gas, which affects production, would no longer arise. Another stakeholder, who did not want to be mentioned, attributed the issue to what he described as operational defaults. He said the issue was caused by shortage of gas, a feedstock used in generating electricity through thermal plants, adding that the problems in the power sector are interwoven in view of the fact that a problem in one unit of energy production could have a spillover effect on the entire industry. He said: “Basically, there are so many challenges facing the nation’s power sector. It is either the sector is not unable to access enough gas for production or the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) does not have the capacity to sustain the energy given it by the generation companies, among other issues. “Cases abound where TCN does not have the capacity to wheel huge volume of electricity. Often times, the development leads to high frequency and the next thing to do is to shut out the plants.”  Way out Iledare, a former country’s president, Association of International Energy Economist (AIEEl), urged TCN to expand its facility to transmit more electricity. He said when TCN enlarged capacity, it would be able to wheel more electricity to the distribution companies  DisCos. “The issue is simple. TCN should expand its wheeling capacity. The distribution and generation companies should also try and improve their infrastructure. Once the three key operators in the energy value chain have up-to-date facilities at their disposal, they would operate without impediments and the better for the sector.” Other industry stakeholders confirmed that the sector could only rid itself of problems, such as shutting down of the generating plants or poor production once TCN is well positioned to take as much electricity as possible for transmission to the DisCos.