The worsening maternal mortality rates can be tackled by promoting family planning, use of contraceptives and making quality health care accessible to the people, reports MOSES EMORINKEN  ACCORDING  to the World Health Organisation (WHO), maternal mortality is the death of a pregnant woman within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes. According to the joint report by WHO, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), World Bank and United Nations Population Fund, which considered trends in maternal mortality from 1990 to 2015, in Nigeria, at least 800 women die in every 100,000 live births. The report further revealed that, in 2015, there were 295,000 maternal deaths all over the world; of this, 196,000 died in sub-Saharan Africa. Nigeria, however, had the larger chunk of the numbers at 58,000 maternal deaths. By comparison, the total number of maternal deaths in 2015 in 46 most-developed countries was 1,700, resulting in a maternal mortality ratio of 12 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births. In fact, a Nigerian woman has one in 22 lifetime risk of dying during pregnancy, childbirth or postpartum/post-abortion; whereas in the most developed countries, the lifetime risk is one in 4,900. What this really means is that for every five women, who die in the world as a result of pregnancy in childbirth, one is a Nigerian. The majority of maternal mortalities occur in sub-Saharan Africa, and we are the giant of sub-Saharan Africa. Over the last 28 years, there have been efforts to reduce maternal mortality globally. There has also been a gradual decline all over the world. According to a report by UNICEF, even Africa came down from 870 to  about 533 per 100,000 live births. But the report reveals that the country’s contribution to maternal mortality also fell in 2007. But since then, the numbers have continued to increase. However, delays in seeking help, accessing health and not enough resources (human and materials) to receive proper healthcare are the major causes of maternal mortality. According to the President, Society of Gynaecology and Obstetrics of Nigeria (SOGON), Prof. Oluwarotimi Akinola, “If your health seeking behaviour is poor, you are in the village or you are not seeking attention when it is necessary, when that problem comes, you are not able to properly handle it. More than 50 per cent of women who die in child birth die within the first 24 hours of delivery; hemorrhage is about 25 per cent. “You must be delivering in a health facility, where they can help you, which means that there must be a skilled birth attendant present. Even after taking the decision to seeking health care, some cannot access it because of several reasons like distance from the hospital, lack of money, bad roads and communication etc. In the situation where the patient has taken the decision to seek health care, and has accessed it, when they get there, not a lot of our centres are kitted enough to manage the emergences that arise. Sometimes they get there and there is no blood or availability of blood products, and not enough manpower. Unfortunately, from the last data, only about 38 per cent of women in Nigeria have skilled birth attendant at delivery.”  Nigeria’s troubling fertility rate, population growth  Our population is growing by 2.6 per cent, total fertility rate is about 5.5 per cent; that is, about five children per woman, and 44 per cent of the population is under 15. Between 1950 and 2019, we have grown from over 38 million to 200 million; and it is estimated that we are going to reach 543 million by 2050, if the rate of growth continues. This is not very helpful because by 2050, we will overtake the United States and Russia to become the third most populous country in the world, after India and China. Akinola told The Nation: “The truth is if you don’t get pregnant, you won’t die of maternal mortality.This means in order not to get pregnant, something has to be done about your fertility rate. The average Nigerian woman is giving birth 5.5 times, which is an overkill. There is no doubt that the more deliveries you have the greater the risk, because the body system will be overburdened.” ” Gone are the days when people had more children because we were seen as an agrarian state when we needed more hands to till the ground. That time has gone. Young men and women now are not in the farms. The FP2020 initiative has said that by 2020 we should increase our contraceptive prevalence rate to 27 per cent and we are still at 12 per cent. We really need to put our hands on deck “ For the Chairman, Coalition for Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Accountability Mechanism (C4MAN), Dr. Ejike Oji, the most important thing is to “reduce our population growth; otherwise every year, we will add about 25 million people in the country, and then the income per capita of Nigeria will continue to reduce. Our annual population growth rate is about 3.2 per cent, which is so below our annual economy growth rate which is about 2.1 per cent. This way Nigeria becomes poorer. “The number one area that usually feels the heat is women’s health and life. Also, the opium of the masses is sex. Whenever a man finds out that he has nothing else to do, he takes it out on his wife, and that’s how the problem has continued to mount.” According to the Demographic and Health Surveys, in comparison to other countries, we are only better than Chad because our fertility rate is 5.3 children per woman. However, in comparison to countries like Ghana (4.0), Egypt (3.0), India (2.7), Brazil (2.5), and Iran (1.9), we are still very high in fertility rate.  Family planning, use of contraceptives  According to last year’s Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS), access to modern contraception between 1990 and last year has only increased from 3.5 per cent to 12 per cent. This means that over 88 per cent of women, who are at risk of pregnancy, are not using contraception. Also, comparing by geopolitical zones, access to modern contraceptives in the Northcentral is 13.8 per cent; Northeast is 7.8 per cent; Northwest is 6.2 per cent; Southeast is 12.9 per cent; Southsouth is 15.8 per cent; Southwest is 24.4 per cent, while the national average stands at 12 per cent.There is higher acceptance of modern contraceptive use in the South compared to the North. According to the NDHS report, Iran, for example, which is a Muslim country, has a modern contraceptive rate use at 76.5 per cent; Egypt has a 57.6 per cent; Brazil has 70.3 per cent acceptance of modern contraceptive use. Furthermore, India has 48.5 per cent, and Ghana has 19 per cent. Data has shown that we can reduce maternal mortality by 44 per cent, if there is a national adoption of contraception. Forty-four per cent reduction due to family planning will reduce that burden to 32,480 maternal deaths. According to Dr. Collins Iyelobu, a Senior Registrar, Obstetrics and Gynaecology Department, Federal Medical Centre, Abuja, “The optic of family planning in Nigeria is very poor. The truth is that most women do not know when they are safe or not, even if they did know, you cannot control when your spouse wants to make love to you. “The woman too cannot control her own emotions, so the failure rate of religious methods like the billings method of the Catholics is very high. With the failure rate comes a lot of pregnancy, and with a lot of pregnancy comes the inability to take care of these children or causes abortion rate. With these abortion rates come the complications that come with it being very high. “For family planning, we cannot say it is an issue of finance because most of these family planning methods, especially in government hospitals, are free. If not free, they are not expensive. A pack of condom is about N20, oral contraceptive pills you can get for N50. Other injectable you get for free; all you need to do is pay for syringe, which is N50.” In an interview, Oji recommended that family planning is the single bullet that can reduce maternal mortality by 30 per cent. “The reason is because most women are having children not by choice but by chance. What this means is that women are not having access to contraceptive services for them to plan their families properly. People reference India and China, but the only way they become great nations is that they reviewed their population laws. India says one man, one woman and two children. In modern times, nobody forces anybody anymore because it has been shown that right-based family planning properly done is much more prosperous for a country than using law. “Gone are the days people had more children because we were seen as an agrarian state when we needed more hands to till the ground. That time has gone. Young men and women now are not in the farms. The FP2020 initiative has said that by 2020, we should increase our contraceptive prevalence rate to 27 per cent. We are still at 12 per cent. We really need to put our hands on deck,” Orji said. For Akinola, contraceptives also prevent unwanted pregnancies. “So, if there is an unwanted pregnancy, there are several ways you can go at it. The contribution of unsafe abortion to maternal mortality is about 13 per cent. If you get pregnant when you don’t want to, you probably will attempt to have an unsafe abortion, and this will probably lead to death. For contraceptive prevalence rate, Jigawa State is about 1.3 per cent, Kano is probably around 6.3 per cent, Sokoto about 4.7 per cent, and Oyo State is about 34.2 per cent; so, it is the average that comes to 12 per cent.”  Healthcare funding and maternal mortality  According to the Abuja Declaration, every state in Africa should use a minimum of 15 per cent of its budget to intervene in the sector. Nigeria has never attained more than 4.6 per cent; there was a time it got to six per cent. In the budget proposal for 2020, allocation to the sector is 4.1 per cent. According to BudgIT report of 2019, with respect to budgetary allocation to health, only Kwara State allocated more than 15 per cent of its budget to health – 17.8 per cent. The report further showed that concerning the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in Nigerian states, Kebbi, Yobe, Jigawa, Katsina, Taraba, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kano, Rivers, Enugu and Gombe are worst hit. The national average for maternal mortality per 100,000 live births is 233. Below are the averages for each state: Abia (115), Adamawa (160), Akwa Ibom (270), Anambra (71), Bauchi (205), Bayelsa (283), Benue (71), Borno (134), Cross-River (82), Delta (166), Ebonyi (126), Edo (32), Ekiti (31), Enugu (238), Gombe (224), Imo (139), Jigawa (590), Kaduna (184). Others are Kano (256), Katsina (547), Kebbi (696), Kogi (97), Kwara (49), Lagos (189), Nassarawa (41), Niger (152), Ogun (90), Ondo (93), Osun (20), Oyo (41), Plateau (106), Rivers (243), Sokoto (304), Taraba (367), Yobe (599), and Zamfara (324). On maternal mortality, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) set as the target 70 deaths per 100,000 live births. As it stands, only six states namely, Edo, Ekiti, Kwara, Nasarawa, Osun and Oyo states, are doing that or performing better than that right now. According to Oji, Nigerians should stop having babies by ‘chance’, and embrace family planning for healthy timing and spacing of pregnancies. What is needed is a political will and commitment to ensure that the huge burden of maternal mortality is reduced in the country. “Contraception and safe abortion services should not be donor-dependent; we need to buy our won contraceptives; have strong health systems with trained health workers and essential medicines; improved access to quality care before, during and after childbirth. No woman should die in pregnancy and childbirth.” 