Inform FC Crotone’s Nigeria international, Simeon Tochukwu Nwankwo, simply called Simy by admirers, has yet spoken about life in international wilderness since 2018 after he made the squad against all odds to Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup. Frank and articulate as ever, Simy speaks candidly about his resurgence in the Italian Serie B as well as his expectations for the future in this frank conversation with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN.  FC Crotone striker, Simeon Tochukwu Nwankwo, is regarded as one of the coolest Nigerian footballers ever because he bears his burden with an unrivalled equanimity while his disposition to life beyond the beautiful game of football is very profound. Though the 27-year-old is yet to add to his five international caps for the Super Eagles since 2018, he remains unperturbed despite his fine goal scoring form with Crotone in the Italian Serie B. “Coming back to the Super Eagles, as I’d always say, is not about obsession for me,” explained the former Gil Vincente striker who has scored seven goals in 11 Serie B matches for Crotone in the on-going campaign. It is over a year ago that Simy, as Nwankwo is well-known, made his international debut for the Super Eagles in a pre- Russia 2018 World Cup international friendly match against DR Congo on 28th May 2018 in Uyo. At Russia 2018, he played twice as a second half substitute in the match against Croatia and Argentina; and later featured only twice thereafter in the friendly match against Czech Republic as well as the   farewell match for the president of Liberia, George Weah, in Monrovia  where he scored his first and only goal yet for the Super Eagles. “It’s something (playing for the Super Eagles) you look forward to as a Nigerian player and you keep your eyes and hope to get back into the team. But for me it’s not an obsession,” continued Nwankwo who was rewarded with Crotone’s Player of the Month for October. “To be honest (playing for the Super Eagles) is not a zero obsession for me. “I focus on what I am doing (at my club), trying to work hard and give the best I can. “Of course, it’s not something (playing for the Super Eagles) that I can decide alone. You have the coaches and so, I must just keep supporting the team even from the outside while I focus on what I’m doing and wait for my time.” Indeed, Simy has turned his attention on helping the Rossoblu (The Red and Blues) regain promotion back to Serie A and his rich vein of form is there for all to see since he’s second top scorer in Serie B slightly coming behind Pietro Lemmello of Perugia who has nine goals in 11 matches. “The team (Crotone) is in good spirit, so I think we should be looking out for a good and positive season. And, hopefully, we can go far away better from what we had last year,” noted the 1.8 million Euros-rated striker who has also scored a goal in as many games for Crotone in the Coppa Italia after that 4-3 thrashing of Arezzo. “Of course the ambition is there, so we can’t hide under any shadow that we want to move forward. We only need to step forward and try to gain promotion back to the Serie A. “I am hopeful and the feeling is good, so we are expecting a very good and positive season.” Incidentally, Simy’s arrival coincided with Crotone’s ascendancy as they were promoted to the Italian top flight (Serie A) for the 2016–17 season for the first time in their history. In that first season, they finished 17th but secured spot in the next Serie A season after beating Lazio 3–1 on the last match day. But in the 2018-19 season, Crotone failed to avoid relegation after their loss against Napoli in the last match of the Serie A campaign and returned to Serie B just after two seasons in the top flight. “It has been a very great experience for me in the Serie B,” Simy said in a file interview with The Nation. “When we (FC Crotone) came to Serie B, I knew it was going to be difficult because it’s a new environment for me and, to be honest, I met on ground a very competitive league because the level is high. “You have more matches to play and it is a tough league to play in due to the fact that we have a lot of players with Serie A experiences. “This is football and everything is always challenging and one must be ready to play in the tough leagues and in the top football countries where the standard is high; and it has been a very good experience here in the Serie B.” Last season, he notched an impressive 14 goals in 38 Serie B matches and in four seasons at the modest club, Simy on the last count has scored 33 goals in 125 matches. But he reckoned his priority was to ensure the return of Crotone to Serie A rather than being obsessed with personal goals and glory. “Personal targets and accolades are not for me,” assured Simy in his usual philosophical hue. “But the only thing is we (Crotone) intend doing better than the last one and good if we can pull everything together. I can score more goals than last season. “I think it’s a better target for a player to improve everytime, every period of your life trying to be a better portion of yourself and that’s what personally I’m doing. “Of course, we have to wait till the end of the season to see how the numbers add up but I’m just focusing on helping the team as much as I can for now.” There is something special about Simy, especially his deep thoughts about every facet of life which is quite unlike today’s footballers that are obsessed with individual glory and gongs. We are in that time of the year when prizes and plaques are being handed to deserving footballers and the 197cm-tall striker said it would always be a tall order for all football fans to agree on the choice of the best players at every point in time. He said: “Honestly, I am not a fan of individual awards because at the end of the day, it’s a matter of personal choices; that’s the way I see it. “You can make a choice of who you like and you don’t like for reasons only you can defend but for me at the end of day, it should be about the team’s success at the end of the day. “Generally, English football was a great success in Europe last season and I want to agree that Liverpool defender Virgil Van Dijk was very outstanding and he made a massive difference for Liverpool both in the English Premier League and the UEFA Champions League. “He (Van Dijk) was the leader in the strongest defence in Europe last season and frankly, I think he deserves all the accolades he gets. Van Dijk had a fantastic season; he did very well and Liverpool nearly won the English Premier League when they had 97 points which was just one point behind that of the champions, Man City, that had 98 points. “But he did well by winning the Champions League, so I think he deserved to be so honoured as the best player in Europe because he was a phenomenon last season.” Yet unlike every follower of the game on the continent, Simy is not particularly miffed that African players are being handed the short end of the stick as far as considerations for individual awards are concerned despite their impressive performances across the European leagues. “Chances of African player to win the Ballon D’Or?” he asked with incredulity. “But as I said earlier, life is not about winning individual awards and primarily for me, it has to be overall success of the team. “It has to be how we play as a team and depends on how successful the team is at the end of the day. Then we can talk about the impact of the players in the team. “In football, everything is open because George Weah did it in 1995 but individual success depends on the moment and being at the right team or having a good year, having injury free so you can be more consistent; these are little things that can make a difference in the life of a football player. “I hope and believe that one day soon, we will have an African player picking up the award as the Best Player in the world again after George Weah and I believe we are aiming close.” But in his enclosure and away from the prying eyes of the public and press, Simy has shown an uncanny obsession about his young family which obviously is the centre of his world. It’s just a little over two years ago when Simy tied the knots with his delectable fiancée Chidinma Chinenye and that marriage has produced a beautiful girl affectionately named Belmira Chimdezirim  Nwankwo. Now and then, Simy is enamoured about what life would have been without his cute princess: “Fatherhood? I think it’s the best feeling any guy can have. Fatherhood has taught me a lot and it has made me to be more responsible. Family now comes first rather than thinking just about myself. “I am enjoying every bit of it and I hope this positive outlook reflects on my life, game and every part of my life. Of course, this is my reflection about fatherhood and honestly, I’m enjoying it.” Though not anywhere near the Super Eagles camp in recent times, Simy said he remains a passionate supporter of the national team, adding that the coach Gernot Rohr-led side can build upon the modest achievement at the last Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt when they begin the chase for a ticket to the 2021 edition with upcoming matches against Benin and Lesotho. “My impression about the last AFCON in Egypt was really good because I think it was a fruitful one for the Super Eagles though we didn’t win the trophy,” he explained. “We had a very young team with a little bit of experience and I think getting the third position shows that make we’re taking some steps forward. “The Super Eagles qualified well and after the World Cup in Russia, getting to the last four at the AFCON in Egypt is equally a good progress. “We should be proud of about the young players because so many of themwere there (at AFCON) for the first time and I know the experiences they gained will be good for the future,” he added.  NWANKOW: The flip side On choice of daughter’s names My daughter’s names are Belmira Chimdezirim Nwankwo. Belmira is a Portuguese name and it is the simple meaning of a beautiful woman. Igbo name (Chimdezirim) for her means ‘God has written my destiny’ and it also goes with my family name, Nwankwo. The choice of those names was very simple: she is a beautiful woman and God made her the way she is and we pray the name is going to follow her anywhere. On setting up charity foundation Most footballers usually set up a foundation on retirement but I started Tochukwu Nwankwo Foundation (TNF) due to the numerous encounters I have experienced with regards to immense hardship and suffering in my community.You will be astonished to know the number of less fortunate youths in my local government (Orumba North LGA of Anambra State) that are in need of assistance and guidance today; this is what has propelled me to start this initiative now. God has been faithful to me and I envisage using TNF as a platform to inject faith, hope and charity into our communities. On always being happy I think everything about me makes me happy…and there are so many things. I’m happy playing football because that was the only thing I wanted to do while growing up; so I’m happy about that. When I’m on the field, I hardly think of any other thing.  Playing football is one of the keys to my happiness. It is a passion for me and I really thank God for making this possible for me because I’m doing what I really like. My family makes me happy; having good people around me makes me happy. We are living in a very difficult world but being able to put a smile in the face of people around me makes me happy. On favourite music I love good music which can be Afro, Rhythm &Blues or Hip-Hop and I play Nigerian music a lot. Sometimes I play songs that are calm and sometimes, I could play something to heat up myself. I’m a kind of all-rounder. Nigerian artists are getting better and I have so much respect for Don Jazzy because he is one of the people that changed the  face of Nigerian music for good. I wasn’t cut out for music but I respect those who are doing their best in that line too.