 RATHER than cause anxiety or even alarm, the report that 109 securities have delisted from the Nigerian bourse in the last 17 years should be seen, somewhat, as a barometer for measuring the health status of the Nigerian economy. Nigerians who grew up in the ‘60s up to the ‘80s will readily recall big corporate players such as Avon Crowncaps, CFAO Nigeria Plc, Cappa and D’Alberto, Enpee Plc, Impresit Bakalori Plc, IHS Nigeria Plc, Incar Plc, Great Nigeria Insurance, Nigerian Bottling Company, Nampak Plc, United Nigeria Textile Plc, Nigerian Textile Mills Plc, Poly Products Plc, Seven-up Bottling Company, Paints and Coating Manufactures Nigeria Plc, and of late, Newrest ASL and First Aluminium Plc. And other notable names as Dumez Nigeria, Atlas Nigeria, MNET-Supersport, Ceramics Manufacturing Company, BAICO Insurance company, AB Plast Plc, Tate Industries, Skye Bank,  Rietzcot Nigeria, Intra Motors Nigeria, Onwuka Hi-Tek, Nigerian Lamps, Nigerian Yeast & Alcohol, Christlieb, BCN, Liz-Olofin & Companies, Oluwa Glass Company, Confidence Insurance Plc and Aba Textile Mills. Or others like Aboseldehyde Laboratory, Famad, Afprint, Nigercem, Daily Times, Albarka Airline, Foremost Dairies ,Wiggins Teape Nigeria , Okitipupa Oil Palm, Hallmark Paper Product, West African Aluminium, Nigerian Wire Industry, IPWA, G. Cappa, West African Glass Industries, Investment & Allied Insurance, Alumaco, Jos International Breweries, Adswitch, Rokanna, Lennards (Nigeria), P.S Mandrides & Company, Premier Breweries, Costain, Navitus Energy and Nigerian Ropes Plc. From being major players in the Nigerian economy whose shares were actively traded in the Nigerian Bourse, these entities became fringe players before finally exiting the bourse.  Whereas those in the first category opted for voluntary delistment after complying with relevant requirements of the market, the second were undone by regulatory infractions. To be sure, the hallmark of the capital market is free entry and exit. Those that freely exited have (presumably) strategic reasons to move on; just as the regulators as guardians of the rules have the right to wield the hammer in cases where breaches of corporate governance rules are established against them. For us, the pertinent question is whether things could not have been vastly different – that is in the sheer number of forced exit – had the economy been propelled along a different trajectory. In this, Nigerians are no doubt familiar with the story of how the Ibrahim Babangida-era Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) took the economy on a slippery slope, the wave of de-industrialisation that attenuated the so-called deregulation, and the devaluation of the national currency that saw a good number of otherwise vibrant players in the nation’s economy make their exit. For as sure as the sentiments that rule the capital market are mere reflections of those driving the larger economy, the ensuing instability, which actually culminated in the collapse of the market in 2008, and which seems only too predictable, have persisted even until today. That we have not heard the last of delistment – whether voluntary or induced – is merely stating the obvious. The real challenge is ensuring that the economy is truly deepened, that the key enablers of manufacturing are put in place to make the sector not only truly competitive but also a productive one for locals and foreigners alike; and for the local economy to enjoy protection from unfair, crippling competition as we have seen of the activities of smugglers. In this, a vibrant capital market will not only be a sine qua non to the quest for deepening process but a necessary complement. Should the nation desire real lessons from the 2008/9 bust, it is that the vibrancy of the capital market must necessarily align with that of the general economy to endure.