 KOGI State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governorship Campaign Council on Tuesday said it has passed a vote of no confidence in the state Commissioner of Police (CP), Mr. Hakeem Busari. Deputy Director, Public Communication for the council, Austin Okai Usman, said with Busari’s presence in Kogi, the November 16 governorship election would not be free of rancour. According to him: “Police activities under the current CP have been reduced to taking instructions from the APC-led administration in the state. “The council note with serious concern that the activities of the state police command under the current CP have reduced the contest of November 16 to a battle between the police and PDP. “This is a clear indication that virtually all government officials in Kogi and top APC members and their thugs are being protected, and at the same time using the state police commissioner’s men to chase, harass, intimidate; and threaten to kill PDP members across the state. “Specifically, the council noted with serious worry the activities of Governor Bello’s spokesman, Kingsley Fanwo, in Mopa Moro Local Government; Ndamodu Ali, former commissioner for local government in Ofu; clampdown on its supporters in Dekina, Ankpa, Bassa, Idah, Olamaboro; and the concluded plans to spread across the state, with the aid of the state commissioner of police, his men and the fake uniformed men, including those imported by Yahaya Bello, and engaged in dirty and illegal duties in Kogi.” The council urged the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, to remove the Kogi State commissioner of police without further delay “to avoid breakdown of law and order in the state.” It expressed reservations over the continuous detention of retired Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ejeh Suleiman Abutu in the custody of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. The PDP appealed to the police inspector general to remove the police commissioner in the interest of fair play, security of lives and property, and to “avoid reprisal attacks from any side of the political divide, particularly the PDP.” It alleged plans by the state government to enlist and incorporate the army on special operation, “into the unholy desire to retain power at all cost.” The party called on the commandant of Army Records to closely monitor the activities of his men so as to insulate them from the alleged ongoing infiltration by the state government.