Stakeholders in public and private sectors of the economy are preparing for the annual Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) Summit holding today and tomorrow in Abuja. The event will be focusing on supporting governments at all levels to discover ways of diversifying the economy and growing their revenue bases. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Governors Forum will be hosting the 2019 Edition of the summit in Abuja from November 27 to 28. In a statement signed by Earl Osaro Onaiwu, Director General of the Forum, said the Summit will hold at the BON Hotel Stratton, (formerly Protea Hotel), Asokoro, Abuja. Expected at the event are tested IGR experts who will make presentations aimed at boosting revenue generation initiatives in the PDP-governed States. The ultimate intention of the Forum in hosting the strategic event is aimed at increasing the economic well-being of the citizenry, and more access to dividends of democracy, a cardinal objective of the PDP. The summit is expected to parade finance and IGR experts like Peter Obi, former Governor of Anambra State, Obadiah Mailafia, a former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Deputy Governor, Akinyele Oladeji, an IGR Expert and Managing Consultant/Country Representative of Canadian Software Development Corporation (CSDC Consulting Nigeria) and a coterie of frontline speakers, session chairmen, faculty members amongst other drawn from allied and related sectors. Titled: “The Imperatives of Developing Internally-Generated Revenue Options for State Governments in a Recessed Economy”, the summit which is hosted by the PDP Governors Forum and managed by Messrs Red Sapphire Nigeria Limited, in conjunction with the Producers of high-profile Finance programme, “Money Line on AIT”, will parade the Finance expert, Nancy Iloh as Summit Anchor. The expected participants are – State Commissioners of Finance, Trade/Investments, Budget/Economic Planning, Tourism and Local Governments/Chieftaincy Affairs; National/State Assembly Committee Chairmen on Local Governments whose input will generally provide statutory and parliamentary backing for the major determinants and considerations on IGR Resources; SSAs on Trade/Investments, Economy, Finance and Revenue Generation; LGA Chairmen/ Secretaries, as well as Heads of State Boards of Internally-Generated Revenue and Senior Executives engaged in the Development and Management of Rural Economy amongst others. The high-profile summit will feature the Governor of Bayelsa State and Chairman of PDP Governors Forum, Hon. Henry Seriake Dickson as the Chief Host, and the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus as the Special Guest of Honour.