   All is now set for the much talked about Osun Economic and Investment Summit. It will hold from November 19 to 21. A statement signed by Dr. Charles Diji Akinola, the Chairman, Summit Planning Committee and Chief of Staff to the Governor, from its secretariat, said the summit is aimed at driving home the state’s Development Agenda, which is primarily to sustainably reposition the economy of the state and deliver prosperity to the people. Already, world-class and top-notch speakers, development partners, investors, panelists and moderators have confirmed their attendance of the summit. Over 1,000 participants across the world are expected to attend it. Prominent among them are: Manisha Dookhony- MD, Rwenzori Consulting & Senior Advisor to the Government of Madagascar on Investment and Economic Development Strategy, Wale Babalakin- Chairman, Bi-Courtney Group of Companies, Volker Triechel- Principal Economist, International Finance Corporation , Mr. Chiedu Ugbo- CEO, Niger Delta Power Holding, Mr Wanle Akinboboye, MD/CEO La Campaigne Tropicana, Mr. Theo Onadeko-  VP & Senior Investment Manager (Agribusiness) ARM and Mr. U.G,  Mohammed  MD/ CEO, Transmission Company of Nigeria among others. The three-day summit, which will hold at Aurora Event Centre, Osogbo, will, among others, present the economic government roadmap and showcase investment opportunities within the state to both Nigerian and international investors. It is a multi-stage, multi- stakeholder summit that will dissect and recommend strategies which will drive meaningful youth employment, enhance food security and agricultural development, activate mining prospects and boost tourism potential of the state and, more importantly, showcase Osun as a strategic location for industrialisation. The summit, which will comprise mainly plenary sessions, will focus on key potential growth sectors, which include: Agriculture, Mining, ICT & Innovation, Culture, Tourism & Creative Economy, Youth & Jobs (Light Manufacturing), Infrastructure Development, Industry & Commerce, Environment (Waste to Wealth), Health and Technical & Vocational Education. As part of activities to kick off the Summit, the governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, will on Thursday be at the Nigerian Stock Exchange.  