Owan West Local Government Area, Edo state will Friday evening in Abuja join other local governments in the country to receive the 2019 Nigerian Local Government Development Awards. The news of the award, according to a statement made available to the Nation, was conveyed in a letter signed by Ayodele Ajiboso, from the Office of the Secretary to Government of the Federation. According to Mr Ajiboso, the award is an outcome of the inspection of local government projects in Nigeria by a Team of Consultants from SEGNIP Promotions Ltd, in collaboration with the Department of States and Local Government, Office of Secretary to the Federal Government for the Inspection and Documentation of Local Government Projects and Programmes. Notice of the awards dated October 11, 2019, reads in part; “please, recall the visit to your LGA by a Team of Consultants from SEGNIP Promotions Ltd in collaboration with the Department of States and Local Government, Office of Secretary to Government of the Federation for the Inspection and Documentation of Local Government Projects and Programmes with a view of making nominations for the Nigerian Local Government Development Award. “This is to inform you that based on the outcome of the exercise your LGA has been nominated for the 2019 round of the Nigerian Local Government Development Award.” In his acceptance, Hon. Ilaboya, who was full of excitement, thanked God for yet another recognition for Owan West. “I am overwhelmed with this award, and I want to thank God Almighty for His grace upon Owan West. We are still basking in the euphoria of the State Government’s award, and another one has come. “I think people of Owan West have cause to roll out the drums for big, big celebrations. “I also, on behalf of the local government, thank the Federal Government and the organisers of this prestigious event for this great honor. It feels great to be chosen among the 18 councils in Edo State and 774 LGAs in the nation. “Again, this award will spur us to continue to drive our service delivery commitment to our people,” the Council boss added.” The award will be presented Friday evening at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. Already, the Vice Chairman of the council, Hon Moses Mayah and the Secretary, Hon. Iruobe Odion Daniel, are in Abuja to receive the award on behalf of the Chairman and the Council. Meanwhile, only ten (10) local governments are being honoured in Edo State.