What trick will smugglers not try to remain in business? Last month Customs personnel intercepted a petrol tanker filled with smuggled rice on the notorious Abuja-Kaduna Expressway. On Thursday, the Niger/Kogi command of the Service announced another interception, this time of a truck loaded with 292 50kg bags of imported rice concealed beneath a stack of sugarcane. The Iveco truck was flagged down along Dikko-Suleja-Abuja Road of Niger State. It had two registration plate numbers XD 146 LSD (in front) and XD 146 SLD (behind). The patrol that intercepted the vehicle was led by ASC I Mohammed Bature. Public Relations Officer of the command, Lomba Benjamin said the duty paid value (DPV) of the rice is N4,964,000. He said the truck drivers tried to dodge the anti-smuggling team. Lomba said that in October 2019, the Command made some seizures comprising 1,481 50kg bags of imported foreign rice with duty paid value of N25, 177,000, five vehicles with DPV of N14,337,000 and  Nine bales of Second-hand clothing with DPV of N720,000. The statement lamented that it was unfortunate that in spite of the considerable quantity of rice and vehicular seizures in the Command in the past, some saboteurs have continued to engage in the unpatriotic act. “We have continued to record victory over these recalcitrant saboteurs. The seizures are estimated at over N40m which represents a huge loss on the part of these elements despite the fact of a jail term that awaits any of them who will be arrested as a result of our long drawn investigative net.” Also, the Western Marine Command of the NCS yesterday announced the seizure of goods worth N61,611, 925. The Comptroller of the Command Bayiliya Binga said the goods were seized from different locations within the Command’s area of jurisdiction including the high seas. Binga spoke while addressing journalists in Apapa, Lagos. He identified the seized goods as 433 bags of 50kg foreign parboiled rice, bags of secondhand clothes and shoes, buffalo horns, bales of foreign fabrics, matches, tramadol, 3000 empty kegs, bales of mobile police, immigration and Navy uniforms. He said the command has embarked on several strategies to curb the menace. “A 24-hours patrol of the water was intensified and combing of the creeks and beaches were invigorated,” he said. “The commissioning and subsequent launch of the Command’s sea-going-vessels has also helped to increase the tempo of anti-smuggling and the result is the seizure you can see here.” He noted that in the last two weeks following the launch of the Command’s vessels, seizures have been intensified. “This is what we stand for; we are not ready to shed weight with anybody. We thank the federal government for what it is doing, we are solely behind the policies of the federal government and we will implement it to the last word,” he said. He said the tramadol seized looked fake, saying it could have effects on those who use it. He added that the empty kegs seized are used to carry fuel from Nigeria to Coutonu or other countries, noting that the command will not allow smugglers to carry fuel out of the country anymore. He emphasised that the fact that the federal government has said we should go into agriculture does not mean we should illegally bring in cutlasses.  “We have cutlasses and hoes in Nigeria, go and farm, let us not insist on foreign things,” he said.