Over 40 young female entrepreneurs in Lagos participated in a business seminar which focused on helping women to recognise their potential and turn their passion into profit. The Nigeria News Agency (NAN) reports that the “Excelling in Business for Women” seminar, organised by Holivent Nigeria, attracted established female SMEs who inspired and mentored participants on prospects, challenges and opportunities for women in business. Fussytech Chief Executive Officer Mrs Olanibi Olumide-Fusika, who spoke on “Nurturing from Boot to Branches” said she started her business, by selling phones from the boot of her car at Computer Village in Ikeja. “Never despise a small beginning, there is money on the street if you are not ashamed, so try as much as possible to convert your time into money,” she said. She advised prospective entrepreneurs not to venture into business on the basis of emotions because emotions could not overcome the cold dictates of the market. According to her, women should not be attracted to the business by considering only the potential for profit without giving thought to possible pitfalls. She said: “In a business that survives on regular cash flow, never indulge in the sale on credit and ensure you have a good relationship with your partners and colleagues in business, as they keep you going during trying times.” Managing Director, Opindos Brasserie and Bakery Mrs Ope Tejuoso, told participants that the best time to start a business is now, no matter how small. Tejuoso, also a trained lawyer, said that ideas are everywhere but they come as a disguise in the form of challenges, hardship or lack. “Opportunities come wrapped as a problem, so shine your eyes, start now, be courageous and life will push you beyond your desire. “Don’t be afraid of a humble beginning almost everybody has a story of starting small,” she said. Managing Director, Sixth Sense and Publisher, International Living Daily Planner, Mrs Tope Olagbegi, urged the participants to recognise what they are good at doing in life, as this would set them apart in the business they venture into.  