James Azania, Lokoja The Director General of the Bello/Onoja Governorship Campaign Council, Senator Smart Adeyemi has accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of planning to rig the governorship and Kogi West Senatorial District elections slated for November 16. Adeyemi is the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Appeal Court ordered Kogi West rerun. Addressing newsmen in Lokoja on Friday, Adeyemi said that information at their disposal had it that the PDP was working at rigging the election. “The PDP has already contacted one Chief Fakorede from Oyo State to assist them in rigging the election,” he said. He warned that any attempt to rig the election, will be resisted by the APC. He said that the party will ensure that whoever is so involved will be brought to book. According to him: “The APC has already conquered every part of the state as the electorates are ready to vote Governor Yahaya Bello back to office for second term. The people of the state will vote for him during the election. “We will vigorously resist PDP rigging plan. People should not waste their money on Wada whose candidacy has been rejected by his own party bigwigs, and is left with only an option of rigging. “Former Governor Ibrahim Idris has shown us that the PDP candidate is not acceptable or sellable “The opposition too is aware that they have lost it. The only option they are thinking of is to cause mayhem during the election and rig. “But, we will not allow that. They have done it in the past. Rigging is in their DNA. We will vigorously resist any attempt to rig the November 16 governorship election. “You cannot expect youths, especially those serving in various capacities in this government, to fold their hands and allow electoral malpractice. “Ninety percent of youths in the state have been empowered by the present administration, with some of them unemployed before, but are presently meaningfully engaged. “The youths are familiar with the terrain in the state, and their cause is helped by the general acceptance of our candidate, Governor Yahaya Bello. “Already, there is confusion and in-fighting within the PDP. We have already subdued the PDP and we shall consume them soon without violence.”