Rising incidents involving airlines, ground handling companies and other ancillary services providers at airport aprons are attracting the attention of regulators, especially  because of their attendant effects on safety and security. Experts say enhanced training,  improved regulation and adherence to operational procedures may reduce infractions at the air side, writes KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR.  The move to improve safety at airport aprons is gathering momentum among terminal operators, airlines, ground handling companies, aviation fuel suppliers and other players in the air transport value chain. To this end, global bodies namely International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), International Air Transport Association (IATA) and Airport Council International (ACI) are mulling a review of operational manuals used by terminal operators, airlines, ground handling companies, fuel suppliers and others who carry out actvities at the apron. The apron is where aircraft are parked for passengers to embark; cargo is loaded and aviation fuel supplied into the aircraft preparatory to taxing onto the tarmac before it gets to the runway for take-off. Besides pre-flight activities, the apron also provides a window for safety inspectors from the regulatory body to carry out ramp checks on the aircraft to ascertain their readiness for airworthiness before any flight. Experts say it is for these reasons that operations at the apron remains a critical part of air travel operation. This, according to them, accounts for the new thinking in evolving new measures and strategies  among  industry regulators, airlines and terminal operators aimed at preventing aircraft accidents at the airside. To redress this ugly trend , Bi- Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two (MMA2) , last week organised a ramp safety week to step up efforts at improving safety at the air side. Speaking at the MMA2 Safety Awareness Campaign, its Safety Manager, Mr Charles Aroguma, said the firm in the last 13 years has demonstrated commitment to safety at the terminal through the implementation of safety management systems (SMS) programmes for operators at the facility. He said airlines ground handling companies, aviation fuel suppliers, apron cleaning firms and others who carry out business have worked together to achieve safety on the air side. Aroguma said:” What we are witnessing today is part of our commitment to ensuring safety in all our activities and your presence is an attestation that it takes all of us coming and working together to make safety a reality on the apron. “At MMA2, we will continue to develop and practise robust safety culture across our entire aviation activities that recognises the importance and value of effective aviation safety management. “This will be achieved by clearly defined roles and responsibilities for all stakeholders aimed towards the development and delivery of safe practice and procedures. “We sincerely hope that with this campaign, we would be able to address challenges that are inherent in our day-to-day activities.” The BASL Safety Manager said the firm has embarked on various steps to address violation of apron safety rules and regulations as well as oil spillage during fueling of aircraft at the terminal. According to him, operators of MMA2 are getting worried over developments at the terminal bordering on issues of working without personal protective equipment, activities of ground handling personnel as well as promoting quality reporting culture. Aroguma said there was need for prompt identification and intervention of potential safety related issues in and around the apron. He added:”We are confident that this exercise will create the required awareness and improve our attitude to safety on the apron  in particular and the airport terminal in general.” Also speaking, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Director in charge of Aerodrome and Airspace Standards, Tayib Adetunji Odunowo said there was an urgent need for improvement on air side operations at the MMA2, The NCAA director called on the management of BASL to make adjustments on how operations were carried out at the air side around the aircraft that were parked at the apron . He said the authorities should draw a template on movement around the aircraft, which he described as the ” Circle of Safety “. The NCAA director also urged the terminal operator to urgently look at speeding at the air side, the criteria for issuance of  duty cards as well as measures to be put in place to reduce personnel at the airside. Such measures, he said, had become imperative because of their attendant effects on safety and security. He said operators of airport terminals must think out of the box on ways of handling limited apron spaces, which usually impacts on airlines’ turn around time. The NCAA director urged management of MMA2 to evolve ways and means of eliminating Foreign Object Damage (FOD) at critical points at the airside. He said the regulator was getting worried over safety infractions on air side driving as it was working round the clock to evolve new regulatory framework to guide the operations and licensing of personnel saddled with such task. He said: “Safety at the air side is a journey not a destination . This is reason the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority is interested at operations at the airside . To see how the operations of airlines could affect safety and security,  especially the movement of air side personnel around the airplanes, which must put into consideration the circle of safety. “There is need to look at issues concerning a well laid out apron , the equipment lay out and the need for the MMA2 operators to decide how to police the apron with the appropriate personnel. “Discussions are on going between the NCAA and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria on new measures to improve air safety.” Also speaking , Head  of Security, Ehi Multi Systems, Mr Victor Okorobia urged all players to adhere to the implementation of safety management systems to improve air safety and security. He said the drive for safety was a collective responsibility to be pursued by all in the air travel value chain. Also speaking,  Manager,  Cargo Operations MMA2, Deji Aderemi said the safety awareness campaign had become imperative because it equipped players on the procedures to adopt in processing cargo for flights. He said without adequate enlightenment many players in the air transport value chain will not know the value of rejecting some goods meant for air freight that is on the prohibition lists. On her part, Safety Services Manager , Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Rukayyah Bashari urged players in the sector to cooperate towards driving safety at the air side , which could be readily achieved through the implementation of safety management measures A representative of AeroContractors of Nigeria, Charity Okuns praised  the operators of MMA2 for its responsiveness to safety issues, urging the firm to consolidate its drive for air side safety and security. Also speaking, Station Manager, Skyways Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc, Paul Awnamhobor commended the management of MMA2 for initiating the safety awareness programme, saying it is good for ground handling companies to ramp up their operations . 