 In 2012, the Nuhu Ribadu Petroleum Revenue Special Task Force said in its report that Nigeria lost several billion Naira to “briefcase crude oil trading companies” that lifted Nigeria’s crude oil between 2002 and 2011, while the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) said in 2015 that Nigeria lost over $723million (N221.5 billion) through the Offshore Processing Arrangement (OPA). Between 2009 and 2011, the country also lost billions, as the country’s expenditure on fuel subsidy increased by more than 900 percent from N245 billion in the 2011 budget to over N2.5 trillion. In the solid minerals sector, there are cases of illegal mining and export of precious metals. On stolen crude oil, illegal oil flows resulted in more than $12billion losses to the US between 2011 and 2014, while another $3billion was lost to China and $839.5 million to Norway during the period, apart from under-reporting of production volumes and liftings by the NNPC and Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). In 2015, the Natural Resource Governance Institute (NGRI) said Nigeria also lost billions of dollars through the oil-for-product swap contracts by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), apart from the oil subsidy scam. Former South African President, Thabo Mbeki, as chairman of the Africa Union high level panel on Illicit Financial Flow (IFFs) had said the continent was continually and increasingly losing tens of billions of dollars. This growing level of illicit financial losses poses a huge challenge to African governments’ ability to retain money in their countries and on the continent for its development. It is said that at least 40 percent of the total IFFs in Africa come from Nigeria. Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) chairman, Mr. Babatunde Fowler, identified three sectors of the Nigerian economy with the highest prevalence of IFFs, namely multi-national corporations, oil & gas, banking and financial services. He spread a huge net and identified IFFs as not only when monies are repatriated abroad, but also when companies and individual fail to pay tax to the government. Also, some multi-national companies and individuals who repatriate funds from one country keep it in another country in Africa without taking it abroad. Such practices always deny the country from where the money was taken resources required to carry out development projects. The payments of expatriates staff emolument and remunerations and the failure to declare such for personal income tax purposes to the relevant tax authorities in Nigeria has been brought under IFFs by the FIRS. IFFs has also been made to include proceeds from illegal commercial and business activities that lead to hiding wealth, evading or aggressively avoiding tax, and dodging customs duties and domestic levies imposed by government on services. IFFs are often driven by criminal intent with the purpose of keeping the transactions from the view of law enforcement agencies or revenue authorities. Monies acquired through bribery and abuse of office by public officials and other corrupt practices, are enormous in Nigeria and could have increased the level of tax revenues collected, to further embark on different developmental projects. The laundering of funds (often sourced illegally) is also perpetrated through real estate transactions to acquire property in choice locations outside Nigeria; Illegal transfer of money out of Nigeria via unapproved channels; mispricing of goods and services transferred between interrelated Nigeria based companies and individuals to offshore based entities and individuals; profit shifting through excessive interest payments on foreign and locally sourced loans and mis-invoicing of imports and exports are also IFFs. A report by NEITI identified three enablers of illicit financial flows (IFFs) in Nigeria’s extractive industries. The report entitled “Averting Illicit Financial Flows (IFFs) in Nigeria’s Extractive Industry” said bribery and corruption, illegal resource exploitation, and tax evasion are the main channels of IFFs in the country’s extractive industry. To meet this challenge, the FIRS has been very active. It asked the Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice for advice to prosecute about 114 companies. These companies deny owning certain lands. However, the Abuja Geographical Information System (AGIS), confirmed the lands were actually allocated to them. President Mbeki had said the challenge was for African leaders to work towards stopping the losses, to retain the revenues for the provision of essential developmental services to the people. This is what the FIRS have been working on. Mr. Fowler said the FIRS had made positive strides in curbing IFFs and has so far recovered billions of dollars. In July 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) Bill into law. The NFIU was empowered to fight the funding of criminal activities, money laundering and terrorism through the international and domestic financial system. The deployment of BVN in the banking sector has helped to identify the real owners of bank accounts. The FIRS is now more alert than ever on unrecorded financial flows involving capital illegally earned, transferred or generally used by residents to accumulate foreign asset in contravention of controls and regulations. When a company pays a bribe to illegally exploit a resource outside its concession area, the products could be transported or smuggled outside the country’s shores without the payment of the required export duties. This is now under watch. Corrupt government officials and crooked companies have always been beneficiaries of bribes or monies embezzled from tax collection and fraudulent budgetary allocations. Other IFF indicators and red flags include abuse of office and conflict of interest by politically exposed persons (PEPs) in the award of permits, licenses and contracts. Since the money from illicit financial flows is twice as much as the official development aid that Africa receives, tackling IFFs which has played a great role in depleting the continent has become of great concern to Nigeria’s Federal Inland Revenue Service. The amount of loss involved when it comes to IFFs in Nigeria is very staggering and often difficult to track or trace. Where the funds have been successfully traced, repatriation of the funds has proved very difficult. Multinational companies closely associated with politically exposed persons are very much implicated in the generation, transfer and sharing of IFFs and they do everything to frustrate government efforts to end this evil. Developing countries including Nigeria collect significantly lower levels of tax, as a percentage of gross domestic product, GDP, than wealthier States. Apart from other local reasons, the income and wealth being created is taken out of the country illegally, without being taxed. This is one avenue that the FIRS under the Buhari administration has worked to make sure that government money goes into government coffers and not into private pockets. 