Startup leaders from across the South -South and South -East will be converging in Uyo, Akwa Ibom Capital, later this month. The aim is to position the emerging startup ecosystem in the region, DANIEL ESSIET writes.  As entrepreneurs in South East region eschew the traditional quick exit route and opt instead to grow their companies to maturity, they have come to realize that they cannot go it alone. They need the help and experience of peers who face similar growing pains — and they need to join forces so that problems they encounter can be quickly addressed. To this end, Startups South 5 is holding in Uyo, Akwa Ibom capital to gather mentors and innovation leaders good at fostering ideas and startups to network and deepen connections. The event is billed for October 29 and November 2. It will hold at E3 Event& Banquests, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. Themed: Unlocking the next 60 million people, the  convener ,Uche Aniche said  the  aim of the  conference  is to promote entrepreneurship and help develop world-class regional startup hubs as well as highlighting the regional  startup sector to global entrepreneurs, innovators and research and development teams. The agenda at the conference will centre on, but not limited to, experience sharing, regional goal harmonisation, startup funding options and more. For him, the programme is a fantastic opportunity for those who are thinking of starting a business, those who want to scale their business or others who might want to invest in startups to come together, be inspired by each other and share new ideas. He believes the region has all of the vital ingredients to become a global startup hub, and that what they need now is to bring them together to make it a reality. According to him, Startup South is about driving real change across the startup sector, creating better networks, connections and collaborations with all of the players across the entrepreneurship spectrum – the startup leaders, investors, Government, research centres, universities, large corporates, and multi-nationals – to work collectively to build on the region strength. 