TOP international UK airline, British Airways, recently showed appreciation to several of its Nigerian travel agents with Shoprite shopping vouchers in its mega Christmas promo. At the presentation of the vouchers which was held at the Palms Shopping Mall, Lekki, Regional Commercial Manager, West Africa, British Airways, Mr. Kola Olayinka, remarked that the promo was initiated to appreciate and reward the good work put in by the recipient travel agency partner staff during the duration of the promo. According to him, “The mega promo, which ties into the festive ‘Xmas season, was a good incentive to encourage our travel agents to take charge and earn more with each travel booking. The more tickets issued, the more shopping vouchers they got and hence more purchases they are able to make for their household in preparation for the upcoming Christmas.” The promo allowed the travel agents access reward points on every flight they booked within the period for a chance to earn a shopping voucher worth up to $200 and a grand prize of a business class ticket to London. Shopping vouchers worth over four million naira were up for grabs during the promo. Expressing his gratitude, one of the winners, a Ticketing and Reservation Officer, Discovery Travels & Tours Limited, Imaikop Sunny, remarked that the initiative served as an added encouragement for BA travel agencies to do more. He went on to say, “This was a very good initiative and a plus for British Airways. I’m happy to be among the winners of this promo and I urge them to keep up the good work.” Another lucky winner from Tour Brokers International, Evelyn Nwakolo, expressed appreciation to BA management for such an incentive. According to her, “this will be a Christmas with a difference with BA providing vouchers to shop for our homes this Xmas.” British Airways is a full-service global airline, offering year-round great fares with an extensive global route network flying to and from centrally-located airports. It has its home base at London Heathrow, the world’s busiest international airport, and flies to more than 200 destinations in 80 countries across the globe. The Airline operates daily flights from Lagos and Abuja to London.