Osagie Otabor, Benin  Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and a former Commissioner for Environment in the state, Mr. Clem Agba, have questions to answer over the Benin Storm Water project. Obaseki who said the storm water project was not abandoned said Oshiomhole and Agba should be ready to face appropriate authorities for questioning. Obaseki was responding to Agba’s report to the Benin Monarch, Oba Ewuare II, that abandonment of the storm water master plan could pose a disastrous consequence on the people. Prince Agba, who is now Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, had while presenting the storm water master plan to the Benin Monarch lamented the worsening state of flooding in Benin City. Agba requested the Benin Monarch to intervene especially on the Isonoror and other various erosion sites in the state so as to forestall excruciating pains that await the people of the state. But Obaseki who spoke through his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, warned Agba to leave the Oba of Benin out of Oshiomhole’s misguided political battles against himself and others across the nation. Obaseki said Agba was a major beneficiary of the unnecessary battles being fought by Oshiomhole across the country which made the All Progressives Congress (APC) to lose about six states to the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He cautioned Agba not to drag the Oba of Benin into the embarrassment that would soon befall both himself and Oshiomhole. Obaseki also said Agba, who was Commissioner of Environment when the Edo Water Storm master plan was conceived, was fully aware that there are many questions yet to be answered over the project hence his jittery effort to seek royal cover from the great king. “For the records, the Benin Water Storm masterplan is not abandoned but Agba and Oshiomhole certainly have questions to answer over the project and at the right time they shall be invited. “Good enough, Ministers and National Chairmen of political parties do not enjoy any immunity from investigation and litigation, so they should get ready to face the people and the authorities. “In case Agba has stayed away from home for too long and has forgotten how highly we revere our great king and custodian of our culture and tradition; he is hereby reminded and warned to keep the political rascality currently being choreographed by the suspended National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, far away from our great king,” he said.