By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie The National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) Southwest Zone has started a conversation with private sector firms to provide services to schools at reduced cost in a bid to lower the cost of private education. Speaking at a Roundtable Discussion Conference organised by the zone at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island Tuesday, Deputy National President of the association, Chief Yomi Otubela, said reducing the cost of education would enable more children go to school. He said with over 37,000 schools under NAPPS educating 60 per cent of primary and secondary school children pan-Nigeria, private sector companies that partner with the group on affordable services would be able to leverage on the numbers while playing their parts as socially responsible organs of the society. He said: “Private education in Nigeria comes at a cost, and (the cost) is increasing day by day.  There are some schools where the cost of rendering standard education to Nigerian children is becoming unbearable especially in this harsh economy.  We have come to synergize with the private sector to have services and products sold to our schools at reduced prices.  We in turn we intend to drive traffic to these companies with little or no marketing expenses on their own part.” Otubela who is vying for the position of NAPPS President also said it was necessary for non-government stakeholders to be concerned about the country’s out-of-school crisis and contribute to addressing the problem. The proprietor of Lagooz Schools, Agege, said while NAPPS members are being encouraged to offer scholarship to less privileged children around them, the private sector could help by providing ancillary support to the children.  He said: “I am looking at even our members, owners, operators of private schools education giving out full time scholarships. What could make this hard is that these children have got to eat when they are in our hostels; those who are in day school, take lunch.  (Among) these companies are those into FSP (Fast Selling Products), foods, and drink items.  We can provide free tuition for a child; they can give us lunch, breakfast, dinner for those in the hostels. “For those who are into real estate, they can give us some blocks of classrooms; those who are making furniture can provide furniture to support us. Hence, we can then take these children out of the streets and give them not only education but standard and quality one for that matter.” NAPPS Southwest Zonal President, Stephen Abitogun, a lawyer, also urged the firms to support the association’s cause. Firms present at the event which had as theme: “Defining Developmental Policies for the Advancement of the Private Education Sub-Sector in Collaboration with the Organised Private Sector:” included: UBA, First Bank, Nestle, LAPO, AIICO, school compass, WAEC, Emirates, Caleb University, and many others.