By Emmanuel Oladesu  A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State, Afolabi Akanni, has said that the party will bounce back to power, if it can put its House in order. He called for unity, stressing that past mistakes should be corrected. The former House of Assembly member said in a statement in Lagos that the victory of Senator Biodun Olujimi has given a ray of hope about a brighter future. He said all hands should be on deck for the crusade for the effective repositioning of the chapter. Akanni said Ekiti PDP Ekiti can recapture power and regain its pride of place. He said: “There is hope for PDP in Ekiti State. We should come together and out our house in order.” Also, former two-term Chairman of Efon Local Government and an aspirant for the position of state party chairman, Prince Aderogba Agbaje, said the party will triumph in future elections.  He congratulated Olujimi for sustaining the struggle that gave her victory, adding that she had done the chapter proud. He said: “It is the Lord’s doing, an obvious triumph of good over evil and sure hope that democracy will thrive in Nigeria.” Agbaje said the judiciary had done a great job, stressing that the victory had rekindled hope that the party has a future. He aded: “It was a well deserved victory for a vibrant and hard working federal legislator who shook the 8th Assembly and justified her position as the Red Chamber’s Minority Leader.” Agbaje described the victory as a morale booster and a wake up call from politicsl slumber. Describing Olujimi as a “round peg in a round hole ” he advised her to remain focused, be truly forgiving and rekindle her faith in God, to whom her victory should be dedicated. He said the senator’s tenacity of purpose, doggedness, humility, outstanding performance, unrestrained compassion and generosity have made her a role model and worthy leader. Urging party leaders and members to unite for future contests, Agbaje said they should embrace the repositioning agenda. He said:”It is a crusade aimed at restoring sanity, decorum and due process to foster and strengthen internal democracy and mutual respect. “We must, above all, accord due recognition and respect and to our leaders and elders at all levels. Under the emerging new leadership and soothing atmosphere, the dark days of imposition and unbridled impunity, maladministration and a lot more, which the party paid dearly for, are gone for good.” Prince appealed to the founding fathers of the party, especially Senator Clement Awoyelu, Professor Tunde Adeniran, Chief Dayo Okondo,  Dr. Folayan, former Governor Segun Oni, Justice Ojuolape, Chief Ojuawo, and Dr. Bode Olowoporoku, to return to the party. He also urged other chieftains who left in frustration or are aloof to return for the rescue mission. 