The Nigerian Optometric Association (NOA) has mourned the demise of its former National President and pioneer registrar, Dr Ronald Nzie Eyime, at the age of 63. In a message by the National President of the Association, Dr Ozy Okonokhua, made available to The Nation, they condoled with the Nzie Eyime family, as well as the Delta State Government over the demise. Okonokhua described the exit of the academician and egalitarian as a colossal loss to the Association, Delta State and Nigeria at large. He extolled Dr Eyime as a great man of virtue and wit, whose legacies permeated the field of humanities and statesmanship. “The death of a loved one, no matter his age, brings grief to our heart and tears in our eyes, but we must take solace in the fact that Dr Eyime lived a glorious life. “He was a pioneer Registrar/CEO, Optometrists and Dispensing Opticians Registration Board of Nigeria from 1992-2010 and spearhead and pioneer, Steering Committees on th establishment/formation of various Institutions in Optometry from 1998 till his demise. Eyime rose to become President, Nigerian (Post Graduate) College of Optometrists in 2017. “As a consummate seasoned administrator and academician, Dr Eyime served the Federal Republic of Nigeria as Member National Advisory Committee on Health from 1991- 1998 and Secretary, National Universities Commission Panel on review of Medical/Health curricular for Nigerian Universities in 2005 and Member Accreditation Team, National Universities Commission (N.U.C) to University of Calabar 1998-2012. “He has travelled wide the world as Member, Governing Council of Optometry, the recent to New Zealand for Public Health and Development Committee of the World Council of Optometry. “Late Dr Ronald Nzie Eyime is a fellow of Nigerian Optometric Association (FNOA) and Past National President of the Association from 1990-1995. “As a voice in modern day optometry, Eyime lived a life worthy of emulation and as such we prayed that God will continue to bless members of the Eyime family, and grant them the fortitude to bear his exit,” the message read.