James Azania, Lokoja  The Kogi State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governorship Campaign Council said it has passed a vote of no confidence in the state Commissioner of Police (CP), Mr. Hakeem Busari. The Deputy Director, Public Communication of the Council, Austin Okai Usman, on Tuesday, in a forwarded message, said that with Busari’s presence in Kogi, the November 16 governorship election cannot be rancour-free. According to him: “Police activities under the current CP has been reduced to taking instructions from the APC-led administration in the state. “The council noted with serious concern that the activities of the state police command under the current CP has reduced the contest of November 16, to a battle between the police and PDP. “This is a clear indication that virtually all government officials in Kogi and top APC members and their thugs are being protected, and at the same time using the state police commissioner’s men to chase, harass, intimidate; and threaten to kill PDP members across the state “Specifically, the council noted with serious worry, the activities of Governor Bello’s spokesman, Kingsley Fanwo, in Mopa Moro local government; Ndamodu Ali, former commissioner of local government in Ofu; clampdown of its supporters in Dekina, Ankpa, Bassa, Idah, Olamaboro; and the concluded plans to spread across the state, with the aid of the state commissioner of police, his men and the fake uniformed men, including those imported by Yahaya Bello, and engaged in dirty and illegal duties in Kogi.” The council urges the Inspector General of Police (IG), to effect his removal without further delay, “to avoid breakdown of law and order in the state.” It expressed reservations over the continuous detention of DCP Ejeh Suleiman Abutu (retd.) in SARS custody. The PDP appealed to the IG to remove the police commissioner in the interest of fair play, security of lives and property, and to “avoid reprisal attacks from any side of the political divide, particularly the PDP.” It alleged of the plans by the state government to enlist and incorporate the army on special operation, “into the unholy desire to retain power at all cost.” It called on the Commandant of the Army Records, to closely monitor the activities of his men, so as to insulate them from the ongoing infiltration of security agents by the state government.