Duku JOEL, Damaturu The Executive Chairman of Yobe State Universal Basic Education, Prof Musa Alabe Monday began teaching at his alma mater. The Yobe SUBEB boss who is the immediate past Vice Chancellor of Yobe State University and former Dean Faculty of Engineering at Bayero University Kano was at his own old boy primary school, Njiwaji Primary School, Damaturu where he began his primary education 51 years ago. Alabe interacted with the student after taking a lesson with them in Mathematics. The class as monitored by our correspondent was highly interactive as the professor took time to answer their question, the same way the students also responded to his questions. He had earlier met with members of staff of the school to know the grey areas so as to address the challenges. During an interactive session with journalists, Prof. Alabe said he was nostalgic seeing especially seeing the faces of the young ones. “Seeing the faces of these young pupils takes me down memory lane when I began my school here at their age about 51 one years ago. I feel very nostalgic looking at them. It’s really a home coming and a thing of joy. This is why I will have to work hard to secure their future. We cannot mortgage the future of these children for anything. “We must work hard to see to the policy direction of Gov. Mai Mala Buni and ensure that we deliver his objectives with a maximum percentage. His declaration of a state of emergency in this area (education) is not by accident. The Governor has studied the situation critical and arrived at this point, therefore, those of us that are choosing to deliver this mandate must not be found wanting in the discharge of our duties,” Prof. Alabe said. He also condemned the late coming of pupils and members of staff to school, warning that the trend must be stopped. “I have observed with dismay that the late coming in this school both by the teachers and the student is so bad. How can teachers and pupils be coming to school up to 9.00am this is unacceptable and that trend must stop,” the SUBEB boss warned. Another problem that worried the Yobe SUBEB boss is the overcrowding of pupils in the classroom some of which he noted do not have futures. Prof. Alabe while commenting on his initiative to commence the teaching said; I want to inspire both the teachers and the pupils to become more serious with the jobs and their studies.” He also promised that his board in line with the recommendations of the Task Force of the revitalization of Education in the State, commence an aggressive capacity building for the teachers which he observed is “very critical”. The Nation reports that Prof. Alabe, the new Chairman of Yobe State Universal Education Board had during his takeover of the board promised to take up teaching at the primary school in the state.