LAST month, Oando held the 6th edition of its legal seminar among other highlights achieved, at the Wheatbaker Hotel, Ikoyi Lagos. The event had in attendance seasoned legal professionals and stakeholders across the financial, manufacturing and energy sectors, who discussed salient legal issues that affect the country as well as proffer solutions to them. Speaking on the importance of the seminar, the Chief Legal Officer, Oando PLC, Mrs. Ngozi Okonkwo, explained that the seminar was borne out of the need to drive engagement and create an avenue for knowledge sharing in the Nigerian legal sector, while bringing forth opportunities for collaborations and deliberations that would be beneficial to practitioners, the industry, and the country at large. She said: “The kind of value you gain from seminars like these cannot be over emphasised. Attendees leave equipped with knowledge that are certain to come in handy in their practice and other endeavours. As a result of their busy schedules, many professionals do not have enough time for personal development. However, seminars such as these are easy ways to gain real value, opening the door for that flood of useful information that equips us to become that valuable knowledge resource.” Topics discussed at the event included the intricacies of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCTA), which has now been signed by 52 out of 55 African countries. including Nigeria. Experts, at the event harped on the need for Nigeria to improve on its infrastructural facilities to enable the country reap the benefits of AFCTA. Speaking on a panel discussion themed – ‘’African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement: Channelings and Opportunities for Nigerian Companies’’, Dr. Khruschev Ekwueme, Partner at Olaniwun Ajayi Legal Practice, highlighted that as much as Nigeria’s signing the AFCTA was a step in the right direction, the country needs to work on key elements such as infrastructure development to fully harness the opportunities of the free trade zone. The key objective of AFCTA is to boost intra-African trade through progressive elimination of tariffs and non-tariff barriers to trade in goods and liberalisation of trade in services. The Agreement will also involve cooperation on investment, intellectual property rights and competition policy. 