I followed the minister of transportation on a train journey from Lagos via Abeokuta to Ibadan. It was a revelation of infrastructural potential in this country. We started early, and we first took inspection of the coaches, the VIP, the first class and the general. The project has been a work of amazing disruption. The landscape we covered showed how much work has taken place: the clearing of forests, village and community displacements, the building of bridges, tunnels, underpasses and overpasses. We saw mud baked, narrow and big gauges, all of which witness the toil of Chinese workers with some of their Nigerian staff. Stations are under construction, like the one at Kajola on the way to Abeokuta. The minister, Rotimi Amaechi, raged that the Chinese had not completed work on the station as they promised. They appealed to the element: rain. Rain seemed a factor in the delay. When we reached Ibadan, work was about three kilometres short of the terminal. Why? The engineers showed the minister the soggy earth. No tracks could plug safely into the ground. The train stopped and we all walked about seven kilometres to and from the terminal, which was also not completed because of the rains. The train bears a speed of 150 kilometres per hour but its operational speed is 120. In Lagos it takes off from Iddo, but work is furiously steaming on tracks all the way to Ebutte Metta. Earth, gravels, asphalt yield to machines to form a chaos of progress around the city. The appeal to weather shows how climate change affects governance and development. Lagos is waiting for the rains to go. So is Nigerian train. Weather compromises dreams and deadlines. The BOS of Lagos, Governor Sanwo-Olu shares something with our train project: a prayer to the heavens. The inspection that lasted till late in the night was a labour of hope. I mused at the irony that if Buhari pulls this true, his story will be that of a man who derailed in order to build it. He had cancelled Metroline in Lagos under Jakande. Now, he is the man of rail. With Lagos and Ibadan done, they will move all the way to Kano. The villages are thankful. Some are teasing the minister with chieftaincy title. No, thanks, said Amaechi. A touching story of a community in which pupils walk a mile to school because of the project. Amaechi approved an underpass to be constructed. Lagos-Ibadan is West Africa’s busiest hub. It reminds me of a line in the Novel Flights by Nobel laureate OlgaTokarczuk: “Barbarians don’t travel.” They abide what is called circular time rather than linear time. We are not barbarians but with the train network, we shall be a people on the move.