To consolidate its fort as “The face of Local Content in the Oil and Gas Industry” the Nestoil Group has unveiled a new corporate identity. Nestoil, Nigeria’s largest indigenous engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning (EPCC) oil-servicing company, revealed its refreshed identity yesterday, to industry players, captains of industry, media icons, regulators and other stakeholders at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. The corporate identity refresh, represents the agenda of Nestoil for growth, market penetration, social investment and economic growth support. It is a result of the company’s efforts to re-engineer its entire brand strategy, positioning and building a compelling brand story around its core values, vision and mission. In addition to a refreshed logo, the Nestoil brand has adopted a refocused pay-off line ‘delivering exceptional value’. The tag line embodies the value proposition, vision, mission and corporate ethos of the oil and gas giant. Speaking at the event on Thursday, Group Managing Director of Nestoil Group, Dr Ernest Azudialu-Obiejesi, said the company’s new identity is informed by its quest to continue to play in the highly competitive O&G industry as a leader. He said the group would become increasingly more strategic in capacity building, technical knowledge acquisition and contribution to the growth of the sector. Dr Azudialu-Obiejesi said Nestoil is more poised and equipped to face the challenge of increasing Nigerian’s contributions to the growth of the sector. “The journey of Nestoil started 28 years ago, long before the Nigerian Oil and Gas Content Development Act (NOGICD) was passed. What was unique about our identity when we started was a corporate culture that supported and enhanced innovation,” said Dr Azudialu. The company, which sits atop the Nestoil Towers in the heart of Lagos, is known to be the first player in West Africa to attain Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification, signifying its excellence in construction and energy conservation space. Its member companies are pacesetters in quality and innovation across dredging, fabrication, maintenance, marine and construction. Nestoil is Nigeria’s largest indigenous Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Commissioning (EPCC) Company in the Oil and Gas sector and has been a significant contributor to the industry since inception in 1991. With over 1,500 direct employees, Nestoil continues to redefine industry standards in Pipeline Construction, Repairs and Maintenance with associated facilities for Dredging, River Crossing, and Shoreline Protection.