THE Federal Capital Territory (FCT) is the seat of the Federal Government. The global eyes are on every part of the FCT and not only on the Central Business District(CBD). Within the CBD in Abuja, commercial motorcycles are not permitted to operate on the roads. The other parts of FCT are different stories entirely gradually turning the FCT to a shame of the nation. This trend has to be corrected promptly to make the FCT a pride of Nigeria and Africa as a whole. I recently took a research trip to Kubwa, one of the most developed and populated part of the FCT. My findings are very disgusting. It is a case of an abandoned city in a whole FCT. I would like to use the photograph in this article to illustrate three of my findings and recommendations. The photograph was taken near Ignobis Hotel on Gado Nasko way, Kubwa, FCT. Item 1 in the photograph shows a meaningless traffic sign. The shape and colour of the sign depicts a Mandatory Regulatory sign. If obeyed, it directs Motorists to a rough close. Why should Drivers be directed off the main road to a close when there is no blockage of the main road?  This is just an example of multitudes of traffic signs wrongly designed and some, wrongly positioned. Item 2 in the photograph reveals the annoying swarming of Kubwa with Motorcycles. There is neither commercial car nor tricycles on Kubwa roads thereby compelling everyone to dangerously use motorcycles to cover short and long distances. With my research, over 90 per cent of the Motorcycle Riders had no knowledge of the basic traffic signs, traffic regulations and defensive riding techniques. I took quality time to observe and interview some of them. Without doubt, the decision of the Government to be issuing Riders Licence without compelling them to attend Dtiving Schools for basic training is indeed a suicidal measure and retrogressive no matter the security excuse. It is incomplete to be talking of security while neglecting safety. The lives being saved through the security measures can be easily lost to lapses in road safety administration. What then is the pride of the Government and the relevant Agencies? I hereby suggest that at least, Tricycles should be introduced to replace the Motorcycles on the major roads in Kubwa and other thickly populated and developed parts of the Federal Capital Territory. The lives of Nigerians both high and low must matter to all levels of Government. This should be treated as a matter of urgency to prevent further loss of lives through motorcycles on these roads. The first issue revealed in the photograph is a sharp bend with an unguarded bridge which has become a nightmare for Drivers, Riders and Pedestrians. The FCT Authority should proceed to construct a strong iron or concrete rail at the edges of the bridge. The second issue in item 3 is a cart pusher emptying refuse into the stream by the bridge. This is an unacceptable means of refuse disposal in a whole FCT. Measures must be taken to rid the FCT of all forms of illegalities and other act unbecoming of a Federal Capital Territory. The measures will instil saity into FCT and make it the desired model in Africa. 