Praise Olowe Psychologists and relationship experts say men are from Mars and women from Jupiter, meaning they are so very different. This might be the reason why two people can be in love, but can’t seem to live together or relate to each other in harmony. Men and women are human beings, but their needs are very different. As women, therefore, it is important to learn how to relate with the special man in your life to get the best from him, and be a fulfilled woman. Respect:
Men are wired in a peculiar way, what do I mean by this? Every man wants to be treated with respect from his woman. For men, their ego is of utmost importance. As such, the wise woman will treat her man with utmost respect. How do I show respect? Some ladies ask, by deferring to him, in all things, by not criticizing him to anyone, by treating him like your man. Why? Because in every man there is a king, and a boy, treat him like a king and he will treat you like a queen. Love:
Every man wants his woman to love him. How? Give unconditional love. Show him affection. Be nice to him, especially when times are rough or he is feeling down. Treat him with kindness always, not only when he buys you things or is nice to you. As human beings, we need love the most when we deserve it the least. So treat your man with the kindness you would extend to your baby, spouse, or dearest relative, come what may and he will show you the same. Feed him with his love language, for some its acts of service, for others, words of affirmation, or touch. Whatever it is, find out what your man likes or wants. Commitment:
Committing to a relationship is a big step for any man, so when you have a man who has made a commitment to you, either in marriage or relationship, pay him the same compliment. No games, please. Be transparent in your commitment. For some reasons, many ladies think it is okay to keep more than one man, but it is really not worth it. Integrity:
Every man wants a woman he can trust. Not one who says one thing in the morning and another thing at night. But one who is so reliable. So ladies, no lies, no tricks. Don’t be in Lagos and say you are in Abuja, the truth can never be hidden for long, and a lie will always be exposed. Also, honesty; which is an integral part of integrity builds trust and sustains a relationship. Be the type of woman your man can trust. Industriousness:
An industrious woman is hardworking, whether in keeping the home or maintaining the equilibrium in the relationship, or her workplace. There are ladies today who can’t cook, clean, wash or keep their environments clean. Also, the reality of the financial situation in the country demands that women work, if not outside the home, but at least do something to supplement the family income. The truth is that most guys today are not ready to commit themselves to women who don’t have a means of livelihood as they are seen as liabilities. Homeliness:
Every man wants a woman who is homely, one that will make a house into a home. No man wants a woman about town, one who goes everywhere, never remaining at home. There is an art to this, and it must be learned at all costs. This trait was taught and cherished in traditional African societies that have been thrown out of the window in the name of civilization. You should always find time out of your busy schedule to spend moments with your man and family.