WHEN it is time to prepare your leather bag for storing, you need to take care of some things in order to keep it as safe as possible during the time you don’t use it. Clean your bag; Before you place your leather bag in a box or in the place you are going to keep it, make sure that you clean it properly. If not, the dirtiness will be stored with your bag too. As you should after every use of your bag, empty the contents of your bag and use a lightly wet cloth or baby wipes to wipe the leather surface gently and do the same for its inner part.  After the cleaning process, make sure that you wipe again your bag with a dry cloth, to remove the humidity of the water, if any. Stuff the inner part; To maintain the shape of your bag, you should consider stuffing it. A simple way to achieve this is by using plain paper, which you can find in every home’s kitchen or bathroom. Take as much quantity as you need to fill the inside of your bag, and place it properly until you see that it keeps the bag stable and properly shaped. Wrap other parts of the bag; If your leather bag has metal handles, chains or buckles, make sure that you wrap them with paper or bubble wrap as well. This is going to keep them protected also, and it is going to prevent them from leaving marks on the leather or the interior of your bag, if pressed during the storing. Keep the bag dry; Like in the case of a humid environment, storing a wet bag in a box or a wardrobe is bad for the leather. The humidity is going to damage bag and cause flakes and wrinkles on the leather, which are going to be very difficult to restore. Before you store your bag, make sure that it is completely dry. Leave under ceiling fan, not direct sunshine. Use a soft and dry cloth to wipe it in order to absorb any excess liquid (in case you used it in a rainy day for example), and then leave it to dry in a location with average temperature, such as in a room of your home away from the radiator. Cover the bag for protection; Please do not put in nylon or plastic bag. The best cover for a leather bag is to use a soft dust bag, which allows the leather bag to breathe. This way the bag always gets the necessary fresh air it needs in order to keep its shape and the freshness of its leather. You should use rather large dust bags, so that there is enough room available for your leather bag. You don’t want it wrapped or placed tightly, as it prevents it from breathing properly. In case you don’t have a dust bag, a clean pillowcase would work just fine. Keep your leather bags separate; If you need to store more than one leather bags, you need to make sure that you store them separate so that they don’t touch one another. This way, you avoid harming the leather of your bag by pressing one against another. Don’t hang your bag; Although this is common sense, I do see a lot of people overlooking the danger behind this. Hanging your leather bag will most likely destroy the shape of your bag, and make it look saggy and overused. In addition to this, it will cause wrinkling on the leather of the bag. The gravity is going to wear down the leather by stretching it, and wrinkles along with flakes will start to appear on the leather of you bag. Store the bag properly; In my opinion, you should use the box which came with the bag when you purchased it. It most likely is the best way to protect the bag, recommended by the manufacturer. Make sure that your leather bag can breathe in the dust bag, and place it carefully in the box. The room that the closet is located is also important. No direct sunlight should hit the closet. This way you can keep the temperature under control. Last but not the least, make sure that your closet is not overstuffed. As we can see, leather is a very sensitive material that needs our constant attention. The way you are going to store your leather bag is going to determine its well-being and longevity.