LUCAS AJANAKU A firm, ILR at the weekend in Lagos promised a N2million car, all expenses paid trip to Dubai and  cash reward for its inaugural promotion package for its subscribers. Its Group Managing Director, Michael Oluwafemi, who spoke to reporters said the firm is a registered organisation with group of companies that focuses on production, processing and distribution. The organisation currently operates in agriculture, real estate, printing press, supermarkets, engineering services, telecommunications, recharge services, cooperatives societies. He said all that is needed to dowload the app on Google play store, register and activate with N3,000 and earn for life. “Our objectives is to create a global community with the mission to provide the needs of its community and also feed them through agricultural programmes. “We also aim at providing jobs for the teaming youths of this nation and also contribute to the national development of the country.  “The company will also provide a robust – better value added services with his multi-solution provider business hub through its technology called ILR business application. He said the ILR Biz app is an all in one business platform that provides users with efficient value added services. These services include e-commerce, agro mart, recharge services, loans, send money, real estate, hire purchase and others. ILR Biz rewards all its members daily for registering and using the app system daily, he said. According Oluwafemi, the rewards system of ILR biz is seamless and second to none. “The system rewards its members in three different ways through registration, transactions, excellency awards “The registration bonus package comes from the team from first generation up to 16th generations; transactions bonus comes from every transactions that occur in the system irrespective of location or country where the transactions occurs while the excellency awards comes from the company. The company rewards everyone at different times for their level of work.”  