 BAYELSA State Governor Seriake Dickson, on Monday said the bias and unfair conduct of some Federal agencies fuel violence during elections in the state. Dickson made the allegation at a Peace Accord signing event organised by the National Peace Committee (NPC) in conjunction with the Niger Delta Dialogue at the DSP Alamieyeseigha Memorial Banquet Hall in Yenagoa. The governor, however, wondered why the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies in the state were excluded from signing the peace accord. A statement by governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, noted that Dickson expressed dissatisfaction with the role the state’s INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) played in the last state and National Assembly elections in the state. The governor said that the REC lacked the moral credential to talk about peace in the forthcoming election, having accepted manipulated results in the last National Assembly poll. Dickson said a public officer entrusted with the responsibility of conducting such a critical election should have the required integrity to conduct a free, fair and credible election in the state. He condemned the activities of INEC officials and security agencies, who he alleged connived with the All Progressives Congress (APC) to disenfranchise the people through intimidation, writing and acceptance of fake results in some communities. He stressed the need for Federal institutions such as INEC to promote justice and fairness for democracy to thrive in the interest of the country. The governor wondered why the REC and Security agencies were excluded from signing the peace accord. Dickson, who also described the Bayelsa people as peace loving, urged all stakeholders to show true commitment to ensuring a free, fair and peaceful governorship election on Saturday. The governor said justice and fairness were essential factors for the prevalence of peace in any society. His words:“Bayelsa is committed to peace, Bayelsa is peaceful and we are committed as a government to peace, but while we talk about peace, let’s not deceive people. Let’s not be hypocritical, let’s talk about justice; let’s talk about propriety of actions. “I know you are acting on the mandate of the National Peace Committee, but I was wondering why only the political parties and their candidates have to sign this peace undertaking. Why not INEC, why not the state REC, why not the representative of the National Chairman of INEC, why not the security agencies and why not the Nigerian military? “Because our experience shows that our people are not the problem. The problem is largely caused by Federal institutions that fail to do the right things. “Let’s talk about responsibility on the part of institutions and practitioners. So, it would have been nice if INEC, the Resident Electoral Commissioner, who knew what he did in the last elections, had also signed the Peace Accord.”  