By Tajudeen Adebanjo The College of Nigerian Pathologists (CNP), Lagos Chapter, has described as worrisome the shortage of pathologists in the health sector. It has, therefore, called for an urgent measure to curb the brain drain, saying it is hurting the country in many critical ways. The body spoke at a conference to commemorate the International Pathology Day, at Ibis Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. The CNP chairman, Lagos chapter, Prof. Fatimah AbdulKareem, appealed to governments at the state and federal levels to create an enabling environment for pathologists and other healthcare professionals. Noting that scarcity of pathologists has encouraged the mushrooming of unregulated laboratories run by poorly-qualified non-pathologists, she urged pathologists to desist from leaving the country after it has expended so much resource in training them. “Let us be patriotic and stay back in Nigeria to save our fatherland. However, the government has to do more in encouraging people to delve into studying pathology by providing employment opportunities as soon as they are through with their studies. We also encourage our students to take interest in pathology to reduce the shortage of pathologists,” she said.  The International Pathology Day is celebrated annually to create awareness on the role of pathology in healthcare. “Pathology is the bedrock of medicine; that specialty that is concerned with the study of diseases, the causes and mechanisms that result in illnesses. He or she is described as the doctor of doctors because he is consulted by other doctors to make the final diagnosis before treatment, during treatment and even during follow-up after treatment to monitor progress or possibility of recurrence or relapse,” she said. She cautioned Nigerians from going to request for laboratory test without first consulting their doctors. In her keynote address, former Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Health Service Commission, Dr. Olufunmilayo Olatunji, said there is need for advocacy on the way to address the acute shortage of pathologists in the country. “The issue of having just hundred pathologists in the country as reported by CNP National Chairman shows that the issue calls for emergency response action because there is no way such fewer hands can take care of about 190 million population,” she said. Maj. Gen. Tilewa Amusu (rtd), who chaired the event, urged the government to invest more in the health sector. “Pathologists are doing a lot in the health sector in the country. The health sector is an expensive sector; the government needs to invest more in that sector. It is not easy for people to fund their education and start looking for a job. If the government invests more on pathologists, I don’t see the reason why they would think of leaving the country. People leave the country for many reasons – they want better climate, better health care, good remuneration among others,” she said.