  THE United States Government has claimed that 250 journalists were jailed around the world in 2018, with Turkey, China and Egypt among the worst offenders. The assertion came in a statement by U.S. Department of State spokesperson Ms Morgan Ortagus to mark the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes Against Journalists. Ortagus also pointed fingers at Iran, Saudi Arabia, Eritrea, Vietnam, Azerbaijan, Mexico and Nicaragua for imprisonment of media workers and bloggers. She said: “In far too many places around the world, journalists are killed, tortured, jailed, and harassed. “All these for reporting that exposes the abuses of corrupt regimes, undermines the work of terrorist and criminal organisations, gives voice to overlooked communities, and counters disinformation. “As of December 2018, more than 250 journalists remain jailed around the world, with Turkey, China, and Egypt among the worst offenders. “Members of the media and bloggers also remain imprisoned in countries including Iran, Saudi Arabia, Eritrea, Vietnam, Azerbaijan, Mexico, and Nicaragua.’’ Remembering reporters killed in the line of duty, Ortagus called for “an immediate end to all threats, intimidation and violence against journalists and other media professionals for their work’’. “Our nation’s unwavering support for press freedom is enshrined in our constitution, and the United States will call out those who seek to undermine this essential component of any healthy society,’’ she added. UN Secretary-General António Guterres said there had been a rise in the “scale and number of attacks’’ against journalists around the world in recent times. In a message to mark the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes Against Journalists, Guterres said, “societies as a whole pay the price’’ when journalists were targetted. “Freedom of expression and free media are essential to fostering understanding, bolstering democracy and advancing our efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. “In recent years, however, there has been a rise in the scale and number of attacks against the physical safety of journalists and media workers. “There are also growing incidents infringing upon their ability to do their vital work, including threats of prosecution, arrest, imprisonment, denial of journalistic access and failures to investigate and prosecute crimes against them. “The proportion of women among fatalities has also risen, and women journalists increasingly face gendered forms of violence, such as sexual harassment, sexual assault and threats,’’ he said. The UN chief noted that without protection of journalists, societies would lose their abilities to stay informed and contribute to decision-making.  