The people of Iseyin in Oyo State have urged the Federal Government to find a solution to the dilapidated Odo-Ogun bridge along Iseyin-Oyo road. They said it would soon collapse and might cause loss of lives and property. In a statement to reporters yesterday signed by the National President of Iseyin Development Union (I.D.U.), Alhaji Bayo Raji, it was revealed that the bridge was built over 70 years ago, while the road from Iseyin to Oyo has collapsed. Motorists plying Oyo-Iseyin route recently protested the neglect of the road by the Federal Government, causing hardship for travellers plying the road with goods. The group, however, hailed Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde for heeding the call of the Oke-ogun people to reconstruct the Iseyin-Moniya road, which was abandoned by past administrations. Raji said the governor was worthy of praise because of the way he has been working since the inception of his administration, especially by providing social services such as free education, health care services, agricultural revamping and sustainable economic drive. He said: “We need to reiterate the fact that Oke-Ogun area has 60 per cent of landmass, which is majorly serving the agricultural sector. The Federal Government has been making fervent campaign about reinventing agriculture. But without good roads, this will not work. “The Iseyin-Oyo road has collapsed and the Odo-Ogun bridge is apt to describe the condition of the road. The bridge is over 70 years old and has claimed several lives in the past. We implore the Federal Government to expedite action by making the road good again so that the people can enjoy the dividends of democracy. “The national body of this organisation wants to use this medium to thank Governor Makinde for the re-award of the road contract between Iseyin and Moniya in Ibadan. This is a blessing and it has brought joy, not only to the people of Iseyin, but also Oke-Ogun people. “This is because the Moniya-Iseyin road serves as the gateway to Oke-Ogun, which covers 60 per cent of landmass of Oyo State. It is the food basket of a large proportion of Nigeria that is beyond Oyo State.” Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun said Iseyin people have done well by appreciating the governor, who he noted would never abandon them for supporting him during the last governorship election.