The recent announcement by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) along with the Banker’s Committee to resuscitate the ailing National Arts Theatre has elicited mixed reactions from concerned stakeholders, most of who hold the view and very strongly too that the so-called intervention by the financial institution is veiled attempts to take over the national monument for selfish reasons. Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf and Medinat Kanabe examine the issues  IF feelers from certain quarters is anything to go by, it may be correct to say that the nation’s prime arts symbol will soon get a new set of owners to run the affairs of the over 42-year-old monument. The foregoing conclusion becomes apposite in describing the move by the Bankers Committee and the Central Bank of Nigeria to bring the national asset built in 1976 for the purpose of hosting the Festival of Arts and Culture, FESTAC, under the control of the CBN. How the deal was brokered President Muhammadu Buhari had reportedly gave approval for the reconstruction of the National Theater, Iganmu, Lagos, into a world-class convention centre, for the development of creative sector in diverse areas including entertainment, movie, music, fashion, and ICT. While handing over the edifice on behalf of the President, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo Olu, said in line with the plan, the creative village will become in future become the destination for tourism, entertainment and commerce, thereby creating more jobs and wealth for Nigerians. After an inspection tour of the facility, Governor Sanwo Olu, who expressed confidence with the level of infrastructure at the facility, charged the Bankers Committee and the development partners to try and redeem the land surrounding the center. Governor Sanwo Olu said the President had been gracious to give the go ahead and turn the national theatre, considered to be a dead asset, into an income-earning state- of-the-art, developed fashion entertainment industry. “We have worked around this entire land area inhabiting the national edifice called the National Arts Theatre. What we have come to ascertain for ourselves is to also appreciate the extent of an asset that has been conceived as a non-income earning asset, but I there say that Mr. President has been gracious to give the go ahead and turn this dead asset into an income-earning state of the art developed fashion entertainment industry. “What we have gone around to ascertain for ourselves is the piece of land measuring in excess of about 30 hectares which currently as you can see is all swamp and is all grown within the heart of Lagos. “What we have come to see is for us to be able to give the go-ahead, working with all of the other stakeholders and our development partners which is led by no other person of the governor of the central bank himself, who are putting investments together to be able to do a first of its type entertainment, fashion, music, technology, movies and an all-round creative hub,” the governor said. Receiving the edifice on behalf of the Bankers Committee and development partners, the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele recalled that “About three years ago we were at Peru and I can tell you that if this is developed, this asset will be ten times the kind of convention centre that we saw in Peru, and that is the reason we said that the youth need a chance. We need to give the youths of this country a chance. That is why under our Creative Industry Financing Initiative we said, for those who want to so fashion, those who are into movie, IT, and entertainment industry, we will build a hub around this art theatre edifice to accommodate them so that they can develop their God given gift. I can imagine what this place will look like in another two years. Every weekend if there will be something happening, it will boost the tourism potential of Lagos state and Nigeria,” he said. Justification for takeover According the CBN governor, the handover of the National Arts Theatre is projected to boost the tourism and creative sectors, and create over one million direct jobs over the next two years. Emefiele said the idea behind the handover is to build a hub on the over 40 hectares of land around the edifice “for those who want to do fashion, those who are into movies, IT, and entertainment industry, to accommodate them so that they can develop their God given gift.” An elated Emefiele said, “I can imagine what this place will look like in another two years. Every weekend if there will be something happening, it will boost the tourism potentials of Lagos State and Nigeria. “I must say this bluntly, there was a time within three months, Nigerian businessmen were going to South Africa to attend almost four seminars because they are saying Nigeria does not have a convention centre. This place can stand any world class convention center you can think about,” he said. On his part, Herbert Wigwe who is also the chairman of the Board of Bank CEOs, noted that the rehabilitation of the National Arts Theatre was in line with federal government’s vision of lifting 100 million people out of poverty. He said, “The creative village that is being created, would provide employment for at least a million Nigerians, who have skills in music, IT, movies, etc. “We are beginning to think of the multiplier effects – one million direct youths – it may mean that we may have 20 million youths taken out and given proper jobs. “So we, the entire banking industry working with the Lagos State Government and the Federal Ministry of Arts and Culture, to ensure that we give grace to our country within the next two years,” Wigwe added. Court to the rescue Interestingly, Topwide Apeas and Jadeas Trust, have called on the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission, ICRC, the Bureau of Public Enterprise, BPE, and the Board of the National Arts Theatre, to prevail on the CBN, and Bankers’ Committee to cease all plans for the redevelopment of the National Arts Theatre Complex, Iganmu, Lagos. Topwide Apeas and Jadeas Trust, who are a part of a consortium comprising a team of international financial institutions and private sector partners, are claiming the rights to develop the structure via a concession granted by the ICRC. Topwide Apeas Limited, through a letter written by its law firm, Associated Attorney signed by Aina Blankson, and addressed to the ICRC, copying the CBN and the Bankers’ Committee, stated that they had emerged the preferred bidders to develop the national monument following a series of negotiations that started in 2003 with the Bureau of Public Enterprise, BPE, and later the ICRC. Mixed reactions Speaking with a cross-section of experts at the weekend, they informed our correspondent that the decision to hand over the asset regarded as the nation’s foremost arts symbol, was at best, “bogus, uncalled for and of no effect” considering the form and manner it has taken. Firing the first salvo, in an interview with Prince Chris Ogan, one of the partners at Jadeas Trust Consortium, which had since gotten the nod to transform the edifice, confirmed that one of consortiums which enjoys an internationally recognised expertise in providing innovative platforms for the creative and digital industries, received a grant from the World Bank. Besides, he said the group had also secured over $2b for the project. Pressed further, Ogan noted that a major component of the consortia’s master plan is a 55 acre Creative Industries Business Park with film and music studios as well as a Creative Industries Academy.” A source, who asked not to be named, hinted of plans by the Consortia to even take to the case to The Hague, in Netherlands, if all else, thus giving the impression that this development has the propensity to further smear the country’s image among comity of nations and the international community as a whole. Further investigations reveal that there has actually been a long-drawn negotiation dating back to 2002 through 2015 between the Bureau of Pubic Enterprise (BPE) and later the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), after it was created in 2008, and two consortia namely Topwide Apeas and Jadeas Trust which emerged as preferred bidders of both processes. In the view of the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP), Israel Eboh, the so-called plan to revive the ailing monument may well be veiled attempts by a select cabal to take over the place from the backdoor what they couldn’t take from the front door. “My take is that at NANTAP and as practitioners we believe and we encourage government to invest in the industry to grow it but on that investment has to be done transparently, and that investment has to be done across board because only the national theatre will not develop the industry in Nigeria. If you want to develop an industry, you cannot develop, yes you may have a hub but that hub must feed into other places.” Raising some posers, he said, “There is what you call Kannywood in the North today. Is anything being done to develop any structure for that? Today there is an Efik film industry that is evolving, is anything being done to develop that so why must all the focus be only on the National Arts Theatre? Again that calls for other questions and that for us are the issues. We support any transparent idea, action, whether intervention, whether it is an initiative we will support, provided it is transparent and we all know it will move the industry to another level.” As the controversy over the takeover of the National Arts Theatre rages, the last may not have been heard of this matter. 