Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Sunday said that it will overrun Governor Yahaya Bello and his All Progressives Congress (APC) in the November 16 governorship election in the state. The main opposition party said not even the threats of violence from the governor and the APC will deter it from sweeping the votes in all the senatorial zones, including the governor’s Kogi Central Senatorial Zone. In a statement by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party decried alleged threats by the governor to unleash violence and disrupt its campaigns in the Central Senatorial District. “The fact is that already, Governor Bello is distressed by the massive support the PDP and its candidate, Musa Wada, have been enjoying in the central district and across the state,” he said. The PDP also condemned the violent attack on the state secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) allegedly by APC thugs and urged the police to bring the perpetrators to book. The statement said: “As a party, we have it on good authority how Governor Bello and his agents have been threatening the lives of PDP leaders in Kogi Central, all in their failed bid to instill fear in the people and frustrate our campaigns in the area. “However, the PDP cautions Yahaya Bello and his party to note that nothing will stop our party and the people’s candidate, Engr. Musa Wada, from campaigning and consolidating our support in Kogi Central and across the state. “The people of Kogi State are on the move with the PDP in their readiness to confront and dismantle the machinations of Yahaya Bello and no amount of violence and death threat can change this resolve.” The party called on the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the military hierarchy to note how the governor had turned the state into a theatre of war and making life unsafe in the state. The statement added: “Our party draws the attention of security agencies to reports that APC and agents of Governor Yahaya Bello have a training ground for thugs in Kogi Central District, who would be later armed with dangerous weapons to perpetuate violence during the election. “There are also reports that the APC and agents of Yahaya Bello are sewing fake military, police and Civil Defence uniforms to be used by their thugs to cause mayhem during the election.” The PDP charged the police and military authorities to call the governor and the APC to order as well as to take urgent steps to ensure adequate security to safeguard lives and property in the electioneering time frame. The party called for the immediate arrest of a former security aide to the governor, who had continued to remain in the state despite his transfer to Lagos State, a few weeks ago. The PDP hinged its call for the arrest of the said security aide on reports that he’s being used by the governor to compromise the security architecture of the state and aid the APC to perpetrate violence and all sorts of manipulation in the electoral process. “Our party urges the IGP to immediately arrest and relocate the said former ADC as the people of Kogi State are ready to confront any irresponsible officer who is working against their interest in this election,” the statement added.