 Stakeholders in the health sector have called for increased funding for the sector, especially in the area of effective immunisation after the country’s transition from Gavi support. They made the call Saturday in Abuja during a meeting convened by the development Research and Projects Centre under the Partnership for Advocacy in Child and Family Health at Scale (dRPC-PACFaH@Scale) in collaboration with the National Council of Women Societies (NCWS). Nigeria would require $1.9bn to procure Routine Immunisation (RI) and VB Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIA) from 2018 to 2028, and less than $295 million annually following Gavi transition. This was revealed by the Senior Programme Officer on Immunisation of the National Emergency Routine Immunisation Coordination Centre (NERICC), Dr. Bakunawa Bello. The National Emergency Routine Immunisation Coordination Centre is a centre under the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDCA). According to Dr. Bello, “The planned transition of Nigeria out of GAVI support in 2021 played a significant role in kick-starting the development of the Nigeria Strategy for Immunising and PHC System Strengthening (NSIPSS)”. While explaining that the NSIPSS was aimed at improving immunisation and broader primary healthcare services, he said the goal was the attainment of 84 per cent average national immunization coverage by 2028. He emphasised that majority of states with low immunization coverage were located in the northern part of the country. National President of National Council of Women Societies (NCWS), Dr. Gloria Laraba Shoda, said the country’s 51 per cent statistics of unimmunized children in Africa was worrisome, adding that “there was need to scale up routine immunization in order to sustain family health in Nigeria”. She said the council with its large spread all over the country has been sensitizing the populace on the importance of immunization. A representative of the World Bank, Chijioke Okoro, said there was need for civil society organisations to advocate for the prioritization of health funding because it benefits women and children, and promotes economic development. Sarti Marcel of the Budget Office also added that local vaccine production was key to the country’s immunization mechanism following transition from Gavi support.