Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa An ex-militant leader, Paul Eris, popularly known as Ogunboss, has asked the Department of State Security (DSS) and the police headquarters to probe the secret meetings between a former Chairman of Police Service Commission, Mike Okiro and Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson. Paul Eris, who is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said the security agencies should investigate to know the truth behind the allegations that Okiro was holding meetings with Dickson to perfect a plot of hiring a special police squad to work for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Eris said he was compelled to make the matter public because his investigations revealed that the duo met in Government House Yenagoa on Saturday till the early hours of Sunday. He alleged that the discussion was centered on procurement of special policemen to serve as security personnel for PDP in Sagbama, Yenagoa, Nembe and Brass local government areas of the state. He said Okiro came into the state with three brand new Toyota Hilux vans loaded with Mobile Policemen from Mopol 19 barrack in Port Harcourt, Rivers state. He said: “The Hilux vans in the middle were carrying items covered with ornamental clothes such as canopy. “An inside source informed us that something was stinking and there was need for the National Party Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, the Inspector General of Police, the Department of State Security (DSS) and the National Security Adviser (NSA) to quickly intervene”. “Believe me, the former IG Mike Okiro was my landlord in Abuja, but I packed out of his house when I noticed his closeness with Dickson who had been after my life for the past seven years. “We are calling on the APC at the National level to quickly intervene, because something is stinking and there is an urgent need to do something immediately before things get out of hand. “To Seriake Dickson, this election is worth the life of every Bayelsan against him. We must not sleep at every information because the governor is an enemy of good democracy”.