All Progressives Congress (APC) at the weekend accused the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of printing fake ballot papers and other sensitive electoral materials inside the Bayelsa State Government House to manipulate the November 16 governorship election. The APC said its preliminary investigations showed that the printing of the electoral materials started a few days ago in a hidden section in the Government House in Yenagoa and had reached an advanced stage. A member of the Security Committee of the APC Campaign Council, Ebimobowei Tamarapriye, in a statement in Yenagoa, called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the police and other security agencies to investigate the allegations. The statement also asked agents of the Federal Government to confiscate the printed ballot papers and other sensitive materials to stop the alleged confusion planned by the PDP. The statement said: “Information at our disposal indicates that the process of printing of the said electoral materials has reached an advanced stage within Government House. No doubt, this is a very weighty information that needs to be investigated with utmost urgency by INEC and all relevant security agencies as it has the capacity of snowballing into a major crisis. “This, no doubt, is a very crucial period in the annals of our state as we go to the polls to elect a new governor. It is, therefore, quite worrisome that the state government and its party have chosen this ignominious path obviously to upend the electoral wishes of our people who have, for about eight years of the restoration government, been dehumanised and forced to accept poverty-induced despair as a way of life. “It is also shocking that a party that claims ownership of structures strong enough to win the forthcoming elections has condescended to the lowest moral state of printing electoral materials for no other reason than thumb printing same, entering results and compromising INEC staff to accept same as authentic results. “This desperation on the part of the state government and the PDP is birthed on the very clear signals, which indicate that, indeed, the masses have, from their deepest recesses, desired a change. As stated earlier, we once again, urgently ask all relevant agencies to step into the matter with a view to allowing democracy to thrive.”