The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has inaugurated some projects in fulfillment of his promises to Surulere Constituency I, Lagos State. The ceremony was attended by Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). LEKE SALAUDEEN reports.  To an average Nigerian, politicians are not reliable, because they usually promise heaven on earth during electioneering campaigns, but when it comes to fulfilling those promises, it is another ballgame. In this regard, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, is believed to be a politician with a difference. The fifth time House of Representatives member is regarded as one of the shinning lights of the National Assembly, because of his robust representation and the empowerment of his constituents. Last Saturday, Gbajabiamila inaugurated some projects financed by him in his constituency. They include new Love Garden Mini Stadia, Paddington Mini Stadia and an Information, Communication Technology (ICT) Centre at Stadium High School, Surulere. Other events were the presentation of desktop computers and laptops to secondary school students and presentation of buses to non-political organisations. The occasion was witnessed by Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; the Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Olusade Adesola; Senator Musiliu Obanikoro; Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe; Senator Ganiyu Solomon; the Onikate of Ikate, Oba Lateef Adams; Prince Murphy Adetoro; and former Lagos State Commissioner for Public Transportation, Kayode Opeifa. Members of the House of Representatives present were Dr. Samuel Adejare and Olafemi Adebanjo. Gbajabiamila’s mother, Alhaja Latifat, and his wife, Salamotu, were in attendance. In appreciation of Gbajabiamila’s kind gesture, Sanwo-Olu described him as a model in leadership and urged political office holders and politicians to emulate him, by cultivating the attitude of giving back to their communities. The governor, who was the special guest of honour, said giving back to the community can be personally satisfying as seen from the Speaker’s gesture. Sanwo-Olu said the projects, would go a long way in touching the lives of the people in the constituency. He said: “What we are trying to do as a state government is to move closer to the people, through what I can call community government. We want to touch the lives of people of all communities in the state.” The governor said it was in recognition of this act of giving back to the community “we grow up from that I invited my cabinet members, local government chairmen, local council development area (LCDA) chairmen and others, so that they can witness these efforts, emulate and replicate these for the development of their people”. Dare said the projects would have significant impact on the lives of the youths of the area. He said: “By commissioning these projects, the Speaker has joined the sports revolution quietly gathering momentum in our country. I heartily congratulate the Speaker for these strategically thought-out and delivered initiatives for our people, particularly the youth.” The minister added that the new stadia would help in the development of grassroots sports. The Chairman of Love Garden Community Development Association (CDA), Seriki Abdulrahaman, said the project is God-given and a fulfilment of the trust reposed in the Speaker by the people of Surulere. He said: “Gbajabiamila has not let his constituents down. We gave him our trust and he has kept his promise. This is bottom-top governance; we are very impressed and this has given us hope that things are going to be better for this constituency.” Former commissioner for Sports and Youth Development, Mr Agboola Dabiri, said Gbajabiamila has made so many interventions in his constituency. He said the Speaker has rehabilitated many roads, lit up many streets, facilitated employment of youths and has provided educational tools to students in the constituency. He added: “In fact, he has lived up to his electoral promises and even surpassed expectations. He has made the whole people here proud. He has facilitated many political appointments for members of his constituency both in the public and private sectors.”  It was a day of honour for Gbajabiamila. He recalled how he started his political career: “When we started this journey in 2003, the magnitude of the challenges we faced politically and in terms of social development were so enormous that many people were rightly concerned about our ability to rise to these challenges and to overcome them. Standing here today in the forecourt of the new and improved Love Garden surrounded by you my beloved constituents and our esteemed special guests, I am confident to say that, indeed, we have overcome and we have triumphed, because ours is a mission of love, and we who are called to serve are called by God and sanctioned by His abiding grace. Though our challenges are still great and the obstacles are still substantial, we shall continue to overcome them together as one indivisible brotherhood of people, taking care of each other and making sure that not one of us is left behind. “I remember as a young boy in the 70s playing here in Love Garden until late at night, meeting people and making friends. Some of those friends are still with us today and have contributed in many ways to the story of my life. I grew up in this neighbourhood, my coming of age happened in the shadows of these structures that surround us. In many ways, my Lagos story cannot be fully told without paying homage to the contributions of the people and relationships that started here all those years ago. “For too long, my heart has been troubled by the thought that unless something was done, I would not have the privilege, in my later years, to return to the Love Garden, to luxuriate in the indomitable spirit and character of Surulere and observe the people who I have loved and served, hustling and bustling here in that unique way that can only be found in Surulere and nowhere else. I am glad God has given me the privilege to contribute to the restoration of this lost glory. I look forward to many more football games here. And to the younger generation who might be preparing to floor me on the pitch, I assure you that what I lack in speed, I will make up for with experience and expertise. “The New Love Garden Mini Stadium has all facilities expected of a modern community recreational centre. We have built a new drainage system to ensure that through rain or sunshine, the structure is safe from flooding. We have here a community office, an elders’ mediation centre, the youth fitness centre, a modern synthetic football pitch, a community hall and events centre, water supply facilities, new inner roads, transparent fencing for proper security and solar streetlights, so that a new generation of young people can enjoy these facilities and benefit from the interactions here as I did all those years ago.” He said he started the projects before he became Speaker. He said: “They are part of our tradition of service and grassroots development here in Surulere 1 Federal Constituency. It is in furtherance of this tradition of service that we have reconstructed roads, provided solar streetlights under the light-up Surulere programme and delivered the Gbaja Green Energy Programme for Surulere homes. We have installed integrated water plants and provided buses for ease of transportation. We have equipped our secondary school students with e-learning tablets, provided instructional materials and helped our young people secure employment in public and private institutions here in Lagos State and across the country.” Gbajabiamila thanked the people for their consistent support for him and promised to deliver more impactful projects to them. He added: “Even as the Speaker of the House of Representatives, I will not lose sight of my responsibility to you who sent me to Abuja in the first place. Despite the perks and paraphernalia of this new office, I will forever remain a Surulere boy. Surulere is always on my mind and I intend to continue serving you to the best of my abilities, by attracting more legacy projects that will serve Surulere and Lagos State, without prejudice to the responsibilities I hold to all people of our beloved country, on whose behalf I hold the office of Speaker in sacred trust.” While donating ICT tools and buses to outstanding students and non-political associations in the area, as part of another phase of the Gbaja Tech programme, the Speaker urged the beneficiaries to put to good use the equipment and the vehicles for the improvement of their lives and the community. Gbajabiamila is the longest serving member of the Green Chamber. He is serving for the fifth time. After 16 years, he wanted to step aside, but the people drafted him to contest for another term. They said Gbajabiamila had given a good account of himself as their representative and deserve another term, because he has lived up to his electoral promises. Attesting to Gbajabiamiala’s exemplary qualities, the APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, described him as a cerebral lawmaker, a detribalised Nigerian  and a loyal party man who has consistently defended internal democracy, party loyalty, discipline and above all, national interest. As a Minority Leader, Majority Leader and now Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives, Gbajabiamiala has demonstrated that he is a consensus builder who is committed to ensuring best legislative practice and cooperation between the executive and legislative arms of government.  ‘ Even as the Speaker of the House of Representatives, I will not lose sight of my responsibility to you who sent me to Abuja in the first place. Despite the perks and paraphernalia of this new office, I will forever remain a Surulere boy. Surulere is always on my mind and I intend to continue serving you to the best of my abilities, by attracting more legacy projects that will serve Surulere and Lagos State, without prejudice to the responsibilities I hold to all people of our beloved country, on whose behalf I hold the office of Speaker in sacred trust ’ 