Gbade Ogunwale, Abuja  Members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) appear to be divided over the suspension of its Minority Leader in the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu and six others. The NWC, through a recent statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, had insisted that the suspension of Eleumelu and others was still subsisting. The party had, on July 11, slammed one-month suspension on Elumelu and others for taking House Minority leadership positions against the choices of the party. Besides Elumelu, others affected by the suspension order included Lynda Ikpeazu, Wole Oke, Anayo Edwin, Gideon Gwadi, Toby Okechukwu and Adekoya Abdul-Majid. The NWC of the PDP has refused to recognise Elumelu and his co travelers as leaders of Minority in the lower chamber. The party has insisted on Kingsley Chinda as Minority Leader. However, two members of the NWC, have said that the suspension order on Elumelu and others had since expired. The Deputy National Chairman (South) Elder Yemi Akinwonmi and the National Youth Leader, Sunday Udeh Okoye debunked reports of extension of the suspension on the Reps members. According to them, such extension was never discussed at any of the NWC meetings held after the members were suspended in July. In separate interviews with journalists in Abuja on Tuesday, the two party officials. “I am not aware of the extension of the suspension. I am not aware. I do not remember any occasion where it was elongated”, Akinwonmi said. Continuing, Akinwonmi said, “I am only aware that he (Elumelu) was suspended for only one month, after that, I am not aware of any further action. “I am an integral part of the NWC but I am telling you that to the best of my knowledge, I am aware that he was suspended for one month and that was about six months ago and the suspension has elapsed”. Also, speaking on the matter, the Youth Leader, Sunday Udeh Okoye denied any knowledge of extension on the suspension order on the Rep members.