President Muhammadu Buhari’s presentation of integrity awards to two Nigerians – Bashir Abubakar, the Assistant Customs Comptroller-General, and Mrs. Josephine Ugwu, a former cleaner at Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos – deserves commendation. The duo demonstrated rare integrity in the discharge of their official duties. Abubakar got his award for turning down a $412,000 (N150 million) bribe from drug traffickers to import 40 containers laden with Tramadol, a regulated and highly addictive drug. Ugwu, on her part, had also returned millions of naira discovered in the course of her duties on various occasions, including some dollars that an airport client had left in the toilet. President Buhari who presented the awards to the beneficiaries at the opening of the two-day National Summit on Reducing Corruption in the Public Sector held at the State House Banquet Hall, Abuja, reminded Nigerians of the need to embrace honesty in all they do. “Let me repeat with concern the need to uphold the values of loyalty, honesty, confidence, and integrity once cherished in our public service. Ethics and integrity are the basis of a society that is enduring,” the president said. He struck the right chord when he added that “dishonesty is not accepted by Nigerian society. Therefore, our traditional values of reliability, dignity and hard work must be regained. I am pleased that, despite the few bad eggs, many Nigerians are still holding on to our historically valued ideals of honesty and integrity. “ Abubakar’s award is particularly instructive. Not a few Nigerians see the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) as a cesspool of corruption. It is believed that it is one of the best places to work and make quick money. The case of a former Comptroller-General of NCS, Abdullahi Dikko, readily comes into mind here. Dikko used his position/s in the NCS to make so much money illegally such that when the bubble burst, he was able to refund N1.5billion of the proceeds of crime to the coffers of the Federal Government last year, following an understanding he reached with the government.  Indeed, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) was so irked by the non-prosecution agreement that its intention to prosecute the former Customs boss again was only stopped by Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on November 25. Justice Dimgba said the agreement reached between both parties was binding on the EFCC. Similarly, we cannot gloss over Mrs. Ugwu’s rare display of honesty. As a cleaner, her salary would not have amounted to much. Yet, she didn’t feel the urge to take what did not belong to her even when the opportunity presented itself. Twelve million Naira is quite huge for someone of her status and many people in her shoes would not think twice before absconding with it. We commend President Buhari for honouring the duo. This is the least we can expect from a government that is fighting corruption and that also came into power on change mantra. With such recognition, more Nigerians would know that honesty is indeed the best policy. That a Customs officer would reject an offer of about N150million bribe is quite significant. It also tells us that there is no agency that cannot have a rebirth; it is indication that to be corrupt or incorruptible is an individual thing; it has nothing to do with organisations that people work for. This singular act is a big and refreshing boost for public perception of the NCS. The same holds true for Mrs. Ugwu. The two awardees are Nigerians who , of their own volition, chose to reject the evil ways that many would have gladly travelled. Perhaps the greatest lesson we have to learn as a people is to show more interest in how people became prosperous before celebrating them. We have to be wary of people who had nothing yesterday only to start living like oil sheiks the next day. When people realise that their new lifestyle that does not correspond with their earnings is likely to be interrogated, there is less tendency for them to want to amass ill-gotten wealth.