By Damola Kola-Dare  The President, Institute of Productivity and Business Innovation Management (IPBIM), Mr. Remi Dairo, has urged Nigerians to imbibe the culture of being creative and innovative to drive economic development in the country. He made this plea during Innovation Meetup seminar which had the theme: “Playing in the Global Space from Naija”, held at Eko Innovation Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos. According to the IPBIM boss, networking, technology and global partnerships as well as thinking out of the box would help boost the country’s innovative talent and improve her economic fortunes. Dairo said: “I know as Nigerians we are very innovative and creative. But sadly, such innovation and creativity are not properly harnessed for economic development. This is so because there are no support systems and enabling environment. He noted the Institute exists to drive productivity and innovation and help people do things differently with a “Disruptive Mindset”.  “I saw the need for productivity.  There was a gap to be filled.  I decided to bring about a change in peoples’ attitude towards work.  I discovered through experience that most people are lax at their workplace when their boss is not around.  So, the whole idea of IPBIM is to drive productivity and innovation through technology.” Also speaking at the event, Mr Olayinka Oni, Chief Digital Officer Sterling Bank, noted that being innovative and technology-compliant are very crucial to our progression as a nation. He stressed the importance of technology in all facets of human endeavour while noting that in the 21st century “technology is the game-changer”. According to Olayinka: “Technology can impact all aspects of human endeavour.Every sector of the economy can be improved if technology is well utilized. It  is the game-changer in this 21st century.” In his lecture entitled: “Accelerating Innovation and Entrepreneurship Globally”,Axel Schultze,President, World Innovation Forum stated that innovation and entrepreneurship are a driving force towards the development of underdeveloped countries. He said: “Innovation is about how you spin your brain to process ideas and information. Its importance cannot be overemphasised.That is why underdeveloped countries need to be innovative to encourage entrepreneurship which aids development.” 