Sir: Rituals are performed not for the dead rat but for the covert benefits of rats still alive. That uncountable numbers of people have died on Oyo/Ogbomoso road is no longer news. This write-up is therefore meant for the safety of the people still alive who are flying the route. Yes! The world’s cemeteries are the biggest gold deposits of the earth. Agoraphobic/claustrophobic trepidation has become the order of the day for travelers on the road, the fear of every commuter coming out alive with complete limbs and on time. The journey that would normally take 30 minutes is usually elongated to between four and six hours due to the worse condition of road. Many articles have been written on the deplorable condition of the road. It is not known if our government at the centre listens to the voice of people. Otherwise filibuster from their end ought to have stopped and the road rehabilitated. The truth is that the “hoi polloi” are dying on the road on daily basis. Their means of livelihood are perishing. Lives of breadwinners have been wiped out. The consequence is that the number of widows, widowers and orphans is increasing by the day. This does not help our growth and development as a nation. Enough is enough!  The road can no longer be referred to as a road but a dungeon of death that consumes large number of people per day. Unfortunately its dualization has not been completed 18 years after its flag off. It is part of the liabilities inherited by the present administration. We commend the Muhammadu Buhari-led government for making funds available for the continuation of work and/or completion of the project. However, roasted dog meat is delicious, what will keep people from hunger while the meat is roasting? It is for this reason that the dungeon called Oyo/Ogbomoso federal road should be rehabilitated without further delay. We must not wait until a very Important Person (VIP) is killed on the road before a fire brigade action is taken. A stitch in time saves many!  Odooba, Ogbomoso.