From Gbeminiyi Oduyemi and Quadri Adegun The Adeleke University Students’ Association [AUSA] held its annual Freshers’ Night party last Wednesday – a week after celebrity singers Picazo, Yomi Blaze, Lil Frosh, Aloma Dremo were hosted at the  Performing Theatre Hall. The event saw students trooping out in large numbers for the week-long event, which included football match between the staylites (old students) and freshers (new students), seminar, thanksgiving across the chapels in the school, and food fest – with the party bringing the week to an end. An annual event, the freshers’ programme exposes the new students to the social life of the campus, thrills and imbues in them a sense of belonging. This year’s event featured many activities which included musical performance by students, dancing competition and comedy with winners getting prizes. The food fest was designed to provide and sell good meals at affordable prices. The meals included fried potato and fish sauce, fried yam and fish sauce, gizzard kebab and small chops.  Describing how joyous she was with the activities, Ayomide, a fresh student of the Nursing Department, said “I did not expect AUSA to organise such fun-filled events going by the notion that the school is not into socials.  Now I know better and that the school provides holistic education in book learning and social interaction, so we have the time to read and also time to party’’ The Fresher’s Week  ended a fortnight ago — November 17. At 12, the lawn separating the female residencial hall and the Supermarket car park was equipped with paint ball equipments for play, while food items like  small chops, gizzard kehbab, mashed potato with fish, plantain with fish were on sale under various tents. This Freshers Night party was hosted by Dr Ayo Alao popularly known as ‘the only MC with a PhD’ and also Vico, the hype man. First artist to perform was a 100 level mass communication student, Janetiza, coming on stage with her shinning tight jumpsuit, performing her hit song titled’ Suddenly’, which amazed the audience and drew loud cheering for her, followed by Psalm Kesh and Chapi. Next was a dance performance by Adeleke University( AU) dance crew. Then, the  Virus Dance Crew (VDC) took the stage with their well practiced, scintillating and catchy dance steps which made the audience to literally go wild, bringing performance for the night to an end. Students gave kudos to the AUSA executives, especially the president, Shogo Adaramati, for putting together such a fabulous event. 