Concerned stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are worried over the lingering crisis in some state chapters in the Southwest. They called on the party’s national leaders to initiate move to reconcile the warring groups. LEKE SALAUDEEN examines the implication of the unresolved crisis in the states.  Most of the state chapters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Southwest are polarised. The disunity in the party affected its performance in the zone in the last general elections. The crisis became pronounced during the governorship primaries as factions were bent in producing governorship candidates. In the build up to the 2019 general elections the crisis led to parallel congresses that produced two  party executives in some state chapters. This also led to emergence of two governorship candidates in some states. The National Working Committee (NWC) had to take decision on which faction to recognise. To ensure that the Southwest APC went into 2019 general election as a united family, the NWC set up a committee to reconcile the aggrieved members. The committee headed by the former Borno State Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima had Kaduna State Governor, Nasiru El-Rufai, former Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, former Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, Professor Modupe Adelabu, the Director-General of NIMASA, Dr Dakuku Peterside and Barrister Saida Sa’ad Bugaje as members. It went round the states to gather facts from all sides to the crisis. The committee held consultations with aggrieved members with aggrieved members in Ogun, Oyo, Lagos, Ekiti, Osun and Ondo. He said the committee made strong and urgent recommendations to the APC’s NWC as a major as part of step necessary to increase the party’s chances of winning all governorship, national and state assembly seats across the southwest. Shetima described the outcomes of the committee’s interaction with the aggrieved parties as promising especially given the frankness of the participants and commitment to remain in the party. Analysts observed that in spite of the reconciliation the APC lost presidential election in Ondo and Oyo states; and also lost governorship seat in Oyo State to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Observers argued that this was an indication that the reconciliation didn’t achieve much or that the NWC failed to implement the recommendations of the committee. Some factions pulled out of APC and voted for the opposition candidates during the 2019 general elections apparently because the reconciliation failed. Again, months after the committee had submitted its report, the NWC is yet to make it public or act on it. This explains why the crisis persists in Southwest APC as listed below.  Ondo The lingering dispute rocking the Ondo State chapter of the ruling APC started during the 2016 governorship primaries that produced the incumbent governor as the party flag bearer. Frontline aspirants like Dr Segun Abraham, Senator Ajayi Boroffice and Chief Olusola Oke rejected the result of the primaries. Abraham, who emerged as first runner-up in the election challenged the result of the primary at the Federal High Court. Oke left the APC and joined the Alliance for Democracy (AD) that gave him automatic ticket to contest governorship election. In spite of the acrimony that trailed the primary, Akeredolu went ahead and won the governorship election with massive support from the national secretariat of the party and some APC governors across the country. The general expectation was that after election a reconciliation process would be initiated by NWC to resolve the crisis amicably. Unfortunately, that was not the case, the crisis has continued to fester. Analysts were of the opinion that the fight in  Ondo APC is between the Nation Leader , Senator Bola Tinubu and Akeredolu. They said those loyal to Tinubu such as  Abraham, Boroffice, a former Chairman of the party in the state, Mr Isaac Kekemeke and a former member of the House of Representatives, Mr Bamidele Baderinwa distanced themselves from Akeredolu’s reconciliation moves and his administration. The unresolved crisis has deepened the division in the party as more factions emerged during the last ward and state congresses held last year ahead of the 2019 general elections. There were parallel executives claiming to be the authentic executive committee of APC in the state. However, the national secretariat recognised the Ade Adetimehin-led executive that is loyal to the state governor. Failure to resolve the crisis before the general elections led to the defeat of APC in the presidential election in the state by the PDP. Besides, the opposition won two of the senatorial seats while APC won four out of nine House of Representatives seats. However, the party bounced back to win 23 out of 26 seats in the state House of Assembly.  APC stakeholders accused Akeredolu of anti-party activities during the last general election. He was alleged to have sponsored Dr. Tunji Abayomi against Boroffice the APC senatorial candidate for Ondo North. Abayomi who contested on the platform of Action Alliance (AA) lost the APC senatorial primary to Boroffice. Despite the governor’s antics, APC candidates struggled to win elections in Ondo North. The APC members in the senatorial district have vowed not to support Akeredolu’s second term ambition so as to pay him back. Even though Akeredolu had denied sponsoring Abayomi, the APC stakeholders rejected his explanation. Concerned with the protracted crisis in Ondo APC, leaders of the party in the Southwest held a reconciliation meeting with the aggrieved members of the party in Akure, the state capital. The peace parley was spearheaded by Tinubu. Also in the entourage were former interim national chairman of APC, Chief Bisi Akande, Chief Osoba and a former APC National Vice Chairman (Southwest). Akeredolu, Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi and aggrieved members were also in attendance. The reconciliation became necessary because of the unimpressive performance of APC in the 2019 general elections in the state and to mend its fence ahead of the 2020 governorship election in the state. Speaking with newsmen after the parley that lasted over three hours, Tinubu said it is important for members of APC in Ondo State to come together and end all bickering for the goodness of the party. Soon after the meeting, some aggrieved APC members have denounced the success of the reconciliation. They insist that nothing can be resolved without dissolving the Adetimehin-led executive.  Ogun In the build up to 2019 general elections there were two factions of APC in Ogun State. A group was led by the former governor, Ibikunle Amosun and the other by Chief Olusegun Osoba, also a former governor of the state. The face-up between the two groups is dated back to the emergence of Amosun as the governorship candidate of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) in 2011. Osoba who was the party leader in the state kicked against the choice of Amosun but he was prevailed upon by the national leadership of the party to accept it in the interest of the party.  All through,  between 2011 and 2015, the relationship between the Amosun and Osoba was anything but cordial. When the ACN merged with other legacy parties to form APC, Osoba was assumed to be the party leader in the state but Amosun didn’t recognise him. In 2014 the Ogun APC held a parallel congress which produced two parallel executives with one loyal to Amosun and the other in support of Osoba group. Eventually, the executive that had sympathy for Amosun was recognised by the APC’s NWC. The Osoba group felt frustrated and dumped the party. Osoba and his supporters headed for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to enable them contest the 2015 general elections.  The APC won all elections in the state. Shortly after the elections, the APC leadership in the Southwest embarked on reconciliation moves to bring back the aggrieved members in order to reposition the party. Osoba and his group returned to the APC. This development rekindled the rivalry between the two warring factions. Amosun said he would not recognise the “returnees” unless they reapply for membership at their respective wards. The crisis climaxed when the governorship primary was to be held. The Amosun group presented Adekunle  Akinlade as their governorship candidate and forwarded the name to the NWC for ratification. The NWC rejected the convention held by the Amosun group and ordered for a fresh exercise. The Amosun group boycotted the new convention which produced Prince Dapo Abiodun. His election was upheld  by the APC national headquarters as the party’s gubernatorial candidate for 2019 general elections. Amosun who had boasted that he would install Akinlade as his successor in office felt disappointed. He believed that he was popular enough to win governorship election for his anointed candidate on any political platform. This, he attempted when he drafted Akinlade to contest governorship election on the platform of Allied Peoples Movement (APM). The electioneering campaign in Ogun State turned into a war. Many lives were lost and properties worth millions of naira destroyed. The APC mega campaign rally attended by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abeokuta was disrupted by thugs allegedly sponsored by the Amosun group. They threw stones and hurled missiles at the President and other APC national leaders on the podium in order to forestall the presentation of Abiodun as the party’s governorship candidate by the president and the APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The election was held under tensed atmosphere. Eventually, Dapo Abiodun won the governorship context. Ironically, Amosun who was elected senator on the platform of APC had not congratulated Abiodun. His protégée, Akinlade challenged Abiodun’s victory at the election petition tribunal, his case was dismissed. He appealed against the judgment and lost again. Though, the APC had suspended Amosun for anti-party activities but his group are spoiling for war over the soul of APC in Ogun State. The former state executive of APC loyal to Amosun had sued the NWC over its dissolution. The matter is still in court.  Oyo The Oyo APC was consumed by the intra-party crisis as it lost presidential, governorship, state and national assembly elections to the opposition party, PDP in the last general elections. The crushing defeat suffered by the party was due to the battle of supremacy between the former governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi and the former Minister of Communication,  Adebayo Shittu. Shittu had rallied aggrieved party members under the aegis of Oyo APC Unity Forum to challenge the leadership of Ajimobi . The group accused the former governor of exhibiting dictatorial tendencies. The crisis culminated in parallel congresses that produced two parallel executives of APC in the state. However, the NWC of APC recognised the executive produced by the Ajimobi faction. Consequently, members of the Unity Forum defected to the African Democratic Congress (ADC) on of the parties that formed alliance with PDP to win all elections in the state. Reflecting over the APC crisis in the state and its poor performance in the elections, Ajimobi has called for reconciliation among the warring factions in the party. He said reconciliation became imperative in order to reposition the party and put it in good stead for the challenges ahead. He appealed to all party faithful “to understand that life is about conflicts and resolution. We have all had our shares of mistakes. No one should be blamed or absolved of such human imperfections”. But Shittu is still spoiling for war. He has vowed that he and his supporters would not have anything to do with Ajimobi’s peace initiative. He said he would retrieve the party from those he called predators. My group, the Unity Forum would retrieve the party from them, while the process of rebuilding the party in the state would soon start, he stated. A Professor of Peace and Conflict Resolution at the University of Ibadan,  Albert Olawale hailed Ajimobi for initiating peace process, but asked him to disqualify himself from setting up the committee. He said the former governor is a party to the crisis. As a result he cannot handpick the arbitrators; a neutral body should constitute the peace committee for genuine reconciliation to take place, he said. Olawale suggested that the national leadership of APC should come in and carry out the reconciliation of the warring groups. “The NWC should intervene in the crisis and reconcile the groups. Nothing will come out of Ajimobi’s reconciliation move. Those who lost party tickets and the election are licking their wounds. The APC national secretariat should come to Oyo State to investigate what went wrong.. There are too many wounded people in Oyo APC. The Nwc should punish the perpetrators of the crisis and compensate the victims. From there, restructuring of the party will start; then the party will be repositioned for future elections.  ‘The unresolved crisis has deepened the division in the party as more factions emerged during the last ward and state congresses held last year ahead of the 2019 general elections. There were parallel executives claiming to be the authentic executive committee of APC in the state’  Osun The crisis in APC Osun State chapter played out in the build to the September 22, 2018 governorship election. No fewer than 17 aspirants came out to jostle for the party’s ticket. On the eve of the primaries, former Secretary to the State Government Alhaji Moshood Adeoti who was among the aspirants pulled out of the race. Adeoti alleged that the primary was arranged, skewed and designed to favour Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, who was the Chief of Staff to former Governor Rauf Aregbesola. He dumped APC for Action Democratic Party (ADP) that offered him governorship. Adeoti lost the election, but he won in his local government, Iwo. Analysts said if Adeoti had remained in APC, the party would have won in the first ballot. He scored over 49,000 votes. Osun State Governor, Alhaji  Oyetola had promised to bring back aggrieved party members including Adeoti who left the party after the governorship primaries. Oyetola paid a visit to Adeoti in his residence in Iwo after attending a religious programme in the town. The development is being interpreted as moves to bring Adeoti back into  the APC fold. It is hoped that with the return of Adeoti and his supporters, APC will be better positioned for future elections in the state.  Ekiti There was no faction in APC Ekiti State chapter. Immediately after the governorship primaries all the aspirants pledged their support for Mr Kayode Fayemi that emerged as party candidate. They even pledged to work for his victory at the poll. The only problem Fayemi had was the suit filed by the supporters of former Governor Segun Oni  challenging the validity of his nomination. Oni was also an aspirant. The case was dismissed by the Supreme Court. The APC Elders Forum has hailed the governor for the restoration of peace in the state chapter.  Lagos A faction of the APC in Lagos State led by Fouad Oki held a parallel congress to challenge the main stream. Oki was the campaign director of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s 2015 governorship contest. He had in February, this year launched the Broom United Movement, a faction of aggrieved APC members. Immediately the governorship primaries that produced Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu was ratified by the APC National Secretariat, the Oki group had fizzled out. 