Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Thursday said that Nigeria can resolve the challenges of nation-building and development without organizing a national conference. He emphasised that rule of law and social justice would promote economic development and foster national stability. El-Rufai spoke at the yearly Ajasin Foundation Colloquium in honour of the first civilian governor of Ondo State, the late Pa Michael Adekunle Ajasin. The event which held at the International Event Centre, Igbatoro Road, Akure, the state capital was chared by Senator Bode Olumide.. The governor said Nigerians should choose their leaders by political or ethic considerations. The theme of the lecture was: “Promoting Economic Development, Social Justice And Rule of Law As Pathways To Stability, Peace And Prosperity In Nigeria” El-Rufai rejected the quota system, which has been in operation for 40 years, saying that it should be reviewed without further delay. He said the masses should have access to justice, if the elite must enjoy their wealth, stressing that rule of law and equality must be prioritised. El-Rufai maintained that, for Nigeria to make progress, the laws of the land must not be compromised. His words: “One of the problems in the country is that elite are not sitting down to agree on issues. They should make the country work, because if the country works, they will be the greatest beneficiaries. “Most Nigerian elite have not realised that if their neighbours are hungry , they will not be able to sleep, even they will not be able to enjoy their wealth. The masses must have access to justice. There must be equality before the law and must be balanced “Each person should be judged by his merit and competence, if we want our country to grow. Any policy that has not worked for the development of the country in the past 40 years should be reviewed. “Those people that are saying politicians messed up the country are even at fault. Because our best never join politics. They are all working with oil companies, MTN, Banks and so on. When bad politicians are messing up the country, they are shouting. You better come and join us to collectively move the country forward.” The host governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) said without the rule of law, there cannot be any meaningful development in the country. Akeredolu, who was represented by his deputy, Agboola Ajayi, noted that the different between Nigeria and any other countries is that people, including Nigerians, always obey their laws over there. He praised Ajasin for leaving behind a legacy that had remained a reference point in Ondo State, in particular, and Yoruba in general. The convener, Mrs Jumoke Anifowose, former Attorney-General and Justice Commissioner, said the foundation was initiated in 1999 in honour of the late sage, because his life was marked by unwavering belief in the cause of social justice, equity and fair play. Anifowose,a lawyer said: “Very close to his heart were principles of accountability, transparency and probity. As an elder statesman , Chief Adekunle Ajasin contributed tremendously towards salvaging the country from the firm grip of military dictatorship and succeeded , working with like minds, in ushering in a democratic government “. Dignitaries at the event included the Olowo of Owo, Oba Gbadegesin Ogunoye and representative of Ooni of Ife,Oba Enitan Ogunwusi Discussants were Prof Adenike Osofisan, Dr Olufemi Adu and Engr.J.F Adeyemi. The Ajasin Foundation was initiated in I999, two years after the death of the elder statesman to immortalise his ideas and principles.