In this concluding part of her series, FAITH YAHAYA sheds more light on the state of things at Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps. The tale this camp official had to tell sounds incredible. “The shortage of food has resulted in us witnessing bizarre things. Recently, a case was brought before us. A male IDP lured a female IDP with a tin of evaporated peak milk. It resulted in unwanted pregnancy and she recently gave birth. This has added to the statistics of childbirth recorded in the camp. The camp witnesses not less than 100 births per month,” he said. He was not done: “Another case was military personnel who impregnated a widow who already had six children. She was said to be desperately in need of N50 to buy charcoal to use to cook for her children. There are so many weird cases going on in the camp and most of them are because of the increasing rate of hunger. “The men are taking advantage of women because they lack money and proper orientation. Sexual exploitation is no longer a new thing. The female IDPs freely give their body out in exchange for any kind of food. Those who perpetrate this act are mostly security personnel, Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF), Borno Youth Empowerment Scheme (BOYES), and IDP males.” Giving some instances of bizarre cases, the source said: “Unwanted pregnancy is rampant. For those who cannot afford an abortion, they carry the children for nine months and end up killing them. There are so many cases of children dying after birth and we believe the mothers of the children have a hand in it. “An elderly woman in her fifties gave birth and killed the child but she denied being pregnant not to talk of giving birth. I think her denial was because she is elderly and also a widow. To stop the flow of blood, she stuffed her private parts with a piece of the mattress. During the investigation, one of the female NSCDC personnel took her to the room to examine her and discovered that the piece of mattress was already soaked and the blood was already dripping. “The second lady also killed her baby after delivery because she could not afford the cost of an abortion. After delivery, which was done secretly, she dug a hole in her room and buried the baby there. After about three days, people around started perceiving the odour. When the odour became severe, she dug the baby out from the hole in her room and decided to go throw the baby in the river. She put the dead baby in a bag and threw in the river. Others who perceived the stench and the bloodstain on the floor traced it to the river and they got her arrested. These are some of the cases that were brought to our attention. For others who got pregnant and can afford an abortion, they go out to abort the pregnancy and move on with their lives”. Reacting to the cases mentioned, one of the military personnel that was involved in the investigation said: “I think all these problems are mostly associated with hunger and unemployment. About 80 per cent of those in various camps have no source of income whatsoever. They wake up in the morning intending to beg and depend on the supplies from the state and NEMA but the relief materials are no longer forthcoming. Normally, the state gives one bulb of onion, dry pepper and dry okro to add to the vegetable oil, sachet tomatoes paste, Maggi cubes, salt, rice, beans and maize. But for over 60 days and counting, no relief material has been shared in the camp.” When our reporter went around the camp to see the living condition, she was approached by some of the settlers in the camp. They appealed to her to help remind their representatives in the House of Representatives that they are suffering. They willingly gave her the number of one of their representatives in the House of Representative, Mohammed Monguno and the Director-General of NEMA’s number. They said: “Please help us call them and tell them how we are suffering here. We would love to return home someday or have something tangible to do but it is obvious the day when our dreams will be fulfilled is still very far”. Our correspondent sought to confirm some of the claims made by the various sources she spoke with. But the Camp Coordinator, Ali Maina, neither denied nor confirmed some of the cases. He, however, said: “I feel the only way to end this is for the women to be empowered. If women are empowered, they will go a long way to reduce the rate of sexual exploitation. Decrying how the act has impacted on the camp, he said: “In a month, we record about 90 to 130 births. Childbirth in camp is alarming and some of these people who take in are unmarried. There is also a need to educate them on childbirth spacing. We appreciate the effort of aid workers who come to train the women but what is lacking is the startup kits to continue or ‘practicalise’ what they have been taught.” Civilian Joint Task Force A member of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF), Usman Abubakar, said: “If the military will be true to themselves and tell us the truth about their progress in fighting the war, it will end soon. We decided to join them (military) because we feel Boko Haram was overpowering them. Our assistance resulted in most of their success stories. However, the reason why this war is yet to end is that they are not being truthful. If they open up and tell us their situation, we will help them. Even the Governor of Borno State, Prof. Zulum believes so much in the activities of the CJTF. He does not move out of the state if he does not see them in his escort team”. Brisk business The residents however listed what they regarded as some of the positive sides of their situation. One of the residents, Bukar Ali said: “This war has made people discover their hidden talents. So many people did not know they had special skills but the war made them explore their skills”. Some of these “skills”, however, have turned out to be the ability to make charms and amulets, particularly traditional “bulletproof” for sale to desperate residents. Ali said: “The most lucrative venture right now is a charm. Charm, which is known as Maganin Bindiga is mostly prepared by hunters and they are making cool money from the sale of charms. I did not know that the charm was so powerful, especially the one that repels bullet until I saw a neighbour who Boko Haram shot severally but the bullets did not penetrate. To ensure their victory over my neighbour, God rest his soul, after several failed attempts to kill him with the gun and other weapons, they put him on the ground and rode on him with one of their operational vehicles. The news of the potency of gun charms went round and people started seeing the need to use it. Before the war, they had no reason to use it but they do now. People are making money from selling charms. The charm makers have now made it a big business. Their customers are mostly politicians, rich people, some military personnel in Nigeria, Cameroon, Niger and even residents who can afford them. The charms are in different price range but the least price is N150,000. You can get some for as high as N3 million. So, the charm is a really hot cake in Maiduguri now and a big deal for those who believe in it. I did not know it works until I started seeing it with my eyes. “For the poor people, they get the charms for free because the substances they use in making it comes from the hunters who are mostly in the villages and bushes. They mix part of wild animals and grasses from deep forest to make the charm. The charm used to be peculiar to hunters but their highest customers right now are personnel of the CJTF.” Another business that has sprung up since the insurgents is car hire service. Alhaji Sanni Ali gives his cars out to most visitors and NGOs who need to move around the state. Ali said that the business was established following the influx of humanitarian workers into Borno state. According to him: “Because most of them were foreigners who didn’t know their way around, some of us decided to explore car hire business. If you hire an 18-seater bus for a day, you will pay the bus driver N30,000 but before the insurgency, you cannot make up to that even as a commercial driver that shuttles between states.” A female real estate agent, Hauwa Saleh, also hinted that house rent has increased beyond imagination. She said: “Two bedroom flat goes for N400,000 to N450,000 but before now, the three-bedroom flat was around N100,000 to N150,000. Now, three-bedroom is for N600,000 while four-bedroom is around N1 million. There is a high demand for accommodation because people relocate from other states to work here in Maiduguri.” Also, the hotel business is one of the very lucrative ventures. More hotels are coming up and for the ones that are already in existence, they are usually fully booked. Rooms that used to be around N5000 are now said to be about N10,000 or more, no thanks to the insurgency. The receptionist in the hotel where this reporter lodged, said one needs to make reservation weeks before arrival to avoid being stranded. He said: “If you want to visit Borno, you have to book ahead if you want to stay in the hotel because the rooms are mostly booked and all occupied. So, you have to make reservations weeks ahead of your arrival. Some of the hotels are Dujima, Pinnacle, Nanne and Boi, Garki, Baruwee, Satus, Muna and so many others.” Flight operations have also experienced upward swing. It is very rare to get cheap flights to and from Maiduguri. The insurgency has increased the number of people travelling by air rather than a road. If you visit the websites of the airlines that fly to Maiduguri, you will discover that there are usually no vacant seats or. This has made people form the habit of booking ahead. Restaurant and eatery business is another business that is growing. Before now, restaurants were hardly seen in Maiduguri town because nobody patronized them. The Nation was told that it used to be strange to see people eat outside their homes. But with the ongoing insurgency and a high number of foreigners and visitors coming into Maiduguri, the restaurants and eateries are making brisk business. Supermarkets have been springing up in different locations to cater to the needs of aid workers. As a matter of policy, aid workers are not allowed to go to crowded places like markets, mosques, churches. But supermarkets are considered more organised and relatively safer. Translators have also been in high demand for easy communication. Before now, the ability to speak more than one language in Nigeria was not appreciated. But with the influx of foreigners like journalists, researchers and aid workers, the need for translators is now in high demand. Most of the people who fled their communities into Maiduguri speak Shua, Kanuri and Hausa. So, these languages have to be translated into the English language for proper documentation. The printing business has seen remarkable patronage too. Most aid workers and good Samaritans who visit IDP camps and host communities to share relief materials brand the items they distribute. Another business allegedly said to be on the increase in prostitution. A source attributed it to hunger. Giving a general overview of the situation in Maiduguri camps, a top camp official said: “The camps are expanding daily. Recently, the biggest camp in Maiduguri witnessed the influx of a community that is 73 kilometres away from Maiduguri town. The community; Ngazi came under attack and resulted in the relocation of the residents of the community. The camp; Bakassi is presently hosting 7320 households, while its entire population as at the last count was N43,000. Aside this number residing in Bakassi camp, others who fled their villages are residing in the over 120 non-formal camps scattered across the state capital. “The IDPs have not received food in Bakassi camp in the last two months. NEMA has not been able to give them food because it is believed the Director-General needs to sign a new contract with the contractors that supply food to the camps. The border closure has caused an increase in food prices, especially rice.”