Bassey Anthony, Uyo  Niger Delta Affairs Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio has denied asking for the redeployment of the Director Department of State Security(DSS) and Commissioner of Police in Akwa Ibom state. Akpabio in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Anietie Ekong described as ‘whimsical’ an article which claimed he had sought the redeployment of the Director of DSS, Police Commissioner among others as a condition for participating in the Appeal Court ordered rerun ”The statement reads, ”We wish to state categorically that the above statement does not represent the position of Senator Akpabio as he has not sought the redeployment of any security Chief in the State. The assertion is the figment of the imagination of whoever concocted it. Senator Akpabio, however, aligns himself with the position of the All Progressives Congress in Akwa Ibom State as stated by the State Chairman, Hon Ini Okopido in a recent press release that, “we are cautious and mindful of a rerun election superintended by Mike Igini. The statement further said that” We have no faith in Igini’s impartiality as an unbiased and independent umpire. We are distraught and doubtful of a change of posture by Igini and therefore cautious to go into a fresh election while Igini remains the State REC.” ”We are aware of the mass hysteria that has followed the judgment of the Appeal Court which nullified the election of Obong Chris Ekpenyong as the Senator representing Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial District. ”There have been wild speculations concerning the position of Senator Akpabio who is yet to make any formal statement concerning the Court-ordered rerun. Senator Akpabio wishes to thank his supporters and the good people of Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District for their unwavering support and prayers. He urges them to continue to remain steadfast in their commitment towards moving the Senatorial District forward. The public should ignore infantile propaganda bordering on paranoia being churned out by those who live perpetual fear of the political clout of Senator Akpabio”.