By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie A new foundation, the Cecilia Esenwa Foundation (CEF) is searching for 20 Nigerian women with any level of skills to empower yearly for the next five years. Speaking at the Foundation’s formal launch last Friday at the Four Points by Sheraton, Lagos, its founder, Mr Chris Agbaje, said the women to be selected from all parts of the country would benefit from training that would imbue them with soft/technical skills and business acumen to make a difference in their communities. “Each year we will identify 20 women from north and south. We have an ad-hoc staff of 40 people who will identify the women. We are not looking for inner-city women; we are looking for women anywhere they are to empower them,” said Agbaje, adding that education, religion or ethnicity would not bar any woman from being selected. Agbaje said he started the foundation in honour of his grandmother, Madam Cecilia Ezenwa, whose strength, wisdom and lifestyle had great influence on him and many others. He said: “A woman who did not let her lack of education stop her from acquiring one. Being one of the wives of a school principal, my grandmother improved herself constantly and encouraged women around her to do the same, even as they became support systems in an era that favoured patriarchy. She became a voice for those who had none and a rallying point, excelling in trade and ensuring that women keep up with whatever skills they learnt.” Apart from empowering women, CEO/Director of Operations, CEF, Halima Nuradeen, said the Foundation would also collaborate on issues of drug abuse and mental health among youths and women. She noted that this was necessary as  “With all these we also have to look at issues of drugs/substance abuse and mental health issues among women. A lot of us might not know but the number of women with mental health and drugs/substance abuse problems is on the rise. We can curb these menace by empowering these women, giving them a something to look forward to, this will be of great help, we can reduce the rate of depression (mental health issues) and also the indulgence in drugs/substance abuse,” she said.