At a time when most people in the Western Region saw soldiering, as the late General Joe Garba (rtd) chose to describe his profession, as one reserved for people who could not find something better to do and were thus ruffians, Mobolaji Johnson decided to join the Nigerian Army in 1959. That was at a time when the colonial masters were preparing for their exit from government. The future of the army without the colonial patron saints was unknown and many were apprehensive. But, for Johnson, 23, it was the path to take. He was at the Officer Training School in Teshi, Ghana, then, later, the Mons Cadet Officer School in Aldershot, and the Royal Military Academy,  Sandhurst, United Kingdom. His training prepared him for leadership role in post-colonial Nigeria. The withdrawal of British officers who had commanded the army up till the attainment of independence in 1960 was a boost to the indigenous officers. As Major-General Johnson Thomas Umunakwe Aguiyi-Ironsi became the Supreme Commander of the Army, supported in key command posts with other officers, including Brigadier Zakariyah Maimalari, Samuel Ademulegun, both eliminated by junior officers. One of the more junior officers who further benefitted from the crisis that engulfed the country following the January 15, 1966 coup and the counter-coup of July 1966 was then Major Mobolaji Johnson. After the take-over of the command structure by indigenous officers, Johnson held positions as the Deputy Commander of the Federal Guards in 1964, and commander later, same year. Again, before the end of 1964, he had been made the Quartermaster-General of the Nigerian Army. These responsibilities must have made General Ironsi appoint him the first Military Administrator of Lagos. Strangely, when Lt- Col. Yakubu Gowon was vested with power following the bloody counter-coup in July, he was retained with the charge of Lagos State, although re-designated military governor at the introduction of the 12-state structure that saw Lagos emerge a full-fledged state. Although much junior to his Western State counterpart, General Robert Adeyinka Adebayo, a Colonel, Johnson was not overshadowed. He accepted the challenge of transforming Lagos to a modern state that would be the envy of others.  As military governor, he is remembered as a gentleman who did not get carried away by the grandeur of office. Not for Johnson the impunity that saw a fellow governor of the same era shave the head of a journalist. He was humble, devoted to his duties and unmoved by the opportunities to accumulate illicit wealth. This largely accounted for his coming clean when the Murtala Muhammed administration sacked the Gowon regime and instituted a three-man probe panel. Only Johnson and his Western State counterpart at the time, Brigadier-General Oluwole Rotimi, passed the test. To further buttress his humility, bonding with the people and refusal to steal public fund, he retired to a home in the Ilupeju, Lagos middle class settlement where community members testify he continued to participate in communal efforts till he died in October. He would be remembered as the governor who laid the foundation for the development of Lagos. He realised the infrastructure deficit and moved to fix it. His administration constructed the first dual carriageway in Nigeria – the 60-kilometre Lagos-Badagry highway, as well as the Eko Bridge. He also put in place the Itoikin bridge to link Ikorodu and Epe, thus giving an inkling of the working of his mind that Lagos could grow into the provincial quarters in Badagry, Ikorodu and Epe that later became three of the five divisions of the state. If the original omo Eko had any regrets, it would be that he did not fight the civil war, as combatants would always want to have such experience in their resume. However, he participated as part of the Nigerian contingent to the Peacekeeping efforts in Congo. The man came, fought and was accomplished. After retirement in 1975, he went into business where his discipline stood him out and soon emerged chairman of multinational construction company, Julius Berger. His passion for humanity also saw him emerge chairman of the Nigerian Conservation Foundation. The life and times of Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson is an indication that there are original gentlemen in unlikely quarters in Nigeria. Even in the military where the foray into governance easily got men intoxicated, he remained a shining example until he bade the world farewell at 83.  ‘ As military governor, he is remembered as a gentleman who did not get carried away by the grandeur of office. Not for Johnson the impunity that saw a fellow governor of the same era shave the head of a journalist. He was humble, devoted to his duties and unmoved by the opportunities to accumulate illicit wealth ’