 TAMUNOEMI David-West, who passed on Monday, aged 83, was a professor of virology. His contribution to nation-building was remarkable. He was born August 26, 1936, at Buguma, Kalabari in Rivers State. Upon the completion of his primary and secondary education, he went to the University of Ibadan (1956-1958). He attended the Michigan State University (1958 – 1960), where he eventually bagged his BSc degree in sciences. David-West went to Yale University between 1960 and 1962 for his MSc degree. He obtained his PhD from McGill University. He was a senior lecturer at the University of Ibadan. The late David-West served as Rivers State Commissioner of Education between 1975 and 1979. He was a member of the 50-man Constitution Drafting Committee (CDC) that produced the 1979 constitution announced by General Murtala Mohammed. He served as Minister of Petroleum and Energy in the Gen. Muhammadu Buhari military administration. He also served as Minister of Mines, Power and Steel under General Ibrahim Babangida. He had a problem with the Babangida administration and was charged with economic adversity. David-West, was, however, acquitted by a Special Appeal Court on August 8, 1991. The renowned scholar was known for his doggedness when it came to issues that affected the country. He would not hesitate to espouse his position no matter whose ox was gored. He was not just a staunch supporter of Buhari when he contested the 2015 election, but he wrote a book: The Sixteen sins of General Muhammadu Buhari to market the President. He offered his advice to the President and would not fail to draw his attention to something he believed was wrong. As Minister of Petroleum, the late David-West ensured that the international price did not affect the country negatively. He was at the top of the game and was always available to advise the government on how to handle any price change from the world oil price. Until his death, David-West lived in his apartment within the UI premises and attended to friends and political associates.