A group, Association of Professionals for Safety in Shipping in Nigeria  (APOSSIN), has petitioned the National Assembly over the pronouncement of the Nigerian Ports Authority(NPA) instructing shipping operators to stop paying for personalised security services offered in the Secured Ancourage Area (SAA). The SAA is being operated by the Nigerian Navy, in collaboration with a private firm, Ocean Marine Solutions (OMS) Limited. APOSSIN noted that the directive was not only ill-advised but also counter-productive. It said that NPA is not empowered by any law to  make such pronouncement on an arrangement by another agency of government to deliver on its mandate. This submission, the body claims, is because the SAA is outside the port limits and hence not under the administrative control of the NPA as security of the maritime domain statutorily rests on the Nigerian Navy. Its Chairman, Adewale Oluwafemi, regretted that NPA, which has not been able to secure facilities around the port, is now gunning for the SAA. Oluwafemi said the SAA has brought some safety and trust for global shipping lines calling at the nation’s ports in Lagos. He said NPA’s inability to provide security at the ports were buttressed by the complaint from the General Manager of Greenview Development Nigeria Limited, Apapa, Lagos, Yakubu Abdullahi, of attack of its terminal by sea thieves. The body, therefore,  charged the ports landlord, noting  that it should  concentrate on providing security for ships that are berthed at the ports instead of coming after SAA. In similar vein, APOSSIN’s Secretary Emeka Ikechukwu said the SAA is an initiative of the Nigerian Navy and OMS that has brought stability and security to ships. He said the  SAA was established as a result of demands from ships making port calls to Lagos to give the captains extra comfort  on anchorage awaiting allocation of berthing space. The facility, he said, is intended to compliment government efforts and not a replacement. “Just like on land where organisations and even individuals on their own free will employ private security to secure their assets, in spite of all the available security provided by government; the facility is for those that wish to utilise the services. It is operated by the Nigerian Navy but logistically supported by OMS – a private-sector initiative to add value to government efforts. “It was established in collaboration with Nigerian Navy on  February 27, 2013 to offer dedicated security patrols services for vessels that demand extra protection while waiting offshore Lagos for berth allocation or conducting Ship-To-Ship, (STS) operations. “It is purely a service rendered on demand and was never made compulsory for vessels making port calls to Lagos. It provides a minimum of three security boats patrolling the area 24/7/365. The boats are operated by the Navy but logistically supported by OMS,” Ikechukwu said. According to the duo, it is a well-documented fact that in the past six years of SAA, the facility has delivered 100 per cent success as there has not been any successful pirate attack on any vessels using SAA. The success story has made it a comfort zone and preferred location for captains of vessels coming to Lagos. Warning the shipping community not xxxbe deceived by the NPA announcement that security is free, it said if the patrol boats OMS is supporting to protect the area are withdrawn without replacements, the vessels would be exposed to attacks. APOSSIN admonished that while the NPA is waiting for the arrival of the boats promised, which it terms as a fraction of the solution, the logistics to run, maintain and keep them in water all the time is very huge and even much greater. “Experience has shown that this is seldom provided in sufficient quantities to the services, of course because of other competing needs of national importance. This is the gap OMS is filling for the Navy to maintain the required presence at the SAA. OMS is working under the Nigerian Navy (not NPA), who operates the Secure Anchorage Area, a relationship that has been communicated and NPA duly acknowledged the occurrence by publishing the Marine Notice in 2014. The SAA arrangement is working and has helped to reduce the piracy occurrence in the region (check the IMB latest report on the Gulf of Guinea) and most importantly, at no cost to government,” Ikechukwu added. Oluwafemi said the $2,000 charged  daily is not anchorage dues as described by the NPA but meant to offset the cost of acquisition of the patrol boats, and provision of the logistics to operate them to achieve the 24-hour presence for detering the criminals. It will be recalled that the NPA, through its Managing Director, Hadiza Bala-Usman, at a quarterly stakeholders’meeting, said the agency was set to take delivery of patrol vessels to enhance waterfront security at the ports, therefore directing shipping firms not to pay any anchorage dues to private security firms as it would take responsibility to secure vessels at the ports anchorage. Bala-Usman, who was represented at the meeting by the Executive Director, Marine and Operations, Sekonte Davies, assured that it would soon acquire three platforms for the Navy to enable it provide the needed security.