By Samuel Oluwole Ogundele  It is very difficult to gain some considerable knowledge of sexual harassment in Nigeria with a special emphasis on the academia without a critical examination of the ontology of the subject. That is to say, that an anchoring foundational analysis is of the essence. Newspapers, magazines and other publication outlets are usually awash with views and positions of people about sexual harassment. But in many instances, these opinions are deeply embedded in misapplications and misconceptions. Indeed, they are a gross oversimplification of many facts. Sexual harassment can be described as unwelcomed sexual advances capable of making a person uncomfortable and humiliated in a number of ways. It is a bio-social signature of man’s corruptible and/or immoral nature. This scenario ultimately leads to a great deal of psycho-physiological distress including social withdrawal for the victim. Sometimes, victims resort to drug abuse or suicide. Therefore, sexual harassment is highly condemnable.  ‘Employers, proprietors, senior colleagues, and even contemporaries disturb the emotional balances of female and to a lesser degree, male counterparts through the lens of immoral sexual advances’  This monster is neither Western nor Eastern in character. As a matter of fact, it walks leisurely on all fours across local, regional, and global geographies. We must appreciate the fact, that all humans, whatever our mass, hue, and flavour also double as corrupt animals. It is an act of hypocrisy for anybody to pretend that he is not corrupt to some degree. Saint-hood is light years away. This underscores the reason why sexual harassment raises its ugly head in workplaces like government offices, state assemblies, national assembly, primary schools and secondary schools. In all these places, employers, proprietors, senior colleagues, and even contemporaries disturb the emotional balances of female and to a lesser degree, male counterparts through the lens of immoral sexual advances. A rejection of such advances or overtures often leads to one form of victimisation or the other. Therefore, prejudices deeply and popularly held by most Nigerians that university lecturers are the only demons torturing female workers and/or students, are an encumbrance to general societal growth. This kind of knowledge filtering provides us with an incomplete set of facts for constructing objectivities, ideas, and sensitivities about sexual harassment in Nigeria. In Britain, sexual harassment is either criminal or civil.  It is civil when this act involves abuse, threats of abuse and assault by a person who has no close relationship with the lady or man. The offence carries a penalty of up to $5000. Despite the fact, that sexual harassment (which loosely encompasses obscene jokes, staring at a person’s body, sending pornographic videos and messages through whatsapp platforms among others) is an unhealthy /ugly component of social life and living it continues to grow in popularity especially in our country. Sexual harassment in Nigeria has become a near- normal way of life, as victims hardly report to the higher authorities of the institution. But contrary to the general belief, sexual harassment in the Nigerian academia is not always a one-way affair. Female students also occasionally harass their lecturers. This is largely traceable to a fall in educational standards in the country. Again, this cannot be de-coupled from the barbarisation of the sophisticated 6-3-3-4 educational system crafted by the legendary Aliu Babatunde Fafunwa, the first professor of education in Nigeria. The above system embeds technical education for those children who are not academically strong enough to go to the university or polytechnic. Such students would proceed to the technical college after completing the Junior Secondary education to learn trades. These trades include printing, carpentry/upholstering and bricklaying.  The system was to promote dignity of labour and economic efficiency as the saleability of the skills of youths goes up. But painfully enough, this laudable policy could not be sustained due to the prostituted, new values of most Nigerians. An average Nigerian parent feels that it is a shame to send his child to a technical school or centre despite his weak academic performance at the lower secondary school level. Consequently, technical school enrolments have fallen to a low level. The poor enrolments coupled with rampant corruption have led to the ruination of our technical centres across the country.  More and more weak students often with the assistance of their parents engage in all kinds of fraud in order to enter the university. They finally become a nuisance to lecturers and by extension, the entire university. The rogue lecturer seizes the opportunity to be having free sex with these weak female students. Gradually, his lustful mindset dwarfs his moral sense completely as he also tries ladies who are capable of doing well on their own. Such lecturers end up embarrassing themselves. Sexual harassment has now reached epidemic proportions in our tertiary institutions like Colleges of Education, Monotechnics and Polytechnics.  In the past (up to the early 1980s), most students in tertiary institutions were academically strong. Those who were not strong enough went to such institutions as School of Nursing, School of Public Hygiene, School of Agriculture and Nigerian Defence Academy. Many products from the above schools later became great Nigerians in a number of ways. How many of those candidates trying to enter tertiary institutions today are truly qualified? Are we trying to turn Nigeria into a mindscape of mediocrities? Efforts have to be made to reduce admission-related fraud to the barest minimum, so that we can begin to produce graduates who are capable of boosting our national economy on a sustainable scale. According to James Campbell Quick, a professor of Leadership and Organisational Behaviour  at the University of Texas, Arlington, US, universities in America should have a very clear policy on sexual harassment. Similarly, the American Association of University Professors among other groups, have recently crafted operational guidelines for handling cases of sexual harassment. This is of grave relevance to Nigeria. However, the definitional box of sexual harassment in this country should not be too loosely enlarged to pave the way for trivialities. Thus, for example, staring or looking at a person’s body should not be labelled an act of sexual harassment in my own opinion. It would be difficult to tame the monster if caution was thrown to the winds. It is  heart-warming to hear that the National Assembly is trying to enact a law to beat the menace of sexual harassment in tertiary institutions. But it would be extremely hypocritical of them to only demonise lecturers when in fact, these lawmakers and other categories of workers are not completely immorality-free. The new law on sexual harassment should be comprehensively crafted in order to protect our todays and tomorrows.  It is important to also note here, that sexual harassment as a hugely complex discourse is capable of inspiring controversy and/or evoking emotional reactions as it takes more and more Nigerians to the crossroads of consciousness. 