A suit challenging the eligibility of the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, to contest Saturday’s governorship election in the state has been fixed for mention on Friday before the Federal High Court, Abuja. The suit is to determine whether Bello, who is the governorship candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), is fit to participate in tomorrow’s governorship poll in the state. The originating summon, which is instituted by the Social Democratic Party (SDP) governorship candidate in the forthcoming poll in the state, Natasha Akpoti, will be mentioned at Court 5 before Justice Inyang Ekwo. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that while the SDP candidate is the plaintiff, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are the first and second defendants, respectively. The suit, dated October 10 and marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/1221/2019, filed by Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, on Akpoti’s behalf, is seeking the court’s determination on the eligibility of Governor Bello in the Saturday election, having allegedly been involved in double registration as a voter. Akpoti said: “By his willful act of making double registration as a voter, Yahaya Bello, candidate of the 1st defendant, is not a fit and proper person to be allowed by the 2nd defendant to vote or be voted for in the forthcoming Kogi State governorship election, having committed act of electoral fraud. “That Mr. Yahaya Bello, the candidate of the 1st Defendant, was initially registered as a voter sometime in 2011 in Abuja, by the 2nd defendant. “That Bello, the candidate of the 1st defendant, again fraudulently procured from the 2nd defendant a second registration as a voter on 23rd May, 2017, at Government House, Lokoja, while his 2011 first registration as a voter in Abuja was still live, extant and subsisting. “That the said Yahaya Bello, the candidate of the 1st defendant, carried out the double registration with the 2nd defendant so as to scuttle due electoral process. “That such a person is not a fit and proper person to vote for in any election, let alone for the high office of the governor of a state.” NAN reports that Justice Ekwo had, on Tuesday, delivered a judgment disqualifying the APC deputy governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Sen. Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, over false information given in his CF0001 Form submitted to INEC for tomorrow’s poll.