Public servants need to support Federal Government’s initiatives to curb unethical conducts, abuse of office and other forms of corruption. This was the submission of the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami; Acting Chairman of Nigerian Law Reform Commission (NLRC), Professor Jummai Audi and Directors General of Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) and National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), Mohammed Isa, Danladi Umar and Professor Abubakar Suleiman yesterday in Abuja. They spoke at the national workshop on the reform of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal (CCB/T) Act and related provisions of the Constitution, organised by the NLRC. Malami, who was represented by the Special Assistant to the President on Financial Crimes, Abiodun Aikomo, noted that when completed, the CCB/T Act will aid the capacities of the CCB and CCT to effectively enforce code of conduct among public officers and punish infractions. The AGF noted that the workshop “aimed at harnessing relevant ideas through brainstorming together with stakeholders and participants in order to improve the legal framework that will empower important institutions such as the CCB and CCT to function in a manner is appropriate to address the current national endemic issue of corruption and abuse of public office by public officers”. He added: “It is expected that those entrusted with public offices should discharge the functions of such offices with utmost regard to the ethics of transparency, accountability, decency and good service to the nation. “One major achievement of this administration is the successful prosecution of public officers for failure to comply with the codes of conduct enshrined in the Constitution and the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act, especially as regards non-declaration of assets and falsification of assets on declaration forms. “Furthermore, it is the Federal Government’s belief that more successes will be attained by these institutions if their establishment Act is strengthened.” Audi identified the various aspects of the CCB/T Act identified for review, which include the need to move the CCT to be part of the Judiciary to guarantee its independence. She said the review was mandated by the AGF due to “the astronomical rise in cases of corruption and its pervasive negative effect on the social and economic development of Nigeria and being concerned with the urgent need to deal with the disturbing situation”. Isa noted that corruption is more prevalent in the public service than in the public sector. Suleiman, who was represented by Professor Edoba Omoregie, hailed the NLRC’s decision to reform the CCB/T Act. He stressed that if completed, the law would aid the CCB’s and CCT’s operations. Umar assured the nation that the CCT would not relent in discharging its duties. He said the review of the law has been long overdue and noted that past attempt at reform in CCB/CCT Act, which came into operation in 1989, have been unsuccessful.