One of the highpoints of the just concluded governorship election in Bayelsa State is the unending rivalry between the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, and his Bayelsa State counterpart, Seriake Dickson. It is a proof of the fluid nature of politics that the two governors swapped camps in the build-up to the election, supporting political actors they had previously opposed. It will be recalled that in the election of national officials of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the party’s national convention on May 21, 2016, Wike supported the candidacy of Prince Uche Secondus while Dickson rooted for the party’s former National Deputy Chairman, Chief Olabode George. Secondus eventually won the election and became the party’s national chairman. Then came the presidential primaries of the party in Port Harcourt on October 7, 2018 and Dickson supported the candidacy of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar while Wike was all out in support of the current Sokoto State governor, Rt. Hon. Aminu Tambuwal. Atiku turned out victorious and picked the party’s presidential ticket. But the rivalry between the two Niger Delta governors did not end there. In the build-up to the just concluded governorship election in Bayelsa State, Governor Wike was said to have worked with former President Goodluck Jonathan as both of them rooted for former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Chief Timi Alaibe to pick the governorship ticket of the PDP while Dickson supported the candidacy of Douye Diri, who eventually became the party’s candidate. Sentry learnt that few days to the governorship election, there was a meeting between Jonathan and Wike, where the two statesmen perfected a plan to deal with Dickson. It was gathered that the poor showing that the PDP candidate had in Ogbia, the local government area Jonathan comes from, was a fall out of the meeting. Ironically, during his time as President, Jonathan had supported Dickson to oust the then Governor Timipre Silva, became the main backer of APC candidate and winner of the just concluded election, David Lyon. It is yet another testament to the fluid nature of politics.