It was on a Thursday morning when the Bursar of my school, Mrs. Sobande started going round the classes to chase students who owed the school. My heart beat faster as Mrs. Sobande approached SS 2, my class to send out debtors. My name, Festus was the 13th on the list. When I was called. The bursar saw me and said, ‘Come here, Festus.’’ “The school proprietor has ordered me not to allow you into the class again unless you have paid all your outstanding.You know you owe three good terms? We have been so patient with you but we can’t endure it anymore,’’ she emphasised. I nodded my head in agreement to what she said. I took my sack bag, the only one I have been using right from primary five, and headed home.  I sat down in the corridor reminiscing about the dilemma I have been facing. I saw the death of my father as the progenitor of the financial incapabilities the household has been facing. ‘’If my father were still alive, this wouldn’t have happened. The only person left for me is my mum, who can’t even afford two square meals, not to talk of paying my school fees.” I cried. After some hours, I went straight to our room fully dominated by rodents. That was where myself, mum and my two siblings pass every night. I took a cup from where it’s being kept and mixed the sniper we used to extinguish the rodents, our unavoidable roommates. After mixing the sniper, I looked for pen and paper to write my suicidal note before I would drink my just prepared suicide tea. I sat on the floor and started writing. I heard a sound at the door step, I wondered who the person might be. I moved closely to the door, if possibly I could know who the person was but there was  no sign. I opened the door, it was Alani, the very only friend I have in school. He walked in with smile. He, unfortunately, saw the already mixed sniper and wondered what it was. “What’s this friend?” he asked “It’s nothing jare,” I answered “Are you sure?” He perceived the odour and found out that it’s a chemical harmful to health. I immediately took the note I was writing and forced it into to my pocket. Alani forcefully collected the note, and  finally knew what my intention was. “Dont tell me you really want to do this? Oh! my goodness,” he lamented “Life isn’t up to that now. Okay, fine. Let’s leave that and let me go straight to the reason  I’m here,” he said. Alani handed the envelope on his hand to me to read. It was the result of the state scholarship examination we both did two months back. Alani and I performed excellently in the examination and we were shortlisted to study in any European country of our choice free. I jumped up in happiness and regretted ever attempting suicide. Suicide is not the antidote to any problem. When you die, you lose everything, but when there’s life, there’s still hope. Say no to suicide. Your condition is another person’s prayer. Your life must be your priority, don’t terminate it. When there is life, there is hope. 