Our Reporter  Sequel to the successful hosting of Icreate Africa Skills festival in Kaduna and Enugu regions, Sterling Bank Plc and other sponsors of the project have concluded arrangement to host the grand finale of the second edition in Lagos next month. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos over the weekend, Chief Client Engagement Officer of Sterling Bank, Mr. Moronfolu Fasinro, said the bank is partnering with Icreate Africa because it is committed to solving the unemployment challenge on the African continent. He said the way to resolve the unemployment challenge going forward is through skills acquisition by youths rather than focusing on white-collar jobs, adding that “We know that youth employment is a key part of creating a society that is harmonious and productive.” Also speaking, the Chief Marketing Officer of Sterling Bank, Mr. Dapo Martins said, “We need to focus on exporting skills instead of concentrating only on the export of crude oil and agricultural products,” remarking that most Nigerian graduates that are travelling overseas with academic knowledge either ends up washing plates in restaurants or doing other menial jobs. In his contribution, Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Icreate Africa Skills Festival, Mr. Bright Jaja, explained that it was clear to him at the beginning of the journey that the idea of the festival was different, unique and would probably not make sense to a lot of people. Retail Marketing Manager of Bosch Nigeria Limited, Mr. Samson Ajayi said Icreate was pivotal to their company because it addressed a lot of structural issues in the Nigerian economy, adding that as an engineering company that makes mechanical parts, they felt it was a unique opportunity to tap into in a bid to contribute its quota to the economy. Also commenting, President of Universal Learn Direct Academia Limited (ULDA), Engineer Olawumi Gasper said they were very happy to work with Icreate and congratulated Mr. Bright Jaja, the founder of the company for inspiring young Nigerians develop passion in skills. Malissa Onojo one of the champions of Icreate in the premier edition skills festival said the competition has exposed and helped her to be very confident and proud of her trade as a fashion designer.