Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike on Monday that it is difficult to end kidnapping because it has become lucrative. Wike spoke when the Rotary International  District 9141  Governor, Nze Anizor, visited him. He was accompanied by some of the club’s executives. The governor said since kidnapping has become a business, it can only be reduced, but not eradicated. He urged Nigerians to help security agencies with information on criminals’ hideouts. The governor said: “It is now impossible to stop kidnapping in Nigeria. It is now a business. It has been commercialised. “It is now a major business. Everyone must partner with the government to ensure that we reduce it to the barest minimum. But it cannot be eradicated.” According to Wike, those involved in kidnapping, from security reports, range from 16 to 22 years. He said: “Look at what is happening across the country. Kidnapping has taken over all states. When it started here, it was politicised. “But today, it is negatively affecting all states of the federation. A few days ago, a Court of Appeal judge was kidnapped in Benin. Before that, a Federal High Court judge was kidnapped. All of us must work together to stop this scourge.” Wike called on Rotary Nigeria to enlighten youths on the dangers of cultism and kidnapping. The governor urged citizens to be conscious of their environment and take measures to secure themselves since kidnappers use close workers, family members and associates as informants. He commended Rotary Nigeria for its contributions to the development of Rivers State. Wike promised that the state government would continue to partner Rotary to achieve its developmental goals. Anizor had described Wike as a rare leader who cares for his people. He informed the governor that the district invests about N300 million into several humanitarian projects in the state alone yearly. “Rotary is more inclined to service, rather than complaints. Rotary International is a great partner of government towards development,” he said. Anizor said Rotary International District 9141 has imported medical equipment worth N30million for the safe blood transfusion.