Temple Ezebuike Esq, Lagos.  Sir: The federal government’s complaints about smuggling are self-defeating. There would not be any smuggling if the custom officials maintained local trade and immigration laws. In 2017, The Nationwide Survey on Corruption in Nigeria by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) reported that Custom officials solicited the most bribes, ahead of Immigration officials and elected state and local representatives.  Recently, an undercover investigation brought light to a massive corruption ring in the Nigeria Customs Service. The reports brought to fore the ineptitude and corruption in the Nigeria Customs Service. The border closure merely papers over the smuggling problem; it does not address a root cause: corrupt Custom officials. Although they have reported that about N3 trillion smuggled goods have been seized since closure, without a thorough re-organization and re-orientation of Nigeria’s Customs and Immigration officials, we will be back with the same corrupt officials who facilitated goods smuggling whenever the border reopens. Given the CBN’s Foreign Exchange restriction on rice, the border closure combines to substantially limit rice importation, resultantly creating a scarcity-sized hole. Since local supply cannot meet local consumption, the rice prices have soared– consumer-inflation rose to 11.51% in September, up by 0.08% from 11.17% recorded in August. Ninety million Nigerians live below the poverty line, and where about 60% of income is spent on food. Rising inflation will leave Nigerians with less disposable income, placing more and more of the people below the poverty line. Any policy, notwithstanding sincerity of intent, which tends to leave the masses with deflating disposable income, is not well-thought. It is an economic hara-kiri that should be advocated against. Besides the fact that local consumption outstrips local supply, the business environment is not supportive to local producers. The FG cannot will the economy to food sufficiency in a dilapidated system. Access to farm mechanization remains low due to bad roads. Some rice farmers trek as far as 30 kilometers to the nearest rice mill. After milling, channels to transport their produce to local markets are also abysmally poor. Corruption also trails mechanized farming: to ease access to rice mills and boost local production. In 2017, the government reported the procurement of 100 rice milling machines in different states, but the exact locations of the machines have remained a mystery. Rice farmers are also disincentivised due to lack of access to credit facilities. The Central Bank’s initiative to finance agriculture at 9% interest rate is commendable, although, it should be noted that it is lower than the 5% rate farmers had called for due to self-provision of power and transportation. Border closure will not address the problem of corruption in Nigeria Customs Service; neither will it improve accessibility to credit facility, nor increase local production to attain a semblance of sufficiency. The federal government should leave the border and attend to more pressing industrial challenges. Protectionist policies are not on the whole, bad. However, there has to be a robust industry to be protected. Where the preliminaries are prominently positioned, there will be an inflow of investments to agriculture, towards increased local production to balance consumption. Where borders are closed as in this instance, it will be to protect the local industry from high-tech foreign competition, albeit momentarily, until they become competitive. The federal government should not prance over preliminaries– laying the cart before the horse– driving up inflation that will hurt legitimate cross-border businesses, local producers and the populace.  