Senior Correspondent Mike Odiegwu writes on the historic governorship poll in Bayelsa State and lessons that should be learned by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which pushed for continuity, and the All Progressives Congress (APC), which rooted for poor shift.  Residents of Bayelsa State were determined last weekend to participate in the process of electing a new government. The awareness for the poll was high and the turnout was impressive. Across the 105 wards, people lined up in their polling unit, even before the arrival of electoral officers Not even the rainfall at the peak of voting in some parts of the state could deter them. They were not also discouraged by the scorching sunshine in others parts of the state. The election was adjudged by many people as the most peaceful in the history of Bayelsa. Unlike other elections, nobody died on Saturday, despite gunshots witnessed in some parts of the state. The election kicked off at 8am with late the arrival of materials in some polling units especially in Yenagoa, the state capital. Voters arrived their polling units, and waited for INEC officials to exercise their franchise. Thugs disrupted voting in some areas. For instance, materials meant for Ward 17 in Koluama 2  were scattered by thugs. Thugs invaded some polling units in Opolo, Agudama and Famgbe axis of Yenagoa, shooting sporadically and disrupting voting. But, security agencies, especially the army and the police, repelled them. Security agencies had a hectic day. Soldiers, policemen, operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) including paramilitary agencies like the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) were massively deployed in all nooks and crannies of the state to forestall breakdown of law and order. But for the interventions of soldiers and policemen, the skirmishes would have completely derailed the process. Most commentators praised the security operatives for displaying high level of professionalism in discharging their functions. In Sagbama, the Local Government Area of Governor Seriake Dickson, there were complaints that electoral materials were diverted by thugs. People from.some.wards complained that the development disenfranchised them. A former Acting Governor, Chief Nestor Binabo, alleged that all materials meant for Agoro, Ward 11, in Sagbama were hijacked and diverted to Toru-Orua, the community of the governor. He said: “I didn’t vote. The reason is that the materials meant for the elections  for my ward, Agoro Sagbama, were hijacked by PDP thugs and nobody voted in that ward 11 in Sagbama local government. “We have prostested and we are asking to either go back or cancel whatever results that anybody may summit. The materials were moved from Sagbama, to a place called Bolu-orua and they were loaded into  the  Naval gun boats. “The ward headquarters from Bolu-orua is just about ten minutes drive on the water. I am suspecting that they must have taken it to Toru-Orua, governor’s hometown. Even  in Agberi ward 1, PDP hijacked the materials and there was no voting it happened in several places even in ward 6 in Sagbama. They removed the result sheets and send the non-essential materials  and there was no voting.” There was a report that four officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were abducted in Bumodi-Gbene in Yenagoa and Ologi in Ogbia Local Government areas, but were later released. At Ologi (Ward 03) of Ogbia Local Government Area, a senior electoral official cancelled voting, following violence. The official, Ukuachukwu Orji, who is the INEC supervisory Resident Electoral Commissioner for Ogbia LGA, said members of the Ologi community stopped the election in the area. “As our people were coming into the community after crossing the river, they seized them and the materials and burnt all the materials. They chased our people away and seized some, but the military rescued them,” he said. Orji, who is  the Anambra State REC, spoke in Otuoke, Ward 13 of Ogbia, where President Goodluck Jonathan and his family voted. He said apart from the community, other communities in Ogbia were peaceful and devoid of skirmishes throughout the exercise. Divergent opinions have been expressed by leaders of the two political parties on the conduct of the election. For instance, Dickson expressed dissatisfaction and called on INEC  to cancel the election in some parts of the state, where he alleged  the exercise was characterised by brigandage, hijacking of electoral materials and personnel. He also called for outright cancellation of the elections in Nembe and Southern Ijaw local government areas. He said: “I call on the Chairman of INEC to issue an order canceling the process in all the wards, in all the local government areas affected, in all the wards and units, where materials have been stolen or hijacked, where officials have been kidnapped and held hostage to enable the APC cook up non existing figures.” The governor described the APC is an unpopular party, accusing the APC-led Federal Government of plotting to foist a one party system in the country. He alleged that some security agents connived with the APC thugs to perpetrate electoral fraud and insecurity in some parts of Southern Ijaw, Ekeremor and Ogbia and Yenagoa. He said: “Materials meant for Eniwari community, Opuama Ward, most locations in Southern Ijaw as we earlier predicted were hijacked. As everyone knows, the APC has no foothold in Bayelsa to win an election but they have an armed militia, surveillance contractors who kill and maim for the APC.  They also have the Nigerian Army and rogue elements of the Police Force working in concert with them to deny the citizens of these communities their right to vote. “So, as we are speaking, in our country, in this day and age, gun wielding militia men with the aid of security forces have overrun the election officials and most of the electoral officials in Southern Ijaw. These officials as we speak, have been kidnapped and held hostage. This has been the lot, this has been what we’ve been managing since 2015, with APC at the center, not caring about the lived and dignity of our people. The APC at the center are too hungry and determined to make Nigeria a one party state.  “The president has to wake up and do something. What is going on in Bayelsa in the name of election is not a democracy. I call on the President to call on the security agents particularly the Army to stop desecrating Democratic governance and subjecting the image of the country to ridicule. I call on the Inspector General of Police to be true to his professional calling and direct the DIG and all the security operatives to protect the people of Bayelsa.” I do not want to be pushed to call on them to defend and protect themselves.” But, the APC immediately replied the governor and accused him and his party of masterminded violence in some strongholds of the APC to discredit the exercise in those areas while manipulating results and th electoral process in his areas of strength. The Chairman of APC, Amos Jotham, said having seen the defeat steering it in the face, the PDP perfected violence and tried to intimidate voters. He noted the widespread violence in Yenagoa the State capital, precisely in Ward 2, Onopa community and Opolo where materials were allegedly hijacked by PDP thugs loyal to a PDP lawmaker. The State APC Chairman, who used the occasion to call on all security agencies to take note of the situation, said that the PDP, currently drowning in the state following  lack of popularity and acceptability of its candidate, decided to resort to hijacking of election materials as the only way out. He said: “Other areas where election materials were hijacked by the PDP are Sagbama Ward 6, 7, 11 and 14. We have noted high level of electoral misconduct in Sagbama, the LGA of the incumbent governor, Henry Seriake Dickson. “We call on all APC supporters to maintain peaceful conduct throughout the process. It is very glaring that the APC is coasting to victory because of the popularity and acceptance of its flag bearer David Lyon who is poised to transform Bayelsa State from its current state of quagmire the PDP led administration has taken the State into.” The chairman chided Dickson for making unguarded and spurious statements  to whip up public sentiment against the APC. Joyham said Dickson had displayed his offensive, garrulous character.  ‘As the results of the poll are being collated, people are anxiously waiting to know, who will emerge victorious. Will Diri, who has promised to consolidate on the achievements of his boss, Dickson, become the next governor? Or will the election amount to a reolution against the PDP to pave the way for David Lyon of the APC, who has vowed to correct the mistakes of the PDP and usher in a better Bayelsa?’  Jotham expressed shock that Dickson called for the cancellation of results in Nembe and Southern Ijaw and other LGAs that had not been declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He said the governor in a desperate bid to incite the public and all relevant agencies against the APC, only succeeded in exhibiting sheer ignorance with regard to democratic norms. The party chairman advised Dickson to accept the outcome of the elections as a referendum on his lacklustre performance since taking over the leadership of the state almost eight years ago. Jotham said it was unbecoming of the governor as the chief security officer of the state to start raising false alarm in an election that his hand-picked candidate had earlier declared as “peaceful and smooth” The APC chairman said it was also wrong for Dickson to drag the security agencies into his partisan ranting because they dared to be professional in the discharge of their duties. The chairman called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and relevant agencies to be wary of Dickson alleging he had penchant for deceit. Also, former President, Goodluck Jonathan, expressed his opinion about the poll. But he expressed disappointment over the late arrival of election materials to his polling unit in Otuoke, Ogbia Local Government Area in Bayelsa State. Dr. Jonathan, who came out to cast his vote met only reporters on ground, when he arrived his polling unit about 8:30a.m. “Where are the electoral officers?” He queried, saying: “Well, this is where I will vote, but since they are not here yet let me go back inside. You see now, youths of nowadays, you need to do more.” But, Dr. Jonathan later emerged with his wife, Dame Patience, to cast his vote in the presence of Ukuachukwu Orji, who is the INEC supervisory resident electoral commissioner for Ogbia LGA. He said: “My wife and I were able to cast our votes today as soon as the polling booth at Unit 39 Ward 13 in Otuoke opened just before noon. I urge Bayelsans and voters in Kogi State to go about performing this important civic responsibility in a peaceful manner. “I am encouraged by the determination and yearning of Nigerians for good governance to believe that we will soon get to a point where we will adopt the right attitude and innovation that will strengthen our democracy.” The Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, lamented some skirmishes in Sagbama and Ekeremor but expressed confidence in INEC saying the ongoing election was better than the last governorship election in the state. Sylva, who spoke while casting his vote at Dukuraku polling unit 04, Ward 04, at about 12:40 pm,  in his country home, Okpoama, in Brass Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. Sylva said: “I have voted and it is a peaceful election in Ward 4 Okpoama. As you can see, I have been confined to my Ward and election has been smooth so far. “I heard that there are few skirmishes here and there in Sagbama and Ekeremor. I have not heard of any other problem here in Bayelsa State. “As for the INEC, they have been progressively improving and every, year the processes are improved and I think we have a better outing for INEC this time. And I believe that this election will be better than the last one. “I have always been confident, I have said it many times that the APC is the preferred party in Bayelsa. I am sure that we will win.” Also, the candidate of APC, Chief. David Lyon, who voted in Olugbobiri Community in Southern Local Government Area, described the election process as peaceful so far, saying the INEC did a better job this time. While expressing confidence that his party, APC, would emerge victorious at the end of the poll, Lyon called on security agents to remain neutral and professional. However, the candidate of the PDP, Senator Douye Diri, said though the electio in his area was peaceful, thugs allegedly hijacked election materials in Ekeremor and Southern Ijaw LGAs. He said: “I had earlier raised the alarm about  Bassambiri in Nembe. From the reports I have, no PDP agent is allowed into Nembe Bassambiri. At Enewari, the report I have is that the APC went there with thugs to hijack materials. “At Opolo Community in Yenagoa Local Government Area, the APC went there with thugs, the same goes for other LGAs where the APC is creatung crisis for our members. “We are calling on the umpire INEC that they should be alive to their responsibilities because we have received reports from several other Wards and other Local Government Areas where they need to invoke their powers. “They should invoke their powers of either not accepting cooked up results from where materials have being hijacked. Secondly, we call on security agencies to be alive to their duties and not to take sides with the APC which are the reports that we have started receiving.” But, a former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Chief Ndutimi Alaibe, also  lauded the people of Opokuma in Kolokuma-Opokuma Local Government Area  for their peaceful conduct during the governorship election in the area. Alaibe, after casting his vote at his Igbainwari unit in Opokuma said: “What we have started out here is to ensure that the electioneering process is free,  lfair and credible and it has happened here again. “You can see there is no ballot snatching, nobody is fighting anybody, it has been a peaceful process that should be emulated across our state. “As a peace advocate, I am happy when I see things happened seamlessly. INEC has managed to do the right thing today. So, in this unit where I voted it is peaceful and seamless. We thanked INEC and all the bodies including the media and civil societies for a peaceful conduct.” As the results of the poll are being collated, people are anxiously waiting to know, who will emerge victorious. Will Diri, who has promised to consolidate on the achievements of his boss, Dickson, become the next governor? Or will the election amount to a reolution against the PDP to pave the way for David Lyon of the APC, who has vowed to correct the mistakes of the PDP and usher in a better Bayelsa? 