Vivo has unveiled  Dual Pop Up Camera and AI Quad Camera. Camera has become very vital in the daily activities of every individual in this generation and one brand that is making sure everyone is extremely satisfied with the quality of their pictures is vivo. To further showcase their strong consumer-centric innovation approach, vivo smartphone unveiled the new V17Pro, which brings brilliant camera systems on both the front and back of the smartphone to empower consumers to redefine their photography experience. Its Country Manager, Felix Lu, said: “V17 Pro is a masterpiece that we are extremely proud of, as it reinforces our position as a pioneer in bringing best-in-class mobile experiences to the Nigerian market” The V17 Pro comes with six high-end cameras stylishly positioned in the front and rear of the device. The 32MP Dual Pop-Up camera and a complimentary 8MP wide-angle front cameras ensure every detail is captured clearly. The 8MP Super Wide-Angle Selfie is able to capture wide angles up to 105-degrees, bringing more fun and possibilities to group shots.  Similarly, with the help of its 48MP main camera, 8MP wide-angle camera, 2MP Bokeh camera and an additional 2MP macro camera, the device’s rear cameras are just perfect for that spot-on picture and also capturing landscape shots even further. To complete the professional shot options, the V17 Pro smartphone also features two impressive beautifying features, namely the “pose master” feature that offers cool and natural poses to match various photo scenes, and the “super night mode” feature that enhances clarity even at night shots. Its strong hardware performance  ensures that V17 Pro runs smoothly at all times. V17 Pro is supported by Qualcomm Snapdragon 675 AIE processor with 8GB RAM + 128GB ROM that ensures performance for applications and system can be operated smoothly at any time. Its 4100mAh battery with dual-engine fast-charging technology brings higher durability and faster charging that ensures the smartphone provides a long-lasting and safe mobile experience. V17 Pro is also designed for gamers. It comes with optimised game mode that brings out a smooth new gaming experience. The multi-turbo acceleration technology actively tunes the operating system to ensure users can enjoy a more exhilarating game performance. In addition, it comes with a “voice changer”, which can inject more fun into game time with a variety of voices to match game characters. 