For safe and standard laboratory operations in the oil and gas industry, the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has organised a three-day workshop for players in the sub-sector. The workshop, the third in the series, touched on all aspects of laboratory operations, including the dangers of flouting the rules, EMEKA UGWUANYI reports   The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), the oil and gas industry regulator, has underscored the importance of laboratory in the oil and gas industry and the need for operators to desist from engaging in short-cuts and compromising data analyses results from laboratory tests. Its Acting Director, Alhaji Ahmad Shakur, who spoke at the Third Oil and Gas Industry Laboratory Stakeholders’ workshop in Lagos with the theme: ‘Enhancing laboratory best practices and capacity building towards promoting sustainable development in the Nigerian oil and gas industry,’ said the industry is a technology-driven and knowledge-based one, therefore, processes and operations should be at their best. Represented by the Deputy Director, Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Division, Dr. Musa Zagi, Shakur, said the workshop was aimed at charting a new course for laboratory managers and operators and embracing best practices. He advised operators not to view their undertakings, or businesses as only money-making ventures but also ensure their services met global standards. He said laboratory practices should be seen as a critical and sensitive component, which input are vital to decision-making across the  value chain. “The impressive attendance to this workshop, to me, signifies the seriousness and importance that you all attach to this engagement which is geared towards continuous improvement of laboratory practice in the oil and gas industry. “I would like to thank the Head, Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) and his dedicated team for successfully putting this stakeholders’ workshop together. It is also imperative to ask how equipped and efficient our laboratories for conducting these scientific observations and analyses are. “It is my fervent hope and firm belief that the discussions in this workshop will ignite a strong determination and resolve among all oil and gas laboratory stakeholders to begin to chart a definitive and sustainable path towards uncompromised and consistent quality of service and integrity of results,” he said. Shakur emphasised that the quality and integrity of data or results from laboratories was critical for decision-making for regulators and operators without which there could be no real value and sustainability. He said the DPR had put in place machinery to ensure good laboratory practice, adding that the accreditation and permitting process for laboratory services firm had been strengthened since the workshop was first held in 2015. “DPR is committed to working with stakeholders to drive and enhance good laboratory practice within the sub-sector, encourage and where necessary enforce capacity building with the ultimate goal or objective of promoting sustainable development in the industry,” he added. At the event were chief executives of laboratory services firms, academics and representatives of oil and gas firms. Various presentations identified the importance of sample collection. Sampling, according to the presentations, is fundamental and critical to the integrity of the analytical process as wrong sample collection is one of the major sources of errors and bias in analytical data. Sample collection and preservation procedures may vary depending on the samples and the parameters. Laboratory analysts are sometimes not involved in the sample collection. Sometimes, the laboratory is not even involved, the operators noted, adding that best practice requires that stakeholders (sample collection team, laboratory analysts, lab manager and customer, among others, review and agree on the sampling plan that would meet the objectives of the analytical campaign. They noted the safety implications of poor laboratory processes and procedures to include injury, downtime, fatality, loss of assets, regulatory sanctions, and loss of operating licence and environmental pollution. To prevent mishaps, they advised operators to verify supplies, such as calibration items, inert gases, syringes and develop safety risk register. They advised lab operators not to assume but use the appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and do a last-minute risk assessment, especially for non-routine activities. Operators, they said, should think of safer technologies, such as migrating from mercury thermometer to digital pipettes and safer break bottles, among others, and also ensure that personnel are familiar with spill kits. Laboratory operators should inspect facilities regularly and maintain safety barriers, such as showers, fume hoods and extinguishers and always thing of waste management and disposal options. According to the Head of Laboratory Services of DPR, Mr. Sikiru Abdulrahman, laboratories are supposed to be located in areas that are suitable for such operations but what we find sometimes is condemnable. He said DPR will, henceforth, not tolerate location of labs at the wrong places; as such labs would be closed down and the licences withdrawn.