Chris Oji, Enugu The Enugu State Police Command Tuesday, paraded 36 suspected criminals involved in various crimes in the state within the past one month. Parading the suspects in Enugu, state Commissioner of Police, Mr Ahmad Abdurrahman, noted that the feat was achieved by police operatives of Operation Puff Adder and intelligence-led community-policing mechanisms. Abdurrahman said that the Command also recovered six arms and three live cartridges as well as seven inverter batteries, one tricycle, one lorry and one hand set. He said that other items recovered included; filling machine, cutting machine and short iron axe all used in fabricating locally-made guns as well as piles of MTN cables and Transmission Armoured Cables. The police boss noted that the crimes the suspects committed included; armed robbery, kidnapping, cultism, vandalism, rape among others. The commissioner said that the Command had succeeded in arresting two notorious locally-made arm manufacturers a fortnight ago in Nenwe community. “Gabriel Udeh, 38, of Otuku community in Awgu Local Government Area and Orji James, 40, of Agbada in Nenwe community in Aninri Local Government Area were arrested by the State Criminal Investigation Department. “The suspects engaged in the manufacture and sales of firearms and they were arrested with the aid of Nenwe Community Neighbourhood Watch Association. “These suspects must have been the ones that supply arms to criminals, who in turn use it to terrorize law abiding residents of the state,’’ he said. The commissioner also said that Command also arrested three suspected kidnappers, who operate in the state but live outside the state. “Inspector Maaling Peter, 35, of Rijana Police Station, Kaduna State; Sargent Ojudu Tiny, 34, of 64 Police Mobile Force, Ikorodu, Lagos State and Iheanachor Osuji of Ogui, Enugu State were arrested for alleged kidnapping. “The three suspects are still under investigation,’’ he said. He noted that the Command on Nov. 9 arrested Pastor Sunday Egbo, 26, of Christ Mercy Ministry Ajuona Obukpa in Nsukka Local Government Area for violence and forceful rape of one Miss Blessing Ukwueze. Abdurrahman, however, urged criminals to steer clear of Enugu State this yuletide, adding; “The command did a show-of-force today and we take other measures to clearly show criminals the way out of the state’’. “We are prepared for the forthcoming yuletide and there would be no chance or breathing space for criminals in the state henceforth, ‘’ he said.