  On passion outside football Aside football and playing ping pong (table tennis), I love schooling.  I was a good art student and I can draw so much. This is another gift from God and I actually started drawing when I was young; and maybe I would   have been a good artist than a footballer.As per football, Nwankwo Kanu and Thomas Muller of Germany really inspired me; I have watched some of their games on television and they were great players; and it is my prayers that I become a great player too. On being part of the 2015 World Cup-winning team What made the 2015 Golden Eaglets special was the fact that we all worked together as a team. We truly understand ourselves and worked for the success of the team; and my best pal in the team  was Kingsley Michael because he understands me more than anyone in the team. Kingsley knew what I  like and what I don’t like; and also he knew what I can do and what I cannot do; we understood each other perfectly. On fond love for mother The first person I called after I signed for Bologna was actually my mother because I can’t forget all what she did for me. Right from the beginning she was the only one that believe in me; when everything was not going well she pushed me a lot that’s why I can never do anything without her. “She won’t be joining me in Italy because I still need to settle down for now; and once I’m settled, I would gladly welcome her to my home in Italy. “Playing football means a lot to me because when I was young, my mother always told me that I would be a great.   Though the worth of a striker is weighed in the amount of goals he scored in the year under review, strikers most often than not etch in their memories a particular goal they often consider the most special in their careers. It is such goal that Nigeria bubbly youth international Orji Okwonkwo has now described as his own career-changing goal-the wonderful (one-derful) goal that has led him to where he is today.  A little over four years ago and precisely on 5th November 2015, Okwonkwo, in the FIFA U-17 World Cup semi-final match at the Estadio Municipal de Concepción in Chile, scored the goal of his life with an uncommon gusto and élan in that famous 4-2 win over Mexico. Indeed, that goal against the El Tri is a marker as the rangy forward broke loose through the South American midfield and defence before unleashing a thunderous volley inside the net off the crossbar. “The goal I scored at the 2015 World Cup in Chile is one of the best goals and if not the best goal of my career so far,” the 20-year-old Okwonkwo, who was named by Major League Soccer (MLS) side Montreal Impact as its Most Outstanding Player for 2019, said in an interview with The Nation.“ That goal against Mexico in the semi-final  broughtme from nothing to something. “It was a very good goal and it will always be special to me. Nobody expected I could score with that powerful shot and, honestly, I didn’t know it would go straight into the net; it was so amazing. Scoring that kind of goal will always make me smile and happy. “It was the goal that Bologna saw and they said ‘you would be a great player in future’ and it’s that particular goal that brought me to where I’m today. “I want to use this opportunity to thank coach Emmanuel Amuneke and all the Golden Eaglets’ technical and backroom staff for allowing me to showcase my talent at the World Cup. “Coach Amuneke, I want to thank you for all that you did for me. The most important thing about winning the 2015 World Cup is the confidence it gave to many of us and without going to the World Cup, I may not be where I’m today.” Of course, Okwonkwo has since grown from that blue-eyed teenager to an impactful striker after some apprenticeship at Serie A side, Bologna, and his worth was there for all to see yet again at Canadian outfit, Montreal Impact, despite being a loanee. “My career has been amazing after the 2015 World Cup victory in Chile and I have been enjoying my football even though there had been ups and down,”explained the former Abuja College of Football striker and two-time winner of the annual Karanka Reveria Invitational Tournament in Croatia in 2013 and 2015. I enjoy playing football and that is the only thing I do. “My best moment at Bologna was when I was given my first game; my debut in the Serie A in November 2016 against Palermo because I was not expecting to be featured in that game because I was so young. “But the coach gave me the chance and, as we say in football, ‘when they give you chance, you have to just take’. “ I took my chance right from that first game and everything started going smoothly for me.  I started playing in the first team and everything has been going well.” His first goal for Bologna did arrive a year later in the game against Sassuolo but he was soon loaned out to Brescia before finally landing in Canada with Montreal Impact in February as a loanee. “I was shocked when I was told I was the best player of the team in the MLS for 2019 because I just came to the team on loan to prove a point,” he explained. “Before my arrival, one player had been winning the award for the past four seasons. I just want to thank the club for everything; that award is important to my career because I only went to Montreal to prove a point.” Of course, the standard of the MLS  can’t be compared with life in the Serie A, Okwonkwo reckoned  the experience remains invaluable to him, saying he would always have a fond memory of his stay at Montreal Impact. He said: “The difference between playing in Europe and in the Major League Soccer (MLS) is not much. The MLS is not as open as the European leagues but it’s my opinion that the MLS is growing into a very big thing especially if the fans remain very enthusiastic. “Before going to play in the MLS, I had the mind-set that it wasn’t a very strong league because I thought it was only for old people. “I decided to go to the MLS not because of the money but I wanted to prove a point and it worked out for me. I’m very happy to have been part of Montreal Impact last season because I did so well too. “I was named the Most Valuable Player for the season and I think that was great response from me.  I really appreciate the management and staff of Montreal Impact for giving me such a great platform top showcase my talents.” It was on the strength of his outstanding performance with Montreal Impact that he was drafted into the Olympic Eagles that failed to cross the Tokyo 2020 Rubicon at the CAF U-23 AFCON recently in Egypt. But Okwonkwo can still look back to his performance with personal satisfaction after being among the goals in the team’s win over Zambia at Al Salam Stadium in Cairo – it was his first goal in the national team colour after a long drought. It was three years, three months and 20 days; precisely 1, 2007 after the day Okwonkwo scored one of the goals for the coach Emmanuel Amuneke-led Flying Eagles against Sudan in that shock home 4-3 home defeat at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos on 23rd July 2016. “I am very happy to score my first goal for the Nigeria Under-23 team,” the FC Bologna striker currently on loan to Canadian outfit, Montreal Impact, said in an exclusive interview with NationSport. “The game against Zambia was actually my third game for the under-23 national team after the game against Libya and Sudan in Asaba during the qualifiers for the AFCON, so I’m so happy that I have finally scored my first goal for the team.” Unfortunately, the Olympic Eagles’ were stopped in their flight to get a ticket to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Football Tournament. Okwonkwo remains giddy with optimism that his future as well as that of his other teammates in the historic Golden Eaglets’ class of 2015 is well assured. “I think we are still going to see many  players from the 2015 Golden Eaglets in the Super Eagles in the nearest future,” noted Okwonkwo who scored an impressive 13 goals in 55 friendly and official  matches with the 2015 Golden Eaglets that paraded the likes of new Super Eagles stars, Samuel Chukwueze and Victor Osimhen.  “I feel so great that we have both Chukwueze and Osimhen currently in the Super Eagles. I know the rest of us still have the chances to join them but we just have to work hard. “Both Chukwueze and Osimhen really worked well with their clubs in Europe to be called for the Super Eagles. “We just have to hope for the best and work our way up because I know many of us from the 2015 Golden Eaglets are still coming; and I’m taking about players like Kelechi Nwakali, Kingsley Michael and many others. I can’t wait to see some of these guys in the Super Eagles.” Somehow, Okwonkwo would have been lost to football because while growing up on the streets of Benin, schooling appealed so much to him and he was already contemplating on becoming an artist (he said he was good at drawing). But thankfully, his mother pushed him towards the dream of playing professional football: “I can do anything for my mum. She is my backbone and she has been there for me ever since. I really thank God that she brought me to this world so that I can show people what I can do. Of course, we’ve had ups and down but she has always been there for me. I really appreciate her.” Though Okwonkwo remains gregarious outside the pitch, he reckoned further that nothing else matters to him than the beautiful game of football. “I like dancing alot; I like music too,” he said with breathy purr. “I do all these to while away time especially when I’m sad. “I just play music and dance to it when I’m sad. Davido is my favourite artist and I like his music very well. I love fashion too. “But there is no way I can leave football for anything like modelling or music. I have been involved with football since I was young and I don’t think I can go anywhere except football. “Football is my life. I think about football every minute and there is nothing that can take me away from football.  I just want to concentrate on my career and go as far as I can,”noted the Ebonyi State-born striker. 