Alao Abiodun Lagos State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), Dr. Adegbola Dominic, has declared that he remains in office irrespective of the antics of some elements planning to cause disaffection in the party. He spoke with newsmen in Ikoyi during a meeting that attracted PDP Board of Trustees members such as Prince Aderemi Akintoye, Sen. Bucknor Akerele, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, Mr. Gbadebo Dallas, Mrs. Olokodana, Prince Sodipe Dosunmu and other party leaders. Dominic said: “We were forced to talk to some of the members of the party, some members have also gone to court and the court has granted us an injunction to stop any elections these people are planning tomorrow (Wednesday) because it’s against the party constitution. “In PDP Lagos state today, almost everybody thinks they are a leader which is wrong, there is only one leader. There’s no crisis in PDP, no faction nor group. We have only one leader and he’s Bode George”. While passing a vote of confidence on the status of Bode George as a recognised leader in the party, Dominic stressed George is a recognised chieftain of PDP in Lagos state, he lamented that some bad eggs in the party have been giving the party a bad name and storms have also been gathering to derail the ship of PDP in Lagos state. He however stressed George has been putting his best to put the party in its best shape. Prince Sodipe Dosunmu said he has not seen anybody in Lagos or perhaps southwest that has contributed to the PDP in terms of finances and other areas than Bode George. Akerele, former Lagos Deputy Governor, said: “There are some people who want to destabilise the party in Lagos state and unfortunately they are from outside the state, we are determined to remain stable and we are going to be strong opposition to the APC”. Another elder statesman of the party, Dr. Ebenezer Babatope, who expressed his solidarity with the state PDP, said: “What some persons were planning to do in Lagos was what they are trying to do in osun state. “Some elements from Abuja were sending emissaries to preside over what they were planning. He said PDP will continue to wax from strength to strength. Some over ambitious men are trying to soil the names of the party”. He however commended the Lagos PDP for their resilience irrespective of the elements planning coup in the party to impose their candidates on the state party.