Augustine Okezie, Katsina  The Katsina State Police Command on Monday announced the arrest of an armed robbery suspect named: Ibrahim Usman, aged 35yrs of Unguwar Kwari, Badawa area of Kano State.  He was arrested at along IBB Way, katsina A press release which was signed by the Spokesman of the state Police Command, Superintended Gambo Isah, and made available to newsmen, also disclosed that a Toyota Coaster Bus: white in colour, with registration No. AGL 869 R, Chassis No. JTGFK518604023588, which was stolen at G9 mobile office along Audu Bako way Kano, was found with him The statement said ’’today being 10/11/2019 at about 06:30hrs, based on a tip-off, the Command succeeded in arresting one Ibrahim Usman, m, aged 35yrs of Unguwar Kwari, Badawa area of Kano State in possession of a 35 seater, Toyota Coaster Bus, white in colour, with registration No. AGL 869 R, Chassis No. JTGFK518604023588,. The said motor vehicle was stolen at G9 mobile office along Audu Bako way Kano. Investigation is ongoing’’.
In a related development, the State Police Command has arrested a notorious Indian hemp dealer Shamsu Rabi’u, aged 23yrs and recovered large quantity of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp. A Press Release from the Spokesman of the Police Command further disclosed that Malam Shamsu who hailed from Gidan Mutum Daya village, Kusada LGA of Katsina state, had two bags containing large quantity of dried leaves reasonably suspected to be Indian hemp with him at the time of the arrest He said’’ based on a tip off, the Command succeeded in arresting a notorious Indian hemp dealer, one Shamsu Rabi’u, m, aged 23yrs of Gidan Mutum Daya village, Kusada LGA of Katsina state with two bags containing large quantity of dried leaves reasonably suspected to be Indian Hemp’’. ‘’Nemesis caught up with the suspect when he was arrested while trying to move the exhibits to a particular location. Suspect confessed to the crime and is assisting the police in their investigation. Investigation is ongoing’’. Also, another notorious syndicate of gang of thieves in katsina were busted during the annual Sheikh Ahmed Tijjani Maulud conducted at the Muhammad Dikko Stadium, during a sting operation at various locations in the state The gang of thieves who have specialized in the theft of money, GSM handsets and other valuables were apprehended during the operation with the suspects confessing to the various crimes committed within the state. ,