By Caleb Ijioma The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Ogun State chairman, Comrade Bamgbose Tomiwa Peter,  has said students in Ogun State must enjoy the dividend of democracy. He spoke in an interview with Campus Life. Tommytee said he would remain committed to Ogun students in representing, fighting and agitating for their rights. He said the association had demanded that the Ogun State government construct roads that lead to various tertiary institutions owned by the state, build hostels and provide a conducive learning environment for the students. “My plan for the students of Ogun State is that at every point in time, we will always perform our duty which is to represent, fight and agitate for the right and interest of all Nigerian students in every situation. We have issued doing it and we will continue to do it. “First and foremost, my plan is that all students of Ogun State must enjoy the dividend of democracy.  We have put a lot of write-ups and demand to the government concerning the construction of roads that lead to our campuses, building of hostels in all our schools making sure that the learning environment is conducive for all and sundry.  Due to the fact that we just got on-board this year, there is a lot of work-load on us and we have been doing more of agitating and more of fighting for the interest of Nigerian students,” he said. Speaking on his plans for Ogun State students for the year 2020, he said that NANS would organise various programmes. “By the special grace of God as we are going into the year 2020, we will organise programmes for Nigerian students to shy away from cultism and drug abuse to make them see beyond the school certificate.  We have a lot of things in store for them,” he said. Since coming on board, Peter said he had intervened to ensure students’ elections went smoothly. “I could remember vividly during the last election of Ogun State School of  Technology, Igbesa, a student was disqualified for contesting for the post of speakership, when we got there, we saw no reason why the student should be disqualified. “We give God the glory because the ban of disqualification was lifted and today he is now the speaker of that citadel of learning.  We have a lot of things in stock for them but we can only mention a few” Reacting to the expulsion of Micheal Ifemosu, a 200-Level student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), for posting an open letter to the vice-chancellor of the university on his Facebook page in which he complained about the happenings in the school, Peter said he learnt that Ifemosu had sought legal advice.  However, Peter noted that NANS had set up a committee to look into the issue.  “Well, the case of Ifemosu is a very complex issue because the open letter he wrote to the Vice Chancellor contained a lot of issues including transportation and security. “From my own findings, I was told  that Ifemosu was invited to a panel to defend himself and the outcome of the panel was what led to his expulsion from the institution. ‘’Well the leadership of NANS has met with the Vice Chancellor about what transpired and in the course of our enquiry, we were told that he made some allegations against the school which were not true and   could not also  prove. “When we met with Ifemosu (also I have met with him on two occasions), I told him that from our own side, as NANS, we would like to apologise on his behalf. He said there is nothing to appeal – that he would only fight for his right. “Well, I know that there are rules governing every impeachment and school which is  the constitution or the code of conduct.  They said he was found wanting of some things being listed in the letter of expulsion and currently as we speak, the leadership of NANS with the DCCS has set up a committee to look into the issue so as to come up with a recommendation in our forthcoming Senate meeting so for us to know where we’re going. “I was  told  that Ifemosu had gone to seek  the help of a legal practitioner, maybe  he plans  to take the school to court. As for me, our Senate meeting will be coming up towards the end of this week, where we will discuss as a body and we’ll come out with our own findings, ‘’he said.