Agency Reporter  In the view of Mallam Aminu Gwadabe, President, Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON), the intervention by the apex bank has done a lot of good to sustaining the stability of the naira. Speaking with our correspondent at the weekend, the ABCON boss reiterated that the intervention has done a lot. “For the past 30 months, we have had stability, we have liquidity. I know there are some fears that as we approach December and January things might get somehow as far as the availability of forex is concern, but in fact, for me, what we have is a plus mark. I can tell you nobody bureau de change operator or anybody else for that matter can speculate with the naira. We have been able to successfully curtail that and that’s a positive development.” While reiterating that the apex ban k has been able to stabilise the value of the naira for the upward of 30 months, he insisted that such a trend show s that things are definitely looking up  for the naira. “We are not talking about six or 12 or 24 months, but 30 months. That’s a feat.” As to whether, the usual rush associated with the yuletide may have far reaching implication on the cost of fund, he expressed optimism that nothing untoward will happen. “I don’t see anything that will really happen except for external shocks and external shocks that we are not looking at, maybe in terms of prices and even China, America trade war, cut off of supply from also America from their production level, so all those ones will support oil prices and when oil prices are high, definitely the value of the naira will appreciate as well.” Gwadabe who noted that most bureau de change operators are operating mostly on a loss now because of the liquidity and stability of the economy was however, quick to add that they will continue to support the CBN quest to make the naira stable and strong. “We have over are 5100 registered bureau de change now, the space is full of competition, full of players so everybody is just making a small margin. People know, now is not the time to speculate, it is not the time to make profit.” Pressed further, he said, “You will not make anything, you will lose if you want to speculate, I think the era of holding on to the dollar in anticipation that the value of the naira might drop is a thing of the past. As far as I’m concerned the fears that the value of the naira may drop as a result of demand for forex is unfounded. For me, I don’t see any cause for alarm.”