PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and professionals in the housing sector have carpeted the new National Housing Fund (NHF) Act 2019. They say it will contribute to the housing deficit, estimated at 17 million units. But the government thinks otherwise, OKWY IROEGBU-CHIKEZIE reports  Stakeholders have criticised the National Housing Fund Act 2019. To them, the Act may derail its objectives, which include access to housing. At an event by the Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers (NIESV), Lagos State Branch, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), firm of estate surveyors and valuers and fund managers, said some aspects of the Act, such as the introduction of a charge of 2.5 per cent on gross income, makes the Act unattractive. The charge was formerly based on basic income. Others, according to them, are the introduction of 2.5 per cent levy on cement, and compulsory minimum investment of 10 per cent of profits before tax by banks, insurance companies and PFAs. Speaking on “Review of Budget 2020, the real estate perspective,”  a Director with PwC, Bola Adigun, said   the Act would increase the cost of housing because of the increased tax on cement. She stated that banks would be compelled to reduce their mortgage financing due to the compulsory investment of 10 per cent of their profit in the funds. She noted that there is the the mortgage finance deficit of N30 trillion with 85 per cent of the urban population living in rented accommodation. She said: “There is poor access to loan facilities. Only four per cent of Nigerians over 15 years had received a loan from a financial institution in 2017. The average cost of building a house in Nigeria is $50,000;  in South Africa,  it is $36,000 and $26,000 in India. This is in addition to the difficulties associated with property title. The about N60billion allocated  to the Housing Ministry out of the Works Ministry is not enough to make appreciable difference in the quest to close the housing gap as it exists nationally.’’ On opportunities in the sector, she said Nigeria will continue to have  strong fundamental factors for growth  as a result of a growing middle class that outnumbers others in Sub-Saharan Africa. According to the PwC director, with over 180 million people, Nigeria offers enormous opportunities for real estate, despite weaknesses in its economy. She added that the nation provides a huge market for investors with the advantage of several cities with a population of over one million. Earlier, Chairman, Lagos NIESV, Adedotun Bamigbola, said there was the need to tackle  housing deficit.  ‘’As professionals and critical stakeholders in the sector,  we believe that  issues, such as funding for real estate projects, land titles, documentation  and some government policies are issues that need to be brought to the front burner. ‘’We believe that provisions made for the housing sector, which is about N60 billion is not enough to change the tide and make housing available for the majority of the people through affordable housing and workable mortgage system,’’ he said. On the way forward, he said the  laws and system should be rejigged   for better value orientation, which would allow the government know the importance of collaborating with the private sector. He advised the government to involve housing experts in budgeting, especially in the real estate sector. Calling on the government for infrastructure financing, the NIESV chief said his institution would continue to promote the ideals of specialisation, improve the skill-set of its members to provide a good networking environment for business. But the government through the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) said it is poised to fulfill its mandate of stimulating home ownership through the National Housing Fund (NHF). Its Managing Director Ahmed Dangiwa, said the bank has the mandate of financing affordable housing for the low and middle income earners in the formal and informal sectors through the National Housing Fund (NHF) Scheme by registering and contributing 2.5 percent of their income. He stated that the objective is to provide cheap funds to nurture and sustain the industry and, eventually, facilitate affordable home-ownership for the low and medium income group. He said to increase more  participation by Nigerians in the scheme, the bank has scrapped equity contribution for houses costing not more N5million, while a loan of between N5million and N15 million attracts 10 per cent equity. According to him, “Section 14 (2) of the National Housing Fund Act Cap N.45 of 1992 and 2019 as amended stipulates that a contributor to the Fund can access a loan from the Fund for building, purchasing or renovating of existing houses. To achieve this, FMBN has developed concessionary loan windows to enable Nigerians access mortgages for homeownership’’. He pointed out that if the contributor could not benefit, he or she would be refunded his or her money plus interest after attaining 60 years or after 35 years in service as stipulated by the NHF Act. He revealed that the government has liberalised home ownership by ensuring that bank was digitilised with the launch of the USSD code, where contributors could access information, such as retrieve NHF account number, account balance, generate statement of account, check affordability using the mortgage calculator etc, which meant that the use of passbook is phased out. Debunking criticisms by professionals on the limitations of NHF Act,  Dangiwa said FMBN is the last hope of the common man through its affordable mortgages and home construction financing. He explained that the bank has  enough products for Nigerians to take advantage of through the National Housing Fund (NHF) Scheme.