Barely 48 hours to the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, the police have identified possible risks that can constitute threat to the smooth conduct of tomorrow’s elections in the two states. The police warned that in securing law-abiding citizens during elections, the police would not hesitate to deploy its might to deal firmly and decisively with “electoral deviants.” Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of Operations, Abdulmajid Ali, made this known to newsmen in Lokoja, the state capital, at a news conference. He said individuals and groups that could pose security challenges to the elections had been identified, classified and placed under surveillance. Ali said security threat assessment carried out in the two states made it possible for the police to discover all these. Calling on the political actors and Nigerians in general to lend support to the police and other law enforcement agencies in sustaining the gains recorded in the nation’s democratic march, he warned that the police could not be held to ransom by those bent on disrupting the process, in the discharge of its mandate during the exercise. According to him, the outcome of the intelligence-driven assessment was also used as a guide in the deployment of personnel and logistics for the elections in both states. Ali said the objective was to create a secure and peaceful environment to give citizens in the two states the confidence to freely exercise their franchise. He explained that adequate security had been put in place for all Independent National Electoral Commission’s personnel, ad-hoc staff, agents, domestic and international observers during the entire period of the elections. “We have also emplaced adequate security for both sensitive and non-sensitive election materials, both at the voting centres, while on transit and at the various collation points,” he said. He said that 66,241 policemen would be deployed for election security operations in both Kogi and Bayelsa state tomorrow. Out of this, he said 35,200 personnel would be deployed in Kogi State, while 31,041 would be deployed in Bayelsa State. He said that they would be complemented by deployment of Police Mobile Force, Special Protection Unit and Counter-terrorism Unit and other security outfits. In addition, Ali said that the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had ordered the posting of Deputy Inspectors-General of Police (DIGs), Assistant Inspectors General of Police, Commissioners of Police, Deputy Commissioners of Police and Assistant Commissioners of Police to all senatorial districts and local government areas within the two states. He made it clear that the heavy deployment of policemen for the polls was not to intimidate voters but to make the elections a success. According to him, personnel deployed on the election security operations have been charged to be civil, fair and professional and be guided by the rule of law in the discharge of their duties. “In so doing, however, they have been additionally instructed to be firm and decisive,’’ he said. Ali said that all entry and exit points into Kogi and Bayelsa states from contiguous states shall be closed as from 12 a.m. on November 15 to 4 p.m. on November 16. “There shall also be restriction of movements within the two states as from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. of November 16, with the exemption of those on election duties and essential services,’’ he said. Ali said the Inspector-General of Police had directed that with effect from Friday, November 15, all security aides attached to political office holders be withdrawn until the conclusion of the elections. He gave an assurance that the police and other security agencies were fully ready to support INEC in delivering successful elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. He said that the country had had enough of electoral violence, warning those planning to foment trouble on election day to have a change of mind. “In securing the law-abiding citizens during the elections, we shall not hesitate to deploy our potent assets to deal firmly and decisively with electoral deviants,’’ he warned.