The annual founders conference organised by  Sales Ruby, an empowerment organisation in Lagos brought together  celebrated  entrepreneurs to offer expert  advice  to young Nigerians,  explore business opportunities and  innovative solutions for sustainable development challenges, DANIEL ESSIET  reports .  The annual Founders  Conference, which held at Pistis hub, Maryland,  Lagos brought together  celebrated  entrepreneurs to offer expert  advice  to young Nigerians , explore  business opportunities and  innovative solutions for development challenges. The event was a gathering of entrepreneurs, business owners, corporate executives and many others, with an aim to help 1,500 businesses and startups scale up their growth this year. Some of the speakers during the programme include: Founder, CWG Plc, Austin Okere; Chief Executive, IO Furnitures ,Mrs Munira Shonibare ; Chief Executive Alpha Mead, Femi Akintunde and Chief Executive  Sales Ruby, Bunmi Jembola. By drawing attention to celebrated entrepreneurs, Chief Executive Sales Ruby, Bunmi Jembola said the conference hopes others will feel inspired to not only devise fresh approaches to solving challenges, but also adopt and attract support to upscale and achieve greater impact. Said Jembola: “This year, we have constituted an uncommon team of very erudite speakers who have proven in their various businesses that getting unusual results is indeed very realistic.” Keynote speaker Austin Okere who is the founder of Computer Warehouse Group, (CWG) stated that leaving one’s job to start a business is very difficult and it was of high importance to build trust in a business. He further stated that getting one’s first client can be tough but if the business owner can push through that and gets repeat patronage, and then he/she will start to make some money. Okere said that fear and excuses are a major factor that stop people from starting anything at all, adding that hitting brick walls of frustration and stress cannot be avoided. He said building capability, functionality, partnerships, diversification and succession are key ingredients needed to sustain a business He said today’s technological impact, is exponentially bigger and so is the opportunities open to startups and enterprises if they embrace and lead their own transformation. He said the timing of bringing innovation to commercial fruition is a new competitive advantage that set apart the winners. Speaking about   CWG, Okere said the company was established in September 1992 with just $16,000 operating budget and six staff. He recalled: “We built the company up slowly and steadily in the ICT markets and began to expand. We thrive on staying ahead of the curve in the ever changing technology landscape and maintaining a dominant leadership position. We have evolved from being a Dell PC sales and support company, through providing Enterprise Systems, becoming an outsourcing company providing Managed Services to major clients such as MTN, where we have over 100 badged engineers managing their IT infrastructure, to becoming a dominant IT utility enabler in our region, providing Software-as-a- Service through Cloud Computing on a subscription basis. He said the company enjoyed steady growth since 1992. Regarding  the key success factors, he said it was the decision to adopt a strong innovation strategy with clear long-term objectives. He said the journey to the company’s achievements has been documented in a case study by the Columbia Business School, New York, United States. He advised startups and entrepreneurs to reevaluate their current strategies to take into account the eruption of new technologies, specifically the effects of digitisation. Another speaker, an  interior designer   and Chief Executive, IO Furnitures, Mrs Munira Shonibare said she started the  business in 1987.The first job she did came from her father, there after she started having referrals. Her winning formula was creating furniture design locally that can be sold abroad. The company was started from the scratch. The intricacies and systems required for a successful business were learnt in that manner. Her philosophy is simple- to constantly innovate and explore and push the boundaries of the furniture and design world. She sees challenges as learning experiences as opposed to setbacks. As a woman, she has to work extra hard to be a good mother and business woman, but she truly loves what she does and that translates into every aspect of her life. It has taken commitment to stick to her core ethos and values and to develop a business model that she can be proud of and support wholeheartedly. She revealed that having mentors who have succeeded in areas where a person wants to be can never be over-emphasised. Also that hard work, determination, discipline and focus, as well as knowing when to scale up, either due to risks or increase in demand in business, should also be looked into. At the event, attendees were treated to a powerful, candid, occasionally lighthearted and fascinating discussion on entrepreneurship by a panel of founders and investors.