 The zonal office of UNICEF in Enugu in collaboration with other stakeholders has conducted an interactive session with pupils selected from various secondary schools in Calabar, the Cross River State capital, to mark the 30 years anniversary of the “Convention on the Rights of the Child- CRC”. The event tagged “Youth Talk for CRC @ 30” with the theme; “The Naija We Want- Improving access to quality education for youths” held at conference Hall of Channel View Hotel, Calabar with the support of other stakeholders such as the UK-AID, the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Cross River State government. Chief of Field Office, UNICEF, Enugu, Ibrahim Conteh noted that youths are powerful agents of change and nothing should stop them from getting the best and qualitative education. According to him: “UNICEF is supporting the government in their budgeting process to do public finance management to ensure that the issues of children are being addressed when they are doing their budgeting. Our aim is to see that every child everywhere that is deprived, is supported. “There are over 15million children in Nigeria and every child needs support in basic services: in education, in health, in nutrition, etc. part of our core commitments is actually to ensure that wherever the child is, every child needs all the basic services and our support to every child is the same, though we try to focus on the more deprived areas and we are supporting up to 5million children in Nigeria directly but we also work with the government.” Permanent Secretary, Cross River State Ministry of Women Affairs, represented by Mrs. Helen Ofem of the Ministry of Sustainable development, lauded UNICEF, UK-AID and the Cross River State government for providing the enabling environment to celebrate CRC at 30 in Calabar. Communication Officer, UNICEF, Enugu zonal office, Ijeoma Onuoha-Ogwe stated the objectives of the meeting to the school children, urging them to speak up for themselves on what they want as children in Nigeria and their major challenges in school and in homes. An interactive session was held which gave the opportunity to the children in attendance to air their views. Jane Oban, from Government Technical College, Mayne Avenue said her challenge was lack of basic infrastructural facilities, including poor laboratory equipment in her school. Another attendee stressed on emotional-based violence which may lead to depression at home and in the classroom. A former deputy Speaker of the Children’s Parliament in the state, Joseph Bassey, who also spoke during the interactive session noted that youths should be given the chance to choose their careers instead of being forced to go into a particular field by their parents. He also requested government should provide a scholarship scheme for students. Another member of the Youth Parliament, Emmanuel John asked for the provision of skill acquisition centers for the youths in the state, so they could acquire some skills and demanded the provision of basic amenities in schools.   