Nwanosike Onu, Awka  Residents of the three local government areas already submerged by flood in Anambra State have cried out to the state government for help as they can no longer cope with the situation. The affected three local government areas are Ogbaru, Anambra East and Anambra West. Churches in the areas, farm lands and family property have been submerged by flood. One of the displaced persons, Mrs. Ebele Nwachukwu, pleaded with government for more aids to save them and their children from starvation. “Our children no longer go to school because a child here, in the holding centre, was almost carried away by flood on his way from school,’’she said. Another displaced person, Mr. Sunday Ogulo, noted that this year’s flooding had become unbearable because unlike other years, the floodwaters would have started receding by this time of the year. He pleaded with government to come to their aid, while thanking Governor Willie Obiano and Ogbaru council Chairman for their efforts at ensuring affected victims were well accommodated. However, the Anambra State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) has embarked on an assessment tour of various communities affected by flood in order to ascertain the water level. The assessment   was carried out yesterday at the three local governments areas by SEMA to present situation reports to the state government. Executive Director of the Agency , Mr. Cyprian Agupugo, represented by the Executive Assistant to Obiano  on SEMA (Media), Mr. Emeka Obinwa, said with the rising level of water, more victims had been moved into holding centres. According to him: “The situation of things has driven many victims into the holding centres. This is what we saw at Atani and some of the victims go about their daily activities and retire to the centres. “The rising level of water witnessed in recent times has orchestrated a surge in the number of victims.” The government representative noted that the victims were pleading for assistance, especially food items, as they had exhausted the stock distributed to them about three weeks ago. According to him, most of the areas visited have been completely submerged as houses, farmlands, churches and schools are already underwater. He said: “School children have been displaced and in some upland areas, you will find out that children from different schools are merged and taught together. “It is a sad story; the situation is really treacherous and devastating because most of these people now do their daily activities on water.’’ He assured victims of government’s readiness to work with relevant authorities to bring about the desired assistance to them. The Chairman, 2019 Flood Relief Committee, Ogbaru council area, Mr. Nnamdi Esimai, commended the state government for making available relief materials that were distributed to victims through SEMA three weeks ago. He, however, noted that more victims were increasing in the holding centres on a daily basis due to the rising water level. Esimai pleaded with the state government to provide more relief materials, especially food items, as the people had been worried and hungry.