The General Manager, Lagos Traffic Radio, Mr. Tayo Akanle, has restated  the station’s readiness to support the Lagos State Ferry Services Corporation (LAGFERRY) in its sensitisation’s drive on water transportation. Akanle said the initiative was part of efforts to decongest the roads. The Traffic Radio boss staed this when he led the station’s management on a visit to the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), LAGFERRY, Mr. AbdoulBaq Ladi-Balogun. He said the Radio’s audience base and strong online would aid the enlightenment of Lagosians and boost patronage of the ferry service as an alternative to movement. He said access to information on the waterways would enhance the choice of commuters in Lagos and enrich the synergy between  the agencies. He maintained that since the expansion of its frontiers to include the provision of traffic information on other modes of transportation, such as flight schedules and movements on the waterways, rather than roads alone, the station has positioned itself to improve its social service. According to him, “The partnership will not only be of an immense benefit to Lagosians, it will also lay credence to the commitment of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to deliver a reliable, safe, efficient and effective transportation system that will enhance the mass movement of Lagosians”. Ladi-Balogun said the partnership was timely and pledged the corporation’s readiness to leverage  the alliance. He stressed that LAGFERRY’s target is a 30 per cent movement of commuters, adding that the agency has some of the best ferries in the country and would soon take buy more. He said the corporation intends to play a significant role in the multi-modal transportation initiative of the present administration to decongest the roads, stressing that the policy would be in full effect within the next two years, with Mile 2 and Marina being the major hubs. Meanwhile, the Lagos Zonal Office of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) has rolled out safety campaign across key operational jetties in the state to ensure accident free ride on the waterways. Kicking off the campaign designed to help operators comply with regulations on movements on the waterways, Zonal Manager Engineer Sarat Lara Braimah, who led the safety mission, said vessel owners provide passengers with life jackets. The campaign took off at the CMS jetty, where Braimah addressed passengers on the importance of using life jackets and instructed boat operators not to  board any water vehicle whose operator failed or refused  to wear life jackets. “This campaign is targeted at zero tolerance for unbecoming attitudes inimical to safety issues on the waters and everyone who may wish to use the waterways must embrace it. Life is important and NIWA in Lagos, would not stand by and watch stakeholders disobey safety matters,’’ she explained. The Lagos Zonal chief noted that the campaign would cover Ikorodu,  Badore, Epe, Liverpool, Badagry and Ajegunle waterfront jetties throughout the festive season and would be rounded off in January 2020.  It would be reviewed to stem any unwholesomeness by users. Braimah added that the campaign and would introduce patrol strategies as a backup to this one to one reach out. ‘’We expect feedback from the stakeholders on any potential challenge that may create anxieties particularly to smooth operation of boat services and any life threatening practices among boat operators,” he added. The Lagos Zonal Office is also targeting students and pupils from riverine communities for a special “must use” compliance of life jackets as part of the ember months campaign and a new safety measures to encourage use of water transportation in Lagos. She also concluded, that NIWA Lagos, would also impound boats and life jackets which did not meet operational specifications.