By Wahab Shittu  There is a way the name Ibrahim Mustafa Magu has a close chemistry with the name President Muhammadu Buhari. The two personalities are very passionate about the anti-corruption war; both live relatively simple and are perceived as hardliners in terms of adherence to principles. So far, both have worked together particularly in fostering the anti-corruption agenda of this administration, winning in the process accolades locally and internationally. The surprise however is that while President Buhari is enjoying a second term tenure on account of his high moral and ethical standards including popular appeal, Magu who shares similar traits with the president is still in acting capacity as the chair of EFCC because forces obsessed with the theory of corruption continue to mount fierce battle against this confirmation in spite of his stellar achievements detailed hereunder. The irony of all of these however, is that in spite of this fierce opposition against Magu by pro-corruption elements, only President Buhari as the appointing authority has the power under the law to determine who spearheads his anti-corruption crusade. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, is no doubt, one of the most vibrant anti-corruption agency in Nigeria. Prevention, which is a cardinal objective, if the fight against corruption must be won, was given the top priority. To this extent, various preventive initiatives were designed towards public re-orientation and enlightenment. These programmes include: The Nigerian Women Against Corruption Project, NWAC, which was developed to increase women participation in the fight against corruption. The programme was flagged off in Abuja, the Nigerian capital, by the wife of the president, Aisha Buhari, in December 2016. The same programme was rolled out in February 2017, in Lagos, South West Nigeria. Other geo-political zones of the country followed suit. The Clean Hands Campaign for Children was also flagged off. This campaign was designed primarily to promote the values of integrity and probity among the younger generation. The Creative Youth Initiative Against Corruption, CYIAC, is another laudable initiative, earlier unveiled in October, 2016. The idea was conceived out of the need to give children a platform to express themselves using arts and various other platforms of talents to speak against corruption. To further deepen the participation of young people in the anti-graft war, the EFCC established Integrity Club in secondary schools and tertiary institutions across the country. In a bid to draw more attention to the anti-graft fight, awareness road walks are also organized quarterly in collaboration with various stakeholders across the country. The commission additionally airs its anti-corruption programmes on leading radio and television networks across Nigeria, even as the various social media platforms have been fully embraced as vehicles for mobilization and information dissemination. Other re-orientation mechanisms employed include: engagement with civil society organizations, organized labour unions and stakeholders in the public and private spheres. Town hall meetings are also employed to create a face- to- face interactive platform with community and religious leaders, and various groups within communities in the grassroots, just as musical concerts are staged to draw more attention to the Commission’s anti-corruption messages. Another cardinal objective of the National Anti-corruption Strategy is public engagement. In order to bring the Commission closer to the people for increase public enlistment in the war against corruption, created additional offices across the country. The commission before 2015, operated offices in the six geo-political zones of the country, namely: Abuja, (North-central) Lagos, (South-West), Port Harcourt, (South-south), Enugu, (South-east), Kano, (North-west) and Gombe, (North-east). In the last four years, additional offices were established in Maiduguri, (North-east), Ibadan, (South-west), Kaduna, (North-west), Benin, (South-south), Uyo, (South-south), Ilorin (North-central), Makurdi, (North-central) and Sokoto, (North-west). The EFCC new head office building whose construction was abandoned due to lack of funds was also given priority attention and with support from the Nigerian government, the project was completed and commissioned on May 15, 2018, by President Muhammadu Buhari. For the purpose of closing the gap from the shortage of officers in the commission, massive recruitment exercises were conducted across all cadres with the newly recruited officers in the Detective Superintendent, Detective Inspector and Detective Assistant cadres, trained with the best of facilities at the Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. More than ever before, the social media was employed as a tool for public engagement. In order to create a conducive environment for reporting corruption cases, the commission created several reporting platforms on the social media platforms and dedicated phone lines. Through these channels, the commission engages the public in its corruption preventive programmes and also receives intelligence from whistle-blowers, which has led to the recovery of several billions of naira hidden away by looters. The whistle-blowing policy of the federal government was initiated in December, 2016, primarily to support the fight against financial crimes and corruption, through increasing exposure of financial crimes and monetary reward for whistle-blowers. It encouraged the citizens to volunteer information which could lead to the recovery of stolen funds. The policy which set aside a reward of not more than five per cent  of the total recovered sum as incentive to whistle-blowers, got a boost with the creation of the EFCC corruption reporting platforms as many individuals volunteered information that led to the recovery of billions of dollars hidden away by looters, through the platforms. The very first information which came through the corruption reporting platforms led to the discovery of $9.8M hidden in the slums of Sabon Tasha, in Kaduna State. The money is said to belong to Dr. Andrew Yakubu, a former Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).The funds are currently under an interim forfeiture order even as the alleged owner has challenged the forfeiture order of the court. Still in Kaduna State, a whistle-blower information led EFCC operatives also to intercept the sum of¦ 250 million, stashed away in coloured sacks at the Kaduna International Airport. The money was to be smuggled through the airport. In Lagos, a tip from a whistle-blower also led to the interception of another ¦ 250million in various currencies at a popular textile market in the city. And in a shopping mall located in the high- brow area of Victoria Island, also in Lagos, another sum of ¦ 500million was also uncovered. The more shocking discovery was, however, that of Osborne Towers in Ikoyi, also in Lagos, where cash in local and foreign currencies was recovered in an apartment on the seventh floor of the towers. Funds recovered in the apartment through information provided by a whistle-blowers include: ¦ 527, 463, 500.00; $53, 222, 747. 00; £122,890.00 and €547,730.00.These funds have now been forfeited to the federal government. Still on the National Anti- Corruption Strategy, its Technical Objective Number Four emphasized on enforcement and sanctions for corrupt offenders.  ‘ To further deepen the participation of young people in the anti-graft war, the EFCC established Integrity Club in secondary schools and tertiary institutions across the country. In a bid to draw more attention to the anti-graft fight, awareness road walks are also organized quarterly in collaboration with various stakeholders across the country ’