The Metering Solutions Manufacturing Services Limited (MSMSL) in Onna Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State plans to commence the assembling of solar panels. Tthe Chief Executive Officer of MSMSL, Mr Adebisi Adeniyi said the company will in addition to producing pre-paid metres venture into the assemblage solar panels. He said in the next five years, MSMSL will begin the production of three face metre lines, assembling of energy efficient bulbs, and the production of electricity accssories like wall sockets, sockets and extension boxes among others. He stated that the company has so far produced over 200,000 metres for the Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company (PHED), so as to put an end to the estimated billing system of electricity in the state. He noted that MSMSL is committed to the production of metres for every house in the state in meeting with the desire of Governor Udom Emmanuel to see that every community in the state has electricity. Adeniyi explained that Govenor Emmanuel has taken the provision of electricity as a Corporate Social Responsibility and is willing to provide transformers for every community in the state, pay for the transformers and for metres for those who could not. He blamed the continuous epileptic power supply on the lack of political will by the Federal Government, saying that as long as professionals are not appointed to man the power sector, epileptic power supply in the country would not cease. He said energy theft was the main challenge of MSMSL, as many electricity consumers illegally consumer eletrcity but do not pay for it, adding that with the production and sale of more metres, the problem will be eradicated. Adeniyi said: “We are moving from a single face line to three face lines. We are going to move from meter manufacturing to assembling of solar panels. We are going to move to the assembling of energy efficient bulbs. We are going to go into electricity accessories and products for our injection model so that we manufacture wall socket, sockets and extension boxes. “Once we provide the meters, we will continue to provide support to the distribution companies. We have a strategic relationship with PHED and beacuse of PHED’s strategic roll out plan, they have been able to buy over 200,000 meters from us. “The selling price for a single face metre is N38,000 while the cost of production could be put at N35,000. The cost of a three face meter is N68,000, and we have been mandated by the Nigerian Electricity Regulating Commission to sell at that rate coming from the customer protection stand point. “We have about 191 megawatts of power generated by Ibom Power which is the highest in Nigeria generated by a state. Akwa Ibom is even giving other states power but distribution is the problem. You need the distribution network to be able to get power.