By Adegunle Olugbamila A lawyer, Akintajuwa Oluwayemisi, has urged women to unite against violence against women. Oluwayemisi encouraged women to “speak with one voice” against the social ill. She spoke at a one-day social development forum organised by a rights advocacy group, Justice, Development and Peace Makers (JDPM), Oshogbo chapter. The event with the theme: Violence against women and girls, was held at JDPMC office Oke-Ayepe, Osogbo. Oluwayemisi, who was the guest speaker, urged women to collaborate in the national interest. She said: “My heart bleeds whenever I read any report on rape or assault against women; it has become a bad culture which is coming to stay and our society refuses to find a lasting solution to it. “It is time we considered psychological torture and effect of these social disorders  they do  to the psyche of the victims. “It is my personal and strong convictions that no woman was created by mistake. You will all agree with me that our co-existence is symbolic in intent and purpose by God. “I will therefore urge men, fathers, and boys to respect and give women and female children the best treatment and fair portion in Nigeria’s contextual heritages.”  Oluwayemisi emphasised the need to imbibe cultural and moral values including respect for one another, humility, honesty, kindness, patriotism and fear of God in all endeavours. Speaking on behalf other women at the forum, a representative of the Federation of Muslim Women Association in Nigeria, Alhaja Amudat Agboola; Chairperson of the Catholic Women Organisation (CWO) Mrs.Ola Osundare, as well as a representative of the International Federation of Female Lawyers Association (FIDA) Osogbo Chapter, Oluwadamilola Olabiyi, described women as one of the engine rooms for nation building. They said women are “catalysts in fast tracking unity and progress.” The trio noted that “the Nigerian society has not been fair to women despite their enormous potential capable of turning the fortunes of the nation around. Olabiyi said: “It is still laughable that Nigerians have not come into true knowledge of the fact that Nigerian women have quotas to contribute to Nigeria politically, economically and socially. “The earlier we realise this, the better for us all. This is why we are calling on well-meaning Nigerians to rise to this ugly occasion and give room for fairness and equality in the Nigeria’s power equation”. Coordinator of Oshogbo JDPM Fr. Peter Akinkunmi, who was represented by Onoja Veronica, lamented increasing violence against women and girls. Akinkunmi said the trend does not only count against the productivity of the nation in terms of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), but also rubbished her among the comity of nations.