From Damisi Ojo, Akure  The Chief Executive Officer, Oshodi Art Gallery, Dr Sheyi Oshodi, has said the Second Ondo Art Festival that will hold in December will engage over 20,000 youths, especially for carnival floats. He described fiesta as one of the pivots of any society in life, ‘as it revolves around vitality of youths and engages them positively’. He stated that Ondo State is blessed with rich cultural heritage, highly educated people, array of entertainment super stars and young talents. “The event has already established the idea of selling and promoting the rich culture, arts, artistes and tourism in many ways and the consequence to the creative industry will be worthwhile. “Ondo Art Fest will remain one lasting event for annual celebration, relaxation-holiday period, and a big business brand for the state and the people. “The 10,000 models for carnival float and special performances this year will be raised from Ondo State, particularly among the youths,” he said. According to him, festival of this nature weakens the elements of youth restiveness and creates job opportunities, empowerment, happiness, peace and unity. He said that various productions for contents of the festival would require indigenous labour. “Sociologically, the Investment Conference, workshops and interactions between the Ondo State home-based artistes(youths) and the visiting models and resource persons during the festival will mean a lot in terms of intellect-socio quotient benefits among stakeholders. “The market expo and various exhibitions planned for this edition will raise reasonable promotional scale and future benefit-income to the state. If you calculate all these, over 20,000 youths will be engaged,” he added. Oshodi used the opportunity to commend Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for his vision to see potentials in the festival as a means of employment and income. He also lauded Akeredolu for looking inward and harnessing the untapped resources of the state,especially, keying into the festival of arts and culture. According to him  ‘In today’s modern leadership experience, vibrant administrators don’t only strive to be seen as servant leaders, they get creative, place their minds and hands on so many new things that have economic values to boost the system, most especially to wriggle out from the mono economy situation. Great leaders think deep; they subscribe to partnership and encourage productive endeavours of their subjects.’  