JOSHUA: Dear Omobola, my name is Joshua. I retired as a Sergeant on grade level 05 step 4. My date of first appointment January 20, 1986 and date of retirement is on march 1, 1997. I have done verification in Abuja. Please I am koboless and pray you to tell Pension boss that she should pay my pension. I am helplessly living a tortures life. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been reviewed by the operations department. He will be paid as funds are allocated and released by the FG.  ISA: Good evening, Madam, this is from one of the pre-1996 Railway pensioners in Nasarawa State. My name is Isa. Our 18-month arrears (part of 52 months) since the tenure of former President Goodluck Jonathan is yet to be cleared. Also, railway pensioners are the least paid nationwide. Kindly use your good office to help and solve our problems. We “THANK YOU” for being there for us. PTAD: It is an assumed liability by some group of pensioners in the NRC. The group is yet to forward any supporting documents.  STEVEN: I am a retired teacher from Ifako International School. I was receiving pension of N24,684.76 but since 2003, nothing has been given to me. My NPF number is ANNONYMOUS. I will be happy if you can help and see that the money is paid. I also worked at Barachel Model College. PTAD: The pensioner was called several times with no response. He is advised to send his complaint, name and account details to complaints@ptad.gov.ng.  ONIYE: God bless The Nation’s Pension Column. My name is Mrs. Oniye. I retired from Federal Government College, Idoani in April 1999 as Grade 2 Typist, G.L 5 Step 10. My gratuity was paid on June 7, 2007. I have not been paid any monthly pension. Please attend to my problem by helping me to contact the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) on non-payment of my monthly pension since 1999. PTAD: The pensioner is advised to send her complaint, name and account details to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Her telephone number is not reachable.  BENJAMIN: I am Benjamin. I retired in 2006 under the old NEPA/PHCN and by transition from NELMCO to PTAD. My monthly pension of January and March 2015 were omitted. I went to PTAD five times and did all what I was told to do but to my surprise, each time I went there, they would tell me ‘no fund’ Please intervene for me. PTAD: The pensioner is required to submit his bank statement from July 2014 to date to PTAD office Abuja, including his complaint to enable us investigate and resolve his complaint.  ALICE: My name is Alice. Well done and thanks for The Nation’s concern on pensioner’s matters. My pensioner number is Annonymous. I did verification since August 2017, but PTAD has not paid me till date. Kindly assist, several pensioners have gotten their pension. I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired on April 30, 2008 without payment till date. Thank you. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been investigated. She will receive payment as funds are allocated and released by the FG.  SUNDAY: I retired in June 2003 from the service of former governmet agency changed to National Clearing and Forwarding Agency. I received my pension from March 2008 to April, last year. But they stopped my pension after April and I don’t know why. Please help me. PTAD: If Mr Eshiet has been verified we advise that he send a clearly scanned copy of his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. If he has not been verified, he can visit our Abuja or Lagos office with his employment documents, BVN and original stamped bank statement from April, last year till date to be verified and monthly pension payment resumed if eligible.  