From Muinat Saliman Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Education, Mr. Wahab Tokunbo, has urged final year students of the state tertiary institutions to be dedicated to the ReadySetWork (RSW) Initiative aimed at preparing them for employment and entrepreneurship. Addressing students of the Lagos State University (LASU) and Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), he said about 5,000 students of the institutions, the Lagos State College of Nursing and Caleb University, Imota, would participate in the 12-week programme which begins on November 23, to expose them to work-related and business skills. At LASU Main Campus, Ojo, Tokunbo said the RSW, in its fourth edition, would help students to excel in the labour market. “If we want the students of LASU to bring out the best, then we must start to prepare them from here with this programme,” he said. LASU Vice Chancellor Prof. Olarenwaju Fagbohun said the institution was ready to support students to partake in the scheme. He said: “This year the institution will graduate close to 5,000 students.  Only 2,500 students will have the opportunity to be a part of these projects and we will give them the necessary support.” Tokunbo increased the number of LASU students that would participate in the programme from 2,500  to 3000 students. Addressing students at LASPOTECH Ikorodu campus, Tokunbo, who was represented by the Director of Accounts, Office of the Special Adviser on Education, Mrs. Lola Akinsola, said the 2,000 final year students of LASPOTECH would be drawn from both National Diploma (ND) and Higher National Diploma (HND) progrmmes.  The Special Adviser restated the  government’s commitment to quality and all-inclusive educational system up to the tertiary level. Rector of LASPOTECH, Mr Samuel Sogunro, who was represented by the Deputy Rector (Academics), Mr. Olumide Metilelu, expressed delight at the significant impact of the RSW, especially on LASPOTECH students. Metilelu thanked the government for selecting the institution as one of the learning centres for the programme, saying they were ready to host this edition of RSW. He recalled that the institution was adjudged the best RSW learning centre in 2017, assuring that LASPOTECH was set to surpass its past performances in previous RSW programmes. He said: “It is pertinent to state that in 2017 LASPOTECH was adjudged the best learning centre of the RSW and we are set to do it again.’’ Also, the Programme Coordinator of RSW, Mrs. Folashade Oshun informed the students that the RSW initiative was conceived out of the realisation that “the world that we live in today has moved beyond certificates because employers are now looking for skills and not necessarily certificates”. Mrs. Oshun said the programme is slated for 12 Saturdays of intensive training, stressing that there were more innovations that would  in this edition. “This year, we will be making use of hybrid learning experience which will consist of assignment that will be uploaded directly online. This is because the state government wants to accelerate the pace of development in higher education by deepening the process of learning accessible through technology,” she said. Mrs. Oshun added that there would be a career fair to expose participants to corporate organisations for internships, which could lead to automatic employment or serve as a platform to build young entrepreneurs. 