Olaitan Ganew To further affirm its commitment and dedication towards inspiring and empowering women for a successful future and a better nation, Women in Successful Careers (WISCAR), has successfully organized its 2019 Annual Leadership and Mentoring conference. WISCAR, a non-profit organization which focus is to empower and develop professional women in diverse careers, recently held its annual conference at the MUSON Center, Lagos. Speaking on this year’s theme: ‘I Do Not Walk Alone,’ the Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations, H.E. Amina J. Mohammed (OFR), in her keynote address emphasized the importance of sisterhood, solidarity and community. The 2019 Distinguished WISCAR Award recipient stressed the value of family, friendship, mentors, community, partnerships and a strong support network to achieve career goals. “Women’s forward and meaningful participation makes economies more dynamic, peace agreements more durable, governance and inclusive societies much more resilient. A girl’s education contributes to remaking our world from the economy to the environment and society at large. Women must be included in all spheres. Let me also point out that the United Nations is committed to leading by example and I am proud to say that WISCAR’s mission is ours.” Mohammed, however, urged other participants to be ethical and stick to what is right and do the right thing always. The convener and founder of WISCAR, Mrs. Amina Oyagbola offered that women and men need to work in unison for collaborative growth and success in our nation. According to Oyagbola, the theme of this year’s is fully echoes the power of collectivity, the power of networking, the power of social gatherings and communities, the power of not walking alone. “The old adage says that if you want to move fast, move alone but if you want to go far, you need to move with people. We want to keep encouraging each other to walk together and cross bridges and challenges that hinder our progress and inclusion across sectors”. She further congratulated the 30 outgoing mentees from the WIN with WISCAR Mentoring program while also welcoming the incoming 2020 stream of mentees. A high powered panel discussion at the conference took place that was moderated by Frank Aigbogun, Publisher of BusinessDay Newspaper. The panel discussed, “Breaking the Glass Ceiling; The Power of Networks, Community and Partnerships.” The panel featured Chief Sharon Ikeazor, Hon. Minister of State for Environment, Hon. Tolu Akande-Sadipe, Member of Reps/Policy Influencer, Funmi Omo, CEO African Alliance ; Cecilia Akintomide, Director FBN Holdings and Comfort Lamptey UN Women Country Representative to Nigeria and ECOWAS. The discussants explored the avenues through which women can stand together to achieve results across industries and influence bold change. Other notable personalities in attendance included, The Governor of LASG, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, ably represented by Ajibola Poonle, Hon. Commissioner Ministry of Establishment, training and pensions, who formally opened the 2019 Conference. Goodwill messages were delivered by Mr. Olufemi Lijadu, Chairman Securities and Exchange Commission, the British High Commisioner to Nigeria – H.E Catriona Laing who was represented the Deputy British High Commisioner, Harriet Thompson and Mr. Kayode Pitan, MD/CEO Bank of Industry, ably represented by Mr Leo Kange, ED BOI. The evening with WISCAR’ included a presentation by Ugoma Adegoke, titled, ‘The Power of Many versus The Power of One’, followed by a dramatic and powerful theatre performance called, ‘Wait’ by Bikiya Graham-Douglas.