For the first time since the return to civil rule in 1999, Bayelsa State, which has been dominated by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), faced a governorship contest where the ruling party was struggling to maintain its hold on power. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI, who is monitoring developments in Yenagoa, the state capital, looks at some of the issues raised by the November 16 poll.  IRRESPECTIVE of who emerges winner of last weekend’s governorship election in Bayelsa State, some interesting developments that might have grave implications for future contests in the state have been noticed. Although 45 political parties are contesting in the election, the two major parties: the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All progressives Congress (APC) are dominant in the race. Three of the 45 candidates are women and three others are deputy governorship candidates, while the remaining 42 are males. Bayelsa State has always been the stronghold of PDP, but the growing popularity of the APC in recent times has been evident. Having won a senatorial seat, two seats at the House of Representatives and four places in the State House of Assembly in the last general elections, the APC now has its sights set on the governorship. Thus, unlike the previous elections, the contest is likely to be much closer this time. In 2012, the incumbent Governor Seriake Dickson received 89.4 per cent of the votes in the first instance, in an election where about 72 per cent of the electorates turned out. This was before the election was declared inconclusive. At the end of the day, Dickson won with 60 per cent votes, defeating his APC counterpart, Timipre Sylva, who got 38 per cent. Owing to fear of violence, the concluding part of the election witnessed a meagre turnout of 37 per cent. In the 2016 contest, Dickson won with 59.8 per cent, while Sylva of the APC secured 38.5 per cent of the votes. This time around, the APC has been enjoying a momentum, occasioned by the goodwill of the Bayelsa people and the internal crisis in the PDP.  Politics as war: One inescapable conclusion that could be gleaned from the way the two major parties conducted themselves in this contest is that politicians do not see politics as a contest, but as a war. Historically, the state is well known for electoral violence engineered by politicians who want to win at all costs, especially in the battle for the control of the riverine areas. But, in recent times, it has been elevated to an art. Civil society organisations warned ahead of the election about the recruitment of thugs and militants, as well as the gathering of arms. With the recent incident of violence on Ekeremor and Nembe, the fear that violence may erupt during the election became more pronounced. There have been mutual accusations between the two major parties over the recent violent clashes in Nembe, where three persons lost their lives. There have been reported cases of buying of permanent voters cards (PVCs) ahead of the election. Observers say this may be a strategy to weaken the voting strength of a political opponent in regions where the opposing party seems to have the upper hand. The prevalence of violence in Bayelsa is not unrelated to insecurity pervading the region. They include cult violence, piracy, abductions and attacks on oil facilities. Ahead of the election, there were reported incidents such as the stockpiling of arms and weapons, assassination of PDP ward Chairman, Seidougha Taribi, and sustained and heavy gunfire on September 30, 2019 at the premises of Bayelsa State House of Assembly over its change in leadership.  Zoning: Both the APC and the PDP took cognisance of this factor before choosing their flag bearers for the election; Senator Douye Diri of the PDP and Senator David Lyon of the APC are from Bayelsa Central senatorial district. Ahead of the election, coalitions of interest groups also clamoured for a shift of power to Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government, which has the least voting strength. This is where the PDP candidate, Senator Douye Diri, hails from. He is a native of Sampou village within that local government. Senator Lyon, on the other hand, is from Southern Ijaw Local Government, where the first elected governor came from. It also happens to be the local government  which has the largest number of registered voters, aside from the state capital, Yenagoa. Lyon chose Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, the current Senator representing Bayelsa East who hails from Nembe Local Government, as his running mate. Nembe has a voting population of 92,717 registered voters; compared to 52,765 of Kolokuma/Opokuma where Diri comes from. The first executive governor, Diepreye Alameiyeseigha, is from Ijaw South Local Government Area, in Bayelsa Central. Goodluck Jonathan who ruled after him came from Ogbia Local Government in Bayelsa East, while Timipre Sylva is from Brass, in the same senatorial district as Jonathan. Incumbent Governor Dickson is from Sagbama Local Government in Bayelsa West.  Internal democracy: The way the two major candidates emerged suggested that the two parties, like the others, still lack internal democracy. There has been internal disputes within the PDP long before the Bayelsa governorship primary that produced Douye Diri as the party’s flag bearer in Saturday’s election. However, the primary that produced him as the candidate may be described as the last straw that finally broke the camel’s back. Trouble started brewing over allegations of a skewed primary election in favour of all the national and House of Assembly candidates loyal to Dickson’s “Restoration Team.” Despite protests, threats of defection and a petition to the National Working Committee of the PDP, the party endorsed the aspirants and presented them as candidates in the 2019 general elections. With particular reference to the emergence of Senator Diri as the party’s flag bearer, observers believe Governor overplayed his hand with the way and manner he went about the emergence of the former. In the primary, Senator Diri beat the other 20 contestants by polling 561 votes. His closest challenger Timi Alaibe is believed to be the candidate of former President Goodluck Jonathan. Alaibe got 196 votes in the primary. Though Jonathan remained aloof on the surface, it is believed that the former number one citizen and his entire family backed the APC candidate. In the case of the APC, the emergence of David Lyon was also not without controversies. The party was confronted with challenge of the process to adopt; since it has the option of using direct, indirect or a consensus arrangement. After postponing the primary twice in compliance with conflicting court judgements it eventually adopted direct primary for the exercise which was held on September 3 and 4. Of the six aspirants, oil magnate and philanthropist, Lyon, got most of the votes. He secured 42,138, which is far ahead of his nearest rival Diseye Poweigha, who got 1533 votes. Although the election Collation Officer, Senator Emmanuel Dangana under the Chairmanship of Yobe State Governor, Mai-Mala Buni, described the poll as credible and peaceful, others did not agree.  Role of judiciary: The rancorous primaries that produced the two major candidates have left the responsibility of deciding the personality that would preside over the state of affairs in Bayelsa beyond next year’s handover of power to the next administration to the courts. Last Tuesday, a Federal High Court, sitting on Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) disqualified the governorship running mate of the APC, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo on the grounds that he supplied false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), contrary to the Electoral Act 2010 as amended. The judgment had compromised the candidacy of the APC candidate. In view of Section 187 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the nomination of the party’s candidate, Lyon, was technically nullified. Another Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, had also ruled on Thursday that the APC had no candidate in the election. However, in a twist, less than 48 hours before the election, the Court of Appeal in Abuja ordered a stay of execution of the judgement of the Abuja Federal High Court which disqualified the APC deputy governorship candidate over false information. The panel, chaired by Justice Stephen Adah, issued an interim order of stay of execution of the judgment of the Federal High Court of November 12, 2019, pending the determination of “the motion on notice for order of interlocutory injunction filed on 13 November, 2019.” The appellate court also ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to maintain status quo ante bellum which existed on or before September 19, 2019 when the suit that initially destabilised the party’s political equation was filed at the lower court, pending the hearing and determination of the substantive matter by the court. In this regard, the PDP is equally faced with a lingering legal battle over who actually won its September governorship primary. The aspirant who came second, Alaibe, is still in court, challenging Diri’s emergence. Irrespective of the party that will triumph at the end of the day, it is the judiciary that would eventually determine who will occupy the exalted seat. 