Bolaji Ogundele, Abuna Contrary to the impression painted by some aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress’ (APC), that the National Executive Committee meeting ended abruptly, another group has said no such thing happened. In a statement signed by the Forum forum of APC State Chairmen and the non-National Working Committee (nNWC) of the party, and made available to journalists in Abuja, the group rather noted that President Muhammadu Buhari passed a vote of confidence on the party National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, adding that the meeting ended normally. A group of aggrieved members of the NEC, numbering about 50, had addressed journalists in Abuja late Friday, alleging that the leadership of Comrade Oshiomhole was high-handed and had depleted the party’s gains and called for his resignation. But countering the allegations of the aggrieved members, Chairman of the Forum of State Chairmen of the party, Alhaji Ali Bukar Dalori, and the Chairman of the nNWC NEC members, Mr Nelson Alapa, frowned at what described as “misinformation of the public” by the aggrieved members, saying, the NEC meeting ended after all due processes had been followed, including saying the closing prayers and reciting the National Anthem. “We State Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the country and members of the Non NWC NEC members, are shocked with the statement credited to few Chairmen who called for the resignation of our National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole shortly after a successful National Executive Council (NEC) of our great party. We want to state categorically that we held a very successful NEC meeting today, where our dear President, Muhammadu Buhari, stressed the need for party discipline and supremacy of the party. “The meaning is that our party members must subject themselves to the organs of the party particularly when they are angry with any issue so as to find solution to the problems. But we have found out that some of our colleagues have refused to subject themselves to these organs rather embarking on activities capable of destabilizing the party, which our President kicked against today. “This statement by few of these our colleagues is ill-intended because if actually they have issues with the party, they would have raised it today at NEC where Mr President and other leaders of the party were seated. “And it is not true that the meeting ended abruptly as they tried to claim, everybody who wanted to contribute was given the opportunity to air their views. As a matter of fact, after reviewing the achievements of the Oshiomhole led NWC, Mr President told Oshiomhole: “Mr National Chairman, I want to commend your energy, your kind of energy is super and I congratulate you for that”. “We want to admonish these our colleagues to listen to the words of our great President which explicitly expressed the feelings of the President towards the Oshiomhole-led NWC. That was s clear Vote of Confidence on our National Chairman. “Contrary to what they want the public to believe, today’s NEC meeting ended peacefully, prayers were said and the National Anthem before our President and his Vice, Prof.Yemi Osinbajo, our governors and other leaders of the party took their leave. “We admonish these few persons to change their ways and allow peace reign in our party. We have full confidence on the leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his NWC. We use this opportunity to reiterate our support to his administration and pass Vote of Confidence on his leadership. “We urge our friends on the other side to exhaust available organs of the party to express their complaints if any rather than going to the media to raise issues that were concluded today at NEC,” the statement said.