By Musa Odoshimokhe Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George has called, for national unity. The PDP chieftain, who spoke during a reception organised to celebrate him by National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), said the youths are better placed to keep the country together. George urged the youths to preserve the unity of the country, adding that as long as people see themselves as one, there will be peace. He said: “A human being is a human being, whether you are Chinese or American, whether you are black, white or yellow. But let us work together in this country. We should shun those divisive statements and pronouncements and embrace peace and unity.”  The PDP chieftain said the older generation made the “small mistake” of trying to be honest with each other in a bid to unite the country. His words: “I want to appeal to the younger generation. We, the older ones, have made small mistake and that is the mistake of trying to be honest with ourselves and unite this country. We have not succeeded. “But, I plead with you, you can succeed. There are no differences. Yes, there are cultural differences but who chose where he is to be born? God decided where you would be born. You don’t know where you will go in the next round, you can’t determine that.” George said every Nigerian, irrespective of tribal, ethnic or religious differences must work together. He added: “We must work together. I don’t see differences. In fact my great grand uncle, Baba Herbert Macaulay, was struggling to unite this country against the British. He died in 1946 when he returned by train from Kano. He had gone there lobbying people to come together. So it just didn’t start today. “There is hardly any state in this country that I have not been to. Let’s build a nation; let us build an edifice; let us build an economic empire that all the youths of this country would come and enjoy in the future; no generation can finish it.” But if you keep dividing this one, dividing that, one day you would pack up. Will you still keep on dividing when you are away?” 