 Love for so many people means different things and it is used in different ways just to get what we want and need. Love to me, means affection without tears and it does no harm to its receiver  In Africa, issues of sex are believed not to be discussed. It is an agreement between two lovers when they are within the confines of a room. An average woman needs a relationship based on love, trust and honesty, but the man, although not all of them, need a relationship based on sex. But how does a man go about telling a woman that he is all about sex and not love?  He won’t ever enjoy the company of any lady, if he goes talking to any about sex unless she is a prostitute. In advanced countries, for instance, Europe and America, sex could happen between a man and woman after the first meeting which could occur some minutes earlier. Sex is not a big issue over there, but in Africa, the reverse is the case. Any true son of the soil, who knows the cultural beliefs, will not just dabble into the issue of sex without building a relationship, and if he is lucky and the lady falls for it, monkey go go market and not return. (Sex could come up). Mr. Stephen Chukwuyemike, an undergraduate Love for so many people means different things and it is used in different ways just to get what we want and need. Love to me, means affection without tears and it does no harm to its receiver. But today, love has been abused and used unjustly, just to get our selfish desires met, no matter the consequences. Some men, in this present generation haven’t used this four lettered word to deceive a lot of women, simply because the word literally means genuity but it has been turned around. Some men say to ladies, I love when they actually mean I am lusting after you. Most men want sex not relationship and so to get their desires and they know that the only to get the woman’s affection is to propose love to her and by so doing, the woman will feel appreciated. Sometimes the men may be for real, but most times it does not turnout to be true. When the man has succeeded in getting her to bed, the so called ‘love’ begins to fade and the man will begin to withdraw and this will in the long run leave the woman bitter and heartbroken. My advice is that women who are smart should always try to study men and not fall for some cheap lies they tell.   Wale Balogun No doubt that experiences of ladies over time have made common, the opinion that most guys say ‘I love you’ when the real intent and desire is just to have a feel of the victim (the lady being wooed) in bed. But the reality is, most guys who spend weeks pursuing a lady, burning call credit to achieve entry into her heart, spending some hard earned money on dates and sometimes gifts, really would want much more than just love-making. However, the natural phenomenon that makes a guy see a lady as an angel prior ‘bed time’ and then as a devil incarnate post ‘bed time’ is a mystery that is yet to be unravelled, as this experience is as old as man itself. The truth is no right thinking lady would give in to a guy who bluntly asks for sex on first contact, except she is prostitute; rather it is modest to first establish some kind of relationship before biding for sex. Besides, we have come to learn that what an average lady appreciates is such beautiful and well-thought-out praises and psyches that would always end with the controversial statement ‘I love you’, though she knows it is just a regular statement that has been so abused, yet she appreciates it, at least, it makes her feel the intended fluke and fling is real. In fewer words, it words, it would be so ridiculing and immodest for a guy to tell a lady I want to sleep with you when he has not picked her on the street. Though the world the world has turned into such gorilla world where a guy and a lady would, as patrons of infidelity agree to be sexmate, and they keep sharing bed outside their legal or say matrimonial commitments and bonds. So Vera, it has become an experience we cant but live with, for a guy to walk his way into the heart of a lady under the guise of seeking true love when what he really craves for is emotional and sexual satisfaction. To the ladies, I advise that you make spiritual consultations to x-ray the sincerity on which the ‘I love you’ a guy says to you is built. But, a few of us are still around town with a hundred and ten percent sincerity when impressing what we feel for a lady. When it is likeness, we say it is likeness and when it grows into love we say it is love, though we could sometimes express our love for certain features and attitudes in those we admire. All na game!