 THE House of Representatives Committee on Public Account on Wednesday directed the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs to prove within seven days that it spent N48 million on  training. The committee’s Chairman Wole Oke said the directive followed a report from the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation. He said there was no visa or flight ticket for the 23 members of staff that purportedly attended training. The lawmaker said $70,000 was paid to an unknown airline over the “trip”. He wants the Permanent Secretary and the company that “organised” the training and issued a receipt of N19 million to provide further evidence that the training took place. Oke said: “We will like to remove the veil of incorporation to determine the character behind this company; we hope that there are not officials of the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs. “This hearing is hereby stepped down until the permanent secretary is able to furnish this committee with documents to show that this training held.” Similarly, the ministry is being investigated for paying N14 million to a Director in 2014 for the purchase of 350 smartphones and 350 tablets for members of staff at N40,000 each. The Permanent Secretary Mrs Didi Wilson-Jack, told the committee that she was not in the ministry when the transactions took place. After going through the records with the ministry’s directors, she pleaded for 14 days to respond adequately. But the committee gave her seven days. Also yesterday, the Forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Women in Politics yesterday praised President Muhammadu Buhari for allowing the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Interim Management Committee to sanitise the agency. In a communique released by the conveners Ms Christy Ebosan (Edo), Mrs Maureen Natodja (Delta) and Mrs Birowei Seridomoluo, after an enlarged meeting in Sapele, the Forum said the Dr Joi Nunieh-led committee had made an impact within a short time. The communique reads: “We were initially against the committee, but when we started reading about the findings the committee had made, we were tempted to come out for open protest that the Senate should let the committee be. “Whether it is the new board or the committee, what is paramount is that the commission is sanitised of corruption. “So, we are telling President Buhari to give the committee time to carry out massive cleansing of the agency. “Nobody should thwart or sabotage the efforts of the committee for the good work it has started. Instead, we want all Niger Delta States to support the committee and let go of individual interests, which the Presidency may have been aware of. “Which of the boards since the commission’s inception 18 years ago ever told us how the commission had been milked by those appointed to head the commission?”