Frank Ikpefan, Abuja An international non-governmental organisation, Save the Children International Nigeria, has called on government at all levels to uphold and protect the rights of kids in the country. The organisation noted that without renewed political commitment, accountability and concrete actions to further implement the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC), kids will continue to suffer violations of their rights on a daily basis. It stated these during a press conference to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the UNCRC in Abuja. Its Director of Advocacy and Campaign, Amanuel Mamo, said domestication of the Child Rights Act in some states was a good step while calling for its full implementation. Mamo urged governments at all levels to define specific actions they will take to ensure further progress was made towards realising the rights of every child with a focus on the most marginalised and deprived. He said: “It is more important than ever that children’s rights are upheld and protected. Without renewed political commitment, accountability and concrete actions to further implement the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC); children will continue to suffer violations of their rights on a daily basis. “We are calling on governments to define specific actions they will take to ensure further progress is made towards realising the rights of every child with a focus on the most marginalised and deprived. “We are calling on governments to recognise a child’s right to be heard (Article 12) and ensure that children are included in a meaningful way in their decision-making process. “And we are calling on governments to stand up for and follow the rights defined in the UNCRC particularly where this is most challenging and where children are most vulnerable, such as in situations of armed conflict. “On this 30th anniversary of the UNCRC, we want to remind the public and political leaders that children have a right to be heard, that they want to speak out and when they engage meaningfully, things change.” Youth Ambassador of the organisation, Maryam Ahmed urged both the Federal and State governments to introduce measures that will prevent children from dying from preventable diseases. She called on government to include children in its decision making process and follow rights defined in the UNCRC especially in situations of armed conflict, while also calling on states that have not domesticated the child rights act to do so. Ahmed said that more than 420 million children in the world are living in conflict zones while over 317 million children were not learning to read or write despite being in school. She said: “After 100 years, we are still here fighting for our rights to be of importance, we are the most marginalised and deprived group and the ones directly affected by decisions made 5.9 million children are still dying from preventable diseases every year.”