 SENATE President Ahmad Lawan has said the Ninth National Assembly will not allow the Executive to take undue advantage of it, notwithstanding its resolve to always consider national interest in its dealings. Lawan spoke at the weekend at the maiden end of year dinner and awards night organised by the University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID) Alumni Association at the weekend, according to a statement in Abuja by his Special Adviser (Media) Ola Awoniyi. He said: “We have also said we will work with the Executive arm of government to ensure that there is some decency in what we do, that we are productive in what we do, that we are able to give Nigerians what they voted for. “Nigerians didn’t vote for us to come and fight. Nigerians voted for us to come and work for them. We are not going to allow the Executive arm of government to take advantage of us. “We will disagree with them. But when we disagree, we are not going to the market square to fight, to shout. We are going to resolve it in a roundtable manner. We are going to resolve it in the national interest, not on what we feel or what we like or what we don’t like. “We should be able to resolve any issue on the basis of what is good for Nigeria.” The Senate President also said the Ninth National Assembly has consciously chosen to unite in the national interest, despite the fact that its members are from different political parties. “This Ninth National Assembly is a different National Assembly. We have chosen consciously to be united on one thing: national interest. “It doesn’t matter what our platform is. You can be an APC (All Progressives Congress) member of the National Assembly. You can be a PDP (Peoples Democratic Party) member of the National Assembly. In fact, you can be an YPP (Young Progressive Party) member of the National Assembly. “This Ninth National Assembly, particularly the Senate, our platforms have conveyed us. We are grateful to our parties. We believe in the ideals of our parties, but we have resolved to work for Nigeria,” Lawan said.