The battle against insurgency, fraud, environmental degradation, as well as agricultural enhancement, could be fought through astronomy and space technology.  The National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA) recently trained 60 undergraduate and postgraduate students to use this technology at a summer school in Abuja, reports OLADELE OGE from the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN).  Over 60 undergraduate and postgraduate students of West African  universities learnt about Astronomy and Space Technology during the international West African  Summer School for Young Astronomers (WAISSYA), held at the Obasanjo Space Centre, Abuja recently. The Summer School, the fourth edition, tagged: “Empowering young Africans in becoming scientific leaders”,  was sponsored by the National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA) Centre for Basic Space Science, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), University of Toronto, Dunlap Institutes for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Development for Astronomy for Africa (DARA) International Astronomical Union, Las Cumbre Observator, Open Astronomy Schools, The Royal Society, AAPT Physics Education and the International Centre for Theoretical Physics. Thirteen instructors exposed the students to various aspects of astronomy and space technology during class and practical sessions. They included: Dr. Jielai Zhang (who co-taught an interactive lesson on cosmology; co-led the Instructor Workshop Week; co-led the group teaching project; and facilitated the inquiry activity); Dr. Bernard Duah Asabere (co-taught an interactive lesson on galaxies, and facilitated the inquiry activity); Dr. Daniel Okoh (co-taught an interactive lesson on stars, and facilitated the inquiry activity); Dr. Bop Cheikh (co-taught an interactive lesson on stars; co-led the group teaching project, and facilitated the inquiry activity); and Dr. Finbarr Odoh, who taught cultural astronomy, held an interactive lesson on cosmology, co-led the group teaching project, and facilitated the inquiry activity. Others were: Dr. Duy Nguyen, who facilitated the inquiry activity; Dr. James Chibueze, who taught an interactive lesson on radio astronomy and co-led the post-graduate stream; Dr. Patrice Okouma, who co-led the post-graduate Stream; Margaret Ikape, who co-taught an interactive lesson on cosmology, led the Women in Science lunch, and facilitated the inquiry activity; Sarah Abotsi-Masters, who co-taught an interactive lesson on exoplanets, an interactive lesson on science communication, and facilitated the inquiry activity; Esaenwi Sudum, who co-taught an interactive lesson on exoplanets, and facilitated the inquiry activity. Kevin Govender, Director, Office of Astronomy for Development in Cape Town led discussions about Vision for the Future of astronomy in Africa. Declaring the Summer School open, NASRDA Acting Director- General, Mr Jonathan Angulu, represented by Dr Olufemi Agboola, Director Space Applications, said that the agency through the Office of the Astronomical Union, Office of West African Astronomy for Development (WAROAD), International, had succeeded in training brilliant students for the development of the country. Angulu added that the agency was working hard to build a strong synergy between the international community, including its partners in the country. He noted that development in space technology could help address societal problems – like fraud. He said: “Quite numbers of research being carried out by our activity centres have been recommended to various government agencies across the country to tackle fraud and others social vices in their organisations.” Angulu encourage the students to utilise the knowledge gained during Summer School training and make it part of their academic progress. He promised that the agency would not relent in its efforts in bring out the best in Space Technology for the country’s progress. On his part, the Director Centre for Basic Space Science, UNN, Dr Bonaventure Okere thanked the management for the success of the programme. Okere recalled how the Summer School started during a conference in Canada, in 2012. The first School held at NASRDA headquarters Abuja, in 2013; Nsukka hosted 2015, while the School went to Ghana in 2017.  The founders were Dr. Bonaventure Okere, Director, CBSS UNN; Dr. Jielai Zhang, University of Australia, Dr. James Chibueze and Dr. Linda Strubbe, University of British Columbia, UBC. Okere listed the objectives of the Summer School as: “To set a professional standard in actualising the visions in technology innovation; to prepare youngsters of Nigeria as leading voices in astronomy research and development in the African continent.” He however implored the students not limit the experience they gathered at the training to themselves alone, urging them to share through group discussions in their universities to create enduring careers in many ways for themselves. On the challenges facing astronomy research and development in the country, Okere noted that the centre needs special fund to position Nigeria as first among equals on the world astronomy map. Dr. Aliyu Shaba of NASRDA observed that having a better funding and administrative expertise would create a better arena to employ several engineers and other graduate scientists. Before the commencement of the Summer School, the instructors had visited the University of Abuja, where Prof Ekundayo Oyegoke Ajala received the team on behalf of the Vice-Chancellor of University, Prof. Abdulrasheed Na’Allah. The vice-chancellor, who addressed the team at 100 Level Physics Theatre of the University, highlighted the impact of space research on the advancement of a nation’s technology.  Given maximum priority, he said Nigeria would win the war against insurgency, environmental hazard, agricultural revolution, among others, saying: “Space Research and Innovation as fundamental part of technology cannot be underestimated in any part of the world.’’ Ekundayo was impressed by the turnout at the event, saying that with the number in attendance, he believed that the university system had realised that only research could address the problems plaguing the country like a magic wand.  