The Honourable Speaker, Federal House of Representative, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, International Monetary Fund (IMF), Country Chief, Amine Mati,  Small & Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) Director General, Radda Dikko among other dignitaries have confirmed their attendance at the second Financial Markets Conference of the Financial Markets Dealers Association (FMDA). In a statement, FMDA said the  event scheduled for Friday, December 6, at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, will focus on the theme: “The Nigerian Financial Market – An Agent for Growth and Development” with Emefiele as keynote speaker while Hon. Gbajabiamila, will be special guest of honour among other guest speakers. It said the programme which begins at 2pm is an opportunity for the nation’s financial market operators, regulators, investors, corporates and other stakeholders to discuss ways of using financial market to facilitate economic development. The conference sub-themes include:  “Unlocking Real Sector Development: SMEs as an Agent of Growth and Development IMF Perspective” to be presented by the guest speaker, Mati; the Role of SMEDAN in Enhancing Sustainable Business Growth for SMEs to be presented by Dikko; and Intermediary Role of Banks – SMEs As Springboard of National Economic Growth and Development to be presented by Managing Director/CEO Sterling Bank Plc, Abubakar Suleiman. Others are  Executive Secretary/CEO Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission,  Ms. Yewande Sadiku who will be speaking on “Growing SMEs through Government Policies & Incentives”  and Principal at Africa Capital Alliance,  Ladell Robbins, who will speak on the theme: “SMEs as an Agent of Growth and Development: Bridging Infrastructural Gap by  Private and Public Partnership”. Also to speak is Head, Counterparty Risk Trading at  ABSA Capital, South Africa, Victor MofoKeng who will be speaking on the theme: “Risk Management as a Development Tool”. The FMDA is an association of licensed Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) operating within the Nigeria financial market, emphasizing on regulatory policy engagement, advocacy and professional ethics in the financial markets.