THE annual conference of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) this year will explore ways and opportunities to enhance the competitiveness of the Nigerian capital market as the globally preferred destination for investments. Addressing capital market correspondents on the 2019 Stockbrokers’ Annual Conference at the weekend, Chairman, Planning Committee, Ms Abiola Adekoya explained that the conference theme: Boosting Capital Market Competitiveness in a Challenging Macro Environment was chosen to articulate policy measures that can reposition the capital market to play its pivotal role as a platform for mobilization of funds from surplus economic units to deficit one. She pointed out that critical issues such as innovation and growth, fintech, attracting talents to securities industry and nexus between agriculture and the capital market shall form the fulcrum of plenary sessions at the conference, scheduled for Thursday, November 21 to Friday, November 22, 2019 at Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. According to her, with the integrated and digital-driven global economy of today, the barriers to competition are gradually coming down, making it necessary for stockbroking firms with exposure to the domestic market to innovate to retain and attract customers. “Given the challenging domestic macroeconomic environment and liberal immigration policies in advanced economies with aging populations, retaining talent in the securities industry has been difficult, with negative implications for performance,” Adekoya said. First Vice President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Tunde Amolegbe explained the significance of discussing fintech against the background of the institute’s efforts at ensuring the success of government’s policy on financial inclusion. He noted that adoption of fintech in capital market transactions will lead to reduced costs and improved efficiency, thus encouraging more participation in the stock market. He added that the conference would bring about robust ideas on how to reposition the market in view of the unfolding developments in the global economy. Managing Director, Stanbic IBTC Nominees, Mr Akeem Oyewale said the conference would spring up conversation around strategies to make the securities industry more attractive to the young professionals and youth across the board. In her contributions, Managing Director, FBN Quest Securities, Mrs Fiona Ahimie described the conference as an opportunity to deepen participants’ understanding of investment opportunities in the capital market and how to take advantage. Managing Director, Afrinvest Securities, Mr Ayodeji Ebo added that the conference would address a wide range of economic and political issues, especially, how stockbrokers can take advantage of the capital market to boost their earnings. Managing Director, Morgan Capital, Mr Muyiwa Adeyemi stressed that the broad objective of this year’s conference was to create a platform where contemporary development issues would be articulated for enhanced competitiveness of the capital market.