By Tony Akowe, Nicholas Kalu and James Azania, Lokoja  Oyo Governor Seyi Makinde and Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Saturday’s election in Kogi state, Musa Wada on Friday escaped being whisked away by masked gunmen, who attacked the Suitorial Hotel where they were lodged. The gunmen, dressed in police uniforms and bullet proof masks, were said to have arrived the hotel at about 12.50 pm with some of them scaling the fence to gain access. Makinde is the Chairman of the PDP Governorship campaign Council for Kogi state. The gunmen however did not succeed in gaining access into the hotel as security men attached to the Governor repelled and chased them away. An eye witness said while some of the masked men climbed the fence of the hotel to gain access, others came in through the gate, alleging they may have come into the hotel to abduct the PDP candidate. The eye witness said: “Some people said they may have been fake policemen but the governor’s security men said the attackers were not fake judging from uniform they were wearing and that they were hooded so that they will not be identified.” Director General of Publicity of the PDP Campaign Council, Farouk Adejoh, who confirmed the attackm told The Nation on phone that about 50 of the men dressed in police uniform came into the attack apparently to abduct the governorship candidate of the PDP who was lodged in the same hotel. Adejoh said: “I can confirm to you that the hotel was attacked by hooded men in police uniform. They came in tinted buses, but our security details repelled them. “We have been complaining that there are so many tinted vehicles that are not registered in the state and two days ago, the Commissioner of Police said such vehicles should be impounded. But these men came in those tinted vehicles”. Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, Taiwo Adisa, also confirmed the attack, saying “Information reaching us from Lokoja, the Kogi state capital confirmed that some armed and masked security men who appeared in police uniforms have attacked the Governor of Oyo State, Engineer Seyi Makinde in Lokoja, Kogi state capital. “Makinde is the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party’s Kogi State Campaign Council. He is in Kogi in his capacity as the Chairman of that Council. “Eyewitnesses confirmed that the hooded security operatives arrived the Suitorial Hotels, Lokoja, located along Stadium Road, Lokoja where the Governor and some members of the PDP Campaign Council are lodged at about 12.50 pm, on Friday, shooting sporadically and attempting to break into the hotel rooms. “It was gathered the some of the hooded security operatives scaled the fence of the Hotel and attempted to enter the rooms. “A melee was set off as the security operatives attached to the Governor of Oyo state were said to have resisted the invaders.” Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Busari, however said the Police also got the information but denied that there was an attack on the governor’s hotel. The Nation gathered that the PDP high command has reached out to the Inspector General of Police, asking him to ensure that nothing happen to its candidate. Information from Anyimgba, Dekina local government area of the state also have it some houses belonging to some PDP leaders in the area were allegedly destroyed early on Friday. A source from the area said: “There were shooting throughout the night in Anyimgba by hoodlums who apparently don’t want people to come out and vote on Saturday. ‘’But the people are determined to vote and so they mobilised themselves and disperse the hoodlums.’’