The Presidency on Friday doused the widespread rumour of disagreement between President Muhammadu Buhari and his deputy, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. A statement issued by President Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, said the disengagement of some of Osinbajo’s aides was part of the administration’s effort to overhaul the nation’s seat of government. Rather than disagree, the statement said, Buhari and Osinbajo are together scripting a glorious future for Nigeria. There have been reports in some social and traditional media in recent times, alleging attempts to whittle down the influence of Vice President Osinbajo by sacking about 35 of his aides. But the statement dismissed them all as the handiwork of “mischief makers, who are desperate for entertaining stories from the Aso Rock Villa with which to titillate the public.” In the statement he issued yesterday, Shehu said an unprecedented overhaul of the nation’s seat of government was ongoing and had resulted in a number of political appointments either revoked or not renewed in Buhari’s second term. The exercise, which according to him was ordered by the President, was meant to streamline decision-making, cut down multiple authorities and reduce the high cost of administering the nation. “It is also an appropriate response to the general perception that the Presidency has an oversized and bloated workforce, which acts as a drag on efficiency,” he said. “As may have been noticed by discerning members of the public, a number of political appointees among the few that served in the office of the President were not returned for the second term. “The office of the Vice President, His Excellency Yemi Osinbajo, has, in compliance with the directive of the President, equally been shed of a number of such appointees. “In carrying out these exercises, the overriding objective is to save taxpayer money and deliver needed service to the public. “As far as the President is concerned, there is no scope for an excuse for administration after getting a huge mandate to run the country for four more years.” On the alleged rift between the two top citizens, he said: “In the light of this, the Presidency wishes to strongly deny rumours of a rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. “The relationship between the two leaders remains excellent and trusting. Together, they will script a glorious future for the nation. “The media reports of a soured relationship are originating from the minds and mouths of mischief makers, who are desperate for entertaining stories from the Aso Rock Villa with which to titillate the public. “This ulterior motive is the basis of the wrong interpretation given to the recent exercise in the Presidency. “There has been a streamlining of staff going on for a while. “The President has always had fewer staff than the Vice President, and there were always plans to reduce the number of staff at the Villa.”  The streamlining, he said, was not personal or targeted to undermine the Vice President’s office “as the so-called insider sources quoted by the media appear to make it seem.” He said the President is in absolute control of his government. “The media should stop attributing non-existent powers to some people. There cannot be anyone too powerful for President Buhari to control,” he added.