Morakinyo Abodunrin  ENYIMBA International By Morakinyo Abodunrin FC coach Usman Abd’Allah has alluded to the popular dictum that only the grass would suffer wherever the People’s Elephants after they were drawn inn Group D for the 2019-20 Total CAF Confederation Cup group stage. In the draw conducted yesterday at the CAF Headquarters in Cairo by CAF Director of Competitions Samson Adamu assisted by Uganda’s football legend Edgar Watson and DR Congo’s former captain Herita Ilunga , Enyimba were drawn against Cote d’Ivoire’s San Pedro, Algeria’s Paradou and Morocco’s Hassania Agadir. But Abd’Allah said there was no cause for alarm: “ At this stage, we are waiting for anybody and you know that any team that has gotten to the stage must have worked so well to here. So, we are going to prepare very well for all the matches. “ Now the goal is for us to get to the quarter-finals by whatever means whether we top the group or come second is immaterial; we just have to do our best and get to the quarter-finals first before we can set another goal for ourselves.” No Nigerian club has won the CAF Confederation Cup since its launch in 2004 and only the defunct Dolphins FC of Port Harcourt had gone all the way to the final but they lost 3-1 on aggregate to Moroccan side Association Sportive des Forces Armées Royales in the 2005 finale. “ Football is changing and we are going to reckon with the fact that Nigerian clubs have not done recently well especially against teams from North Africa,” admitted the 45-year-old who led Enyimba to semi-finals of the CAF Confederations Cup before losing to Raja Casablanca of Morocco in the 2018 edition. “This time, we are going to do things differently b and we are going to get all the information about all the teams in our group. Our focus now is to reach the quarter-final first.” Meanwhile, in the other groupings, Egypt’s duo of Al MAsry and newcomers Pyramids will lock horns together in Group A, which also includes Mauritanian debutants Noadhibou and Nigeria’s Rangers. Group B will see a Western derby between Mali’s Djoliba and Guinea’s Horoya, while South Africa’s Bidvest Wits and Libya’s El Nasr complete the Liverpool squad. 