German Based Nigerian football star and music enterprenuer, Jeffery Owen has revealed some of the things that drives and motivates him into building a sustainable legacy and helping others get over their challenges. “I am driven and motivate by love and passion, driven by society. There is this desire to solve problems, improve lives of people and build a legacy that can be passed down” He said.  The 26 years old who is also carving a niche for himself in the round leather game, shed more light on the Nigerian side of him, despite playing football in Germany, “Yeah I am a footballer, playing in Germany but don’t be deceived, I am 100% Nigerian. I was born in Edo State and grew up there. Benin-City to be precise,” he said. Also known as Nino with good look. When asked how he handles his female fans, he didn’t waste time in revealing the secret, “I would not say I am a ladies’ man, but I’m quite well with my female supporters” He said. On marriage status; “I am not married, I’m single but I have a girlfriend and two lovely boys.” Describing his dream woman and giving his own definition of true love, the Edo State born said’ “My dream woman is my current girlfriend, she has all the characteristics I am looking for in a woman, and my own definition of true love is deep but let me say an intense feeling of deep affection, showing great interest and care to someone or something.” he explained. “My best form of exercise apart from my usual training as a footballer is swimming, it helps ease the tension. If I am not swimming, I am writing down stuff in my journal to read later, this helps me relax and focus”. On what he does when he is not playing football, and not busy with activities in entertainment, “If I am not playing football or busy with work, I am spending time with my family. I am simple fashion guy. I like street style, mixed a sprinkle of classy or black tie style. Jeffery who played in Holland for AFC Arnhem, before moving to Germany is also a partner of House of Gold Entertainment. He has worked with top Nigerian music stars, such as 2baba, Timaya, Phyno, Flavour and Lil Kesh, as an event promoter. He recently set up a record label, Lexa Records, and signed Mawthie as his debut artiste.