By Augustine Ehikioya, Abuja  The National Boundary Commission said it has begun preliminary work on the demarcation of boundaries in communities in Ebonyi and Benue states. The meeting, chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, in September with Benue Governor Samuel Ortom and Ebonyi Deputy Governor, Kelechi Igwe, in attendance had agreed to come out with a programme to demarcate the boundary between the two states as a way of resolving their dispute. The meeting had directed the commission to work with the states to provide the necessary logistics and security for the demarcation of the boundary. Speaking with State House correspondents on Tuesday after the 10th Board Meeting of the Commission, the Acting Director-General of the Commission, Adamu Adaji, said that the directive was being followed. “The last meeting between the vice president and governors of the two states directed that we should resume the demarcation that was stalled for many years now and we have started action accordingly. “We have met at technical level to identify the number of beacons as permanent markers that are required and what we need to do preparatory to the field work. We have come out with a programme. “We will discuss with the states at a joint meeting of officials that will be scheduled very soon,” he said Adaji said that the National Boundary Commission has planned a complete ethnographic survey along the boundaries of communities in Ebonyi and Cross River states to resolve the boundary dispute between the two states. He said that the last meeting of the Commission agreed on some measures to be taken to resolve the dispute. “We are in contact with the states to ensure that agreements are adhered with. “We have also agreed that a monitoring team of security personnel will be constituted to ensure peaceful co-existence while resume activities of trying to define the boundaries.” He said that Tuesday’s 10th Board Meeting, chaired by Vice President Osinbajo, agreed that there was need for proper advocacy, sensitization and seminars to educate people on the work of the National Boundary Commission. He said this was necessary to enable Nigerians to understand the essence of boundaries as the administrative limits of states as against the perception of traditional boundaries. “We also looked at the status of all of the inter-state boundaries of Nigeria, and the meeting discussed the importance of attending to internal boundaries of this country because of their security implications. “We are talking about the limits of the states and the limits of Nigeria as a nation. “When we talk about limits, we talk about the boundary between Nigeria and our neighbours of Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Benin Republic and the internal boundaries between states and local governments.” Adaji said the meeting also meeting considered the promotion of staff the Commission that were interviewed for promotion this year.