From Eric Ikhilae, Abuja  A Federal High Court in Abuja yesterday granted permission to businessman, Raymond Dokpesi, to travel abroad for medical attention. He also got the court’s approval to visit his wife, who he claimed is receiving treatment for cancer-related ailment, in Poland. Dokpesi, who is standing trial with a company, Daar Investment and Holding Company Limited, said, in court documents, that he intended to visit Dubai and London for medical purposes and proceed to Poland to see his wife. The two are being tried on a seven-count charge of receiving N2.1 billion payments from the Office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd.) in 2015 without a valid contract. Justice John Tsoso, in a ruling, held that the application filed to that effect was meritorious and granted it. The judge overruled the objection by prosecution lawyer Oluwaleke Atolagbe to an earlier application by defence lawyer Barth Oluohu for an adjournment. Dokpesi said his application for permission to travel was to enable him retrieve his international passport, which he deposited with the court’s Registrar and part of the conditions attached to the bail earlier granted him. In a supporting affidavit, he said: “I am the first defendant/applicant in this matter and by virtue of which I am conversant with the facts of this case. “I am standing trial for alleged corruption-related offences before this honourable court. “As part of the condition for the grant of my bail, I was required to deposit my international passport with the court’s Registry and I duly complied with this order. “In March 2019, I underwent two major heart surgeries and I was advised by my physician to return to the American Hospital in Dubai for follow-up, regularly, to ensure proper healing. “My medical condition has since been deteriorating, thus requiring urgent medical check-up. “Recently, on July 5, 2019, this honourable court granted similar application, which enabled me to travel for my medical procedure in American Hospital in Dubai and London, United Kingdom (UK). “This honourable court, on July 5, 2019, made an order releasing my international passport to me for my medical examination or check-up in American Hospital, Dubai, and thereafter to London Hospital in the United Kingdom. “I was informed by my counsel, Kanu Agabi (SAN), on October 26, 2019, at his office at Plot 943 Cadastral Zone B06, Mabushi, Abuja, at 2:30 p.m and I verily believe him to be true that… “Leave and order of this honourable court is required for the release of my international passport to enable me travel to American Hospital in Dubai for medical examination and thereafter proceed to London Hospital in the United Kingdom for a second opinion. “Leave and order of this honourable court will also be required to enable me visit my wife in Poland, who is being treated of a cancer-related ailment. “Since the commencement of this case, I have never been absent from trial, thereby indicating my utmost desire to attend to my trial. “I need to be in good health to be able to continue with this trial to the end so that justice will be seen to have been manifestly done.” Earlier, Oluwaleke noted that since the prosecution closed its case in May, last year, Dokpesi had been reluctant to open his defence. Dokpesi had, at the conclusion of the prosecution’s case, made a no-case submission, which the court rejected in a ruling in November 2018 and ordered him to enter his defence. Since then, Dokpesi has been unable begin his defence, claiming, among others, that one of his lawyers, Kanu Agabi, was engaged in election matters. Justice Tsoho adjourned till January 21, 2020, for defence to begin.