By Vincent Ikuomola, Abuja President of Nigeria Labour Union Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba and the Coordinator of Nehemiah Resource Centre, Rev. Obii Pax-Harry have advocated for deliberate policies targeted at developing youths. They advocated for the establishment of a separate Ministry to handle Youth matters as against lumping it as Ministry of Youth and Sport. They spoke in Abuja at the launch of a book titled “Youthocracy: Leadership for development.” Wabba, who spoke on the topic, Galvanising the Youth for Nigeria’s Sustainable Development (with specific references to wages, conducive work environment and job opportunities for the youth),  noted that youths are very critical to national development. “The youths constitute the fighting force, the teeming army and indeed the most productive segment of any nation’s population. “It is thus not only an asset to have a youth-based population, but it is also of strategic advantage in terms of systems development, inventions, doctrines, and innovations. “Not all countries are as lucky as Nigeria as some are at the risk of extinction given their present population growth rate and general demographics.” Wabba, who was represented by Comrade Eustace James, however, said the nation’s youth bulge seems to turn out to be a curse. “I sincerely do believe we need to go back to the drawing board as all hope is not lost”, he added. NLC president stressed the importance of harnessing the youth, saying that “When a nation harnesses as well as galvanizes its youth potential, the sky could be its stepping stone. “To start with, the government needs to involve the youth in its policy formulation and implementation processes. “It has to put in place policies that grow the economy with jobs. It must create jobs aimed at providing gainful employment to the youth. “Government should be seen to reduce corruption and cost of governance, improve the quality of education as well as health infrastructure. It should similarly adopt and implement policies aimed at empowering and strengthening our youth, and elimination of all forms of violence, discrimination and harassment in the world of work.” He also charged the youths to stand up to their responsibilities and “not wait, cap in hand for the government as that could be a costly mistake. “They should turn adversity into prosperity by venturing as is the situation in developed economies where the youth are blazing new trails almost on a daily basis.” Rev. Pax-Harry noted that there must be a policy in place to help the youth actualize their potential as future leader. She said: “There ought to be a ministry for youth development. It has to be taken that seriously because we have an issue of youth burg. “Rwanda took their youth burg very seriously. Rwanda made adjustment in their policies and developed a policy that is working for them and today Rwanda is a nation was traveling to Nigeria to study. “Nothing stops us from also looking inward how are we managing the youth burg, what are the policies to manage the next 30 years in terms of demographics. She also advocated for a situation where the school curriculum is tinted towards the development of transformational leaders. She noted that at a time like this, the nation expects a transformational leader among the youth. She said the country has to take very seriously how the youth are developed, albeit deliberate policies aimed at taken care of this constituency. She said: “We have a youth burg that needs to be the purpose of government policy. It has to be something that should be of interest to everyone that makes up this nation. “We are looking for transformational leaders. The quality of leadership we have determines the quality of society. The quality of the leadership of a nation determines the trajectory of that nation. So we look at our youth populations, the values for the fact that: “The Nigerian 2009 youth policy has good ideas but the implementation seems to be a very big problem. We are talking about developing leaders of the future. Leaders we can believe in to manage Nigeria and her resources. For the country to have transformational youth leaders, is something that must be subject to the policy. “The policy is advocating for a new culture.  it is Talking about leadership for the development, it is talking about the fact that that constituency now has to become as of reality subject of policies that will be actually mo, emerged so that we get the desired results. “Now we have been looking in the early seventies of all the people that managed this nation was actually under 35. If we take demographic seriously, we if we are serious about the future, and in 30 years time that if we have not sorted  out our continent in terms of leadership, if we have not sorted out our nation in terms of leadership, that we can become a danger to nations who really don’t want the world to become chaotic . “The issue is we need a transition from reeling out the statistic to actual advocacy that it becomes a reality that government policies can be implemented and it becomes a reality. “Leaders must know how to manage the future and interface with other world leaders and know what to do with the future. “We need to shift from transactional leadership, leaders who only think about themselves and what they would gain from governance to leaders of the future, transformational leaders.”