Oziegbe Okoeki Worried by alleged recent developments in the presidency, leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the United States have condemned any plan to ridicule Vice President Yemi Osinbajo by some forces. The APC leaders, who also threw their weight behind Osinbajo for remaining focus, committed and loyal in spite of the attempts to distract him, said the major achievements of the Buhari administration would have been impossible without the Vice President. Reacting to some of the news making the round in Nigeria, Dr. Baba Adam, former US leader of Pro National Conference Organisations, PRONACO and one of Nigeria’s most prominent citizens in the US, said the contributions of the Vice President should be applauded and not condemned at this crucial time. According to the APC chieftain, the best and and most prominent of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration are pro-people policies and programs supervised and monitored by the Vice President. He said: “This is just a reminder that the clock cannot be turned back. The very best of this administrations initiatives be it Homegrown School Feeding Program, N-Power, GEEP Programs, Niger-Delta Peace initiatives, Energizing Education and Market Initiatives, etc came out of the Office of the Vice President and not from the President’s Office or the Ministries, Department and Agencies.” A renowned US judge and APC leader, Dele Alade, said politicians should leave the President and Vice President out of their games to enable them to focus on governance. “Any humiliation of the VP or Asiwaju Tinubu or other leaders will not be acceptable. All these shenanigans are because of 2023,” he said. Alade however warned a Southwest governor to be very careful as Vice President Osinbajo has done a great job. “The governor has to be very careful. VP Osinbajo has done a great job. We know it. Nigerians know it. Rather than helping Buhari/Osinbajo concentrate on delivering better governance to our people, some crazy elements and enemies of progress are bent on destroying the gains made so far and paralyzing governance. “Tens of millions of Nigerians are suffering because of this. Only those lazy government officials who live on government and/or on government welfare (and not on their ingenuity) are unconcerned. We’re watching and we will hold them accountable.”