By Jane Chijioke  The Chancellor of Mountain Top University, Dr. Daniel Kolawole Olukoya has proposed that universities should begin teaching students principles of creativity to enable them excel in life. He made this call at the first international conference on entrepreneurship organised by the university, where he underscored the importance of creativity as a requirement in entrepreneurship. The three-day conference had as theme:  “Entrepreneurship and sustainable development” Olukoya noted that with creative skills, students would be able to execute productive ideas that would solve myriads of problems in the country. “When you look at it closely, entrepreneurship is just a small department in creativity.  If you study entrepreneurship, it would sustain you but when you introduce creativity into it, it will make you excel. There is a difference between doing something and also excelling in that thing. Creativity is when you have new ideas. It is also being able to reset old ideas into new concepts. When you introduce creativity in what you do, it makes it better. I recommend that apart from the entrepreneurial skills, universities should start teaching principles and dynamics of creativity because most problems can be solve by that.” Corroborating him, the Vice Chancellor, Prof Elijah Ayolabi explained that entrepreneurship was  the engine of economic growth and sustainable development. This he noted informed the conference to sensitize students  on the importance of entrepreneurship, to make them think out of the box, be business minded and create job opportunities. He decried the myriads of economic, social and environmental challenges stating that the  unemployment rate which rose to 23.10 percent  in the last quarter of 2018 and  80percent of the country’s estimated 190million population live on less than two dollars per day, showed  a high level  of poverty in the country.  Lamenting that most graduates are trained to seek for jobs that not available rather than being trained to be self reliant,  he said that there are plethora of opportunities for youths to deploy innovative skills to be successful in a seemingly not favourable environment. “Government also needs to wake up to its responsibility and be able to create an enabling environment for the young ones to thrive.  Look at Nigerians, wherever they are, they always excel but at home they can’t do well. This is because the environment is harsh and inconsistency in policies. Government need able to empower youths interms of funds to create and run their businesses.” he added. The Chairman, LOC, Dr Adedeji Adelekan advised universities to incorporate entrepreneurship in their curriculum for students to benefit from all through thier period of study. Also speaking, the Chief Executive Officer,  Ovation Media Group, Dele Momodu shared his experiences, challenges and achievements, charging the students to always prepare to face setbacks and prove their worth at all times. “A star is as good as his last performance. Meaning that you must perform all the time. Your journey into entrepreneurship more often than not start  from joblessness. That was how I started,” he said.