People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate Douye Diri has called for a probe of the “brutal killings of no fewer than eight members of our party” during a botched rally in Nembe Ogbolomabiri on Wednesday. Senator Diri told reporters in Yenagoa that the killings were “barbaric, demonic, undemocratic.” Among the dead was the driver of the OB Van of Radio Bayelsa, Mr. Simon Onu, who was gunned down beside his vehicle. Diri accused the brother of a top government official of being behind the killings. He said there was an unprovoked attack on party members which resulted in the death of some members. The injured, he said are receiving medical attention at the Government House Hospital, Federal Medical Centre, Yenagoa and Government Hospital in Nembe. Senator Diri recalled that similar event occurred in the area during the last National Assembly election. He stated that many people in the area are still in IDP camps while perpetrators of the dastardly act then are still working on the streets of Yenagoa. Explaining how the attack occurred, Diri said: “When we arrived at Nembe we saw our billboards on the floor and that was the signal that all was not well. We proceeded to our first port of call at Oluasiri, we got to the water front and kept most of our party members behind since Oluasiri was a riverine journey. We were to return to Nembe for our final rally. “We arrived Oluasiri only to receive a distress call that our party members were under attack. Some had been gunned down, lives were lost, our vehicles vandalized and we couldn’t hold our rally at Oluasiri, we had to return immediately to Nembe. On our return to Nembe, from the waterside we got the signal that the soldiers were there and they advised that the shooting was still going on, killings were still going on. For innocent party members who went to Nembe to canvass for votes. “We were advised to drive slowly and the few security escorts that went with us to Oluasiri also came down with their arms and they were moving while we were advised to be inside the vehicles… we left Nembe and knowing that’s what has happened, we came here straight to the hospital, we’ve gone to the hospital, we’ve seen our party faithful gasping for breath, suffering from gun shots, not one, not two but an uncountable number. “As we speak, most of our party members are missing, we cannot account for them. We condemn it, it is sad, a thing we never thought will happen, we have been raising the alarm long before today, we call on the security agencies, in particular, the commissioner of police, the director of state security to immediately swing into action and arrest these hoodlums, these killers. “We also call for justice and that Nembe as we have raised alarm before today, iis a hot spot, and without an immediate action, election in Nembe cannot hold. “Nembe should be seen as the red flag zone where the security agents must immediately move in to ensure that these killers are arrested.”