By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie and Adegunle Olugbamila  Corps members posted to Lagos State have been told to make their service year a learning period by being open minded. They got the advice from the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu during the opening of the three week orientation camp for Batch C Stream 1 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) corps members last Thursday at the Iyana Ipaja Orientation camp. Sanwo-Olu, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Special Duties, Dr. Yusuf Jimoh, said: “The NYSC scheme was founded primarily on the vision of promoting the peas and sustaining unity owing to the heterogeneous composition of our nation.  It provides you with a unique opportunity to get to know your country more and appreciate the diversity in the culture, language, customs and beliefs of the people. “This three weeks orientation programme and the regimented life here on camp have been specifically planned for you to imbibe core values such as discipline, tolerance, perseverance, and time consciousness.  Although these values are meant to guide your conduce during the orientation course, they will be of great benefit to you beyond the service year.” In his speech, the Lagos State NYSC Coordinator, Mr Sunday Aroni, urged the corps members to participate fully in all camp activities. “The activities are packaged for your mental, emotional and physical development.  I therefore encourage you to be actively involved in all camp activities for your present and future benefits,” he said. Chief Judge of Lagos, Justice Kazeem Alogba, represented by Justice Bukola Adebiyi, administered the oath of allegiance on the corps members – made up of 998 males and 1,446 females from tertiary institutions across the country. At the Ogun State NYSC camp in Sagamu, Governor Dapo Abiodun, assured the new corps members deployed to the state that of ‘absolute security.’ The Governor, who was represented by his Senior Special Adviser on Job Creation and Youth Empowerment Mr Olalekan Olude, added that they would be well received in the state:  “The people of Ogun State are peace loving and hospitable. Rest assured that you are all home away from home. I enjoin you to take advantage of this opportunity to fire your imaginative and creative instincts and leave bold imprints on the sands of time.” NYSC Coordinator, Ogun State, Dr. Belinda Faniyi, said the scheme’s partnership on the Ogun State Skills Acquisition Village was yielding results. “There have been deliberate and bold strides to ensure its existence as plans have reached advanced stage to cultivate variety of crops such as plantains, vegetables, and cassava.  We are collaborating with IITA Ibadan, Ogun State Ministry of Agriculture, and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture in the areas of plantain suckers,” she said. She thanked the host state for ensuring maintenance of the camp describing the gesture as a ‘show of concern to the welfare of youths in the state. Chief Judge of Ogun State Justice Mosunmola Dipeolu, represented by Justice M.I. Agbelu, conducted the oath. 