Dr Joel Akande To my surprise, our recent articles on skin disorders have generated considerable interests. Little did I realise the enormity of the skin illnesses in our population. From the very young to the very old, skin diseases seem to be an epidemic matter in Nigeria. For millennia, we know for certainty that women have been concerned with their appearances, perhaps to attract the opposite gender for reproduction. Even at that, there are a lot of skin or dermatological illnesses in women that indicate women’s intimately-held concerns. Thus, I will spend the next couple of weeks to shed more light on skin illnesses in our population, especially as related to our environment. In the past, I have discussed such common issues as pimples and body odour that afflict both men and women. I have also explained why these events occur and what may be done to curtail their effects on us.  Role of Skin in Health and Diseases  For the next series on skin (dermatological) disorders, I will endeavour to take a deeper look at specific diseases. Once again, let me indicate here that, skin is the largest organ in the human body. The importance of the skin cannot be over-emphasised. Skin functions in many ways to our advantage. For a start, our skin is the first in the line of defences of our body against adverse environmental forces. These forces include the weather, bacteria, viruses, parasites and also chemical attacks, which we may apply or which nature may throw at us. Some of these chemicals are body creams, soaps and hair spray. Industrial waste exposures or as it often the case, being a factory worker (of whatever nature) may significantly impact our skin. Further, our skin is exposed to electromagnetic forces that are all around us – from natural earth fields to man-made electromagnetism such as phone masts and so forth. Some members of our population are uniquely at risk of developing skin disorders as a result of environmental impacts, their professions and their lifestyles. In this category are women, farmers and factory workers. Moving inside the human body, our skin plays a significant role in manifestation of internal diseases that afflict us. In fact, the human skin may be the first reporter of a human illness. In so many ways, our skin attempts to tell us what is going on inside us. What we may have covered up or what we may have done in secret is so often easily revealed by our skin. Let me cite some critical examples here. Sexually transmitted diseases very often manifest in our skin.  Example, syphilis and herpes simplex produce sores or ulcers that are visible to us. Infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) produce rashes on the skin even though this is a disease located inside the human body. Cancers occurring in other internal organs may show up on the skin. Example is breast cancer. Poor nutrition or effects of what we ingested such as medications, toxic conventional or traditional substances so easily show up on our skin. Our aging process is gauged through, principally, our skin.  Mentally, our sadness or happiness is measured through the reactions that our skin portrays to the world: frowning faces in everyone, red faces in fairer people demonstrate sadness or anger while, relaxed facial skin shows happiness in everyone. That said, skin also functions to regulate our wellbeing. Our skin is a “respirator” and also an organ working like the kidneys. The skin does these works by allowing water and chemicals in and expelling waste products from our body. This is why our sweat tastes like salt and if the sweats stay too long without us removing them, our body develops body odour and smells like urine because our skin may produce urea like kidneys do. We should remember that our nails and hairs are part of the skin. The nails function in part as objects of beauty but also a defensive appendage to help us remove unwanted matters from our body. Hairs, adds to our beauty or handsomeness. In addition, the hair, helps us to regulate our well-being by opening up pores to allow waste matters to pass to the outside world. The hairs, a beauty object, also alongside the rest of the skin, regulate our temperate against being too cold and or too hot. From all of these, we can see the great importance of the skin and the considerable need to protect the largest organ that any human being have. In health and or disease, your skin is telling you and the world, something about you and your behaviour or what you have been exposed to. We will continue next week when we shall begin a more elaborate discussion on individual skin illnesses.  In the meantime, if you have been affected by this article and you require assistance, you may call / or WhatsApp 07087733114 or 08188343865 for support.