 Politicians across party divides on Monday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, put aside their political differences and party lines to align with political ideologies. The ideology named Lamist Political Family, consists of politicians who believe in the progressive political tenets of the former Oyo State Governor, Lamidi Adesina, popularly called Baba Lam, from all the regions of the state. Lamidi Adesina was the Governor of Oyo State between 1999 and 2003 on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD). At the 7th year remembrance prayer and lecture held at the Gbadamosi Olowoporoku Adesina Central Mosque, Felele Layout, Ibadan, politicians, political associates and political children of the former governor resolved that the memory and ideology of the deceased governor must be preserved and honoured, adding that since the death of the former governor, the state had not been fortunate to produce another progressive governor to fill the vacuum created by his death. Politicians at the event included those from the All Progressives Congress (APC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), African Democratic Congress (ADC), African Democratic Party (ADP), among others. Some of the dignitaries who attended the event included wife of the former governor, Mrs. Sarat Adesina, former deputy governor Iyiola Oladokun, Chief Michael Koleosho, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu and a former member of the House of Representatives, Mr. Dapo Lam-Adeshina. Others are Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun and his counterpart at the Ministry of Energy, Mr. Temi Ashamu, former deputy speaker Oyo State House of Assembly Mr. Musah Abdulwasi, ex-lawmaker Segun Olaleye among others. Highpoint of the event was the presentation of bursary awards of N10,000 to 120 indigenous students through the Omo Olore Educational Support Scheme. Pa Koleosho called on the people who share the political beliefs of Baba Lam to come together in the interest of development of the entire society. Senator Sunmonu recounted how she was encouraged by the late Lam to join politics in the interest of development and never sought any material gain from anyone. Olatunbosun, Abdulwasil and Olaleye also in their remarks noted that the vacuum created by the death had not been filled by anyone else to date, saying the ideology of the late Lam goes beyond political party interests. Giving a hint as to why the bursary was presented, a son of the former governor who served as a member of the Eight House of Representatives, Mr. Dapo Lam Adeshina, said his father believed so much in education as a means of liberating ignorance, adding that the beneficiaries would continue to grow year-in-year-out.