 MINISTER of Communications Dr. Isa Pantami is not new to controversy. When he headed the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), his attempt to register IT contractors was resisted by the Nigerian Computer Society (NCS), which insisted that registering contractors wasn’t part of the intention of NITDA Act 2007. Its role is to plan, promote and develop regulatory framework and guidelines as stated in NITDA Act 2007, Section 6a. “The Computer Professionals Registration Council of Nigeria (CPN) Act 49 of 1993 is saddled with the mandate to register, license, supervise and control the profession as stated in CPN Act Section 1 (2),” NCS insisted. Again, in July this year, the Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON) petitioned the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) over Pantami’s attempt to usurp its functions. Entitled “Introduction of Legal Instruments by NITDA with Attendant Impact on the Operations of Entities Regulated by the NCC–Request for Guidance”, the Telcos had drawn NCC’s attention to Framework and Guidelines for Public Internet Access (PIA) 2019; Framework for Data Centre Facilities; and Nigeria Data Protection Regulation 2019. ALTON raised concern over NITDA’s attempt to regulate data services. It also faulted attempts to register data centres in the country under the guise of Presidential Executive Orders 003 and 005 on local content development. The Telcos also raised concern over NITDA’s attempt to turn itself into the Data Protection Agency by making its regulation to override the NCC’s provision on data processing in the industry. Again, the minister is in the eyes of the storm over his recourse to issuing a directive to the NCC that is an independent regulatory body. When the issue of Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) between the Telcos and the banks came up, the minister directed the NCC to stop charge deduction. The statement had read: “The attention of the Federal Ministry of Communications has been drawn to the viral text message allegedly sent by the Mobile Network Operator MTN Nigeria and other Mobile Operators notifying subscribers of a N4:00 charge per 20 seconds on USSD access to banking services from October 21, 2019. “The office of the Minister of Communications Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami is unaware of this development and has hereby directed the sector regulator, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to ensure the operator suspends such plans until the Minister is fully and properly briefed,” it stated. Again, the minister directed the NCC to, within five days, lower data cost. He said there were numerous complaints from Nigerians regarding illegal data deduction and the high price of data, adding that he had personally experienced illegal data deduction. The minister had also directed the NCC to stop the Telcos from deducting USSD charges. “I am urging the management of NCC to work towards reducing the price of data in Nigeria. It is too costly and people are complaining every day. If you go to other countries, even countries that are not as largely populated as Nigeria, data prices are not this high. I am also a victim of some of the infractions that are so common in the industry. You load your data but you barely use 20 per cent of it and the entire data is wiped off. “The last time I commented on the issue of illegal data deduction…This is one of the issues that worry me badly today. “The Executive Vice-Chairman of NCC, had, through Wakil tried to defend the operators on one hand and the commission on the other, but I was not fully convinced with the explanation. “Please, review that issue. It is very important. I expect feedback on that report in the next five days. Complaints from Nigerians is beyond what I can handle.” Pantami said. Telcos react Carriers have warned that any attempt to water down the regulatory independence of the NCC on a platter of populism will spell doom for the industry which has achieved phenomenal growth through the application of ‘light regulation’. The President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusola Teniola said the sector was able to create over 100,000 indirect jobs, attract $70 billion foreign direct investment (FDI), contribute about 40 per cent to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and has become the biggest telecoms industry on the African Continent because of the autonomy of the regulator and its ability to balance all the interest of the stakeholders in the ecosystem. According to him, the independence of the NCC is guaranteed in the Nigeria Communication Act which empowers it to regulate and manage the industry. Teniola said though the minister has a supervisory role to play, he should concern himself with providing policy direction to the industry and not interfering in its regulation. He advised the minister to seek collaboration and partnership with all the stakeholders in the industry, urging him to preoccupy himself with pursuing the digital strategy of the country. He said NCC has a board consisting of men and women with knowledge about the industry. He also stated that he should repose confidence in the ability of the regulator to move the industry forward for the benefit of all. Also, the Chairman, Association of Licenced Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo, said the law that created the NCC stated clearly that the minister must guarantee and protect the independence of the NCC. He said the minister was probably not briefed adequately about the mechanism for arriving at the pricing in the industry. Adebayo said pricing does not come by fiat but is based on cost studies that the NCC undertakes with experts. He said cost is not a subject of policy but that of regulation, operational cost, and market forces, arguing that pricing has to reflect the trading environment. “We must be careful not to subject the regulator to populist pronouncements. My appeal to the minister is that we shouldn’t undermine the autonomy of the regulator because that will be dangerous. The autonomy of the NCC is sacrosanct and not negotiable. “We have said it several times that when policies interfere with commercial matters, the industry will be jeopardised. The government needs to be careful not to whittle down the powers of the regulator. “To arrive at prices NCC normally conducts survey and research, and after all that, it will benchmark the country’s tariffs based on what is obtained in other jurisdictions,” Adebayo said. Former Executive Vice-Chairman of the NCC, Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, had consistently harped on the independence of the regulator. Like Teniola, Ndukwe had attributed the success recorded in the sector to the existence of an independent and predictable regulatory environment. He had identified independence, good enabling laws, government support, adequate manpower, adequate funding, wide consultations, positive, bold and timely regulatory decisions the key success factors for a regulatory authority. A telecoms sector analyst wondered if the Finance Minister can direct the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to reduce the interest rate to a single digit. How does it work? It was discovered that the NCC has no power under Section 108-110 of the Nigerian Communications Act 2003 to prescribe retail price. What the law allows the Commission to do is to ensure that tariffs reflect the costs of providing services. That is probably why NCC is mandated to carry out cost-based studies from time to time and as may be deemed fit to fix price floors and /or ceilings. That way, no operator can under-price to kill its competitors. A cost study is currently ongoing to, once again, to determine if the price of data consumers currently enjoyed will be reviewed upward or downward in line with the reality of the markets (that is after the cost elements of the operators have been scientifically factored into consideration). The Policy Competition and Economic Analysis of the NCC are working with KPMG to determine this. Price determination must be based on scientifically-based evidence as recommended by the International Telecoms Union (ITU). Assuming the NCC lowers data prices as directed, the big/foreign-funded operators may be able to weather the storm but smaller operators will die because they will not be able to compete. Again, the five days handed to the NCC to reduce data cost negates the existence of legal steps and procedures that must be followed pursuant to the NCA 2003 (Sections 108-110) and its own Consultant Guidelines. An analyst said the NCC and Telcos need to aggressively inform/educate consumers on the things their phones do behind their backs which deplete their data. “There are free apps that measure data usage. Consumers can use this to monitor their data usage. Consumers should be encouraged to use them, rather than complaining about early data depletion. In the era of 4G, speed is crucial and more speed means more cost to the consumers since operators spend so much to maintain their networks to be able to offer higher speed which consumers crave for. “Instead of decrying data cost crash, the minister should address cases of vandalism, multiple taxation and regulations, indiscriminate shutdown of base transmission station (BTS) denial or high cost of right of way (RoW) which slows down operators’ drive to quickly role out more infrastructure, theft of equipment at sites, power problem, where two heavy-duty generators are used by the operators to run their base stations which depend on power 24/7. Also, insecurity is another problem. Operators find it difficult to go and refuel their generators in areas where insecurity is high, especially in the north and when the base station goes down, it affects service delivery in such areas,” he said. Defending 2020 Budget at the National Assembly last week, the Executive Vice-Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, revealed that all the over 39,000 BTS owned by the operators in the country run on diesel. He said two generators are used to power a BTS. All these cost money, yet, the regulator still sanctions them for poor services. The analyst said costs are critical elements because tariffs cannot fall when capital expenditure 9capex) and operational expenditure (opex) continue to go up, adding that end-user tariff and data cost remain one of the lowest in Africa. “So, the minister’s directive for data reduction by NCC is un-informed and it shows that he lacks understanding of how exactly the telecoms industry runs. Prices of services are not determined by fiat, on the basis of emotions and consumer complaints on social media platforms. Those emotions should not determine the uninformed policy direction of the minister. “The minister acknowledged being aware of the many challenges operators face which is resulting in a high cost of operations during a visit of ATCON leadership to his office. So the directive is bizarre,” he added. Meanwhile, it was gathered that the study which KPMG is carrying out for the Commission to determine the new price of data (upper and lower parts of the price) based on the scientifically-based results presented to the Commission by KPMG- its consultants- will soon be concluded and subjected to stakeholders’ consultation as the law prescribes, not within five days. Dr. Pantami seemed to have erred on the USSD issue because there is already a legal determination on it. Yet, he set aside the law to follow the sentiments of Nigerians. Whereas, when operators charge directly, it makes cost of USSD cheaper for Nigerians and this will further accelerate digital financial inclusion instead of the extant hidden, non-transparent charge and billing for USSD where banks have been raking in billions of naira when they are not even the ones that own the telecoms infrastructure upon which USSD service rides. What obtains in other climes? A survey recently released by Cable.co.uk indicated that 10 of the top 50 cheapest countries in the world for mobile data are in sub-Saharan Africa. Also, seven North African countries included in the report appeared higher up in the table than the majority of countries in sub-Saharan Africa. The report included data from 6,313 mobile data plans in 230 countries around the world between October 23 and November 28, 2018. The average cost of one gigabyte of data was then calculated and compared to create a worldwide mobile data pricing league table. In Africa, which is the poorest continent by GDP per capita, countries in the southernmost part pay the most for 1GB at $7.19 for South Africa, $11.2 for Namibia and $14.12 for Botswana. In West Africa, Nigeria’s 1GB could be obtained at $3.22, while in Chad it is $23. 3. It goes for $1.71 in Cameroon, $4.1 in Ivory Cost and $2.92 in Niger. In the North African region, Algeria’s 1GB goes for $5.15; Egypt’s IGB goes for $1.49, Libya’s $4.87and in Sudan it cost $0.6. The survey said India had the world’s cheapest data plan at $0.10 for 1GB, adding that in the US, it goes for $12.37 and $6.66 in the UK. The global average of a 1GB data plan is $8.53. Zimbabwe pays the highest price in the world at $75.20 per 1GB, followed closely by Equatorial Guinea at $65.83, Saint Helena at $55.47 and Djibouti at $37.92.   NCA ACT 2003, Part III—Tariff Rate Regulation 108.—(1) Holders of individual licences shall not impose any tariff or charges for the provision of any service until the Commission has approved such tariff rates and charges except as otherwise provided in this Part. (2) The licensees specified in subsection (1) of this section shall provide services at the tariff rates and charges so approved by the Commission and shall not depart therefrom without prior written approval by the Commission of such proposed changes in tariff rates and charges. (3) All licensees mentioned in subsection (1) of this section shall publish the tariff rates charged to customers for their respective services and the modifications thereto as may be approved from time to time by the Commission. (4) The tariff rates established by a licensee mentioned in subsection (1) of this section shall be on the basis of such principles as the Commission may from time to time stipulate in its guidelines or regulation including the following— (a) tariff rates shall be fair and, for similarly situated persons not discriminatory ; (b) tariff rates shall be cost-oriented and, in general, cross-subsidies shall be eliminated ; (c) tariff rates shall not contain discounts that unreasonably prejudice the competitive opportunities of other providers ; (d) tariff rates shall be structured and levels set to attract investments into the communications industry ; and (e) tariff rates shall take account of the regulations and recommendations of the international organisations of which Nigeria is a member. 109. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 108 of this Act, the Commission may intervene in such manner as it deems appropriate in determining and setting the tariff rates for any non-competitive services provided by a provider mentioned in Section 108 (1) of this Act for good cause or as the public interest may require. 110.—(1) The Commission may from time to time make rules or regulations on determination and publication of tariff rates for respective services by the licensees specified in section 108 (1) of this Act. (2) The regulations and rules which may be made by the Commission under subsection (1) of this section may include but are not limited to: (a) rules about the tariff rates and charges and variation of rates for specified or classes of services ; (b) rules about the publication or disclosure of tariff rates for specified or classes of services ; or (c) tariff rate models that may be applicable to specified licensees or classes of licensees or specified or classes of services. 