 NIGERIA’s biggest export to the European game this season is Wilfred Ndidi, who has shown that there are still good things here to celebrate, irrespective of the downturn of  our domestic football in the last six years. Ndidi, a product of FIFA’s youth development programmes, having been discovered at the U-20 level, has made the shortlist of 20 players in the race to be the 2019/2020 Africa Footballer of the Year. The parameters for picking the eventual winner do not favour Ndidi, since marks would be given based on a player’s contributions in his national team and his European club. Europe-based players have dominated previous winners’ list, making it imperative for pundits to look towards top performers in Europe. This evident backing for Europe-based stars compelled the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) to carve out an award for the home-based stars,:but this isn’t as glamorous as the senior category since fans ask questions about the winner unlike the one for the big boys. I digress! Ndidi has played over 80 per cent of Nigeria’s matches, missing only when he is either injured or banned due to yellow card offences. Ndidi has dominated his Barclays English Premier League side Leicester City’s matches, drawing rave reviews from pundits and coaches. Other clubs are watching, obviously waiting for either the January transfer window or that of the summer to offer the Nigerian mouth-watering packages. Will Ndidi dump Leicester for a bigger club? Will he remain at Leicester where he has a regular shirt until next season, now that it appears the Foxes can claim one of the four UEFA Champions League slots for the English game in the 2020/2021 season? I don’t envy Ndidi. But his managers are seasoned administrators, who will give him quality advice. For Leicester’s management, these are tough times, given the fact that Ndidi has added goal scoring to his tackling prowess. Many pundits agree that he is the closest threat to Chelsea’s defensive midfielder N’Golo Kante, a member of the French 2018 World Cup winning team in Russia. Soccer pundits have not blamed Ndidi for picking yellows cards while playing for Leicester because he does the dirty jobs of marking players, many of whom are in the habit of feigning injuries from such ‘crunchy’ tackles. Chronologists have rated Ndidi between first and third among the best tacklers. Those who have not rated Ndidi as the best tackler often get the stick from followers of the game, having seen the names of those listed ahead of the Nigerian. Penultimate week, Ndidi’s team mate in Leicester City James  Madison described him as the best in his position  in the English Premier League. Madison said: “What  Wilfred Ndidi does may not get on the back of pages of the newspaper or talked about  moren often. He doesn’t get talked about on match day for example but his teammates and players that play against him realise what a top player he is.” Good talk Madison, that is the prize undertakers of the game get from the media, whose major concern are the goal scorers or naughty players who make the headlines for the wrong reasons. Pity! Sadly, Ndidi won’t make the last three, where the eventual winner will emerge. Previous winners have been goal scorers. Indeed, Sadio Mane, Mohammed Salah and Mahrez are strong contenders for the Africa Footballer of the Year, with the Liverpool duo tipped to win the diadem, based on their contributions to Liverpool since last season. The Reds did well last season by lifting the UEFA Champions league and are the holders of the UEFA Super Cup, a trophy meant to decide the best team in Europe last season. Liverpool beat Chelsea 5-4 on penalty kicks after 120 minutes. Last season, Salah and Mane tied on 22 goals in the Barclays English Premier League top scorers’ chat along with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, though the Arsenal captain won’t be able to match the others because his country ,Gabon, is a football minnow. Kudos to Aubameyang for not dumping his fatherland to play for any of the European soccer powers. “It will be difficult for the Nigerians to win it. The only Nigerian player with some chance is Odion Ighalo, who was the top scorer at the Africa Cup of Nations. “Maybe when you come to the CAF Best XI, Wilfred Ndidi has a chance to make it. Ighalo definitely has a chance to be part of the XI but it’s looking good for Mane. ”People might argue that he didn’t win the Africa Cup of Nations but he helped Senegal reach the final and Liverpool to win the UEFA Champions League back in June,” Victor Ikpeba, a former Africa Footballer of the Year (1997) stressed. What counts essentially in the race to winning the trophy is the player who distinguishes himself the most. Mane towers over every African since he was runners-up last season, which means that he has been the most consistent player since last year. Mane continued with his sterling form for club and country. But it is Mane’s role with Senegal that should earn him the diadem, more so as Egypt has been tottering. Egypt hosted the Africa Cup of Nations and fumbled. But Senegal lost in the final to Algeria. Ordinarily, the odds would have favoured Mahrez, yet his club form has been in-today-out tomorrow. This writer won’t say Mahrez has been a poor performer. Mahrez cannot field himself in a game. Manchester City’s manager Pep Guardiola decides who plays and who doesn’t. If he thinks otherwise for Mahrez, he sits on the bench, unlike Salah and Mane who are pillars in Liverpool’s attacking onslaughts. Ikpeba, who voted for Mane, knows that Ighalo doesn’t have the indices to grab the award, given what Mane achieved for Liverpool in England and UEFA Champions League last season. Mane has continued these feats (scoring vital goals for Liverpool) this season. Perhaps for 2019/2020, Victor Osimhen can battle for the award with Mane, Salah and Aubameyang, considering the way he is scoring goals for Lille in the French Ligue Un and the UEFA Champions league, even though Lille have been eliminated from the elite class. This Osimhen  proportion is being patriotic because the trio (Mane, Salah, and Aubameyang) have made goal scoring look like second nature. At best, Osimhen can be adjudged the best youth player for this season and even next. but for him to beat the trio, he must do more than the extraordinary. and this can’t happen playing for Lille in the French league. Can Osimhen stand up and be counted playing for bigger clubs, especially as Jose Mourinho wants him to join Tottenham in the EPL? Osimhen has no place at Tottenham , with the way Harry Kane and Song are playing. He could be more talented with age on his side. but Mourinho isn’t patient with young boys. Mourinho wants quick fixes, making it impossible for Osimhen to fit into the present Tottenham set – up. Osimhen should remain at Lille or join teams with more tolerant managers for young boys to break into their team during the summer. Odion Ighalo being picked as the best African player because he emerged the highest goal scorer is farfetched. He plays in the Chinese league, which is lightweight , compared to the EPL and Champions League in which Mane and Salah are competing. It won’t fly with contenders, such as Mane and Salah. Both men have already added the Super Cup feat to their Champions League laurel of last season. Besides, Liverpool are the current league leaders with high prospects of winning the EPL for the first time in the new era in the last 30 years. The only consolation for Nigerians is that Ndidi has grown in stature in his game, a fact he attested to in a recent interview in England. ‘He (Rodgers) has given me so much information,’ Ndidi reveals. ‘If I had known this for a long time, the way I think I’m going… I feel comfortable and happy, knowing these things. ”What have I learned? First of all, it’s about facing the larger part of the pitch when I receive the ball. Then it’s knowing when to go with one touch, two touches, or when to leave the ball and just go with the body. At first, when I’d been converted from a central defender to a midfielder, I didn’t know these things. ”I just went out and played. When it’s a tight situation on the pitch, sometimes I don’t really go and ask for the ball, but this information has really helped my confidence, even to ask for the ball during the game, ” Ndidi said.