Emma Elekwa, Onitsha Managing Director of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Chief George Moghalu has assured President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to making the Onitsha River Port work under his administration. Moghalu spoke in Onitsha, Anambra State during a visit to NIWA Onitsha as part of his nationwide tour of the Authority’s establishments in the country. He however expressed worry over the state of the Onitsha River Port even after completion by past administration, but said he would like to be remembered for making the Port work again. He said, “If you look at the investment and the time it has taken, there is need for us to make it work and it is a primary concern for me. “I will like to be remembered for making Onitsha River Port work, because it has the capacity to open up Onitsha business environment more and generate revenue to the people and government.” Moghalu stressed that a critical national asset of the Port must be made functional for immediate environment and national economic gains. He assured recovery of all NIWA investments and made income generating. While frowning at what he called development on the rights of ways of NIWA properties, the former National Auditor of the All Progressives Congress (APC), warned culprits to desist from such act, insisting that nothing built on the sand would stand. Moghalu who had earlier paid a courtesy call on the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Alfred Achebe, argued that water ways transportation would reduce the pressures on Nigerian roads. He further promised to work assiduously to ensure the water ways connecting over 28 states of the federation were constantly cleared to ensure expansion and easy passage. “The federation of Nigeria with about 10,000 kilometers of Inland Waterways, 3,000 navigable kilometers all year round, cutting across 28 states of the federation NIWA has become a national responsibility and all the affected states should collaborate with us to enable us get the best for the nation’s potentially viable Inland Waterways,” he added. Responding, Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Achebe said the functionality of Onitsha River Port was long overdue. He recalled when ocean going vessels came to Onitsha to discharge goods and moved to Baro River Port Niger State to make a turn.