Having exceeded the 30 per cent broadband target of the National Broadband Plan 2013-2018, focus is now on the 70 per cent target. The Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, working with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and others, must lobby the  National Assembly to pass the Critical National Infrastructure Bill into law, writes LUCAS AJANAKU.  When a member of the House Telecoms Committee,   Hon Isiaka Ibrahim, advised the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to forward its proposed amendments to the Nigerian Communications Act 2003, to the National Assembly for action, it was assumed that it will resonate with the NCC. But the Chairman, NCC Board, Sen Biyi Durojaye, disagreed with him, arguing that “we cannot continue changing the law all the time.” Rather than seeking a new list of proposed amandment to the NCA, Sen Durojaye said the Critical National Infrstructure (CNI) Bill pending before the National Assembly should be attended to. Hon Ibrahim and Sen Durojaye spoke during sensistisation workshop organised by the NCC on the African Continental Trade Area (AfCFTA) for the Nigerian Communications Industry in Lagos, at the weekend. He said since 1776 when the American constitution was birthed, it has undergone less than 50 amendments. Rather than rooting for amendment, he urged Hon Isiaka to work with his colleagues to pass the CNI into law. Durojaye said the law should be harsh on “fellow citizens” who are seeking short cut to wealth by resorting to wilful vandalism of telecoms cables. The NCC chairman was short of recommending the Chinese model of criminal justice system which prescribed death penalty for economic crimes, including stealing of public funds. He said the NCC will continue to work hard to ensure that it kept contributing significantly to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP), adding that the Commission also recognised the enormous 1.2billion  market AfCFTA provides. He added that the huge youthful population on the continent is also hungry for data. Also speaking on the occasion, Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu said to enhance the sector’s competitiveness in the emerging single market, a lot of efforts must be put into improving the efficiency of service delivery through investment in modern technology. He urged the communications industry to leverage the provisions of AfCFTA to the advantage of the remains one of the major factors to fully drive the digital economic revolution in the country. The CNI bill has been with the National Assembly for over one decade while the indsurty that has attracted over $70billion. Access to broadband services has improved. About 64.3 million people, equivalent to 33 per cent of the population are said to have access. The rate of vandalism, especially fibre cuts has increased by 80 per cent since 2016. In 2015, the industry recorded about 1,200 cuts. Over 10,000 generating sets were lost to miscreants who broke into Base Transceiver Stattions (BTS) to steal diesel, batteries and others. President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusola Teniola, said the passage of the bill alongside the enforcement of Section 4 of the Cybercrime Act, which make reference to CNI, will  protect the industry and ensure the growth of the sector.  He lamented that multiple daily fibre cuts and multiple taxes, levies and fees at both state and local government levels also pose challenges to achieving the target. Teniola said: “There will be great impact on foreign direct investment (FDI) and domestic investors if the bill is not passed or Section 4 is not properly enforced. Taking the industry to Industry 4.0 will definitely require protection from CNI Bill in conjunction with execution of Section 4 of the Cybercrime Act.” He said the industry that has created jobs, grown sector contribution to significantly and has become enabler  to other sectors of the economy deserves protection. The Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) agrees no less with Teniola. Its Chairman, Gbenga Adebayo, said “Unless operators have first level of protection by government, it will be difficult to continue to provide uninterrupted services with the type of vulnerability experienced by our members and their infrastructure. We kindly request a presidential executive order on ‘Telecom Infrastructure as Critical National Security and Economic Infrastructure’ as provided by the Cybercrime Law of 2015.” Pioneer Communications Technology Minister, Mrs Omobola Johnson said the government should explore the use of Executive Order to get protection for the industry. The Chief Executive Officer, MainOne Cable, Funke Opeke, said there might never be 70 per cent broadband penetration in another five years if the industry remains the way it is. According to her, it has become very critical to protect telecoms infrastructure, especially if Nigeria planned to achieve more in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. “The market seems ready far more from the telecoms sector -broadband development, startup growth, Fourth Industrial Revolution, among others, but infrastructure that will facilitate this development needs to be protected.” She said the various submarine cables in the country are operating at less than installed capacity. According to her, the about five fibre cables are still less than 10 per cent utilised. The cables include MainOne, Glo 1, SAT 3, WACS, and ACE. The  five cables have over 40TBPS international connectivity capacity at Lagos shores. Furthermore, the requisite terrestrial infrastructure to transmit this capacity from the shores across the country, particularly the unserved and underserved areas, are seriously missing. Besides, the relevant national backbone is also not available. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Ibrahim Panatami, should provide leadership to address the multiple challenges facing the industry instead of issuing directives to independent regulatory bodies in the industry, a sector analyst said. The submarine cable systems are responsible for over 95 per cent of the internet, communications and broadband connectivity Nigerians currently enjoy a today. This covers activities ranging from sending and receiving emails, surfing the internet, streaming and downloading of music, videos and other digital content, teleconferencing, social media engagements, banking and financial market transactions, various electronic commerce activities, phone calls and international communications, telemedicine, long distance education, among others.