 LAGOS State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday admonished victims of domestic, sexual violence and other related gender-based abuses not to be quiet but report perpetrators to relevant authorities for justice. Sanwo-Olu gave the charge when he led his wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, executive council members and some Non-Governmental Organisations, NGOs, on a walk around Alausa, Ikeja. Tagged: “I say No to Domestic Violence,” it was organised by Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team, DSVRT, in conjunction with Nigerian Bar Association Ikorodu Branch. The governor said, Lagos state government, through the Ministry of Justice and other arms of the government deemed it fit to have the walk to further confirm full government support of its advocacy around the stop the child abuse, the advocacy around rape against women and girl, the talk around domestic violence, sexual violence, and all other vices that are around abuse of children. “Our government, by this walk, confirms that we are totally against it. We stand against everything that speaks to this issue. And we are going to ensure that we have zero tolerance against this. “That is why we also have our Commissioner of Police here, it is a crime against humanity, it is a crime when you are caught involved either in rape, either in sexual violence, either in a child abuse, either in a domestic violence, in itself it is a crime. “And so we are using this advocacy to warn and to tell people to desist from it, to stay clear from it, because the full arm of law will be brought to bear on anybody or any institution or in any form that you are found wanting, and so that is why all of us have come here this morning resolute, members of the Executive Council are here, board of Permanent Secretaries are here, representative of the chief judge and other justices are here,  several law enforcement officers are here. “it is about time we live in a civil society. And we need to end and ensure that people end the silence, come forth if informed that anything has happened to you, speak up and you can be rest assured that you will be protected and government will take up your issue. ” The governor therefore, charged residents to report cases at various places of work, places of endeavours, churches, mosques, and propagate the advocacy across the local government areas. He urged victims not to suffer in silence but call 112 toll free line, as well as 08137960048 or send a text to 6820 “and you can be rest assured that there is somebody on the other side that will pick up your case, and we will see to it that justice will be done in anyway where we will find anybody culpable. “We are using this walk to reinforce it and to say that our government is against it and we are saying stop to all of these things.” 