 THE Lagos International Trade Fair ((LITF) considered a showstopper of some sort judging by the frills and thrills that usually attend the ceremony lost its shine at this year’s edition which ended today. The week-long event, to say the least, didn’t live up to its billing if the words of some participants are anything to go by. The LITF, a brainchild of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, is not just considered the largest international exhibition in West Africa, but is actually the premier international trade fair in Nigeria with the spectacular 10-day event usually starting on the first of November every year. A brief history of LITF The fair began in 1977 and was officially taken over by the LCCI in 1986, attract participants different continents including China, Japan, Belgium, Sweden, India, Portugal, Indonesia, Ghana, Egypt, Jordan, Pakistan, Turkey, Cameroun, Kenyan, Singapore, Jamaica, Republic of Benin, South Africa, among others. 2019 edition of LITF This year’s event, which was the 33rd edition, with the benefit of hindsight was devoid of some of the goodies that make the famous Lagos fair tick. In the previous year, over 2,000 exhibitors, including 200 foreign exhibitors and about 5, 000 visitors attended the fair. This year, about 3,000 exhibitors, including 300 foreign exhibitors participated while 500,000 and 600,000 visitors were being expected. Factors that marred fair A constellation of factors, which border on the superficial to the complex may have marred the just concluded fair, chief among which is the issue of poor economy, some analysts said. The land border closure, according to event watchers may have literally taken the sail out of the fair’s wind. Firing the first salvo, the LCCI Director-General, Muda Yusuf, while addressing a symposium to herald the special business to business fair in Lagos, said the land border closure may have had rippled adverse effect in the way the exercise turned out. According to him, naturally patronage at the fair was not as one would expect, as exhibitors from West Africa may be restricted from entering the country with their goods and other items to display at the fair through the border. “Quite a number of our exhibitors are still stocked at the border, waiting for the opening or some sort of waiver to allow them come in with their consignment for the fair. Some of them have been there for the past six days with their luggage and products they want to display. So far, there has been no luck,” he said. He, however, said the exhibitors had shown keen interest in the fair as they had not opted out and were hopeful that something would be done. He said the exhibitors were prepared for the fair, and that backing out might not be on their cards as many have already paid for the spaces in the hall dedicated for exhibitors from the African sub-regions. The LCCI boss noted that the closure might affect the smooth business relationship the country has with these sub-regions as most of their legitimate inter-trade businesses have been hampered. “These exhibitors have made so much investment in preparation for the fair. It is ideal for them to have returns of their investment.  This could affect the business relationship they have with Lagos and the country as a whole these sub regions might retaliate. Normally, a situation like this affects mutual trade relationship in the sub-region. About 90 per cent of trade between Nigeria and other West African countries takes place by road.  So, when the border is closed, that means those trading are cut off. “The closure is affecting us because we have reserved a hall for those coming from African countries and over 60 per cent of the foreign exhibitors are coming from Africa. So, it is greatly affecting us. Besides, we have expended so much on this fair. There is need for quick intervention from the government,” he said. He remarked that the fair would facilitate business networking and provide opportunity for visitors to shop varieties of items of their choice. Beyond the fair, Yusuf who commented on the impact of the border closure on businesses in the country explained that though the closure had recorded some benefits in terms of reduction in smuggled rice, poultry products, sugar and petroleum products, it has greatly accounted for loss on trade. He advised that as the nation celebrates the benefits of  the closure, it should also note the jobs that have been lost, increase in price of goods, legitimate export of goods to sub-regions have been halted, intermediate products for some manufacturers have been cut off, multinational companies de-linked from their sister companies in the sub region. While noting that the country export agricultural and manufactured products, such as detergents, toothpastes, plastic products, steel products, kitchen utensils, grains, ginger, and onions, he said these losses run into billions of naira. “Most often we do not count the cost of government policy on the citizen and businesses. We should not underestimate the contribution of trade and commerce to the economy of the country. Distributive trade sector accounts for about 15 percent of the nation’s GDP), which is estimated at N20trillion naira. “Traders play a major role in the value chain of the real sector activities in the economy.  The trade sector is perhaps the largest employer in the economy,” he said. The Chairman, Trade Promotion Board, LCCI, Gabriel Idahosa, however, said the border closure may not have affected the outcome of the fair. “In fact, some of these exhibitors are here with us today, and we are still expecting more before the close of the fair. The border closure will not affect this fair,” Idahosa said. Light at the tunnel Meanwhile, the President of LCCI, Mr Babatunde Ruwase has however assured that things may soon begin to look up for the sector. According to him, the LITF had the sole aim of boosting the volume of trade among African nations. Ruwas spoke in Lagos on Thursday, during the Africa Special Day celebration organised as part of the ongoing trade fair. While lamenting the low volume of intra-African trade compared to other continents, he said, “The total trade from Africa to the rest of the world averaged $760bn between 2015 and 2017, behind Europe, which stood at $4.11tn; America, $5.14tn; and Asia, $6.81tn. “These numbers tell us that intra-African trade is extremely low; hence, the reason the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry organised this event to promote integration and cooperation among African businesses.” He was, however, quick to add that the African Continental free Trade Area agreement was a welcome development, adding, “We believe the pact will boost trade on a continent with a population of 1.2 billion and market size of about $2.5tn as it allows members to specialise in their areas of comparative advantage.” Echoing similar sentiments, the Managing Director, Nigerian Export-Import Bank, Abba Bello, who was represented by the Technical Adviser to the MD, Mr Hope Youngo, said the intra-African trade was projected to grow by over 22 per cent and that the good thing for Nigeria was that despite its challenges, it was a manufacturing hub. Interestingly, the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu holds the view and very strongly too that most foreign businesses that want to set up shop in the country need to consider opening factories here. Sanwo-Olu, who also graced the opening ceremony of the Special Business to Business Fair at the ongoing Lagos International Trade Fair at Onikan, Lagos, added that his administration would create an enabling environment for organisations from Asia to operate in the state. The B2B fair segment was organised by the Chief Executive Officer, MD Perspective Nigeria Limited, Mrs Morenike Dele-Alimi, with the President, United Asia International Exhibition Group, Mr Ni Liqun, as the chief host. “According to the Chinese Consul General in Lagos, Mr Chu Maoming, total trade between China and Nigeria stood at $8.6bn in the first half of 2019.” Cheery news Reacting to complaints against the border closure from sections of the Nigerian economy and neighbouring countries in Abuja recently, the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele said there has been an “astronomical growth” in the number of rice farmers and local production of the commodity has increased “exponentially” in recent years. Mr. Emefiele said the border closure is a means of rejuvenating Nigeria’s economy and creation of employment opportunities. Ade Adefeko, a senior executive in charge of corporate relations with the food giant Olam, said investment in Nigerian agriculture was being hamstrung by the rice trafficking, which is estimated to reach two million tonnes a year. Olam has the biggest rice-growing business in Nigeria, owning 13 000 hectares (30 000 acres) of cultivable land of which only 4 500 hectares are being used because the sector is “not profitable” in the face of competition from Asian rice, he said. But “since the border closure, locally-milled rice has started selling, and the entire rice value chain has been positively impacted by the closure,” Adefeko said. He called for the border closure to be maintained “until the end of the year, and see how it goes on a longer term.” Between 10 and 20% of Nigerian manufactured goods are sold to other countries in West Africa, with many of these items, such as pasta and cosmetics, exported through informal routes, mainly through small sellers who travel around the region. Not all gloom It was not all gloom at the venue of the fair as most of the exhibitors gave out freebies to visitors who throng their stand. For instance, hordes of visitors thronged a stand to get a taste of a free porridge meal offered by a Japanese woman married to a Nigerian, Mrs Umi Opara, at one of the exhibition stands at the venue. Many others were also sighted at another exhibition stand where free braiding of hair was offered by Kanekalon Beauty Consult, Japan. Opara, Manager, Uma Curry Mix Seasoning Paste, said the porridge she was offering was prepared using the seasoning in a bid to introduce it to the Nigerian populace. The manager, who is attending the fair for the third time, said that the seasoning, made with natural ingredients, contains vitamins that sharpen the brain. “The curry mix seasoning contains tomatoes, thyme, pepper, onions and other seasoning and it is sold for N5000 for a pack,” she said. Also, at the Kanekalon Beauty Consult stand, a group of young ladies were seen competing to have their hair braided free by the Japanese company. Mr Hiroshi Seko, General Manager, Kanekalon Africa Liaison Office, said that the ladies started trooping in early. According to him, a raffle draw will be held later in the day and two winners will get free meals or go home with wigs for free. The General Manager said the company also introduced a new shampoo and hair moisturizers to the market and the free offer would continue daily till the end of the fair. He commended the organisers of the fair, which he said, was getting better yearly. 