 The wife of Ekiti State governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, on Tuesday resumed her empowerment programme and advocacy tour to engage with women in the 16 local governments. Mrs Fayemi on September 10 suspended the tour following a controversial attack on her convoy by the protesting students of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, (FUOYE), while on empowerment tour to the town. The students staged a violent protest in Oye-Ekiti over epileptic power supply in the host community and other adjoining towns, leading to attack on Fayemi’s wife. The policemen attached to Governor Fayemi’s wife engaged the protesting students in a ‘mortal combat’, which resulted in the alleged killing of two students, Kehinde Dada, a 100 level student of the Department Agriculture and Horticulture and  Okonofua Joseph, a 300 level Biology Education student. Mrs. Fayemi, who resumed advocacy tour and empowerment programme for women in Ekiti West, Efon, Ijero and Ido-Osi local government areas of the state, observed a minute’s silence for those trapped in the stalemate. She apologised to the women for not coming in time as promised, saying that the FUOYE’s  incident which led to the loss of lives of two students put a hold on her communities tour. Erelu Fayemi said she embarked on the tour to engage the communities in their problems and make advocacy on the need to stop menaces of Female  Genital Mutilation (FGM), open defecation, domestic violence against women, child trafficking and rape that have become rampant in the society. She said the state government won’t hesitate to arrest those she described as “unrepentant ” female genital mutilators (FGM) operating  in the state. Mrs Fayemi said the unwholesome practice had brought a lot of sexual damage to women through infectious diseases that  destroy body sexual nerve cells, thereby causing marital crises in many homes. She also advised parents and guardians to always monitor the activities of their female children and wards, to reduce the scourge of rape and defilement that are on the increase in the state. Mrs. Fayemi, who lamented the increasing rate of teenage pregnancies in the society due to lack of attention, said the ‘Operation keep girls in school ‘ policy of Governor Kayode Fayemi’s government had  outlawed expulsion of girls  who got pregnant while in school.