 FEDERAL Controller of Works in Lagos Adedamola Kuti has said government is adopting hands-on measures to curb gridlock on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway ahead of Christmas. Kuti told journalists that government would endeavour to ensure free-flowing traffic in spite of ongoing construction work, News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. Kuti led a delegation of traffic regulatory agencies and ministry officials on an inspection of the highway after a meeting with relevant stakeholders in Badagry. He said that human and vehicular traffic usually increased during the Yuletide as a result of increased economic activities, hence the need to adopt measures to surmount obstacles on the highway. “We are here today to address issues surrounding gridlock on this axis from Omokomaiko toward Agbara to Badagry to Seme Border. Federal Government does not want gridlock as we move towards Christmas. “There are construction works ongoing on this corridor and as we move towards the Christmas, we want free movement; we do not want gridlock on this axis. We came along to have a meeting with the relevant stakeholders on this axis which include the chairmen of the three local governments, youth leaders, traffic regulatory agencies, traditional rulers and other agencies in the Badagry Senatorial District. “The agenda of the meeting was to collaborate to fashion out a way to ensure that there is no gridlock during this Christmas season, there must be free movement. And we do not want any gridlock that will be as a result of construction or any other thing within this corridor,” he said. Kuti added that an agreement was reached to use construction materials provided by people within the council, adding that, the community had given assurances of its support for ease of construction. He said that section three of the project, which spans from Agbara to Seme border, being supervised by the Federal Ministry of Works was barely about six per cent completed. “Work is progressing, the most important is that the contractor is fully on ground working on various sections,” he said. Mrs Olukorede Keisha, the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing engineer supervising the project on section three, added that the contractor was working on a schedule to regain time lost to the raining season. “The rain here in Badagry has been more than the one in the city, if it rains once in the city, here it would be 10 times and it has impeded progress, but as we are approaching the dry season, the contractor is fully mobilised to confront the project,” she said. 