Mr Abok Ayuba, Speaker of Plateau House of Assembly, has said that the 9th Assembly in the state will not derail in carrying out its legislative functions effectively. Ayuba gave the assurance while declaring open a town hall meeting, organised by the Assembly, on Thursday in Jos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the town hall meeting was organised to develop legislative agenda for the Assembly. NAN also reports that the event was supported by the Youth Initiative for Advocacy Growth and Advancement (YIAGA Africa) and UKaid, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO). The speaker further assured the people that the Assembly would initiate bills and enact laws that would better the lots of Plateau citizens. “Let me seize this opportunity to assure Plateau people that the 9th Assembly will not fail in carrying out its functions diligently. “The Assembly is largely dominated by young people, and as a young speaker, we will promote issues that will place Plateau on the path of growth and development. “As young people, we have a future to protect, and so, we will not do anything that will tarnish the image of the state; rather, we will promote developmental issues. “Plateau people gave us the mandate to serve as their representatives; we will do our best to write our names in gold,” he said. Earlier, Mr Philip Dasun, Chairman, House Committee on Information, said that the meeting was organised to enable key stakeholders develop agenda that would guide the activities of the Assembly for the next four years. According to him, the meeting is aimed at involving the constituents in the legislative business of the Assembly. Dasun, who explained that the initiative was the first of its kind in the history of the Assembly in the state, added that it would further promote accountability. “Basically, we invited you from your various constituencies to make meaningful suggestions that will be captured in the agenda of the 9th Assembly. “You have elected us to represent you, but it is not enough, and this is why we called you here to tell us what you want us to do in the next four years,” he said. In his remark, Dr Ernest Edeke, Coordinator, YIAGA Africa Centre for Legislative Engagement, said that his organisation had provided funds and technical support to states with young speakers to develop their agenda. Edeke said that the initiative would guide the Assembly in the discharge of its legislative functions of law making and oversight. The coordinator explained that his organisation was currently supporting similar initiatives in Zamfara, Kwara and Oyo states. NAN reports that the event had youth and women groups, representatives of political parties, religious leaders and the media, among others, as participants. NAN