By Samuel Oamen Google has launched a new Traffic tab on Google Maps in Lagos. It was first announced in July at Google for Nigeria. The new Traffic tab offers users in Lagos snapshots of the information they care about the most, be it traffic, weather, bus stop busyness, as well as current and expected fare levels for Danfo buses. The Traffic tab provides bus riders with information to help them find their most efficient routes in travel times and transport costs. Before now, Google Maps users have only been able to access information for other forms of transportation including cars, 2-wheelers, BRT and ride hailing. It had direction experience, which features suggested routes which may combine walking, taking a Keke or okada, Danfo or BRT. Butv information about the estimated fare range, expected travel time and pictures of the stops along the route are available to aid travellers on their trips around Lagos. Clicking on the pictures will allow users to get a 360 degree view on street view to help them better understand their location. Senior product Manager of Google maps, Jeff Albertson, who spoke at the launch, said: “What we have built for Lagos is a global first for Google Map and a step towards helping people in many other cities where transport can be informally organized as it is in Nigeria. “We co-designed this product with people in Lagos. It was an engaging process to start from scratch, bring diverse teams of Googlers to Lagos, interview Lagosians and Local Guides, understand local needs, and then design something that weaves together all the many ways that people here move around”. He added: “Nigeria is important to us. Beyond providing tools to help Nigerians use Maps, we also want to continue to bring more of Nigeria to the map. It’s a journey that we are happy to be on.” Google also recently published more panoramic imagery on Street View, to help make it easier to visually explore places in Nigeria, including imagery of Abuja, Benin City, Enugu and Ibadan with almost 12 thousand kilometers of roads added.