The House of Representatives on Thursday gave the nod for the commencement of the Operation Positive Identification by the Nigerian Army. The followed consideration of the report by the Abdulrasak Namdas-led Committee on Army. Namdas, while presenting the report, moved for the consideration of the report of the Committee on Army on the Operation Positive Identification and approve the recommendations. The House thereafter approved all the six clauses in the report and adopted it. The operation, which had been widely criticised, was put on hold by a High Court in Lagos had put it on hold. But the Minority Leader of the House, Rep Ndudi Elemelu, coming under order 6(1) kicked against the consideration of the report saying his constituency is against it. He said: “My people are against it and I’m not in support of the House considering it. When they are being interrogated, they don’t know now far it will go. I am totally against taking this report.” However, Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, who presided, noted that the Minority Leader cannot stop the process but can only point out what aspects he is dissatisfied with. The House, in adopting the report, said: “That the Army can continue with the Operation Positive Identification, but in collaboration with other relevant Security Agencies, such as Nigeria Immigration Service and the Nigeria Police Force, who should lead in the Identification process. “That a joint Intelligence and monitoring Team should be set up by the agencies involved in order to checkmate  possible abuse of the exercise, such as extortion and assault on the people; “That the Army should regularly brief the committee on Army for proper assessment of the exercise; “That the Nigerian Army should disengage from the areas they have successfully completed operations and allow Police to consolidate on the gains; That serious and urgent attention should be given to the Police, in the area of training and retraining so as to equip them to curtail future insurrection or violence that may occur.” Also, Rep. Muraina Ajibola (PDP Oyo) appealed to members to take the issue in consideration seriously, adding that its better to do something worthwhile on behalf of Nigerians. He said member ought to have copies of reports before considerations so as to peruse it. “We should be given ten minutes to study the reports in order to make meaningful consideration of the reports. Wase said that had been the tradition, but that any lapse will be corrected as soon as possible.