The International Climate Change Development Initiative (ICCDI), a youth-led organization on a mission to build climate-smart generation through education, empowerment across Africa has clinched the grand prize of Seven Hundred Thousand Naira in the 2019 SAGE Climate Pitch Competition, while Bio-Stark Green Solutions, a waste recycling company that recycles organic waste into Bio-Energy emerged first runner up and took home the sum of Three Hundred Thousand Naira. The SAGE Climate Pitch Competition is an initiative of the Social Accelerator for a Green Economy (S.A.G.E) Innovation Centre, a non-profit organization that empowers entrepreneurs to build and scale bold solutions in the fight against climate change. The winners emerged after a fierce pitching competition that held at Oriental Hotel in Lagos. Nazanin Alakija, founder of SAGE Innovation Center congratulated the winners while stating that the pitching competition was aimed at seeking entrepreneurs with innovative ideas and solutions to fight climate change. She also revealed that the winners are worthy entrepreneurs whose ideas have demonstrated viable solutions to make the planet safer. “The SAGE pitching competition was opened to all social entrepreneurs with viable and innovative ideas to help our environment safer, and it is amazing to witness the success of this day as the winners have come up with unmatched ideas to making the world a safer place for all. I congratulate all the winners and the finalists,” she said. Abikoye Abimbola, Campaign Lead for ICCDI Africa, and winner of the grand prize of the pitching competition expressed her profound gratitude to SAGE Innovation Center for giving climate advocates a platform to showcase their ideas to fighting issues affecting the environment. “On behalf of ICCDI Africa, I want to express our profound gratitude to SAGE Innovation Centre for providing us this wonderful platform to showcase the solutions we are providing to helping our environment become safer and healthier for all. With this funding, we will be able to upscale our activities and solutions in the fight against climate change by engaging in more educational and community empowerment initiatives,” she stated. Jeremiah Hinmikaye, founder of Bio-Stark Green Solutions and first runner up at the competition revealed that SAGE Innovation Center has set the pace for other climate advocacy groups by supporting entrepreneurs who have sustainable solutions to fighting climate change. He further calls on other companies to emulate SAGE Innovation Centre to come up with such platforms to help more social entrepreneurs scale up their practices in the fight against climate change. The SAGE Pitching Competition had a total of 17 viable entries, out of which the top five pitched at the competition and two winners emerged, going home with a total of One Million Naira. All top five contestants were also given certificates of participation by the Social Accelerator for a Green Economy.