 Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on Tuesday warned the newly sworn in commissioners that his administration will not condone any act of corrupt practices. He urged them to be sincere and focused. Ganduje, who handed down the warning shortly after assigning portfolios to the new commissioners at the Indoor Sports Hall, Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano, reminded them of the Kano State Anti-corruption Commission which is ever ready to beam its searchlight on any erring commissioner. He urged them to remain focused, honest and work together with their permanent secretaries for the overall development of the state. Ganduje enjoined them to ensure effective implementation of the yearly budget so as to actualise the Next Agenda of his administration. The commissioners are: Muhammad Garba, Information; Murtala Sule Garo, Local Government Affairs; Muazu Magaji, Works and Infrastructure; Ibrahim Muktar, Justice; Musa Iliyasu Kwankwaso, Community and Rural Development; Dr. Kabiru Ibrahim Getso, Environment; Nura Mohammed Dakadai, Budget and Planning; Shehu Na’Allah Kura, Finance and Economic Development and Dr. Mohammed Tahir Adamu, Religious Affairs. Others include Dr. Zahara’u Umar Mohammed, Women Affairs and Social Development; Dr. Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa, Health; Sadiq Aminu Wali, Water Resources; Mohammed Bappa Takai, Science, Technology and Innovation; Kabiru Ado Lakwaya, Youths and Sports; Dr. Mariya Mahmoud Bunkure, Higher Education;  Ibrahim Ahmed Karaye, Tourism and Culture;  Muktar Ishaq Yakasai, Special Duties; Mahmoud Muhammad, Commerce and Industry;  Muhammad Sunusi Saidu,  Education; and Lawan Abdullahi Musa, Housing and Transport. The governor announced that the Deputy Governor, Alhaji Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, retains his portfolio as the Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources. The former President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists  (NUJ), Malam Mohammed Garba, was the first to be screened among the 20 commissioner-nominees who appeared before the House of Assembly yesterday. The lawmakers asked him to take a bow and go after introducing himself. The exercise took less than three minutes. The other 19 nominees were equally screened individually by the legislators. All the commissioners passed the Assembly test.