Olympic Eagles defender Anthony Izuchukwu has said that the Nigerian team underrated the Cote d’Ivoire and were shocked 1-0 in the opening game of the on-going 2019 Africa U23 Cup of Nations in Egypt. Izuchukwu also called on Nigerians to support the team despite losing their first match at the on-going 2019 Africa U23 Cup of Nations in Egypt. The Olympic Eagles started their campaign on a losing note as they were defeated 1-0 at Al-Salam Stadium, Cairo by their West African neighbours Cote d’Ivoire. Silas Gnaka’s goal from the penalty spot in the 78th minute made the difference as Nigeria’s recent poor run at the age-grade competition continued. The Olympic Eagles also finished the game with 10 men following the red card handed to defender Harold Ndah in the 71st minute. Izuchukwu said: “I call on Nigerians to give the team maximum support. All hope is not lost and we would come back stronger against Zambia,” Izuchukwu, who plays in Norway for Nest Sotra, said. “We didn’t get what we expected against Cote d’Ivoire, we underrated them and they shocked us,” the defender added. The 22 year-old central back also expressed the team’s disappointment with the loss and expressed belief that the team would still qualify for the Olympic Games next year. “The team is 100 per cent sure that we are going to make it to Japan. We lost our opportunity to start on a winning note as the defending champion and we now have to come into games as underdogs. We have to fight from behind now in every game we are playing. “I believe it is possible that our team can qualify from our group especially with the kind of players we have.” Meanwhile, Olympic Eagles coach Imama Amapakabo said the Cote d’Ivoire game was a difficult match for both teams, noting that “first games are usually tough.” He said: “It was a difficult game for both teams. First games are always very tough. We gave our best but unfortunately we lost the way we did. It is our first game and I think we are going to come back stronger.” Meanwhile, ahead of their make or mar second game  against Zambia tomorrow at the Al-Salam Stadium, officials  were eagerly expecting the arrival of  Mainz 05 striker, Taiwo Awoniyi  and his presence  is expected to bolster the  attack of the Olympic Eagles. “We are expecting Taiwo Awoniyi to hit camp tonight (Sunday night),” an official informed NationSport. Apart from Awoniyi, Captain Azubuike Okechukwu is equally being expected to hit the team’s camp on today in time for the class against the Southern African side.