Agency Reporter Award-winning filmmaker, Adekunle ‘Nodash’ Adejuyigbe has urged Nigerian film producers to utilise global opportunities opening up for Nollywood. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Adejuyigbe said this in an open letter to Nollywood producers on his Instagram page @i am_nodash. The letter is part of a series of posts summarising his experiences at the 2019 Carthage film festival where his acclaimed film, ‘The Delivery Boy’ represented Nigeria. Adejuyigbe said, “dear fellow producers, there is a door before us. Its a different door than any we have seen before. “Like some, I have seen this door – peeped through the keyhole even- and what’s behind it is bigger than me, bigger than you, bigger than the vista in front of me in this picture, it is indeed bigger than the summation of all our dreams. “But we can’t find this door when pride is blocking our eyes nor can we kick it open with the rush-rush, lets-just-shoot mentality. Nope. “Unlike other doors that money and hype can open, this door only answers to true excellence.’’ He acknowledged the struggles Nollywood producers face but encouraged them to redefine their processes and strategies to meet the expectations of the audience. According to Adejuyigbe, in spite the lean resources, Nollywood also has to compete with world class films for audiences and it owes a duty to give the audience their money’s worth. “Sure I know the constraints we face as Nigerian producers. But our films are being exhibited on the same platforms as some of the best films in the world so no one cares about our constraints. “Some say we shouldn’t compare ourselves with other industries but that’s funny because the audience doesn’t get special discounts on their ticket prices or subscription fees when they watch Nigerian films. “So if we are asking them to pay the same rates to watch our films, its only fair we deliver comparable value. “No one is saying we should produce ‘Titanic’ on a ‘Madea’ budget, but can we at least produce a well written and well-presented ‘Madea’? “Needless to say we will have to rethink our strategies, rework our processes, swallow our pride and re-evaluate our partnerships. “It can be done and everything we need is around us. With film, an excellent, well positioned product takes away 60 per cent of your money-making headaches. “The remaining 40 per cent will depend on your promo strategy. Yes, you might have to work with people outside your comfort zone. “It might take a little experimentation if that’s what it takes to get the job done right. “The door is there, waiting to be opened. What are you going to do now?” Adejuyigbe said. (NAN)