By Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  Governor Dapo Abiodun has assured that his administration would give the issue of the consequential salary adjustment for the new minimum wage very serious and positive consideration. Abiodun said that his administration has always prioritised workers’ welfare and would continue to ensure that the State civil bureaucracy enjoys all benefits due it. The Governor made this known at the official inauguration of the Permanent Secretariat of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria(ASCSN), Magbon, Abeokuta. He assured that the administration would give serious consideration to the issues pertaining to the hurriedly recruited people, support for the building of your Secretariat; the issue of Certificate of Occupancy; the promise that was made by the previous administration towards the infrastructure of the housing estate for senior civil servants. Abiodun said:”Our civil servants are well attended to since we came to office. I have listened patiently and taken note to a number of your request including the new minimum wage implementation” and assured that it would be given positive consideration. “For us has a government, we will not take our public servants for granted because they are equal stakeholders in our building our future together agenda. We are committed to the welfare of our workers in terms of prompt payment of salaries, workers emoluments, human capacity development and other welfare schemes. “On the promise that was made by the previous administration towards the infrastructure of your housing estate, let me assure you that it will be given very serious and positive consideration. All we ask for is the continued support, cooperation, dedication of all our public servants.” In his remarks, the National President of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria(ASCSN), Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama, represented by the Vice President, Comrade Kennis Ngene, lauded the governor for providing an enabling environment for the association to thrive in the state. Kaigama called on the state governor to look at the implementation of the new minimum wage and its consequential adjustment, saying that the association believes the state is capable of agreeing on terms that would positively affect its workforce. Earlier in his address, the Ogun state Chairman of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria, Comrade Bunmi Fajobi said that the association was able to complete the structure without any public fund, but through the leverage on the checkup dues and levies of members. “I want to say here publicly to the glory of God that there is no one naira, so far of public fund in this edifice, to the glory of God. We leveraged on checkup dues of members. We also leveraged on levies that we collected from our members,” he said. Fajobi also added that the facility has in it a proposed banking hall for the micro finance bank and a 700-seater multipurpose hall.