By Lai Erinosho  Our national newspapers have in the past three weeks or so been reporting the discovery/existence of the so-called rehabilitation centers, established by clerics and other lay persons ostensibly for the care of hard drugs abusers/addicts, the mentally ill, destitute persons and possibly miscreants whose next of kin are unable to unable to take good care of them in an accustomed way or find recognized and officially approved health care facilities for them. To-date, these so-called rehabilitation centres are found in Kastina, Kaduna, Lagos, Oyo states. Photos of hundreds inmates in all of these rehabilitation centres show inmates  bound  in shackles possibly for months/years; living under unsavoury conditions and also brutalized through after years of beating as amply shown by marks on their bodies. Many of them also claimed that they have been regularly sexually abused by their keepers. The inmates found in these so-called rehabilitation centres also looked unkempt, gaunt, weak, and in need of speedy modern health care. Needless to say that Nigerians are shocked at the existence of such despicable rehabilitation centres in their midst. What has come as a shocker to Nigerians is the fact that clerics and lay persons with no formal training on how to take care of drug addicts, the mentally ill, and destitute persons are the ones managing and providing care at these centres. It may well be that many more of these descript rehabilitation centres will be found over the next few months.  Indeed I believe that many more of such rehabilitation centres will still be found and shutdown.  Consequently, state and local authorities should not relent in their efforts to fish out and call attention to such rehabilitation centres. It is indeed vital for the all state/local government authorities to encourage whistle blowers to bring the attention of the authorities to such centres otherwise many Nigerians might still be locked-up for many more months/years. One of the reasons for the existence of such rehabilitation centres in our country is the vacuum created by the dearth of formally trained healthcare givers and facilities for drug addicts, the mentally ill, and destitute persons in our midst today. Currently, there are no more than 300 formally trained psychiatrists in Nigeria in a population of about 180 million people, meaning there is a psychiatrist to 600,000 people in Nigeria. Psychologists are also very few and far between as less than 50 of the over 150 public and private universities currently offer degree programme in general and clinical psychology. So we produce few psychologists every year. Moreover, social workers who are critical in the management and follow-up of treated mentally ill persons/drug addicts are equally very few for same as of psychologists and psychiatrists. Few universities offer robust courses in social work. For example, it is a well-known fact that the services social workers are required not only for mental health care but in correctional institutions. And today we do not have social workers who can be of tremendous assistance to mentally ill and prisoners. What about mental health care facilities in our country? Today, there are a handful psychiatric hospitals in Nigeria, – about 12 of 100 to 200 beds with the exception of small units for the care of the mentally etc. ill in general and/or teaching hospitals. The largest and oldest among the psychiatric hospitals in our country today are Yaba Psychiatric Hospital and Aro Psychiatric Hospital, Abeokuta. All of these two and others are federal government funded and owned. Finally and as at now, Nigeria cannot boast of and National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Research Institute. Nor can our country boast of a major specialist health care facility for managing those who are addicted to hard drugs and alcohol. Apart from a couple of individuals who has established facilities for managing such conditions in Lagos, Ibadan or Abeokuta, the only  other government-owned institution for managing drug addiction etc. is based Aro Hospital in Abeokuta. As a result of the foregoing, rich Nigerians take their next of kin abroad to be managed by care-givers in facilities of drug addicts at huge cost.  The poor on the other hand often end up in prisons or on the streets or in such places as the so-called rehabilitation centres that are now in the spotlight. So what has been happening over the years is for untrained lay people like Christian and Muslim clerics as well others to take it upon themselves to look after the mentally ill, destitute persons and drug abusers in our communities. But we cannot in turn blame them for filling the vacuum created by the dearth of formally trained and highly qualified professional health care-givers.  These lay practitioners are readily available and accessible to those who need care and next kin are anxious to find them and rely on them. This accounts for the role/activities of the so- quacks and growth of the so-called rehabilitation centres that are now in the spotlight. By and large, the  existence/proliferation of unapproved and unofficially recognized rehabilitation centres for the care of drug abusers, mentally ill persons and destitute persons which are in the spotlight today is a  pointer to the need for our authorities to take steps to protect the population from the scourge of abuse by fake health care providers. Lagos State Government appreciated this fact long time ago and quickly established a rehabilitation centre for vagrants, mentally ill, drug abusers, miscreants etc in Majidun in Ikorodu. While this step is commendable, the Ikorodu centre is at best a lock-up place rather than one for treating and rehabilitating drug addicts, the mentally ill or destitute persons. But at least for now, the state recognized the need to fill a vacuum and by keeping unfortunate brother and sisters who are mentally ill or distraught off the street in Majidun (Ikorodu). As far as I know, no other state in the country has taken steps to provide home and support to drug addicts or mentally ill or destitute persons.  But work of care these persons is huge and the labourers are few and are between. This best describes the efforts of Lagos state government in Majidun.  The foregoing brings into focus the role of state governments as they have a vital role to play in the case of drug addicts, mentally and destitute persons. This role will not be new one and cannot be left to entirely to the federal government which has already established neuropsychiatric hospitals in nearly all the geopolitical zones of the country. It will be recalled that Western Region was the first and the only region that established and funded a psychiatric hospital in the country during the First Republic, i.e. the Aro Psychiatric Hospital, Abeokuta. This hospital along with Yaba in the erstwhile federal capital of Lagos which was owned/ funded by the federal government then was the referral centre for the treatment of mental illness and related medical conditions like drug addiction for all of Nigeria. Our state governments should therefore not wait for the federal government to open psychiatric hospitals for them. The care of the mentally ill, drug addicts and destitute persons within their state should be part and parcel of the agenda of the state ministries of health. Mental health is a key component of health and efforts should be made by state governments to establish one psychiatric hospital in each of the senatorial zones while also integrating mental health care into their general hospitals. By so doing they will be bringing mental health care services near to their people. Besides the state governments should enhance their social services to support destitute persons and provide support and train nurses and social welfare officers to look after drug addicts and mentally ill.  All the foregoing cannot be left to the federal government because it is already over-burden by its over 54 tertiary hospitals and cannot also be expected to reach every nook and corners of this country that is awash with drug addicts, destitute persons and mentally ill. But the federal government has an additional responsibility, namely:  that of expanding the number of facilities and personnel needed to provide care for the like of drug addicts, mentally ill and destitute persons. This is a huge task which no state government can shoulder.  As we all well-nigh know, every modern and/or modernizing (like Nigeria) society needs good numbers of psychiatrists, psychologists, and social workers. One in about 10 to 20 persons in human society today will present some sort of emotional problem once in his/her life time while it has been reported in  studies that nearly of all those seeking care in the outpatient department of general hospital present with emotional problems (the euphemism for mental illness). This being the case, nearly all human beings may be susceptible to mental ill health at one point of the other in their life time. Finally, the federal authorities will be helping the country if steps can be taken initiate crash training programme for the rapid production of the experts that are needed to take care of drug addicts, mentally ill, and destitute persons who are currently grossly in short supply in our country. Many more universities through the NUC can be pushed to start degree programme for psychology and social work and the country could in the decade produce sizeable numbers of these experts to serve the population. Moreover, efforts should also be made through the Tertiary Education Fund (TETFund) to give funds for scholarship for residency to medical doctors training to become psychiatrist at home and abroad. There is no doubt that a multi-pronged strategy will help to fill the vacuum which the lay men, clerics and the so-called rehabilitation centres are inclined to fill.  ‘ One of the reasons for the existence of such rehabilitation centres in our country is the vacuum created by the dearth of formally trained healthcare givers and facilities for drug addicts, the mentally ill, and destitute persons in our midst today ’ 