 HE felt there was nothing to live for when he was put behind bars last year on murder charges. Today, 28-year-old Ifeanyi Onyemaenu is a happy man. He was coordinating a drama presentation at the Awka Custodial Centre of the Nigerian Correctional Service, Anambra State when his bail was announced. Deputy Comptroller of Corrections, in-charge Awka Custodial centre, Mr Edwin Akabueze, who broke the news, embraced him. Speaking with The Nation shortly after he was granted bail, Onyemaenu, a native of Nibo, Awka South Local Government Area of the state, said, “I had a case that landed me here. But I thank God that I’m now a free man. It’s something I least expected, but it happened because Satan struck. “But I believe that where a mistake is done, amendments and corrections are effected. I strongly believe the corrections have been taken.” A Petroleum Engineering graduate of Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Onyemaenu said he nearly took his life the first day of his arrival at the prison. He said, “This place is not an easy place to be. When I first came here, I wanted to take my life because to me, the predicament was bigger than me. “But I thank God for my lovely father who quickly came to my rescue. “That evening, I mixed Dettol and drank which started disturbing my stomach. But with the help of my father here, the clinic came and gave me some medications before I got myself again. I’m celebrating both victory and freedom today.” The elated engineer said part of his joy was the positive impact he made in the lives of the inmates. “One of the positive impacts I made here was promoting education among the inmates. I taught mathematics. We helped to ensure inmates here acquire the Junior WAEC certificate and some senior WAEC. “The last we wrote is already out at the welfare unit and their performances are encouraging. We’re developing the inmates’ mentality to understand that prison can’t be their last bus stop; there’s a brighter and greater future ahead. “I’m actually leaving here with mixed feelings. Even though I’m excited for the freedom I’m about experiencing once again after a while now, but I would have wished to stay back in view of the impact I’m making here. “If I’m provided with the facilities to develop the inmates, I’ll be glad to continue with the good work. So many people will be liberated from illiteracy. They will be happy they are leaving prison better than they came. They will tell others that the prison yard is not just a place for limited freedom, but a place to learn, get reformed and rehabilitated,” he asserted. Onyemaenu said, “I’ve made an arrangement with a friend that I met here who left last week. His name is Coach and he handled English language. I see him as one who will impact on the inmates further. “We intend to enroll in a charity visit to the Awka Custodial centre and he agreed with me. He is just waiting for me to come out. “I equally made arrangements with the Madonna 7 who were here that as soon as I’m out, and get stabilised, the visit will be organised here so the inmates won’t lose hope. “I believe that tomorrow is pregnant for those determined to attain greater heights in life.” Deputy Comptroller Akabueze said he came in contact with Onyemaenu shortly after he was transferred to the centre. He said, “I came here on transfer in December, 2018. While moving around the yard, I was told someone was about dying after drinking a poisonous substance. On investigation, I discovered he drank a mixture of Dettol and Izal. I asked him why and after he narrated his story, I felt for him after which we revived him. “Since then, I became interested in his family, particularly the mother until a month ago when his bail was granted, remaining perfection. Akabueze further disclosed that his over thirty-three years on the job had assisted him to render all manner of assistance to both inmates and people in the society. “I’ve witnessed several similar cases for over 33 years I’ve been in the Nigeria Correctional Services. One thing about me is that God gave me the grace to assist people aside being a correctional officer. “Even though I studied Guidance and Counselling, but it’s in me naturally. Whenever I see people suffering, both in and outside the prison, I’ll always be willing to help.” 