By Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused the Judge of the Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, Justice Jane Inyang of escaping with the judgement she delivered nullifying the party’s primary election that produced Chief David Lyon as the candidate of the party for the Saturday governorship election. The Vice-Chairman, Media, APC Campaign Council, Julius Bokoru, said Inyang, immediately after delivering the verdict ran away with the copy of the judgement to frustrate the APC from heading for the Appeal Court. Bokoru said the judge was at large and was working in cahoots with the state government to stop the APC from fielding a candidate at the poll. He said: “The information at our disposal is that Justice Inyang has escaped with the judgement she delivered today against the APC. She is at large and unreachable. “But we learnt that she ran into the Government House after giving her verdict. “The plan is to frustrate the APC from appealing the judgement which we know will not stand the test of time. “She is working with the PDP and the state government to ensure that we do not participate in the election to allow the PDP go into the poll without contest. “We are asking Inyang to come out of her hiding place and give us access to the judgement. “And we are calling on the National Judicial Council (NJC) to look into the conduct of Inyang and the circumstances behind her actions”. Bokoru said Inyang knew that she went into a voyage of discovery and assumed the role of Father Christmas by granting a relief not sought by the plaintiff and former Minister of State for Petroleum, Senator Heineken Lokopbiri. He wondered why the judge abandoned Lokpobiri’s relief that he should be declared the winner of the primary election to make pronouncement on the validity of the primary. “She has done what she sets out to do against the APC but what we don’t understand is why she has hidden the judgement from us. This is not justice and this is not democracy. “Inyang should know that her conduct is provoking millions of Bayelsans who are yearning for change and should be held responsible whatever her conduct should cause in the state. “We are assuring our supporters that no matter how they try we will succeed and win this election on Saturday.”