Ambrose Nnaji  Founder, SmartFlow Technologies Limited, Dolapo Adeyeye has identified automation, digitalisation and smart solutions as criteria for the growth of oil and gas business in the country. Adeyeye, who spoke with The Nation exclusively on the sideline of the just concluded Oil Trading & Logistics (OTL) Expo 2019, in Lagos said the company was partnered with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the oil and gas industry including Gilberco Vedeeroot, Nivelco, GIR France, Graco, Wolftank amongst others. Its clients he disclosed included Berger, Cadbury, Dangote, Conoil, Total, Exon Mobil, Forte, Nigerian Breweries, Okomu Oil Palm among others. The company which was part sponsors of the OTL Africa conference Adeyeye said had implemented over 300 projects with an estimated sum of $7m savings for its clients within its ten years of operation. He also added the company offered services ranging from procurement of equipment, sales and maintenance of those equipment, piping, automations, tank gaging systems, tank repairs and tank fabrications and a lot more around the industry, he stated. He insisted the company was positioned to be at the center of provision of these services/facilities not only to the Nigerian oil and gas industry but also across Africa and other parts of the world adding that in all aspects of the business that the company is involved it had ensured that customers’ expectations were met through the software that it provided. Smartflow Technologies, he said, was Nigeria’s foremost Flow and Level Automation company, delivering best and yet cost-effective solutions to clients with unmatched expertise and skill. In addition to being an engineering focused organisation, he added the company was involved in the supply, installation and support of fuelling systems and equipment, including but not limited to pumps and dispensers. He noted the OTL was another means of educating the customers because instead of getting to those hundreds of customers size, those customers would come to the oil and gas forum to see what’s happening in one place. On the journey so far, Adeyeye said the company which started from the scratch in the midst of hiccups had grown to about 150 people staff strength and spread to about 15 locations in Nigeria, the company also works in other African countries, he added. “We have gone beyond fuel; we now work in areas like the water, electricity, cement and other industrial areas that needed the same type of engineering and the same type of technology that we offer in the oil and gas industry. Oil and gas still remains downstream number one sector that takes about 90percent of our time,” he stated. On local content capacity, Aeyeye said up till about two years ago the company was 100percent indigenous, and now it has just one non-indigene working for the company, “we are trying to improve, out of 150 staff we have only one non-indigene and that’s for a short period of time as we gain the expertise required,” I will say that’s a huge achievement for us and we will continue to develop the Nigerian people, that’s our focus on local content, he concluded. 