Robert Egbe A businessman, Adedayo Shittu, has alleged that the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) sealed and damaged his home in Victory Park Estate, Lekki, Lagos, in contravention of a court order. Shittu said there was a subsisting interlocutory order of Injunction of the High Court of Lagos restraining AMCON from the property. He said Justice Kudirat Jose granted an injunction in his favour on October 24, 2019, which ordered AMCON not to prevent him from accessing his home in the Estate. The judge made the order in suit LD/8418LMW/19 after dismissing a preliminary objection filed by Knight Rook Ltd, Mr Lanre Olaoluwa and AMCON. Mr Olaoluwa is AMCON and Knight Rook’s Receiver-Manager. But Shittu alleged that on Monday, November 11, 2019, Olaoluwa, protected by about 40 policemen and other persons, broke into his home in company of artisans who were instructed to remove doors and windows and a portion of the roof. The entrance leading to his street within the estate was blocked by the policemen to prevent the estate residents from coming close or taking pictures of the atrocity. Therefore, the residents could only take pictures from afar. He said when confronted by concerned residents of Victory Park Estate about the extensive damages to the property, the Receiver-Manager’s agents stated that there was an appeal against the injunction. According to him, the agents suggested that they thus had a right to prevent him and his family from gaining access and living in their home. Shittu said it was “apparent that the action of AMCON amounts to a violation of a subsisting court order. “Considering that the order has not been vacated or set aside, the action of AMCON and Mr. Lanre Olaoluwa was a resort to self- help and should be discouraged. “I am gravely concerned about the impunity and disregard for the order of the court. “The damage to my property is a further demonstration of the vindictiveness of Mr Lanre Olaoluwa against me and other innocent purchasers of properties who are not indebted to AMCON.” According to him, he was not indebted to AMCON and Olaoluwa “brazenly defied an order of court and further destroy my property worth millions of naira over a debt I am not liable for.” This development comes on the heels of a letter of appeal by Lekki Residents and Stakeholders Association to the President to restrain AMCON from harassing its members. But responding to the allegations, AMCON’s counsel Mr Jide Olasite absolved Olaoluwa of blame. Olasite told The Nation that the Receiver-Manager was not involved in Monday’s activity at the estate. He said the property belonged to AMCON by a final court judgment and that Shittu was the one in the wrong. Olasite said: “AMCON has a judgment that has been confirmed by the Court of Appeal and it was pursuant to that that they took possession of that property. They took possession since June. “He (Shittu) then went there last Friday on his own, with policemen and broke into the property. That happened late on Friday. “On Monday we got aware of it, so, on Monday, AMCON’s enforcement unit went there and retook possession of it. Mr Olaoluwa was never there, Mr Olaoluwa’s involvement in the matter ended when the judgment of the Federal High Court was executed since June.” He agreed that an injunction was issued against AMCON concerning the property, but that AMCON had filed an appeal. “The application is awaiting hearing,” Olasite added.