League newcomer Akwa Starlets produced the biggest upset of Matchday 5 of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) when they thrashed the former league champions, Rangers International FC 2-0 at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium on Sunday. The loss against Akwa Starlets is the second home defeat for the Flying Antelopes in the five weeks old league. Rangers lost 1-0 to Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministries (MFM) FC of Lagos last week in Enugu. Femi Ajayi got Starlets first goal in the 18th minute before Isaac George doubled the lead in the 44th minute. Plateau United maintained its unbeaten run to the season when the Coach Abdu Maikaba tutored side spanked Delta Force 3-1 in Asaba.  Kazie Enyinnaya shot the home team into the lead in the 38th minute through a spot kick before Uche Onwuasoanya got the equalizer for the visitors in the 44th.The former league champions went into the lead through Michael Ibeh’s 71th minute goal before Ibrahim Mustapha completed the rout in the added time. Rivers United recorded their first away victory following their 1-0 win over Warri Wolves at the Warri City Stadium. Stephen Gopey 37th minute goal was all United needed to win the game. Enyimba FC also continued their fine form by defeating newly promoted Adamawa United 2-0.  It was the same score line at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium in Katsina when Katina United piped Sunshine Stars of Akure 2-0. Meanwhile, Heartland FC recorded its first victory of the season when they beat league returnee Jigawa United 1-0 at the Okigwe Township Stadium, while the game between Akwa United and Nasarawa United ended 1-1. The two sides are yet to win any game this season. Kano Pillars are the only team without a goal in the 2019/20 NPFL season following their goalless draw against Wikki Tourists at the Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano.  The management has handed a three-match ultimatum to the technical crew led by Ibrahim Musa to improve or face sanction. At Nnewi, Lobi Stars FC held FC Ifeanyiubah to a goalless draw to move to the second position on the log.