PDP, Nigeria’s leading opposition party, craves sympathy — drip! drip! — over Bayelsa and Kogi.  Not from these quarters! Whatever its present angst, it merrily inflicted such on others, in those halcyon days of dreaming power, in the first instance, for 60 uninterrupted years — and was beastly about it. It’s grim to see the crude also cry! Power without conscience does neither the aggressor nor the victim any good.  In politics as in other spheres of life, that famous saying is trite: as you lay your bad, you lie on it. After 16 years as Nigeria’s ruling party, PDP grates from a bed of spikes; to which it condemned the opposition, during its high power days. APC, the current central lord of manor, is only in its fifth year.  But whatever holds true for PDP holds true for APC too: whatever APC does as a ruling party would also be its lot as future opposition. That is the ultimate lesson from the November 16 elections; and that is why APC must think more, and joy less, over the Bayelsa and Kogi polls. Kogi, particularly, leaves a bitter taste in the mouth — the violence, the thuggery,  the general election-day anarchy, in some voting precincts. True, the violence may have been both ways.  But the Kogi meltdown would appear the greatest threat, thus far, to President Muhammadu Buhari’s solemn pledge to bequeath Nigeria a saner electoral system than he met it. Bayelsa, despite allegations from the losing camp, followed its normal poll pattern since 1999.  If there was any fraud, as the PDP claims, it wasn’t more — or less — than frauds in the past, which the PDP rapturously claimed. To now howl, simply because it’s no beneficiary of the latest “fraud”, is the height of cant and hypocrisy. Which takes the discourse to what, beyond partisan fealty, really shaped the November 17 elections: the triumph and defeat of clannish politics. In Bayelsa, the tribes — or more accurately, the clans — gathered, with a vengeance, to hand APC’s David Lyon a rousing upset: the political equivalent, to echo Reggae great, Bob Marley, of Exodus, movement of Jah — sorry Ijaw — people! The Zionist rime, in this showdown, appears manifest: David, Lyon, lion, Zion — a study indeed, in scorched earth clannish mobilization, for a devastating election victory! But in Kogi, the tribes — Igala, Ebira and Okun Yoruba — scattered, to hand a rather desperate Governor Yahya Bello (GYB) victory, which optics nevertheless weren’t pretty! Even now, Kogites would appear in a bind: which is more tolerable — a GYB victory, with all its warts?   Or a Musa Wada one, with its spectre of umpteenth Igala hegemony, simply because the Igala are the “insensitive” majority? On this question alone, Kogi politics is ruptured, far more ruptured, beyond mere partisan differences.  That needs urgent fixing. But back to Bayelsa.  Governor Henry Seriake Dickson, in the PDP camp, provoked the angry banding of the clan, by his pre-election Nebuchadnezzar complex. Remember the biblical Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, felled by the hubris of own glory, but who ate crow, en route to redemption? Perhaps only Dickson would feign ignorance on the disaster that struck his party.  Barely one week to the polls, the new Bayelsa Speaker from Southern Ijaw, imposed after a gun clatter deposed the former Speaker, quit and defected to APC.  Before then, the PDP suffered a gale of high profile defections, from high officials of state, almost on a daily basis.  Of course, there was the little whispering campaign of former President Goodluck Jonathan’s alleged entente with APC, over Dickson’s alleged intransigence. Then, horrors of horrors!  The outgoing governor had “imposed” an Urhobo, as PDP deputy governorship candidate!  But pray, isn’t the Urhobo a Bayelsan?  It’s the making of the political Osu (Igbo for outcaste), in an Ijaw state! The PDP lost the Bayelsa election simply because almost all critical influence centres left the party in the lurch — Exodus, movement of Bayelsa people! And if you jeer, that Lyon, the governor-elect and proud lion of that Zion train, is rather grammatically challenged, these good people had it all figured out, right from the feverish campaign stump: who grammar help? The PDP is clearly peeved that Bayelsa, it’s South-South pearl, is in “enemy” hands, just as APC would grimace at the PDP gubernatorial capture of Oyo, its South West political capital.  But both “outrageous” feats have been achieved more by elite gang-up, than ideological shift. Still, with Bayelsa, the ultimate loser would appear outgoing Governor Dickson.  His humpty-dumpty crash, though induced by a Nebuchadnezzar complex, appears bereft of that post-fall Nebuchadnezzar humility, that Dickson needs to grasp a ticket to redemption. But then, it’s early days yet; and politics is all so fluid! Now to Kogi, the ultra-violent face of November 16.  The true tragedy of Kogi would appear a macabre post-election victory dance, with partisans grooving and singing their opponents would “hear am ta-ta-ta-ta-ta”! — an onomatopoeia for raking gunshots! Such glamourization of electoral savagery must never be tolerated, for elections are no wars!  The government must start by rounding up and prosecuting all those involved in the Kogi violence. Still, Kogi might be the latest of such election barbarity.  But it’s certainly not the worst.  Indeed, the Kogi violence rubbed shoulders with the electoral massacre of Osun, in the 2007 election, which the then outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo christened “do-or-die”. Even if it was worse than Osun 2007, it certainly held no candle to the free-killing and maiming Rivers fields of 2015, complete with election-time opportunistic rape. A Rivers State Commission of Inquiry, chaired by Prof. Chidi Odinkalu, then chair of the National Human Rights Commission, put the figure of slaughter, between 15 November 2014 and 11 April 2015, at 19 daily. The murder of Mrs Salome Abuh, the Ochadamu PDP women’s leader, burnt while locked up in her home, headlined the Kogi gory counts. But even that pales into relative insignificance, compared to the fate of the tragic Adubes, in Rivers’ Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni LGA.  Patience Adube told the Odinkalu Commission how partisan thugs massacred her husband, three sons, Ikechukwu, his son-in-law and one of the deceased’s security guards — all six, for their APC sympathies! There is no evidence that those killers, among others, have been brought to book — or will ever be brought to book. The fact is since the 1st Republic when Chief Remi Fani-Kayode, Deputy Premier of the West, told folks his Demo party would win — and they did — whether voters voted them or not, provoking the “we tie” protests; to the Ondo anti-rigging “war” of 1983 that signalled the beginning of the end for the 2nd Republic, to Obasanjo’s do-or-die show of 2007, and the Rivers killing fields of 2014/2015, electoral savagery has always threatened to hallmark Nigeria’s voting culture. Kogi is only the latest reminder of that nightmare.  That is why concerted efforts must be made to uproot the menace.  No democracy thrives by thuggery and allied election-time brigandage.