Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa  Eunice, the mother of former President Goodluck Jonathan, has endorsed Chief David Lyon, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 16 election in Bayelsa State. The mother of the former President granted her blessings to Lyon in Otuoke, her community in Ogbia Local Government Area when the candidate led his campaign train to her residence and other Ogbia wards to solicit for votes. Lyon was led to the home of Eunice by Ogbia leaders and Jonathan’s kinsmen including a grassroots mobiliser and former Chairman of Bayelsa Environmental Sanitation Agency, Chief Robert Enogha, who recently left the government of Seriake Dickson to join the APC. The APC candidate, who exchanged pleasantries and held brief discussions with Madam Jonathan, bowed before the woman for prayers and blessings. Jonathan’s mother, who spoke in Ogbia dialect, was seen beaming with smiles as she received the candidate and his team. Translating what the mother of Jonathan told Lyon, a kinsman of Jonathan in the entourage, Wisdom Ikuli said: “David my son, on behalf of my entire family, I have blessed you, almighty God want to use you to change the story of Bayelsa State”. Further confirming the development, Ikuli, who is an actor and activist said: “The great and most blessed people of Otuoke Community did not only speak, they acted and also matched their words with action. They told the incoming Governor of Bayelsa State, Chief David Lyon that he has secured their blessings. “In order to further confirm the above, they formally handed him over to our great Mother, Mrs. Eunice Jonathan, mother of former President Goodluck Jonathan, who blessed him with so much blessings. “David Lyon has taken the blessing from the community, any other blessing will be like that of Esau. Congratulations to Chief David Lyon. Any Diaspora blessing outside Otuoke even by our father, leader, hero, legend and living deity, President Goodluck Jonathan will not be effective”. Lyon, who was received by crowd of Otuoke residents at campaign ground in the area lamented the abandonment of the water project in Ogbia by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He promised to give the reactivation of the water project priority when elected a governor and to bring the Imirigi gas turbine back to life. He said the abandonment of the gas turbine had thrown the Otuoke community into perpetual darkness and vowed to restore light in Jonathan’s local government area. Lyon said it was unacceptable that there were no good roads leading to Otuoke and other communities in Ogbia saying the local government area would witness tremendous development under his administration. Speaking to the crowd, he said: “They have kept you poor and have concluded that you can be easily bought during the election, if they give you money, collect it and vote them out. I assure you that I will use the resources of the state judiciously to develop Bayelsa”. At Otuokpoti community, Lyon promised to solve the problems of erosion,which had been washing away the community. He commended the late Melford Okilo for the shore protection of the community, but said it was regrettable that the Okilo’s project was abandoned by the PDP. Speaking to his people, Enogha appealed to them to vote for Lyon and the APC for development and better future. He said: “I cannot insult Dickson, but as one of those who engaged in the fasting and prayer he organised, it was revealed to me that the next governor of Bayelsa state would be one David, who has been taking care of people in the bush. Lyon is like the Biblical David ordained to be king over Israel. Let’s come out and vote for the APC.