Nwanosike Onu, Awka & Emma Elekwa, Onitsha Three weeks after he was abducted in his house by gunmen, suspected to be kidnappers, a staff of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Unizik Awka, Anambra state, Engr. Emeka Chiaghana, whereabouts remain unknown. The incident occurred in Nibo, Awka South local government area of Anambra State. Since then, The Nation gathered the security agencies in the State had been in search of the 40- year-old without success. The Unizik Staff, who hails from the same town where the incident took place, was allegedly whisked away from his residence towards the end of October by yet- to- be- identified men. The Nation gathered that the family of the victim was yet to be communicated by the suspected abductors since his sudden disappearance. Speaking with newsmen on Tuesday, the victim’s wife, Chiazor Chiaghana, raised alarm over her husband’s sudden disappearance, calling on security agencies to intensify efforts in his rescue. She said she had been emotionally and physically devastated since the ugly incident took place. She said she was further worried over the silence of the suspected abductors since then, calling on spirited individuals with useful information to her husband’s whereabouts to avail such to the family. She said: “My husband had dropped my kids and I from the hospital around 9.15pm and told me he needed to go drop his friend off. “He came back around 10:45pm and was about to open the gate when my mother in-law who was upstairs saw two men jumped out of the nearby farm and ambushed him. “He was immediately driven away by the abductors to an unknown destination and that was the last time we saw him. “We quickly reported the matter officially to the Police the following day as well as the local vigilante operatives in the community.” The visibly devastated woman, who described the husband as a simple and honest man, said she had not lost hope of the husband’s safe return. “My husband absence since over three weeks has been devastating. He has been the pillar of the family and knows his responsibility as the head. “We have three kids, the first is just 7 years. We’ve not even started training them. But I have absolute faith in God that he’s still alive and believe in the prayers of the brethren,” she added. A nephew to the victim, Engr. Sunday Meniru, said several efforts had been made by the family, friends and associates of the victim towards his rescue. He however regretted that none of the efforts had yielded desired results, alleging that some of them were being scuttled. A friend to the victim, Tobenna Obiano, described the victim as homely and friendly who was never known for troubles. “The most disturbing part is that his captors are yet to communicate anyone, either to state about why they took him away, or even make any demand. “While I commend the men of the Nigerian Police Force, particularly the Anambra State command on their efforts thus far, I respectfully implore them to please intensify efforts and help the now troubled family, league of friends, his colleagues, Nibo community and Anambra State to rescue Emeka,” he pleaded. When contacted, the acting Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Mrs. Ene Chika confirmed the incident, describing it as worrisome. She said the institution had been liasing with security agencies in the State towards ensuring his immediate and safe release. “The university is aware of the incident. We’re deeply worried and concerned about it. We’re in daily contact with the security agencies on the matter, ” she added. All efforts to get the reaction of the state Police Command, proved abortive as the State Police Public Relation’s Officer, PPRO, Haruna Mohammed failed to respond to calls and text messages.