Sir: Henry Boyo was one of the very few analysts on financial affairs that I knew that was consistent with his journalistic interventions. I have been an ardent reader of his assessments on IMF/World Bank policies which affect the Nigerian economy, the flawed CBN’s policy of saving money and from which the federal government uses at the normal rate without interest. Henry Boyo was an old generation writer that stayed true to himself, patriotic to the Nigerian state and to his views until the end. He didn’t write and contradict himself like many people without conviction. I was shocked to hear of his death, same way I was to hear that Professor Tam David-West passed on to the region of permanent silence a moment ago. No thanks to the political bankruptcy of the Nigerian state, he wasn’t celebrated by government for his developmental views or called out for proper recognition. I often wonder why governments push the boat out for people who love to mouth nothingness by shouting and not thinkers. Henry Boyo was a thinker; he had the experience and authority (moral) to engage in the fierce dynamism of journalism and he engaged without fail. His death in some way has taken away the common purpose needed to pursue the development of Nigeria because unlike many a writer today with love for tribalism, hiding under the journalistic radar to fan the embers of hatred for governments that they do not fancy, campaigning for preferences in other camps, Boyo was principled and never appraised governments policies so as to attract attention of people in the corridors of power. He wasn’t an inert writer, but one who was methodical about his views; he didn’t celebrate one government’s policies and castigate another. He behaved well like the polished writer that he was. I wonder what would become of Nigeria if all of the old brigades leave the scene, because many members of the old generation put country first before region and interests. The love for arts comes with historical context, not context to defeat views of the right exposed by the people of the left, they believed in the historical context for the common good.  I love old-fashioned views because order is the first law of the universe. Thanks to order of the universe, Boyo was pushed to feel for the teeming population of Nigerians who suffered under the burden of privation due to governmental policies that were impervious to their needs and spoke on their behalf. He was a powerful writer on a pedestal but didn’t allow fame to get into his head. How can when he knew the purpose of the writing gift that he had: challenge government’s policies so the browbeaten can feed better and live better lives. Loyalty is an essential commodity that cannot be counted on forever in Nigeria but it is only thanks to loyalty that soldiers win wars. Nigeria will change for good when writers in the class of Boyo from every corner and bend begin to shake the polity with developmental views without hidden agenda. Henry Boyo was a good writer and he drove the machinery to make writing better. 