By Tajudeen Adebanjo The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, (LASEPA) has clamped down of some mosques and churches for persistent environmental pollution and disruption of public peacef. They are located at 68, Old Otta Rd, Orile Agege; 4, Ademola Oshinowo Street Ketu; Dele Amuda Street Lekki; 17, Ajileye Str, Ilaje Bariga; 39, Kusenla Road Elegunshi; Ajayi Bembe Street; Abule-Oja, Yaba among others. LASEPA General Manager Dr Dolapo Fasawe said there is no hiding place for any religious organisation that cannot operate within the ambit of the law, regardless of their faith inclinations. She said mutual respect of views, culture and religion must be adhered to by all residents.  Religious organisations, she said, are supposed to be the bastion of good conduct, tolerance, brotherliness and godly neighborliness. Dr. Fasawe assured residents that LASEPA will not rest on its oars in bequeathing a livable ambience to all inhabitants, stressing that those recalcitrant organisations or worship centres known to be disturbing the peace of Lagosians would face the full wrath of the law. She maintained that in as much as the State Government is positively disposed to the peaceful conduct of religion of choice by its citizens, it does not condone infringements on the rights of other residents in the name of religious activities. Recalling the inundating petitions and outcry from residents over the insensitivity and intolerance of some religious outlets in different areas, the LASEPA boss regrettably noted that several warnings issued to the management of these churches and mosques had not yielded the expected result.  “The government recognises the fact that the state thrives on peaceful co-existence among practitioners of the major religions, but of great concern to the government is the need for religious activities to be conducted in a manner that worshippers and citizens would not infringe on each other’s rights,” she said. According to her, the illegal and unauthorised conversion of residential properties for religious use without recourse to the wellbeing of other residents is of great concern to the present administration under the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Dr. Fasawe explained that for the facilities to be reopened, the leaders of these organisations must reach an agreement of compliance with the agency and also satisfy other necessary conditions as may be prescribed by LASEPA. She further warned ownership and management of sealed off properties to desist from unsealing same behind the government as serious consequences awaited such unlawful act.