President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to probe the finances of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), following a meeting with governors from the region, has set in motion a chain of activities. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI reports.  THE move by President Muhammadu Buhari to probe the finances of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has elicited reactions from many stakeholders and Nigerians in general. “With the amount of money the Federal Government has allocated to the NDDC, we‘d like to see the results on the ground; those that are responsible for that have to explain certain issues,” the President said. The presidency had reportedly been bombarded with petitions in the past five years over allegations of unwholesome activities at the NDDC. Some of these include the award of shoddy contracts and project abandonment. President Buhari ordered the probe after a meeting with governors from states in the Niger Delta region, led by Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State. The governors had expressed their dissatisfaction with the operations of the commission, among other things. Such a swift response suggests that he must have been toying with the idea of sanitizing the agency before the governors’ visited him. The President said what was on the ground in the region does not justify the huge resources that have been made available to the organisation. A statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, quoted the President as saying: “I try to follow the Act setting up these institutions, especially the NDDC. With the amount of money that the Federal Government has religiously allocated to the NDDC, we will like to see the results on the ground; those that are responsible for that have to explain certain issues. The projects said to have been done must be verifiable. You just cannot say you spent so many billions and when the place is visited, one cannot see the structures that have been done.  The consultants must also prove that they are competent.” The idea has generated a positive response. Many of the respondents welcomed the development, with some expressing skepticism that nothing will come out of it at the end of the day. For instance, BudgIT, a civic organisation that applies technology to make budgets and public data more engaging, says it is fully in support of the probe. It said since inception in 2000, the NDDC has received at least $40 billion (N15 trillion) for projects in oil-rich Niger Delta, yet it has failed to achieve its mandate for the people of the Niger Delta. Similarly, the Chairman, Niger Delta Civil Society Coalition, Mr. Anyakwee Nsirimovu, Nsirimovu said the commission has been plagued by accountability since its establishment. He said it was common for project files to suddenly disappear in a bid to cover up financial misdeeds. He said the group would sustain pressure on the President for an overhaul of the NDDC to achieve its mandate for oil-producing areas. The Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) has also welcomed the audit. It urged the Buhari administration to extend the audit to “other national interventionist organisations” like the Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF). In a statement, it urged the government to make public the names of beneficiaries of contracts over the period under review.  The statement by its National Chairman, Mr. Idongesit Nkanga, Deputy National Chairman, Chief Francis Doukpola and National Publicity Secretary, Mrs. Betty Igbeji, said PANDEF decries the poor state of critical infrastructure in the Niger Delta, particularly roads. The group wants the Federal Government and relevant ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) to give immediate and urgent attention to roads in the region. Aye Georgina Dakpokpo, a legal practitioner and National Chairman of the Young Democratic Party (YDP), equally said it is a good idea, but she wants the government to extend the probe to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), which is widely regarded as a cesspool of corruption. In the wake of this development, the NDDC has accused the Southsouth governors of plotting to hijack the commission. Its spokesman, Mr. Charles Odili, said the governors who went to visit Buhari did so out of a desire to hijack the agency because they belong to the opposition party. Monima Daminabo, a media consultant, disagrees. He said the law that sets up the commission gives the governors a responsibility to intervene in the affairs of the commission. He said the NDDC act provides that the governors of the designated states constitute a Niger Delta Advisory Development Committee along with two nominees of the President and that the functions assigned to the committee are two-fold. His words: “Firstly, is to advise the NDDC board and secondly to monitor the activities of the entire commission. The dormancy of this committee had remained a sore point in the relationship between the commission and the respective state governors of the region. “It is significant that even the recently sacked Acting Managing Director of the NDDC, Professor Nelson Brambaifa, had spiritedly canvassed the reconstitution of the advisory committee to provide a nexus between the agency and the political leadership of the zone. “Therefore, the governors of the zone have a statutory basis for intervening in the affairs of the commission, while their isolation from the system could also have been a contributory factor to the recorded spate of recklessness in executing its mandate in the region.” Daminabo who hails from the Niger Delta added: “Many Nigerians who have been in close contact with the political associates of the NDDC leadership easily attest to the sudden flight from rags to riches scenarios among such persons. Meanwhile, this is just as abandoned projects are abundant all over the place. Hence, as outlandish as it may sound, public expectation borders on a complement of restorative measures. “In one vein is the drastic restructuring of the agency back to its founding vision from which it derailed years ago. Secondly, is the recall of several past officials to come and render an account of their questionable stewardship, and a new operational template for the agency.” Former House of Representatives spokesman and a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Eseme Eyiboh cannot understand why people are raising eyebrows over current developments within the NDDC. He said sovereignty belongs to the people and that there is no public officer that cannot be held accountable to the people. He said the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Mr. Godswill Akpabio is interested in seeing the end of the rot in the commission. Eyiboh said: “When there is a gap on the issue of responsibility, there is the need for questions to be asked and explanations are expected. Now, the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Mr. Godswill Akpabio is an officer in the temple of justice. He had said let us keep the field open, keep the pool clean and have a clean slate. He said the interim management is intended not to soil its hands. They should be allowed to supervise the management of the forensic audit.” Eyiboh said there was a forensic audit at the NNPC and that there is no reason why the NDDC should be an exception. He said: “The new executives should not inherit the burden. It is imperative to have an interim management to look at whatever they are doing at the NDDC. So, there is no reason for people to panic. Leadership is a responsibility that must be accounted for at any time. They should stop personalizing the issue with Akpabio. NDDC is supposed to be an interventionist agency and it is expected to live up to expectations. To achieve that, things must be done properly. I don’t care about the semantics, but about the process. It is a well-deserved process.” The former National Assembly member hailed the courage and determination of the Acting Managing Director of the NDDC, Mrs. Osato Iyasere Arenyeka to fight corruption within the agency. He said: “I read in the papers today how the acting managing director of the NDDC said a particular company receives one billion naira every month, as consultancy fee, for collecting three per cent of money from an international oil company on behalf of the NDDC. If that is true, the question you and I should ask is, why can’t the international oil company pay this three per cent into the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) account of the NDDC? It goes to show that when people hear a probe, they become afraid. We must address our minds to the issues on the ground. The intention of democracy is to make a government of the people, for the people and by the people.” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Vice-Chairman (Southwest), Dr. Eddy Olafeso, said over the years the NDDC has failed to meet the objectives of those who fought for its establishment, which is to champion the development of the region that sustains the whole country. He said: “I am not against any form of investigation to ensure that the nation’s resources are used aright. You have the last four years under the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the subsequent years under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). ‘As part of the attempts by the Federal Government to assuage the feelings of the people of the region, the NDDC was established in 2000, to replace the defunct Oil Mineral Producing Area Development Commission (OMPADEC)’ “If anything comes up that is not right and in line with the constitution of the country, you have to bring such a system to book. It is right to look at those who have taken the money and have not done the jobs.” The Niger Delta has been a hotbed of activities since the early 1990s, when the late Ken Saro-Wiwa tried to lead a rebellion against the Federal Government over the plight of the region and paid dearly with his life. But, there was a release of pent up feelings, following the return to civil rule in 1999, as Niger Delta militants declared full-scale war in 2004. The militants had demanded justice, on the premise that the region that lays the golden egg in the Nigerian economy was neglected over the years. The major grouse of the militants centres on lack of accountability on the part of past governments and multinational oil corporations, which merely exploited the resources of the region without ensuring a meaningful development for the people who inhabit the area. As part of the attempts by the Federal Government to assuage the feelings of the people of the region, the NDDC was established in 2000, to replace the defunct Oil Mineral Producing Area Development Commission (OMPADEC). This was complemented by the launching of the Niger Delta Regional Development Master Plan in 2007, the establishment of the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs in 2008 and the presidential amnesty programme in 2009. Earlier, the 1995 Constitutional Conference had recommended 13 per cent derivation for the development of oil-producing communities and this was enshrined in 1999 Constitution. The idea was to use oil money to develop other resources of revenue and develop the quality of life, by building infrastructure and building human capital in the region. But, like many other things related to politics and governance in the country, all these lofty ideas have not yielded much meaningful results for the people. For instance, it is common knowledge that the NDDC is not run like a private entrepreneurial establishment, where merit and performance is key. Rather, political affiliation and patronage determine those that get appointed into the board and management of the commission. So, it is difficult to hold them accountable. But President Buhari appears determined to chart a new course. How far he will go in this regard, is another matter.