 Former Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) highest goal scorer Godwin Obaje has revealed he is adjusting to life in Tunisia and expecting to make his name in the Tunisia Ligue Professionnelle. The former Wikki Tourists of Bauchi goal poacher, who joined the Tunisian side JS Kairouan as a free agent in September, in an interview with The Nation, said he’d been making use of an interpreter in order to communicate with the locals as a starting point for his assimilation of his new environment. “The language barrier is one aspect I am trying to adapt because it is very difficult to communicate if you can’t speak French or Arabic but there is one or two people that I can communicate with that will understand and interpret the language to me. But I am adapting to life in Tunisia little by little,” Obaje said. But the former FC IfeanyiUbah forward is very lucky to have a Nigerian in the team which is making things easy for him. “I am not that lonely here. At least there’s a Nigerian in the team that we can talk to each other on a regular basis. His name is David Udoh; younger brother to Kingsley Udoh who won Under 17 World Cup with Golden Eaglets in 2007. We relate with ourselves very well,” he said of his experience in the club. Aside the language barrier, the Nigerian striker is also battling with the weather condition and food in Tunisia. He is taking solace in spaghetti and rice which is the only food he can eat conveniently in Tunisia for now. “Yeah, at least there’s spaghetti and rice which is the only food I can eat without complaint. Yes, I am trying the local foods too. I am getting used to their food and I just have to adapt to it. “We are approaching winter now and it is a bit cold but I am coping with it.” The former FRSC and Mighty Jets attacker scored his first Tunisian league goal on his debut against CS Sfaxien in his team’s 2-3 home defeat. “I have played three games now and scored one goal in my debut game against CS Sfaxien. We lost 2-3 at home in the game. I came in the second half to equalise when we were losing 1-2 but we eventually lost the game. “Our position is not good on the log so we are working hard to bounce back from this weekend game. We are playing away against Monastir FC and, by God’s grace, I will try my best for the team to be on the scoresheet. But winning is more important to me as a team even if I didn’t score,” he said. Comparing the NPFL to Tunisian league, Obaje said: “The league is very competitive because if you don’t play well you can lose a game, it doesn’t matter whether it’s home or away game and it is very fair. No home advantage and it is a very open league for anyone to win. “Life in Tunisia is not difficult unlike in Nigeria. Especially, we don’t travel long journey (on the road for league matches) unlike in Nigeria. It is not stressful but the league is physical too like Nigeria.” Obaje had in the past saw his dream to Russian club Spartak Moscow hit the rocks after two weeks’ trials but he still nurses the ambition to play in Europe after his two-year contract with JS Kairouan. “I join them (JS Kairouan) as a free agent. When my contract remained one season with FC Ifeanyi Ubah, they gave me on loan for the one season to Plateau United. So after the season ended, I collected my paper from Ifeanyi Ubah as a free agent. “I am not praying to stay here for a long time because my target is to do his best by God grace and get a bigger offer.” Since he completed his move to Tunisia, Obaje has played against fellow Nigerians who are also plying their trade in the Tunisia league. One of such players is Kingsley Idowu, who played for Lobi Stars of Makurdi before he sought a greener pasture in the North Africa country. Idowu is a player of CS Fax of Tunisia.” The Kogi State-born star is also relishing another chance to face another former NPFL striker when his side faces Monastir FC who is expected to feature former Lobi Stars striker Anthony Okpotu in their squad. “Yeah, when we played against CS Fax, it is only Kingsley Idowu I saw. I think in our next game we are playing against Monastir, that is the club of (Anthony) Okpotu. It is very good and I feel happy at least I will meet another Nigerian player. It is not a new thing for us because we have faced each other in Nigeria several times. It is just like a reunion and we will be happy to see each other once more.” Obaje left his wife and son at home when he moved to JS Kairouan but he said he misses his family. “I am missing them no doubt about it but all the same it is all for good. But I do miss them. I do communicate with them on phone and mostly video calls and it is helping me to cope a bit.” The 22-year-old, however, advised the League Management Company (LMC) to improve on the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). He enjoined the club sides in Nigeria to make the league more conducive for the players in terms of welfare and travelling by road on a long journey. “There is no doubt that the League Management Company (LMC) has been doing their best to make the league grow. But there’s room for improvement, they can do better. My advice to clubs in Nigeria is to make sure players are taken care of in all aspects; especially making the long journey on the road is very difficult for players to give out their best in the league. They should try to provide a more conducive way for players in terms of the journey so that they can rest well and give out their best because the league have very good players,” concluded. Obaje started his football career at the FRSC Abuja in 2014 before he played for the Nigeria National League (NNL) side Mighty Jets in 2014 from where he moved to Wikki Tourists of Bauchi in 2015 for his first season in the NPFL and won the league highest goal scorer in the second season with the Big Elephant before joining Ifeanyi Ubah in 2017. He had a one-year loan spell at Plateau United in 2018.