The General Officer Commanding (GOC) the 82 Division Nigerian Army, Enugu, Major General Lasisi Adegboye on Thursday paraded two suspected criminals arrested through the efforts of Exercise Atilogwu Udo 1 flagged off on November 1 2019 at Nsulu, Abia State. The two suspected criminals arrested included a fake soldier who gave his name as Madukwe Obinna and Ifeanyi Agbaraenyi, said to specialise in vandalising electrical cables. Obinna, the fake soldier and a resident of Ogbor Hill, Aba, was arrested at Nsukka, Enugu state by soldiers while impersonating a serving soldier. According to the GOC, the suspect was in a vehicle conveying egg plants from Abuja to Abia and he was given a lift by the driver of the vehicle he boarded because he claimed to be a soldier. Items recovered from the suspect include Nigerian Army Identity Card, a desert camouflage T-shirt, two camouflage T-shirts, a pair of camouflage shorts, one mobile phone and the sum of N40,000. Other items found in his possession include fake N1000  notes, one Japanese Yen, a toy pistol, fake Nigerian police identity card, 26 Nigerian Army vehicle stickers, 23 Army emblems, one pair of desert boots, two engineer cap badges, a name tag bearing Madukwe O.I. and a jackknife. General Adegboye said: “It was also revealed during investigation that the suspect obtained a National Diploma in Computer engineering from the Nigerian Institute of Technology and Environmental Studies, Makurdi. “It was further revealed during his confessional statement that he was on his way from Abuja to Aba for the purpose of committing robbery and he produces some of the military accessories found on him.” Adegboye disclosed that troops of sector 5 on patrol on Wednesday at Opi near Nsukka were tipped off by locals of 3 criminals suspected to be involved in the act of stealing cables in the town. “A pursuit by our troops led to the arrest of one of the criminals Ifeanyi Agbaraenyi, while the other two fled on sighting our troops,” the GOC disclosed. He said preliminary investigation revealed that the criminal came from Udi, Onitsha and Enugu. “However, his attempt to bribe the soldiers with the sum of N700, 000 was stiffly resisted by the soldiers,” Adegboye posited. The suspects were later handed over to the police for further investigation and prosecution. General Adegboye further assured: “The 82 Division Nigerian Army will continue to protect lives and property of the law abiding citizens within its areas of responsibility.”