Okwy IroegbuChikezie  Federal Ministry of Health and Colgate Tolaram have partnered to eradicate Noma disease from Nigeria. Noma is an orofacial gangrene, mainly occurring in malnourished children, especially in the developing world. Its mortality is high and the survivors harbour such facial deformities that they are often rejected from society and family life. At the third National Noma Day in Abuja, Health Minister Dr. Osagie Ehanire said the endemic destroys tissue of the cheek, mouth or nose and, at times, the face, when left untreated. The minister said the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed that the causative agents of noma are mainly malnutrition with co-infections, like measles and malaria, as well as poor oral hygiene. He added that a number of social and environmental factors, such as maternal malnutrition and closely-spaced pregnancies that result in offspring with increasingly weakened immune systems, are strongly related to the onset of the disease. The National Noma Day with the theme: Timely Recognition Averts Deformity, was attended by representatives of WHO, delegates from 10 African nations, Nigerian Dental Association (NDA), among other dignitaries. On behalf of Colgate, Opeyemi Awojobi, who delivered a goodwill message, said the team’s visit to the Noma Specialist Hospital in Sokoto the previous week made it more compelling for the brand to further get involved in the effort to curb the prevalence of the disease in Nigeria. He said: “It was emotional seeing innocent children suffering from not only the excruciating pain it poses but also the life-time disfigurement it leaves behind.  Ignorance about the disease is another problem mitigating against the efforts of timely management, however, Colgate Tolaram has committed working with the government to champion a campaign on oral hygiene targeted at over 15 million children across Nigeria by the end of next year”, he added. The minister raised concerns that Noma disease is silently killing Nigerians, particularly in the north-western states of Kebbi, Sokoto, Jigawa and other states outside the northwest, notably Akwa Ibom. Minister of Health Dr Osagie Ehanire, in his remarks, expressed optimism that the newly launched Noma Policy Document and the National Triennial Action Plan would go a long way in raising public awareness about Noma disease. He confirmed that Noma disease can be significantly reduced, or even prevented, if national awareness of the disease, improved nutrition can be promoted. “We need to promote exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months of a child’s life, education on pre-natal care and personal hygiene, oral hygiene, timely immunisation against common childhood diseases, improved environmental sanitation and poverty reduction,” he said. The Coordinator, National Noma Control Programme, Dr Bola Ige,  revealed that 90 percent of people that have the disease do not survive, with the remaining 10 percent permanently disfigured. She stressed that in spite of fatality of Noma disease, Nigeria has no workable policy to respond to the crisis, and neither does it have statistical data on the disease because of paucity of funds and insufficient manpower to carry out a comprehensive national survey. “We don’t have funds to finance national survey on Noma. However, we have applied for grants and other sponsorships to enable us conduct the survey. For now, we work with figures we receive from public hospitals, particularly the Noma specialist hospital in Sokoto,” she said.  