Dr. Matthew Ayibakuro, Benin City Sir: Since the commencement of the current electoral cycle, citizens of Bayelsa State have arguably witnessed more actions and decisions from political office holders than in the three previous years combined. Some examples of this include the holding of overdue Local Government Area elections about two months to the PDP party primaries, the installation/repairs of non-functional street lights in the state capital and the return of contractors to site on projects that had stalled for long periods of time.  Perhaps, the most palpable demonstration of this has been the unparalleled appointments made by the governor in the last couple of months, including 60 new special advisers in one swoop in October and the constitution of the leadership of rural development areas in the state. On the part of the APC, it has been able to galvanise citizens in the state in the manner expected of an opposition party for the first time since the last governorship election in the state over three years ago.   The political scene, the democratic experience and the developmental needs of the state have been yearning for a virile opposition experience like this for so long, and the outcome of the polls will tell if this rejuvenation of opposition politics in the state has come a little too late or not. The broader implication of all this is the undeniable conclusion that the expedience of political victory outweighs the more important necessity to build sustainable democratic practices and enhance development outcomes.  In Bayelsa State, instead of developmental gains and political victory having a mutually reinforcing effect, the buck ends with the exigencies of political victory and nothing more.  After the next two weeks, democracy and development expediencies will likely hibernate for another three years, and then reawaken to another electoral cycle. With just two weeks to the polls, Bayelsans are no wiser about what specific policies or programmes differentiate the candidates of the PDP and APC and what, if anything, would be different from the past.  Whilst the candidate of the APC released a long manifesto and that of the PDP released an executive summary of his manifesto, the thrust of both documents provides little indication of a distinctive policy or programme thrust around which a new government will be built. This is however, not even the major concern.  From a neutral perspective, the real concern is the fact that no substantive conversation is taking place on the basis of these documents.  A majority of the discourses led by spokespeople of the parties and other supporters are centred around the individual lives and personalities of the candidates and their benefactors:  The incumbent governor, Seriake Dickson for Douye Diri of the PDP and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva for David Lyon of the APC. Beyond this, public discourse, especially on social media has focused on peripheral issues such as the perceived academic prowess and deficiencies of both candidates, defections from one party to another and Trump-like assessments of which party’s primaries have the most crowds.    The governorship debates which took place a couple of days ago added very little to this process due to the absence of the candidate of the APC and the routine and unsubstantial answers provided by those who participated.  At the end of the debates, there was very little for Bayelsans to be excited about in terms of any substantial policies and programmes that would change the development trajectory of the state post-election. Except there is a drastic change over the next two weeks, the next governor of Bayelsa State would emerge, not because of the policies or programmes presented to the people, but because of his or her political party – parties that are not known for any particular ideology or policy thrust, – perceptions about the candidate’s private personality and the anticipated individual and political gains of the kingmakers and supporters.  