The Southsouth’s booming start-up scene has become as much a feature of its top-tier cities as entrepreneurship has become an appealing alternative for youths. There are many success stories to inspire them. DANIEL ESSIET reports. The Southsouth region is fostering a more creative entrepreneurial culture. This is so as there is an influx of venture capital into start-ups, from both home and abroad. Startups in logistics, fintech and other sectors have received millions of dollars from foreign investors. The convener of StartupSouth,  Uche Aniche, said young innovators were strengthening the region’s position among  attractive  destinations in the world. Speaking during the group’s regional conference in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, Aniche said the ecosystem has a rich startup, including firms and founders, networking events and creative and co-working business and community spaces. He said supporting startups and growing tech firms to create jobs  would have a positive impact on the regional economy. Aniche called on founders of startups to see the 11 states in the area as their primary market, as it has a huge  population of about 60 million. He also called on the state governments in the region to embrace the conference as a platform to engage not only the organised private sector but also the youth to feel their pulse. He said the next edition of StartupSouth would hold in a city where the state government would be willing to partner the project. The Regional Manager, Southsouth, Bank of Industry (BoI), Sunkanmi Oriyomi, said startups could get N10 million loan from the bank without a collateral. MainOne Chief Executive, Ms. Funke Opeke, highlighted the importance of broadband to development, stressing why state  governments should pay attention to enabling broadbands in their domains. Quoting a World Bank report, she said: “Ten per cent  in broadband penetration would increase GDP per capita growth by 1.38 per cent,” and called for  creative approaches to achieving the broadband goal using her company’s deal with Edo and Ogun states as an example. Ms. Opeke continued:  “A tree can’t make a forest,”  adding: “It is important for other states and regions in Nigeria to take advantage of the opportunities the digital economy provides because only then will Nigeria be able to maximise her true potential and attain  prosperity for her citizens.” In a keynote paper, titled: ‘Domesticating the digital Economy’, Founding Partner, InfoGraphics and former Manager, West Africa, Microsoft, Mr. Chinenenye Mba-Uzoukwu, advised the Southsouth and Southeast governors to pursue regional collaboration, saying this would help to open up the opportunities in the region. Co-founder Paga, Jay Alabraba,  advised startups to focus on solving problems, assuring  that they would always get support. He  said Paga was glad to sponsor StartupSouth5 because of the importance of the project to the region and Nigeria. The conference featured over 100 speakers in 60 sessions, which covered several areas, including business, technology, lifestyle, personal development, funding and policy. Notable personalities that graced the event include former Cross River State Governor, Mrs Obioma Liyel Imoke; Senior Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Job Creation, Ukinebo Dare;  and founder, Hotels.NG, Mark Essien. The conference saw a pitch by KR Foods, a palm oil processing startup led by Amajuoyi Ikechukwu Kingsley and GreenBox, a modular solar-inverter box for powering SMEs led by Innocent Unachukwu. KR Food won the N150,000 prize provided by Ibom LLC. The winner is having talks with members of the SSE Angel Network for  investment. The two teams will benefit from WhogoHost’s hosting as part of the prize.