Emma Elekwa, Onitsha Inmates at the Custodial Centre, Nigerian Correctional Service in Awka, Anambra State have been urged to take advantage of their stay in the centres to improve their educational qualifications through increased reading. Chief Executive Officer, National Library of Nigeria, Prof. Lenrie Aina, gave the charge in Awka during the Nigeria National Readership Promotion Campaign with the theme, Reading: A tool for empowering the vulnerable. He regretted the dimension reading culture has assumed in Nigeria, saying it could impede development, if not urgently addressed. Aina, who spoke through the Assistant Chief librarian, Gloria Okeagu, said the campaign was an effort with other stakeholders to proffer solutions that would checkmate the trend. He said: “The extension of the exercise to the correctional services across the country is in line with the present administration’s policy of reaching out to the vulnerable and the poor. “I urge the inmates to take advantage of the provision of reading opportunities in the centre to read instead of wasting their time with idle talks.” Assuring of the provision of carefully-selected books to meet the inmates’ information needs, Aina promised to ensure that the Nigerian Correctional Service policy would not allow restricted books at the centres to be abused. Earlier, the Comptroller of Nigerian Correctional Service, Custodial Centre, Awka, Nwakaeze Emmanuel, said he was optimistic that the visit would further rejuvenate the reading culture among the inmates. He said: “I receive our guests with every spirit of nostalgia because when we’re in secondary schools and universities, we boasted of the number of literature books we’ve read.  “But all of a sudden, the whole thing went down like candle light. Instead of reading, people now spend their time on whatsapp, instagram, facebook and other social media platforms. “The culture is even affecting me because it’s contagious. As a lawyer, when I see voluminous books, I’m excited, but it’s no longer the same today.” While commending the National library of Nigeria for donating books to the centre, the comptroller pledged that the inmates would make good use of them. The head of branch, National library of Nigeria, Enugu, Mrs. Rachel Eboh urged the inmates to embrace  reading, describing it as a ladder to the pinnacle of their chosen careers. The event featured presentations of books and food items to the inmates.  