By Adekunle Yusuf The Vinci Hair Clinic, a leading hair restoration outfit with 33 clinics in 14 countries on six continents, has rededicated itself to better service delivery. Its Chief Executive Officer (Africa Region), Ayo Otubanjo, made the pledge in Lagos during the clinic’s celebration of five years of providing hair loss solutions to Nigerians. Launched in Lagos in September 2014, Vinci Hair was the first hair restoration clinic in Africa, outside South Africa. According to the CEO, the launch in Lagos was borne out of the need to bring world-class hair loss solutions to customers’ doorsteps in the country. Besides enjoying “our services in a comfortable, friendly environment, with total confidentiality,” having the hair clinic in Nigeria has saved customers time and money, especially for many who travelled abroad for hair restoration solutions, Otubanjo stated. “Now, it is easier than ever to access our micro scalp pigmentation, hair transplants and non-surgical treatments for hair loss in Nigeria and Ghana. On Awolowo Road in Ikoyi, a prime area in Lagos, we offer a wide range of treatment options for different hair loss types, which range from medications for treating certain conditions of alopecia in the initial stages to surgical hair restoration, where baldness has set in. In the past, our clients had to travel to Europe, United States or beyond for hair restoration solutions such as hair transplants, micro scalp pigmentation, mesotherapy, PRP treatments, etc. “Our clients come from all over Africa and this has been the impetus for us to grow organically. We now have three clinics – in Lagos, Abuja and Accra – with plans to expand to Nairobi and Kigali to service the demand for hair loss solutions across the continent. We offer a 30-minute initial free no-obligation consultation at all our clinics. This is an opportunity for our experienced medical consultants to assess the nature of the hair loss and any appropriate restoration options, specifically tailored to our clients’ needs. This free consultation is the ideal opportunity to ask all the questions you have about hair restoration treatments, from how micro scalp pigmentation works to hair transplants and medication,” Otubanjo said. To mark the anniversary, the company offers a 30 per cent discount – a discount that cuts across all its innovative treatments options. “Whether you are male or female, young or old, noticing hair loss for the first time or having spent years trying to find a treatment that works, Vinci Hair Clinic can help you on your hair restoration journey. The first step is our free 30-minute comprehensive evaluation of your hair loss issue. We guarantee that we will provide expert advice on the most suitable treatment for your condition,” he added.