By Adeyinka Aderibigbe  Ministries, Departments and agencies of government in Lagos State, have a sacred responsibility of promoting safety on the roads especially as the yuletide beckons, the state’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, has said. Omotoso dropped the charge while flagging off the third edition of the Don’t Drink and Drive campaign, organised by the Lagos State Traffic Radio (LSTR) in Agidingbi, Lagos on Friday. According to the commissioner, government agencies must be at the forefront of the drive to entrench a safe driving culture at all times on roads, as it made a lot of economic and social sense to do so, stressing that apart from saving lives, it also ensures that the resources of government were being judiciously deployed. “Saving lives that could have been lost to alcohol-induced road crashes is a top priority for this government. As a result, initiatives, such as this, aimed at reducing road crashes on account of alcohol-impaired driving are commendable and must be supported by all. “As part of efforts to stem the tide of this menace, among other maladies on our roads, Governor Babajide  Sanwo-Olu, upon assumption of office, issued an Executive Order on traffic management, declaring zero tolerance for violation of traffic rules and bad roads. I am happy to say that the enforcement of traffic rules has been stepped up. Offenders are being arrested and brought before the law. This action will continue until all our motorists embrace the culture of patience, tolerance and obedience that is needed to keep our roads accident free,” he stated.  He added that the Sanwo-Olu administration was committed to providing a better life for all Lagosians and building a “Greater Lagos” for posterity through its developmental T-H-E-M-E-S agenda, which centre around empowering our citizens in all ramifications. Omotosho said the road show was apt and complementary to the efforts of government in transportation and traffic management, especially at this period of the year. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Seyi Whenu said the road show was needed at this ’ember’ month period to sensitise the people to be careful on the road, especially now that “we are confronted with traffic gridlock on the road. “Traffic radio is doing a good work, everyone should be glued to the station. Lagos State government is doing everything possible to tackle the traffic, 1,000 policemen have been deployed to help. Please, be patient, in the next one week, traffic will abate. Don’t drink and drive,” he said General Manager, Lagos Traffic Radio 96.1 FM, Tayo Akanle said the whole essence of the campaign was to create the necessary awareness to sensitise motorists on the danger of drunk driving which might affect their vision and sense of judgment while driving and might lead to death. “We believe that continuous awareness is needed all year round by all stakeholders and not only towards the end of each year as vehicular movements occur every day. Each year, we continue to raise the bar of the awareness and sensitisation campaign through using our strong platforms both online and off line, including placement of ‘Don’t Drink & Drive’ banners on bill boards at strategic locations,” he said.  