Despite assurances by the state government, it is still long, dark nights for road users, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE  Ask any resident, and none, would bait an eyelid before telling you these are the worst times to live in Nigeria’s busiest commercial capital. If the bad state of roads had made commuting within the state a huge headache in the past, government’s resolve to bring relief to the people in recent weeks went several notches higher in escalating the road crisis, compounding residents’ nightmare. In the last two weeks, almost all parts of the state were practically locked down, as government’s contractors swung into action to rehabilitate some of the roads which have been written off by motorists and other road users. Julius Adesanya was one such Lagosian that “practically went through hell” last week. Adesanya lives in Agege and works in Mushin, a distance of about 35 kilometres which ordinarily he makes in 25 minutes if he drives, and about half an hour by public transport. Since the penultimate week, Adesanya has been spending between four to five hours on the same road to and from work, spending an average of between eight to 10 hours every day in traffic. Of course, his productivity has nose-dived as he spends more hours agonising on the trauma he faces on the road than he spends on the task(s) ahead of him at work. James Adewale is one Nigerian who sees himself as tactically jobless today. Reason, he “practically sacked himself” because he could not afford the cost of transportation to and from work. He lives in Ijoko, a border town in Ogun State and works at Ebute Meta, mainland Lagos. Today, he no longer goes to work regularly because according to him, he could not afford the between N1,500 to N2,000 daily he spends on transportation since the nation’s railway corporation suspended train service between Ijoko where he lives and Apapa. “I never felt the real impact of the rehabilitation on the roads by the government until the Nigerian Railway Corporation suspended the Mass Transit Train Service (MTTS), now I find that I spend a minimum of N1,500 or about N2,000 daily on transport, I didn’t survive that for a week before I stopped going to work, because I couldn’t afford it.” While Adewale may have taken the bitter pill, there are hundreds who out of the fear of losing their jobs have had to relocate to the office. For this category, they go home only weekends, as they sleep in the office for the rest of the week. What is becoming more worrisome is that the road crisis appears for now intractable. Dean of the School of Transportation, Lagos State University Prof Samuel Gbadebo Odewunmi  urged the government to make the best use of the dry season to give Lagosians a new travel experience. Odewunmi had wondered why government has been failing to see the huge potentials in the almost prostrate transportation sector, with about 90 percent of the states’ 26 million population having the need to move from point A to point B every day. Odewunmi said government must work at ensuring that Lagosians begin to enjoy travel time, as it remains one of the ways to unlock the state’s economy.  Problem defying solution  In recent times, Lagosians have come away with the impression that Lagos roads repair have defied all logic as government’s efforts to bring relief have inflicted greater agony  on the people. But the Lagos State Government has  urged members of the public to bear with it as it works on bringing them relief. Urging patience last week, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy Mr Gbenga Omotoso said government is on top of the traffic situation in the state. He said government was aware of the massive gridlock across the state and that it had struck a partnership with the police command to deploy 1,000 policemen to help manage the traffic. Omotosho said the problem was more persistent at the Agege Motor Road where construction work was ongoing, saying that government had directed the contractor to put measures in place to alleviate the plight of Lagosians all through the period of the construction. The Lagos State House of Assembly blamed the traffic crisis in the state on the absence of such measures. Responding to a motion by the Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation, Hon Temitope Adewale (Ifako-Ijaiye 1 constituency), the lawmakers urged  the government to ask its contractors to focus on “scheduled maintenance.”  Adewale complained bitterly on Thursday, over the current gridlock due to the ongoing road maintenance in the state. He asked the Lagos State Public Works Corporation to consider scheduled work everyday, including on weekends, rather than moving to depressed sections at peak period, thereby causing traffic snarl. Contributing, Mr Rotimi Olowo (Somolu I Constituency), said maintenance works should be carried out during weekends and off peak periods. The Speaker, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, called on the state Commissioner for Transport to liaise with contractors handling ongoing Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge railway line not to disrupt free flow of traffic, especially around Agege, Ikeja and Sogunle intersections. He also asked Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIO) and Nigeria Police to desist from causing further impediments that could lead to gridlock on the roads while checking vehicle particulars.  Need for attitudinal change  But some other stakeholders believe Lagos traffic snarls are more as a result of reckless attitude of road users, especially commercial drivers than infrastructural. They said that though the roads are largely bad, yet, it could still have been more manageable had the drivers been patience with other road users. The FRSC, Lagos Sector Commander, Hyginus Omeje, said penultimate week that the nation roads would witness some sanity and a reduction in gridlock if the drivers obey traffic regulations. He canvassed attitudinal change especially from commercial drivers, whose penchant for driving against traffic in the face of the least impediment on traffic free flow is legendary. Patrick Adenusi, recently disclosed that apart from driving against traffic more popularly known as “one way traffic”, for which the state traffic law had stipulated the impoundment of such vehicle, as well as medical and psychiatric examination, another preponderant evil causing impediment to free flow of traffic is lane abuse. According to him, even when the government gets it right on the roads, Lagos State would continue to experience even more debilitating traffic snarl if road users, especially drivers are not retrained to begin to see how their attitudes and habits on the road constitute to impediments that might clog the roads.  The train connection Yet another quarter from which the ongoing crisis on Lagos roads could be viewed is the absence of the Mass Transit Train system (MTTS). The railway corporation had on September 30, this year, suspended the MTTS, which shuttles from Iddo/Apapa to Ijoko, doing an eight round trip daily. With the train’s capacity to move more than 1,000 passengers on each trip, and 16 round trips every day, the train moves more than one million passengers daily. Officials of the corporation said Iddo-Ijoko MTTS is the most lucrative service on the corporation’s western line, but the service was suspended in order to fast track the completion of the ongoing standard gauge train, which requires shifting of the existing narrow gauge and shifting of the alignment of same to accommodate standard gauge rail line. The Lagos District Manager of NRC, Mr Jerry Oche, said the corporation was not unconcerned about the difficulties many commuters are presently going through, but urged them to be patient. Oche, who had earlier disclosed that the shutdown would last till middle of November, said the line will not be opened for now as work is  still ongoing on the corridor. Oche said the corporation and the contractor, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) is working round the clock to deliver the project as scheduled. “Words cannot express how I feel about what the commuters are going through. Don’t forget, I always say that it is not much about how much we make, but the services we render to the majority of people. “We bring succour and alleviate the suffering of thousands of Lagos residents. Now that we have shut down, I know a lot of people are having difficulties commuting but we would just appeal to them to be patience as work is going on to deliver the relocation of the narrow guage,” he said. Odewunmi said a state the size of Lagos must always quake if it continues to concentrate on one mode of transportation. For him, only a surfeit of intermodal transportation system that would have a train and the other modes, road, waterways and air as adjuncts remains the best way to soak up gridlocks on the roads. He said an active intermodal system will not only make travels pleasurable, it would lead to a massive explosion in the economic potentials of the state as direct and indirect jobs would be created to move the various systems. He said by making transportation the first pillar of its six points agenda, the Sanwo-Olu government recognizes the significance and centrality of transportation to the development of the state. He therefore urged the government to aggressively pursue the deepening of all channels of transportation.