More than 300 residents of Mushin on Thursday benefited from a free medical outreach organised by the Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC) Oshodi. The medical outreach which held at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Papa Ajao saw military doctors, lab scientists, nurses and caregivers offering various services including tests and treatments for malaria, optical and dental concerns, HIV, Hepatitis and sugar screenings, as well as immunisation of children with measles second dose. Cardiovascular experts were also on ground to counsel the people on ways to prevent or manage heart-related diseases. According to NAFRC Commandant Air-vice Marshal (AVM) Abubakar-Sadick Liman, the maiden medical rhapsody was part of efforts to improve civil-military relations, adding that Mushin piloted the project because it is the centre’s host community. He said those whose cases needed further attention would be referred to the NAFRC Medical Centre where they would also be treated at no cost to them. “I would like to correct the wrong impression that military medical facilities do not attend to civilians. I would like you to purge your minds of this erroneous notion as our medical facilities are open to all categories of civilians. No one will harass or deny you access as long as your mission is clearly stated at our gates. “It is usually said that a healthy nation is a wealthy nation. Therefore, this medical outreach will in no small way contribute to the health of this community,” he said. The Nation reports that beneficiaries with optical or dental issues were given free correctional toothpaste and eyeglasses while all who registered received free treated mosquito nets. Appreciating the Commandant for the gesture, Chairman Mushin Local Government Area (LGA) Emmanuel Bamgboye said it would go a long way to improve the health of the people. He said the free medical outreach would complement ongoing efforts by the local government, stressing that there were mobile clinics stationed at strategic locations that provide free services to the people. Bamgboye said his government renovated six PHCs last week, adding that they have been supporting the General Hospital in Mushin to deliver better services to the people.