 They came into the industry looking for a source of livelihood but also found love along the line. That is the story of an array of Nigerian actors, actresses, singers and sports men and women who found their better halves while shooting films, interpreting roles, belting out great hits or taking part in sporting activities. Love, as the saying goes, knows no bounds. Emotions can run riot while people spend weeks away from everyone else trying shooting movies, cooking musical hits or even advocating for the rights of others as it is the case with the following couples. Olu Jacobs & Joke Silva The theatre veterans are absolutely adorable. They are one of Nollywood’s finest and their union is an example of what true love can achieve against all odds. They have been together for more than three decades. They had met in 1981 at the Lagos National Theatre during a rehearsal for Wole Soyinka’s “The Trials of Brother Jero”. Explains how they met in an interview with a newspaper in 2017, Jacobs, one of Nigeria’s living screen legends, said: “ I was living in England at that time. I was to play lead in Wole Soyinka’s ‘The Trials of Brother Jero’.  We were having the production when the door opened and this lady walked in and said: ‘Sorry, we are ready’. When she walked in, I said: ‘Excuse me ladies and gentlemen, this is the lady I am going to marry’. You know bodies can attract and bodies can repel. I saw her and I was attracted…she was stunned even though she gave me up and down.” Norbert and Gloria Young These two Nollywood veterans have been married for almost two decades. Theirs is one of Nollywood’s oldest and very successful marriages. Norbert clocked 60 in July and his wife serenaded him with kind, loving words on social media. Wunmi and Tunde Obey These veteran showbiz couple wear similar clothes and their bond is obviously strengthened by years of working together. They were best friends for many years before they decided to tie the knot and their love for each other is waxing stronger every day. The couple, who have been together for many decades, first met as undergraduates and pursued a common interest in music. Sunday Omobolanle & Peju Ogunmola When it comes to Yoruba movies, Omobolanle, popularly known as Papi Luwe, and Ogunmola are no new faces. They are some of  Nollywood’s biggest acts. Papi Luwe is a cross-generational artist who has featured in several movies and quite a few with his wife. Patrick and Ireti Doyle Veteran broadcaster-cum-actor and Nollywood actress,Patrick  and Ireti Doyle, are a lovely couple who got married after the former lost his first wife. Both are accomplished celebs in their own right. Ireti has been quite active of recent featuring in some of Nollywood’s biggest hits. Ladi & Betty (Dibiah) Akeredolu-Ale Channels Television fans will know that Ladi and sweet voice and eloquent Betty met when they were both staff of the popular TV station, Channels TV;  and apparently all kinds of sparks flew because they dated and got married some years later. Funke Akindele & JJC Skillz Abdulrasheed Bello, known professionally as JJC Skillz, is a Nigerian actor, songwriter, rapper, record, television producer and former producer for the British hip-hop record company and musical group Big Brovaz. Actress and producer, and exquisite dander, Funke Akindele of the Jenifa fame, is the other half of this beautiful celeb couple. They got married in 2016. Banky W & Adesua  Etomi What a sweet, good-looking and adorable pair that these two make and you just can’t help but love them. This couple after the make-believe marriage on set of ‘Wedding party’, turned their on-screen love wedding into a real-life relationship. Adekunle Gold & Simi Nigerian highlife singer, songwriter and graphic designer, Adekunle Kosoko, professionally known as  Adekunle Gold, and singer and songwriter wife, Simisola Ogunleye, who is very well-known as Simi,  are a very low-key and private couple, which is what makes them so sweet. They don’t need to flaunt their love nor prove anything to anyone. The couple, who are both successful singers, were lovers for a very long time before they got married. Isaac & Nneka Moses The founders of Goge Africa( a pan-African cultural project with aim of promoting African culture, music, food and her ways of life through television, radio and magazines), the duo of Isaac and Nneka Moses, worked together at a point and got married along the line. 2Baba & Annie Idibia Nollywood actress, Annie Idibia, is married to Nigerian singer, songwriter, record producer, entrepreneur, Innocent Idibia, or as he’s more commonly known, 2Face Idibia or 2baba. The pair were friends first but had started dating officially by the time they shot the ‘African Queen’ video in 2004. They got married in Dubai on March 23, 2013. These two sexy entertainers make one hot couple! Whether they are posing for a quick photo or walking on the red carpet, their sweet chemistry is ever so obvious. Ibrahim Suleiman & Linda Ejiofor Nollywood actor and actress, Ibrahim and Linda, met on set of TV series, ‘Tinsel’, and became fast friends. These two took their relationship to the next level and last year, they both tied the knot. Mide Martins & Afeez Owo Abiodun These Nollywood actors and producers  fell for each other after the death of Mide’s mother, the late veteran actress, Funmi Martins. The two quietly started dating and formalised the relationship in a private ceremony. We learnt Afeez reportedly had a crush on Mide for years. Aruna & Ganiyat Quadri Nigerian table tennis player, Aruna Quadri, competed for Nigeria at the 2012 Summer Olympics and 2016 Summer Olympics, reaching the quarter-finals in the latter competition. He plays for the senior men’s team while his wife, Ganiyat, plays for the junior National Team. They met, fell in love and got married while playing tennis.