•As president projects over N7b revenue in two years  DANGOTE Group Staff Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society Limited (DANCOOPS) at the weekend elected a set of new officers to pilot the affairs of the organisation within the next couple of years. The President, Emmanuel Bayikusi a staff at the Human Resource Department at Dangote Sugar, was returned unopposed. Other officers elected include: Egunjobi A, as Vice President, General Secretary, Olusegun Oyename, Assistant General Secretary, Doom Grace, Treasurer, Lukeman Olalekan Yusuf, Financial Secretary,         Biodun Kehinde and Assistant Financial Secretary, Monday Igbu. While reeling out his agenda for the Society, Bayikusi, who has been on the employ of Dangote for over 13 years, said, he hopes to turn around the fortunes of the organisation going forward. On the current financial standing of the Society, the new DANCOOPS boss recalled that as at 2017, the asset based was over N4billion even as he assured that “In the next two years, God willing, that we are able to diversify our investment, we are projecting a revenue base of about N7billion.” Bayikusis who once served as the Vice President in previous administration, said his vision is to see a Society that continues to cater for the welfare of its members. Waxing philosophical, he said, “There must be life after Dangote. Thanks to the Cooperative, many of us have achieved some modest successes such as housing for ourselves, set up businesses among others. The loan we took from the Cooperative that helped us to actualise our set objectives.” Pressed further, he said, his reason for mounting the saddle as the president are clearly altruistic and not self-serving. “The main reason one took up this mantle of leadership is to be able to better the lots of members. We are focused on diversification of our investment, such as agriculture, oil and gas, invest in property, apply to the mortgage banks to access loans as well as review the interest rate downwardly in the interest of members.” 