According to labour experts, unfavourable labour policies are threats to workers’ rights. Such policies also contradict the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Act on workers’ rights, TOBA AGBOOLA reports. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention on Workers’ Rights is clear on the need for workers to work under favourable and conducive environment. The ILO also went a notch higher, identifying eight fundamental conventions to support its position. The eight conventions include freedom of association, collective bargaining, elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour and equal remuneration, among others. However, labour experts argue that these rights are observed only in the breach by most employers of labour in Nigeria. Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President Comrade Ayuba Wabba noted that some of the unfavourable policies had impoverished the workforce, in spite of being the most important factor of production. He stated that Nigerian workers and trade unions had been at the receiving end of unfavorable policies of the government and private sector. Wabba said there was a need for labour unions to address the issue of casualisation, unceremonious disengagement and other vices targeted at workers. Wabba stated that government and private sector policies across the country needed a total overhaul. According to him, human and trade union rights are interwoven, and lawyers that engage in labour and human rights issues are themselves activists, championing the cause of workers. Wabba said Nigeria had progressive laws to handle employers and employees relations, but noted that, in most cases, those laws were violated by employers or government. President, United Labour Congress (ULC), Mr. Joe Ajaero,  stressed the need to review obsolete laws that are not in tune with current realities. He said some private sector employers paying their employees between N10,000 and N15,000 was unacceptable. He said such group of workers who are being paid pittance by their employers must be assisted to compel their employers treat them fairly. Ajaero said some sectors needed to be unionlised for them to have a voice and fight the injustice being meted out to them by their employers. The General Secretary, National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN), Comrade Issa Aremu, canvassed the urgent review of the laws, adding that  there is also a need for stakeholders to collaborate and make input on ways to review obsolete laws in accordance with modern reality. Aremu, who is also a member of the NLC, commended the Federal Government for closing land borders to end smuggling of goods into the country. He said the move was impressive, as it was aiding local production and consumption of goods. Citing what is happening in the textile industry, Aremu said garment industries have been boosted. He said there was the need to sustain current efforts and support the Nigeria Customs Service to fight smuggling. “We will like to commend the efforts of the Federal Government in the closure of its land borders, this has helped in total overhaul of textile and garment industries in the country. “It is already on record that the textile industries are now making money, smugglers and importers have gone into hiding, border closure should not be permanent, but should be sustained for the mean time.” Aremu said that in 31 years of the union’s existence, industrial peace and harmony had been sustained through the principles of collective bargaining. He noted that the association had also signed 46 national agreements for development. He said ITF needed to increase its intervention on worker’s training and skills development, saying this was necessary as the future of work was being threatened by technology. He also advised the Federal Government to be wary of foreign investors, who use diverse schemes to swindle the country, citing the over $9 billion PI and D gas contract scam. A legal practitioner, Mr. Adedeji Emmanuel, said Nigeria lawyers were willing to help in the protection and defence of workers’ rights. He stated that International Lawyers Assisting Workers (ILAW), Nigeria would provide support to workers whose rights were being violated, adding that pressure would be exerted on employers of labour to respect the rights of workers. The predicament of Nigerian workers also came to the fore recently at the ILAW inaugural meeting. Chairman, Board of ILAW, Mr. Jeffery Vogt, noted that countries had reneged on their promises to abide by ILO convention. He said  many countries that signed the ILO convention have, in one way or the other, refused to honour it. He listed Nigeria as one of the defaulting countries, adding that ILAW, Nigeria, would defend the rights of workers and the trade unions. Vogt said violation of workers’ rights was becoming a major fundamental problem worldwide. According to him, it is obvious that workers and trade unions are struggling worldwide, which shows that their rights are being violated.  Vogt stated that the rights of workers to organise and protest were daily being restricted, in violation of the ILO convention. He noted that it had become absolutely imperative to have the best advocate under the ILAW to champion the rights of Nigerian workers. He said a platform for lawyers and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to engage one another and share experiences was necessary in order to fight and protect workers rights. “Lawyers in the world and across the cities must stand and bring justice for working people. “I have related with trade unions across the world and found out fundamentally that we are all confined to the same thing, though names of employers and the workers may be different,” Vogt said. Minister of State for Labour and Employment Mr. Festus Keyamo (SAN) said labour laws were obsolete, which he said gave rise to unfavorable policies. The minister stated that an executive bill was also imperative for a review of labour laws, noting that most of the labour laws in place at the moment were not pro-workers. He said: “I do agree that most of our laws are obsolete and not pro- workers, but majorly pro-employers, but the Federal Government alone should not be the driver of the process to overhaul the country’s labour laws.”