The former Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Attahiru Jega has called for strengthening of the nation’s electoral legal framework in order to achieve credible elections and sustainable democratic development. He accused political stakeholders, particularly politicians of taking undue advantage of the loopholes and discrepancies in the Electoral Act to abuse the nation’s electoral process. He made the call while speaking at the 71st convocation lecture of the University of Ibadan, Ibadan, titled: “Towards Credible Electoral Process and Sustainable Political Systems in Nigeria: What Role for Universities?” at Trenchard hall of the university, Ibadan. Prof. Jega who specifically referred to sections 31 and 87 of the Electoral Act 2010 noted that as a result of the frictions and lack of internal democracy, party leaders in the country were in the habit of submitting names of those who did not participate in the party primaries as candidates for election to INEC. He cited the example of Zamfara State where the All Progressives Congress (APC) failed to conduct primary election but went ahead to present candidates to the electoral umpire for the 2019 elections. In order to improve the integrity of the nation’s electoral process, the professor of Political Science added that: “Legal and regulatory framework for elections, through periodic reviews and value-addition from one electoral cycle to another. “This is haphazard and epileptic and leaves much to be desired. In good time before the 2023 elections, the constitutional electoral provisions and the Electoral Acts need to be reviewed and remarkably improved upon for greater efficiency in the management of elections. “INEC has recommended to the National Assembly to remove the sections in order to strengthen the end of legal framework”, adding that to achieve sustainable democratic development, integrity of the electoral process is essential. He said: “Africa will be satisfied when there is periodic elections but there must be integrity in the way elections are conducted to achieve sustainable development. All stakeholders have roles to play but the universities have special roles to play. “It is generally recognized that fortifying democracy is vital to sustainable development, what is not as widely acknowledged is that improving the integrity of elections is key to democratic development. “Deeply embedded unwholesome practices and a range of malpractices and fraudulent activities in the electoral process grossly undermine its utility as a vehicle for liberal democratic development. “The less the malpractices, the better the electoral process. The realistic thing is to bring malpractices to the barest minimum”. He emphasized that academics have significant role to which they must take with all seriousness. “We have to improve the integrity of our election in order to sustain our democracy challenging academics to play their role. “Universities, as pinnacles of education, research, training and advocacy need to constructively engage with the national quest for democratic development generally and in particular with desirability and necessity of entrenching electoral integrity in our political systems and processes. “Universities and academic communities ought to no longer remain aloof about political and governance issues bedeviling their host communities. They need to become more actively and constructively engaged with the politics of democratic representation and governance”. He urged the electorate to screen those who would represent them. Earlier, in his remarks, the Vice-Chancellor, UI, Prof. Idowu Olayinka described Jega as professor of practical politics who had helped improve the credibility of elections conducted by INEC. The Pro-Chancellor of the university, Nde Waklek Joshua Mutka said credible elections are indispensable in a democracy. As the governorship elections hold in Kogi and Bayelsa States on Saturday, the Pro-Chancellor urged the nation’s policy makers to provide solutions to electoral imbroglio and douse the tension in the country, stressing that the policy makers could borrow ideas from intellectuals. He added that universities have fundamental roles to play in bringing sanity to the nation’s electoral processes. The Pro-Chancellor said Jega has excellent record in the history of electoral administration and started the processes of making the nation’s electoral processes credible.