 Jose Mourinho made a dramatic entrance at his new home as Tottenham came from two goals down to beat Olympiakos and qualify for the Champions League knockout phase. Mourinho made a low-key entrance for his first game as manager at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium – but then it was drama all the way as he was subjected to all facets of the side he inherited from sacked Mauricio Pochettino. Spurs were dreadful at the back in the first half, going behind after only six minutes to Youssef El-Arabi’s low drive and conceding a second 13 minutes later when Ruben Semedo scored from close range at a corner. Mourinho acted quickly, sending on Christian Eriksen for Eric Dier, but it still took a horrendous error from Yassine Meriah to gift Dele Alli a goal in first-half stoppage time to throw Spurs a lifeline they accepted with relish. Harry Kane levelled from Lucas Moura’s cross five minutes after the break, Mourinho hugging an alert ball boy who helped Serge Aurier take a quick throw-in that caught Olympiakos flat-footed, and the recovery was complete 17 minutes from time when the defender powered home a finish at the far post from Alli’s cross. Mourinho fist-pumped furiously in delight and he was ecstatic again when Kane wrapped things up with a header from Eriksen’s inviting free-kick. There was no fanfare when Mourinho took his seat in the technical area before kick-off, although inevitably banks of photographers were there to welcome him. He had a distinctly uncomfortable start as this lively Olympiakos side exposed so many of the flaws that led to Pochettino’s sacking and Mourinho’s arrival as Spurs were run ragged early on. It was then that Mourinho made his impact with a positive – and necessary – substitution as he introduced the creativity of Eriksen for the stability of pivot Dier to try to edge Spurs back into the contest. This was not a cautious Mourinho but one who knew something had to change, even though only 26 minutes had gone. Manchester City secured top spot and safe passage to the last 16 from the UEFA Champions League Group C despite an under-par performance in a 1-1 draw with Shakhtar Donetsk at the Etihad. The draw, paired with Atalanta’s win over Dinamo Zagreb at the San Siro, means City have the option to play a weakened side in their final group game in Zagreb in a fortnight. Shakhtar should have led after 15 minutes as Tete’s goal-bound shot from an acute angle was deflected off the line by Fernandinho, and Ilkay Gundogan made the visitors pay after the break with a close-range finish after good work from Gabriel Jesus (56). But Shakhtar levelled with a rare second-half attack as Manor Solomon, who had only been on the pitch four minutes, finished a fine move from ten yards .