 THE House of Representatives on Thursday backed All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s efforts to reposition the party. Speaker Femi Gbajabiamilla, who met with APC National Working Committee (NWC), said he had directed the House legal department to appeal a Federal High Court ruling stopping the National Assembly from taking over the Edo State House of Assembly’s functions. Addressing Oshiomhole, the Speaker said: “You are not alone in this battle for democracy; that is what it is; it is not a personal thing. “On the issue of Edo State, I have instructed the legal department to file an appeal. “This National Assembly will protect the party, protect the institution of the legislature because we believe objectively that the provisions of the constitution are written in black and white and in English.” He disclosed that he was sponsoring a bill that would prevent courts from stopping any arm of government from performing its constitutional duties. He said: “There is a bill that I am sponsoring, which seeks to stop a court or an arm of government from stopping another arm from doing what is constitutionally expected to do.” He said the courts can declare a legislative action unconstitutional but should not stop the process. Gbajabiamila said there was an attempt to stop the amendment of the Deep Offshore And Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract Act, 2004 “Some of those companies got to some members, not even APC members, but we were able to put our foot down and understand that this is a majority party, this is what our government wants and we did what we needed to do. “I will be unfair if I do not say a good majority of PDP members also worked with us on this,” he said. The Speaker said there were signs that the 2023 general elections would be good for the party. He, however, said the House was not comfortable with a one-party system. The Speaker said members look forward to the budget cycle because it is time for them to work, adding that this is the first time that members worked on the budget round the clock. Oshiomhole said the party was impressed that members of the APC caucus and other lawmakers resisted the attempt by the International Oil Companies to kill the Deep Onshore Act amendment. He said: “Our mission here is to first appreciate the leadership you have provided for the house. In particular, we are very excited by the way you handled the amendment to the Deep Off-Shore Act which we block the leakages and the huge haemorrhage we have suffered as a country because of the loopholes in the old Act. “We are aware that previous assemblies and your predecessors have attempted amending the Act, but the power of the IOCs and their capacity to undermine national interest were able to suppress the National Assembly such that the law had remained what it was. “I think it is to your credit and members of the ninth assembly that you all decided in unionism to put the country first before any other settlement, including making huge sacrifices. “Some of us know what it takes to resist the ‘oily guys’. They can oil a place that the man with the firmest canvass can slip if you are not strong enough. “In this country, when people do something positive, oftentimes, it is taken for granted. But if you do one negative thing, it is blown out of proportion. “Otherwise, I think you deserve banner headlines for your courage and patriotism that the House of Representatives under your leadership provided even across the party divide, united by a sense of united purpose.” Oshiomhole also praised the lawmakers for their role in approving the budget. He said: “The other is to appreciate the clear difference when you received the budget. We had no difficulty in differentiating the way the President was received compared to this time a year ago. “That shows the qualitative difference in leadership and a renewed determination by APC caucus to do its part to ensure that the Executive and the legislature work in harmony for the good of the country so that the party can be proud whenever we are putting people up for election or re-election.” Oshiomhole thanked the lawmaking for their support. “We also want to salute you for standing by the party. We see your comments and commitment as well as standing by the party on critical issues, aligning yourself with the position of the party and we are very grateful. “We want to appreciate the outstanding contribution by members of the APC caucus in the National Assembly, particularly the House of Representatives,” he added.