From Bisi Olaniyi, Port Harcourt  Senator Magnus Abe  has said that he is committed to non-violence in politics. Abe, who represented Rivers South in the 8th Assembly, also said truth would always prevail over lies and deceit, no matter the manner in which it was presented. Abe spoke at the presentation of an award of excellence, non-violence, human capacity development and apostle of internal democracy in Nigeria to him by All Indian Universities Alumni Association at the Indian High Commission in Lagos, Nigeria. The occasion, which was held to commemorate the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Ghandi, likened Ghandi’s principle of non-violence to the Nigerian experience. The senator described the occasion as a fitting tribute to the late environmentalist and human rights activist, Ken Saro-Wiwa, who imbibed and practised Ghandi’s principle of non-violence, as it coincided with the 24th anniversary of the death of the renowned environmentalist and eight other Ogoni martyrs. He said: “We were honoured by the All Indian Universities Alumni Association for our commitment to the principles of non-violence in politics.  “It was quite humbling to see that the world took notice of our determined commitment to non-violence. “We have clung to nothing, but the truth and refused to employ violence through what has been the most turbulent period in the political history of Rivers State, a violent circle of elections and reruns, in spite of coordinated acts of violence and murder targeted at us and our supporters. “Again, in the internal crisis within the  APC, Rivers State, despite several acts of sponsored violence against us, we fought our battles without arming youths or sponsoring any act of violence against anyone, friend or foe. “Ghandi got it right, Martin Luther king got it right, Ken Saro-Wiwa got it right. The truth will always triumph over better-armed lies and deceit. We are getting it right and we will win.” Abe, according  to his spokesperson, Parry Benson, also condoled with the people of Rivers State on the death of an ex-Minister of Petroleum Resources, Prof. Tam David-West, a former Commissioner for Education in the old Rivers State. He described the death on Monday morning at the University College Hospital (UCH) in Ibadan, Oyo State at 83, as a great loss to the people of Rivers state and Nigeria. The senator said: “Prof. Tam David-West was a man of integrity and decorum. One whose love for truth and justice as a leader deserves to be emulated. “Indeed, we shall all miss him. His voice was always loud in defense of truth and justice, but he is now forever still. We pray that the good Lord will give his family the strength to bear the loss and grant him eternal rest.” 