As part of activities to mark this year’s World AIDS Day, the Lagos State Government has lined up series of activities towards curtailing the virus by 2020, reports Ganiu Olaitan  Despite various interventions over the years to reduce the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Lagos State, the state is still ranked seventh among states with highest prevalence. The United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) estimated that six states in Nigeria account for 41 per cent of people living with the virus, including Lagos, Kaduna, Akwa Ibom, Benue, Oyo, and Kano. But the tide may change soon. While formally disseminating the Nigeria 2018 HIV/AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey (NAIIS) result disaggregated by local government in Lagos, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the result is important considering that Lagos has been identified by UNAIDS as one of the 15 priorities places accounting for about 3 million people living with HIV globally. He also inaugurated the Lagos State HIV Consortium Group, which will serve as a platform for all stakeholders to collaborate and coordinate, sustain and improve response to achieving the 90:90:90 target for the state. The NAIIS, one of the world’s largest household-based surveys that assessed the prevalence of HIV and related health indicators, included data on national, zonal, and state information on the control of the virus in Nigeria. According to the survey, data collection in Lagos was done from July through September 2018. Data were collected from household members aged 0-64 years. Home-based HIV counseling and testing services were provided to people who participated in the survey, while participants that tested positive were linked to treatment services. The key findings of the survey revealed that the prevalence of HIV among adults age 15-64 years was 1.4 per cent; 1.9 among females; 0.8 among males; while the prevalence of HIV among children age 0-14 years was 0.2 per cent, 0.2 per cent among females and 0.3 per cent among males. Eti-Osa Local Government Area has the highest HIV prevalence in the state, which is 3.3 per cent. The prevalence was among persons aged 15-64 years in the local government. It was followed by Ikeja, Ojo, Epe, Ajeromi Ifelodun, Oshodi-Isolo, and Apapa. Alimosho has the lowest HIV prevalence, including Lagos Mainland, Agege, Shomolu, Surulere, and LGAs stand in the middle. According to him, although the current prevalence rate shows a reduction, which is 1.4, it is still a source of worry considering the actual number of people within the bracket. “There is a need for us to step up our efforts to achieve further reduction in the prevalence rate through aggressive public enlightenment campaign, which must be taking to nooks and crannies of the state and solve all these issues within the shortest possible time. The governor also reiterated that the state government is committed to achieving this goal as part of its health and environment pillar under the one-health agenda. He said that the strategy is to be multi-sectorial and focused on scaling up our community response, maintain and sustain support programme, reaching out to people with prevention, care and support as well as treatment, promoting human right and dealing with gender issues. “The keynote of Lagos State government, therefore, is for the reduction in the number of new HIV infections and this is being coordinated by LSACA, utilising a multi-sectorial approach for the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS. This goal is in line with the UNAIDS 90:90:90 initiative,” he said. The  Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, in his goodwill message, said people should not get frightened about getting diagnosed with HIV as it is no longer a death sentence. He said it is important to go on treatment, adhere to medication, and continue with their life. “Today is not a ceremony to highlight our successes in Lagos. We should remember the number of people that have died during a period we did not understand the disease; no medication throughout the world. We should sympathise with the family of those who have lost their lives through HIV/AIDS.” According to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Lagos State Aids Control Agency (LSACA), Dr. (Mrs) Monsurat Adeleke, about 120 thousand people are still living with HIV/AIDS in Lagos State. So far this year, the state, in collaboration with implementing partners and other stakeholders, has provided HIV testing services to 101,123 people in the communities (non-health sector) and 408,817 clients in the facilities (health sector) with over 78,080 clients currently on treatment. Still not ready to relent, she said the state government is determined to meet United Nations 90-90-90 target come 2020. The UNAIDS 90-90-90 initiative expects at least 90 per cent of all people living with HIV to know their status by 2020; 90 per cent of all people with diagnosed HIV infection will be receiving sustained antiretroviral therapy and 90 per cent of all people receiving antiretroviral therapy will have viral suppression.  Communities as key actors  For this year’s World AIDS Day, focus was on important roles that communities have played and continue to play in the AIDS response at the international, national and local levels. UNAIDS identified that communities contribute to the AIDS response in many different ways, stressing that their leadership and advocacy ensure that the response remains relevant and grounded, keeping people at the centre and leaving no one behind. In line with the global trend, the state government has begun a week-long free HIV testing services as part of activities to mark this year’s World AIDS Day. Tagged: Know Your HIV Status, the programme has begun on November 25 and will run through December 1. Dr. Adeleke said her agency has continually designed various interventions and embraced collaborations and engagements with groups and communities – all targeted at reducing the prevalence in the state. She said when the first 90 per cent of these people know their status, then the problem is half solved. “We will ensure we serve them with treatment to achieve viral suppression. We can’t do this alone without deep sense of community engagement. One of the key recommendations to attain this goal is continuous community engagement. All citizens of the state know their status and ensure that they enroll into care. We are scaling up the HIV testing service in the 57 LGs and LCDAs.  “The main goal of the campaign is to drag the state continually towards achieving the first 90 percent because we can achieve the first 90 percent  by everybody knowing their status through the campaign called, Know Your HIV status’ and it will showcase Lagos State as a trailblazer in leading for global response in the communities participation. Communities play a role because those infected and affected are living in the communities and community is seen as bedrock of every society. So we want community to have access to HIV intervention and prevention. Communities include peer educators, networks of people living with or affected by HIV, such as gay men and other men who have sex with men, people who inject drugs and sex workers, women and young people, counsellors, community health workers, door-to-door service providers, civil society organisations and grass-roots activists,” she said. For the week-long events, LSACA said free HIV/AIDS tests will be carried out across the local government and local council development areas of the state. The agency boss said a minimum of 1,000 persons will be reached in each of the 20 local government areas of the state especially the hard-to-reach communities in order to complement the routine HIV testing services at the various facilities and increase uptake. At least, 20,000 people will be screened at the end of the exercise, Dr Adeleke said.  Increased funding for LSACA, health sector  When Governor Sanwo-Olu, earlier this month, presented the 2020 budget of N1.168 trillion to the House of Assembly, it was clear where the priority of administration lies. A capital expenditure of N33 billion is provided for health as against N21 billion in the current budget. “We have provided for a capital expenditure of N33 billion, compared to the 2019 budget proposal of N21 billion,” Sanwo-Olu said. The budget, which the governor tagged, ‘Budget of Awakening,’ voted N723.75 billion (62 per cent) for capital projects and N444.81 billion (38 per cent) for recurrent expenditure.” From the year 2017, the state government has increased the budgetary allocation by about 400 percent and for the year 2020, it is steady increasing again, over 280 percent to LSACA. However, in recent past, there has been a significant drop in partner support. With a steady increment of budgetary allocation to the agency, the state government has shown a strong commitment to the HIV/AIDs response. This year, Lagos has screened over 40,000 people that patronised the Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA) and HIV positive people have been duly placed to the state general hospitals for treatment. Over a million male condoms and 200,000 female condoms have been distributed this year. However, despite these advantages, many still shy away from knowing their status because of the fear of stigmatisation, which attracts a two to three year jail term in the state.  A match against HIV/AIDS  One other innovative strategy by the state government was a football match. It was a novelty football match between AYC Adolescent and Network at the Campos stadium, Lagos. The  match ended 3 – 4 in favour of theNetwork team.  Participants said it was as a technical way of enhancing publicity and enlightenment campaign against HIV/AIDS. “We are saying that positive persons can live a normal life provided he/she adheres strictly to the medication. With football, we are one people, one nation. Why we are using the football to start is because football is a sport that unites people and we are one people in respective of status. HIV can happen to anyone and is no more a death sentence. If you are tested positive, immediately you know your status, just commence your treatment and you will be free to live a healthy lifestyle,” Dr. Adeleke said. Project Director, Faith-based Action for Scaling up Testing and Treatent for the Epidemic Response (FASTER), Dr. Emeka Anoje, commended the state government for its commitment and determination in fighting against HIV. Anoje stated that the health of children and adolescents in our communities matters. She also implored all stakeholders to join hands in finding and caring for children and adolescents living with HIV and eliminating new HIV infections among children and young people.