Charles Okonji  There is a likelihood of import surge into the country, especially manufactured goods, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has said. According to MAN, a three-phase liberalisation tariff rates will generate a higher surge of imported manufactured goods to the tune of 251.4 percent during a 15-year period. The Chairman of Apapa Branch of MAN, Engr. Frank Onyebu dropped this hint at the 10th Business luncheon tagged “Repositioning the Nigerian Manufacturing Sector to cope with Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCFT).” Onyebu, who was represented by the Vice Chairman of the branch, Apostle Raphael Damilola said, “A recent research carried out by Centre for Trade and Development Initiative of University of Ibadan said a three-phase liberalisation tariff rates from 5 per cent, 10 per cent and 20 per cent to zero will likely generate a higher surge of imported manufactured goods to the tune of 159.5 per cent, 183 per cent and 251.4 per cent on the average’ during a 15-year period.” Pressed further, he said, Nigeria, being one of the least in terms of import penetration from African countries, makes the country an export target for many African countries under AfCFTA. Citing the outcome of a report, he said import is expected to surge in all the manufacturing sectoral groups and by extension the 77 subsectors in the third phase of the liberalisation. “I daresay this is really frightening and a food for thought for Nigerian manufacturers going forward.” Also speaking at the luncheon, Lagos State governor, Mr, Babatunde Sanwo Olu noted that AFCFTA is entrenched with the opportunities of creating a unique continental market for goods and services, tapping into regional export destination by the small and medium sized enterprises, create employment for Africa’s bulging youth population and expedite the regional and continental integration process. The governor who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Dr. Bola Balogun, assured that the state will continue to improve the social and economic environment.