Minister of State for Petroleum  Resources Chief Timipre Sylva has advised graduating students of the Petroleum Training Institute (PTI)  to be focused and use their acquired skills to build the petroleum industry . He gave the advice during this convocation of the institute in Effurun, Delta State, where 1,122 graduatess received diplomas and certificates. Of the number, 543 were awarded National Diplomas, 575 received the Higher National Diploma (HND) and four got the PTI General Welding Certificate.  Fifty-five students graduated with Distinction, and 342 students with Upper Credit grades. Sylva, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Kamoru Busari, said PTI as the hub for training and retraining of personnel for the petroleum industry, not only in Nigeria but Africa, should create a synergy among the institute, relevant  institutions and agencies in the sector, to make a lasting impact in the oil and gas industry.  “I therefore call on the PTI to collaborate with other institutions in areas of Research and Training. The Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF), the Nigerian Content Development and Management Board(NCDMB), NNPC and the IOC’s are hereby encouraged to collaborate with the PTI to offer scholarships and research grants to deserving students and  graduands, as well as finance special projects and patronise the Institute in building your employees capacity,’’ he said. Sylva said the institute had remained in the fore-front of providing quality training, and thus, delivering the technological needs of the industry, which are important to the Federal Government. He said the journey of developing local and modern technology to drive our oil and energy industry had begun. The Principal/Chief Executive, Prof. Sunny Esayegbemu Iyuke, listed his achievements in the outgoing year as the construction of 300-sitting capacity lecture theatre, power generation and electrification of Research Centre at Osubi and main campus, acquisition of water front and construction of jetty with training swimming pool at the institute’s Offshore Technology Centre Aladja; shoreline extension and construction of warehouse and lecture rooms at PTI Offshore Technology Centre,  Aladja. He listed the institute’s challenges as renewal of its software application licences for some of our sophisticated laboratory and workshop equipment, printing press has been operating below capacity as a result of non-arrival of printing machines acquired by Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF)  for the upgrade of the Printing press, funds to  proceed to the next stage of development and equipment procurement of its modular refinery. The institute’s Chairman Mr Ahmed Shakur added that the repositioning of the institute by the Federal Government was yielding results.  