From Emma Elekwa, Onitsha A Professor of Mathematics from the Obafemi Awolowo University, OAU, Ile Ife, Samuel Segun Okoya, has hinged attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 4, which is ‘Quality Education’ by 2030 in Nigeria on effective passage of knowledge and its correct application by the society. Okoya stated this in his paper titled, “Implications of helping students understand lectures in Advanced Mathematical Physics” at the 30th Annual Colloquium and Congress of Nigeria Association of Mathematical Physics, NAMP, held at the Igbinedion University, Okada. Okoya, who is the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Nigerian Mathematics Society (NMS), described impartation of knowledge as an essential act of service to the nation at this time that the country is approaching 60 years of Independence. “As a child in elementary school, you recite the multiplication table and it stucks in the memory with the force of a magnet.  “We can reliably turn to this, many years later in times of questions/tests in multiplication. We simply recall the multiplication table from our subconscious without hesitation and follow up with other mathematical signs of addition, division, square, square root etc. “This re-establishes the old age truth, ‘practice makes perfection and perfection involves the investment of time’. But this preferred attitude to studying mathematics is being threatened in today’s world filled with TV, social media, and the likes. He therefore emphasised the need for improved teaching strategies among university and college teachers, and more attention to students learning processes, in order to ensure effective impartation of knowledge. “Teachers/lecturers, as well as students, have a part to play to ensure that the rigour of continuous practice is sustained, so that students can respond to mathematical physics’ questions with instinct.” Okoya further recommended the internalisation and standardisation of school curriculums, to accommodate the purpose of exchange programs with other universities. “These are specific and deliberate steps to achieve especially goal 4 of the SDGs, Quality Education,” he said. 