Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  African Democratic Congress (ADC), Labour Party (LP) and 78 other political parties that participated in the last general elections in Ogun State have expressed satisfaction with Governor Dapo Abiodun’s style of governance. The 80 political parties also passed a vote of confidence on Abiodun, saying the destiny of the Gateway State is in “safe” “capable, prudent and capable hands,” having proven himself to be a competent manager of the state’s resources. The parties made this known on Wednesday when the team led by the Chairman of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC; comprising 81 political parties in Ogun State) Com. Abayomi Arabambi, visited the Governor at his Oke – Mosan Governor’s Office, Abeokuta, and also expressed their readiness to work with the government to take the State to the next level. Arabambi said all the political parties that contested the March 9 governorship election in the State, except “the only one that is in the Court of Appeal” have examined the activities of Abiodun and concluded that he had correctly identified the issues that brought failure to the state in recent years and had also put measures in place to sort them out. He said: “We found out that you have extensively identified policies and programmes that brought us failure as a State and set up various interventions using the instrumentalities of the law to pursue the aspirations of the people of Ogun State. “These various remarkable interventions have highly impacted on the performance of your government in key sectors like education, health, housing, security, agriculture, financial discipline and other core government businesses. “You have consistently and strongly justified your rating as a big name in the business of managing men and resources. In a short space of time, you have remained committed to all matters of development in the State. “It is now clear that the destiny of our great State is in the hands of a capable, prudent and competent manager of resources. Your government shall not just make a difference, but shall be different.” Comrade Arabambi who doubles as the state chairman of the Labour Party(LP), called for the establishment of a joint Government/IPAC platform for an inclusive partnership that would include major stakeholders in the State. Also speaking, former Political Adviser to President Olusegun Obasanjo, Dr. Gbolade Osinowo said the Governor has written his name in gold by deliberately promoting inclusive governance that embraces all political divides. Osinowo who is the chairman of ADC in the State, added that Abiodun has continued to demonstrate that he is not a “lone ranger who claims to know it all.” The foremost politician noted that the Governor is desirous of tapping from the experiences of the people irrespective of their political leanings to run his government, assuring that IPAC is able, ready and willing to contribute its quota to move Ogun State forward. Responding, Governor Abiodun said democracy thrives better when it is “participatory, inclusive and anchored on the principles of rule of law.” He lauded the leaders of the 80 political parties in the state for being truthful in their assessment and for sharing his vision not minding “what happened before or immediately after the elections.”