Registered pharmacists in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have rendered service to humanity by voluntarily destroying expired drugs worth N2 billion off their shelves. GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports It is no longer news that millions of Nigerians have fallen victim to expired drugs repackaged by unscrupulous individuals and sold to unsuspecting members of the public. The motive behind the callous deed is nothing but the quest for quick and fat profit. In some instances, the loss arising from disposing of expired drugs becomes too much for the owners of such drugs to bear. So, to avoid such unpalatable experience, some pharmacists may find ways and means of getting the expired drugs off their shelves. In such situation, the consuming public are forced to pay the price, financially and otherwise. However, the Abuja chapter of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN) chose to tread the honourable but painful path. On Tuesday, members of the chapter voluntarily brought out expired drugs from their shelves and destroyed them content and package. According to the pharmacists, the drugs were worth about N2 billion. Members willingly handed over the expired drugs to the leadership of the association for destruction, to avoid consumption by members of the public. Chairman of ACPN, FCT chapter, Wuyep Nankap, who spoke to The Nation at the burning site in the Kuje Area Council, said the move was meant to save lives. Nankap expressed dissatisfaction with the activities of some unregistered pharmacists who are in the habit of recycling fake and expired drugs for the consumption of the general public. He said the burning of the drugs is an annual event which is expected to be carried out across the 36 states of the federation. The ACPN FCT boss advised members of the public to as much as possible avoid indiscriminate use of drugs without proper prescription by certified pharmacists. He called on government to further assist members of the association by supporting them financially to keep them in business and to help cushion the effects of their losses. Nankap urged members not to relent in keeping Nigerians safe through the consumption of quality drugs. Our members are sincere and we will remain committed. “These expired and fake drugs we are burning today are worth over N2 billion. It is not easy for our members to willingly bring out these drugs for destruction. It shows their commitment to save lives. Government should assist us financially because we have lost so much. “The Kuje Area Council officials are the once that provided this venue for the destruction of these drugs. We have vowed to make sure that all the drugs are burnt before we depart this arena to avoid scavengers taking advantage of the situation.” Also speaking at the event, the National Secretary of ACPN, Sunday Chukwujieku, applauded the FCT chapter of the association for taking a bold step by destroying fake and expired drugs worth over N2 billion. He also called on Nigerians to apply caution before consuming drugs. Investigation has revealed that expired and substandard drugs may contain toxic doses of dangerous ingredients that could cause mass poisoning. Poor-quality medicines compromise the treatment of chronic and infectious diseases, causing disease progression, drug resistance, and death. Drug products have often been counterfeited, and the consequences are well understood to have affected the credibility of public health systems around the globe, as they often are ineffective, promoting drug resistance, severe illness and even death. Drug manufacturing takes substantial working capital and trained staff to ensure quality products. Cutting corners lowers expenses but increases risks for consumers. Product counterfeiting is a global public menace that cuts across all segments of production. The incidence dates back to the ages and is motivated by the huge profit to be made. Of great concern is the counterfeiting/faking of drug products used in diagnosis, preventive, and curative medicine. Lately, Nigeria has witnessed increased cases relabelling and revalidating of expired drugs and the attendant consequences on the health of unsuspecting consumers. The Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) and National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) have not relented in their effort to apprehend perpetrators of the harmful practice and confiscation of the fake products. But the merchants of death have continued to devise crooked ways of getting their harmful products to the market. It is scary to bring to note that while concerned agencies are making efforts to thwart activities of peddlers of expired products, some relabelled expired food and drugs still make their way to the markets without the agencies’ knowledge. Only the perpetrators nabbed in these nefarious acts made the news. So the big question is: How do consumers identify and recognise relabelled or revalued food and drugs? Experts say that expiry dates and best-before dates are dates which are interchangeably being used by manufacturers to convey a date when a product is at its peak performance or no longer fit for consumption. Technically, there is a slight difference. Expiry dates show the last day that is expected for a product to be used or consumed, while best-before date indicates that as from that date, the product’s freshness along with its quality are no longer guaranteed. Expiry date of a product is safety-based, while the best-before date is quality driven. Both are however important no matter which terminology or wording is used by the manufacturer’s label on the product. 