Female Nigerian singer, Maj has reacted to the claims by her celebrity colleagues; Naira Marley and Etinosa Idemudia that having big butts is better than acquiring Masters Degree in Nigeria. Maj, who recently dropped the video of her latest single, ‘Remember’, said that education is power and key to success and not physical attributes. “Women and girls should keep moving towards educational excellence! Keep moving higher! Keep pushing for equality. Let no one tell you it’s not worth it. Physical beauty, a nice body will surely fade if your are lucky enough to get old, but knowledge can never be taken away,’ she said. In addition, Maj who is signed to K20 Entertainment had broken the internet with her ‘Light Skin Girl’ cover, clearly stated that she is not ready to join the baby mama trend which is gradually becoming a norm in the entertainment circle. She says, ”I’m my own train. No need to have a baby to be a part of another people train. I want children when the time is right and the relationship is right. But until then, my artistry is my baby.” Few days ago, Maj portrayed a different side of hers when she wooed her fans with new sexy pictures. Wondering what inspired such a daring shoot? She says, “I believe that all women are beautiful. I mean; birth, love and forgiveness and humanity. And I wanted to celebrate that in it’s rawest form. It wasn’t so much about sexuality to me. It was about celebrating the natural essence of femininity. And I feel we did it in a tasteful, respectful way. I’m very happy with how it turned our. ”The responses were mixed, while some had issues with me posing the way I did, others loved the creativity behind the shoot.” Comparing Tiwa Savage and Yemi Alade, Maj said that the two singers are like soccer superstars, Ronaldo and Lionel Messi. “I think Yemi Alade is bigger career wise because she has covered more ground than Tiwa but yet again, it is about time we retire this whole discussion about them always having issues. They are like Ronaldo and Lionel Messi, they understand the game and are keen on being the best at all time which to me is worthy of celebrating. Both of them are a source of inspiration to us all and have continued to make Nigeria proud. These are two grown women who even if they have issues, know just how best to resolve it,” she said.