The Rector of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, Commodore Emmanuel Effedua, has reassured the nation’s maritime community of the institution’s commitment towards gender balance. Delivering a goodwill message in Lagos at the 2019 Annual Lecture and Investiture Ceremony of the Certified Institute of Shipping of Nigeria (CISN), Effedua said the academy aligns with various bodies and events aimed at fostering maritime education for females. The Rector who was represented by the Acting Director, School of Maritime Transport Studies, Gabriel Eto, reiterated that at MAN, recognition for gender balance ranks high, saying that is one reason the school has been supporting and encouraging female enrolment into the academy. He explained that to underscore the importance of women in Maritime, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) centered this year’s World Maritime Day celebration’s theme to “Empowering Women in the Maritime Community,” an initiative aimed at encouraging training , recruitment and placement at workplace to take cognizance of the talents and relevance  of women. “Women must be given opportunity to excel in the Maritime industry in order to foster accelerated growth. Women achievers abound in the maritime industry and they are celebrated. So, allot of sensitisation about women’s accomplishments and advocacy about women capabilities and innate abilities need to be done to achieve gender parity in the workplace. Women need mentorship and sponsorship to make it to the top in their career pursuit,” he said.  Effedua praised the mentorship and sponsorship of women in the maritime industry by notable organisations like Women International Shipping and Trading Association (WISTA) as credible platform for promotion of women cause. While condemning gender discrimination, the Rector said such practice denies organisations the advantages of workplace diversity saying a workplace policy that promotes gender balance will encourage knowledge, talent, expertise and intelligence in the work environment. Also speaking at the event, Rector of CISN, Prof. Alex Favour Okwuashi , disclosed that the institute will continue to strive in the contribution of qualified manpower to boost Nigeria’s human capital base in the maritime, oil and general transportation sectors. He also urged scholars in the industry and alumnus of the institute to devote themselves to research, studies and investigations that will proffer solutions to various transport related challenges facing the country.