 Babcock University (BU), Ilishan-Remo Ogun State graduate of Law, Mayowa Mubashir Abiru, has emerged Nigeria’s overall best at the 2019 Law School Bar Exams. Abiru, who made a Second Class Upper from Babcock University, is one of the 10 BU alumni with a First Class grade at the Bar exams. Also, Babcock University ranked third among universities that produced the highest number of students with First Class at the Law School Bar Exams this year. Abiru went home with 11 awards, including Council of Legal Education Star Prize, Most Promising Graduate Student of the Year, Prize for First Class, Overall Best Student, Overall Best Male Student, Student of the Year, Overall Best in Corporate Law, Best Student of the Year, and 3rd Prize in Ethics Skills. Babcock University President/Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ademola S. Tayo, yesterday congratulated the students and their faculty for the feat, noting that the university would continue to strive for excellence in all aspects of its programmes. “It is for this reason that the university was founded,” he said, “to be an academic entity of excellence, offering value in cutting-edge and functional education to her students.” Dean of the Babcock School of Law and Security Studies, Prof. Deji Olanrewaju, who was also in Abuja for yesterday’s call to bar ceremony, said: “Babcock remains committed to the Adventist philosophy of holistic education and transformational leadership.” This is not the first time Babcock will be breaking records for academic excellence beyond its campus. Moyosore Eigbefor, Babcock University’s Accounting graduate, emerged 2018 Overall Best Student in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria examinations (London, Canada and Nigeria centres). Two other alumni, Gilbert Benson Oladeinbo won the 2019 Kerry Harike Joe Decke Memorial Award for Outstanding Moot Court Board Member at the University of Georgia School of Law. Ngozi Ukweni, a 2015 First Class graduate of Accounting of the university and a chartered accountant with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), was listed as 2019 Forbes Under 30 Scholar.  