 Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the February 23,  polls in Delta South, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, has said a “pre-election matter” caused his loss at the Appeal Court. In a reaction he signed personally, Uduaghan said he had accepted the outcome of the Appeal Court ruling and congratulated Senator James Manager on his victory. He explained that the appeal panel based their judgment on a pre-election matter, which was introduced at the appellate court and was not addressed at the tribunal level. Uduaghan said: “The loss at the Appeal Court today was as a result of a pre-election matter that the court entertained. “This was a matter that was not addressed at the lower tribunal, which ought to be the first place that any prayer whatsoever relating to election matters should have been introduced. Well, the judiciary has had their say and I have accepted the outcome in good faith. “I must put on record that it was a period of experiencing the ‘enemy within’ at another level.” In a swift reaction to the judgment, earlier Monday, the ex-governor had warned about “home enemies,” describing them as “the most dangerous in any struggle”, just as he expressed gratitude to all those who “were in the trenches with” him. However, he urged his supporters across the senatorial district not to lose hope, but rather value the experience learnt throughout the period. The Court of Appeal had on Monday dismissed the former governor’s petition challenging the election victory of Senator Manager and set aside the ruling of the Delta Election Petition Tribunal, which had earlier nullified the election in the district and ordered a rerun. The former governor, while recalling the electoral campaigns of 2014, noted that his biggest win was the atmosphere of peace among the different ethnic nationalities in the senatorial district during the polls. According to the statement: “It is no longer news that the outcome of today’s Appeal Court judgment did not go in my favour as the judgment of the Election Petitions Tribunal in Asaba was set aside by the Appellate Court sitting in Benin City. “I want to first appreciate everyone who was in the trenches with me throughout this journey. Please, do not despair. There is no winning or losing, but rather the value is in the experience of imagining yourself as a character in whatever genre you’re involved in, whether it is politics or any other endeavour. “I cherish the input of everyone -family, friends, political party, supporters and the good people of Delta South Senatorial District. “I am happy that throughout the elections and the tribunals our peaceful process as a Senatorial District was tested. Recall I withdrew from the race in 2014 as a result of the threat to peace. “In 2019, however, an Itsekiri man could campaign freely in Ijaw area and an Ijaw man could campaign freely in Itsekiri area. Itsekiri voted for Ijaw, and Ijaw voted for Itsekiri. There was no case of violence anywhere. For me, this is a big victory for peace in our senatorial district.“