Our Reporter  Lagos State Government has said that it would increase patronage of local boat manufacturers with the capacity to adhere to international standard best practices in its efforts to boost water transportation in the state. Mr Abdoulbaq Ladi-Balogun, Managing Director, Lagos State Ferry Services (LAGFERRY), said this in a statement following his facility tour of two major boat factories; V-Craft and Sierra Craft, located in Lagos. He said that the government would increase its patronage of local boat makers to actualise its objective of promoting water transportation as one of the best possible alternatives and to reduce daily traffic congestion on roads to the barest minimum. According to him, the present administration is committed to efficient water transportation system and has instructed LAGFERRY to identify and patronise local manufacturers with the capacity to adhere to international standard best practices. “We want to build the ecosystem and ensure everybody is carried along in achieving the multimodal transportation initiative of the present administration to decongest the roads, so any manufacturer that has the capacity, we will patronise. “We want to encourage local investors, particularly those that have an interest in water transportation and purchase the boats that are not just made in Nigeria but made in Lagos,” he said. Ladi-Balogun said that the state government would launch its commercial ferry service in few weeks, assuring residents of new experience in water transportation driven by the latest technology. He stressed that the service would ensure safety, reliability, fast, affordable, and efficiency in its operations. Also, Mr Olusegun Jaji, Managing Director, Sierra Craft, commended government for its interest in developing inland water transportation, especially its assurance to patronise local manufacturers. He assured that his company was capable of producing and delivering world class boats capable of meeting the international standard required by the state government. Jaji emphasised that his company and other manufacturers were ready to support government’s efforts at promoting water transportation to decongest the road traffic