On Tuesday, the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) sat down with representatives of up to 40 private sector firms in Lagos to discuss the possibility of getting educational products and services that would lower their cost. The association believes that if both groups strike a partnership and they are able to get products and services at bargain prices, cost of private education would reduce. I believe the idea is simply brilliant – especially as the association also mentioned that the aim was to reduce the number of out-of-school children in the country by offering more scholarships to under-privileged children. This forward-thinking idea from one of the leaders of the association’s leaders, Chief Yomi Otubela (NAPPS National Deputy President) is the way I believe all members of the society should begin to think towards solving our problems.  If the partnership works, it would throw up more possibilities than we can ever think of.  I believe both schools and private sector firms like banks, telecoms companies, furniture providers, construction firms, legal, taxmen and the like would be able to reach fantastic agreements about loans, internet services, trainings, internships, field trips, new products and services. Such synergy would not only meet the needs of schools but promote innovation and improve the quality of education our children get as there would likely be increased private sector input in the curriculum. The scholarship offer for under-privileged children is also a good idea.  Many firms and individuals with means could key into this to sponsor people in their operating communities in NAPPS-partner schools. I really hope the idea sees the light of day and goes beyond the talk shop that happened at Eko Hotel.  Well done NAPPS – or should I say – we keep our fingers crossed.  ‘ If the partnership works, it would throw up more possibilities than we can ever think of.  I believe both schools and private sector firms like banks, telecoms companies, furniture providers, construction firms, legal, taxmen and the like would be able to reach fantastic agreements about loans, internet services, trainings, internships, field trips, new products and services ’ 