Authors provide that most essential mirror for reflecting the true image of the society for it to be able to gauge its own level of barbarism. Unfortunately, I have yet to see the author that has good news for the society. I am not taking stock, I assure you, but I must say that Postscript Unlimited has come a long, surprising way. I had intended to keep this column for only a short while, just to fill a time gap for my contact editor. The principal reason of course was that my schedule was already overloaded on account of my principal work. However, the column has persisted stubbornly, like these October rains! Two things account for this. One comes from the encouragement the column has been receiving from you, my esteemed readers. Oh, I cannot begin to evaluate just what that encouragement has meant to this writer. For one thing, it has pushed me almost to the frontiers of my humorous abilities. The second is that it has made me to bring out my computer to pen to you my thoughts on the goings-on in this country. Yep, it’s been a long journey, and still counting. Thanks to you, dear reader. There are two comments I have received from readers. You know how it is. You receive a compliment on your dress and you hope it will just stop there. Not on your life. ‘But does it have to be so tight? Are you sure you can walk?’ Anyway, I can’t remember if I have addressed these comments in the past or not but since we are on the subject, I might as well. Some have asked me what Postscript Unlimited could possibly stand for. Well, when I was looking for a name, I thought that everything had been said about the Nigerian story. So, I thought, after all is said and done, what is left unsaid and undone? Postscript Unlimited attempts to capture the rest that has been left unsaid and undone, what Nigerians live by. Gerrit? The second comment, while legitimate, leaves me helpless. I have been accused of using ‘big, big’ grammar in the write-ups and I said I am innocent. I have since learnt the important rule that communicative sentences need to, well, communicate. For this reason, I have attempted to limit the big, big grammar to a most tolerable minimum. All I can say is that you should pardon me please for the ones that escape my vigilant eyes. Don’t you just know, those difficult sentences are rogue sentences, that’s what. So now, to the business of the day. Honestly, one is reading so many strange things in the press these days. Imagine, I’m reading things like internet fraud becoming such a glorified profession that the mothers of the practitioners now have an association. Their reason? The young men are veritable sources of pride and wealth for their families and their mothers just have to celebrate them. When I read that one, I wondered what stopped the youngsters themselves from forming their own association, AIF: shyness, fear of renown or just plain old guilt? Today, we celebrate authors, the greatest thinkers of our age. You know who they are, don’t you? They are the people who write. They write anything from short to long to full length to impossible to read stories in drama, prose and poetry. Have you even seen a novel of two thousand plus pages? I haven’t; if I did, I would give out this review on it: ‘This author should be held for torturing people.’ Anyone who would consign their fellow human beings to reading two thousand pages in a book for no just cause does not deserve mercy. Tolstoy’s War and Peace was bad enough but two…! I’m sure I have told you this story before. That is why I will tell you again. One author was found frantically searching through his manuscripts. Mind, this happened in the days of typewriters. What are you searching for, asked his wife?  He muttered that he was searching for the ‘damned murderer’. Apparently, that one had escaped through the pages of the manuscript! Then there was another author who was being interviewed by the press. After he had sounded off about writing and authorship, he was then asked to name his favourite work out of the ones he had written. He answered: ‘How should I know? I have not read them!’ So you see, left to the society, many authors would be incarcerated but because we live in polite societies (if you remove the politicians, that is), most of us prefer not to indulge in that habit. If we did, who would provide for us the mirror by which the society can view itself? That’s right. Authors provide that most essential mirror for reflecting the true image of the society for it to be able to gauge its own level of barbarism. Unfortunately, I have yet to see the author that has good news for the society. Gone are the days of Austenism who only reflected the doings of the polite society of her day in great romances while the ugly, criminal side was left to authors like Sir Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes as he moved in the midst of that lot. We have thus moved through such romantic authors with blind sides to those who decided to tell the truth about the human condition as they saw it. These were the Eliotic perspectives where man was seen to have merged with his objects paving the way for his total nihilism. Now, in these post-modernist eras, we are wrestling with authors who are perceiving man through prisms of darkness and nothingness, if that is possible. To our authors, the machine age is leading man to the black hole. This is why many want authors stoned; they never have good news to say about us. They don’t know that we don’t want to know. Why do authors have this dark, dark turn of mind where they see nothing but tunnels with no end or light? I think it is mostly because they can interpret events better than most; so they reserve for themselves the right to jolt us out of our romantic existences into stark unreality. They are thus forever standing on their watch tower, warning, warning about the destructive habits of man. They can see 20, 000 leagues beneath the sea (ask Jules), billions of miles into the atmosphere (ask Sagan) and even right into the very soul of man (ask our philosophers). Rather than listen however, man prefers to poison, denigrate or ignore their authors. Just ask a Socrates, a Ken Tsaro Wiwa or an Osundare about that one. We really do not want to know. As I write this, it is authors’ day, and they will have their say, willy-nilly. Many authors say they are compelled to write. Something inside them tells them to tell these stories. The stories are for our benefit – to teach us, amuse us, entertain us. Many say that if they don’t write, the stories stay in their insides like ‘balls of fire’, and if they don’t tell the stories, their insides will explode. Today, I celebrate my favourite authors. They include Neil Boyd (and other humour merchants), Agatha Christie (and other mystery writers), Awoonor, Okara, etc. They are the ones who give me first the bad news, then the good news, dosing it with a good dash of razz and jazz, imagination and plenty of humour to mellow the bitter pill. They go something like this. ‘Once upon a time, there was a land called Nigeria. Her citizens were bad, very bad but it was because their leaders knew no better than to show the people the wrong way to live. Nevertheless, the people lived in the hope that one day, things would indeed change for the better. Then one day…’ Come on, be an author and finish that. Then maybe we will know what authors know.