Agbo Agbo 08116759750 •aagboa@gmail.com  One key sector where applying the wrong theory or theories has had far-reaching repercussion is education. In 1986, the Babangida led administration began the implementation of the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP). After an open public debate that was truncated midway, the administration came to the conclusion that there was “no alternative” to SAP. It was a bitter pill our economy needed to swallow in other to get well. After a decade of implementation, the World Bank, one of the initiators of the programme described it as “a wrenching change in economic policy.” When it was initiated, it was expected to be short-lived. Its adverse impact, if any, was “expected to be a temporary one.” Over time, however, it became clear that adjustment was going to take longer than anticipated. In a nutshell, the theory undergirding it include: rule of the market; cutting public expenditure for social services; removal of subsidies; staff rationalisation in government ministries, parastatals and agencies and other “conditionalities.” The downsizing also affected tertiary education. The justification for this was their claim that so much money was already expended on university education at the expense of the primary education. Decades later, they turned around that the wrong theory was implemented and not focusing on varsities – which are supposed to be the bulwark of creativity and innovation – was a mistake that pulled Nigeria and Africa back. We are still feeling the impact of this to date. It is instructive that the rhetoric of efficiency and improvement under which SAP was promoted hides the reality of educational retrenchment. The real motive was to phase out radical academic staff and students. In a nutshell it could be argued that SAP negatively affected tertiary education in Nigeria because it led to a drastic reduction in quality manpower. Their anchor was that Africans needed only vocational education. Unhappy with its theory and the generation of African intellectuals produced by the universities, the WB launched the Africa Capacity Building Initiative (ACBI) in 1991. This was to train African policy analyst and development managers. The initiative was however criticised by some African scholars who already believed that WB has never meant well for the future of African education. Their criticisms were based on an implicit belief that Africa lacked the cognitive skill to handle her affairs and needs to be guided and sustained by the WB. This recommendation is justified with the claim that no serious socioeconomic knowledge is being produced in Africa, or can be produced without the sustained intervention, direction and guidance provided by the foreign agencies. The authors of ACBI confirmed their impression of Africans intellectual deficiency when they wrote that Africa is blessed with a greater number of foreign “technical assistants” – from senior policy analysts, managers and business executive to technician and teachers – than any other region of the world. The purpose of ACBI was “to build, over the long term, a critical mass of professional policy analysts and economic managers who will be able to better manage the development process, and to ensure the more effective utilisation of already trained African analysts and managers.” Actually, in itself this project does not violate academic freedom, but the intended method of its implementation does. Besides disseminating the message of “Capacity Building” the ACBI tends to monopolise the distribution of fund going to African university system from all sources and to block the fund from any sources or institution that does not subscribed to the WB plan for African development. The fact of channeling every fund that comes to the African universities through the WB does not permit academic freedom. Also, not to allow institutional autonomy from state control of knowledge production and dissemination is a violation of academic freedom. Surely a state that premised its funding of a research program on the acceptability of certain state-sponsored conclusions, and forbids any supplementary funding from other sources would be considered a violator of academic freedom. The WB intention in creating ACBI did exactly that. The inability of the SAP to maintain internal balance had a two-pronged effect on educational spending. First, the insignificant attempt to reduce federal government deficit had a negative impact on public expenditure on education. Through this, the SAP became one of the major contributors to the crisis in our education sector. As a result, financing education reached a crisis point. The government was not to be able to make adequate provisions for capital development in the various educational institutions. Classroom accommodation, student’s hostels, staff quarters (where they exist at all) do not seem to be adequate. In the long run, the SAP did not transform the Nigeria economy or stimulate industrialisation as was widely speculated. Numerous economic problems remained intractable. For instance; there was apparent lack of commitment to adjustment and national development by the government. During the course of implementation, many distortions surfaced while others defied solutions. Of particular significance were the problems of continuing depreciation of the Naira, high and volatile interest rates, slow growth and near paralysis of the real sector, sky-rocketing inflation, unsustainable fiscal deficit profile, heavy external debt overhang, increasing unemployment, emergence of social movements and militia groups among others. It was not only the education sector that felt the impact of subsidy removal; the agricultural sector did as well. Government banned importation of rice, maize, wheat and vegetable oil to boost local production. But in a strange twist, it also phased out food subsidy which reduced productivity and profitability of farmers. This led to loss of farm holdings. This also applied in the real sector. By the late 1970s, Nigeria had over 15000 public enterprises which generated over 65 per cent employment. As a policy measure, SAP adoption meant the “rationalisation” of these Public enterprises through privatisation. Between 1988 and 1999 for instance, over 55 public enterprises were privatised. This scenario led to massive sack of workers. The adoption of the SAP in Nigeria thus worsened unemployment in the country. Through the staff rationalisation of government ministries, parastatals and agencies, many civil servants lost their jobs. The accompanying retrenchment caused social dislocations with little or no alternative means of livelihood to the majority. The fallout was the nationwide massive anti-SAP riots of 1989 which forced the government to give the SAP a “human face.” More lamentably, local manufacturing companies which were averagely doing very well in business prior to the deregulation and subsequent devaluation of the currency also had to drastically reduce its workforce thereby heightening the unemployment crisis. For instance, statistics showed that the workforce of United Africa Company (UAC), then one of Nigeria’s biggest conglomerates compressed from 23,850 workers in 1985 to 9,000 workers in 1988. As a corollary to the economic turmoil orchestrated by the SAP, there was reduction in capacity utilisation which remained abysmally low between 30 and 37  per cent and income per capita collapsed from $778 to $108 in 1989. This unsavory scenario also led to a drastic fall in standard of living, galloping inflation and underdevelopment in the country. In addition, the SAP led to proliferation of ethnic militia movements in Nigeria which emerged as a result of the atavistic nature of the state and its determination to see the policy through. Some of these social movement groups became rallying points for dis-empowered and marginalised citizens to aggregate their power to challenge the state. This further reduced the capacity of the state to deal with the challenges of development and welfare. The consequences were mounting unemployment problem, inflation, and widespread poverty which eroded the cultural, economic and political glues that sought to integrate the different elements of the nation. It also deepened the process of uneven development along ethnic and regional lines, leading to tension and feeling of exclusion at all levels of governance. The social polarisation that accompanied the process undermined the viability of the middle class that would have provided a stabilising force for the state. It led to the flowering of ethnic and religious extremism because the loss of social security represented by the state constituted religious and ethnic solidarity to alternative sites of organising social life. All these happen when wrong theories are implemented.