By Sampson Unamka  Controversial rapper/singer Afeez Fashola, popularly known as Naira Marley, recently dropped a song, Bad Influence, despite his unfinished business with law enforcement agencies. Marley’s travail seems not to trouble him as he still engages his followers on his social media page. The rapper recently shared a post via his twitter handle, which elicited mixed feelings: “Marlians don’t do drugs, unless it’s prescribed”, he wrote. The latest song: Bad Influence, has won the hearts of Nigerians, some of who described it as “spiritual”. Many fans said the record sparked emotions as Naira explains his ordeal with those misunderstanding him. In the song, Naira Marley spoke about his background and struggles to be happy. While the artiste expresses his pain of being tagged a bad influence on youths, he blames the government for making the country so bad that youths have no choice but to be badly influenced. A part of his lyrics reads: “We want school but they give us prison…We want education but they taught us lesson.” EFCC arrested Naira Marley on Friday, May 10, and charged him with 11 counts of conspiracy, possession of counterfeit credit cards, and fraud just after release of Am I a Yahoo Boy, a trap single featuring Zlatan, which expanded on Marley’s Instargram video by asking rhetorically, if the two were in fact Internet fraudsters. Within hours, the song topped digital streaming charts. It was said that it will perhaps go down as the most definitive song in Naira Marley’s career. The title was the perfect query for the situation that birthed it, which is why it is worth noting that both artists glorify Internet fraud on a song, which was to acquit them of such accusations. Naira Marley’s arrest was celebrated in certain circles as a quick reaction to a menace but it made him popular. Many had expected the Agege born’s first song after his arrest to be a plaintive reaction to his stint in jail. but instead, Naira released Opotoyi (Marlians), a lewd song for drunken nights, filled with vulgar appraisals of the female body and drug use.  Naira has dropped five songs since his arrest in May: Why, Opotoyi, Soapy, Puta and Bad Influence. If you’re willing to explore the pattern, it goes far beyond his recent releases; he picks the most targeted titles, using words that draw instant reaction or take advantage of a trend. His single, Soapy, references his stint in jail and has been described as an effort to draw attention to the terrible conditions in Nigerian prisons. However, on the morning of its release, Naira Marley took to the social media to unveil the Ijo Soapy. The accompanying dance style is suggestive of the male act, and is trending. Since then Naira Marley has made waves, regardless of his many scandals. He even  appeared at Wizkid’s concert at the O2 Arena. As the popular saying goes: ‘There is no bad thing as bad publicity,’ Naira can be described as the most influential artist of 2019. His first single in the United Kingdom, which brought him to limelight, was Marry Juana, released in 2014 , featuring Max Twigz. The follow-up, Japa, contains a more overt reference to credit card fraud, still found its way to the hearts of youths. His songs are some of the most streamed on musical platforms in Nigeria. Bad Influence was released shortly after Judge Nicholas Oweibo, of the Federal High Court, Lagos, adjourned his trial to December 11.