Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa  At least 16 out of the 19 members of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have passed a vote of confidence in the state Governor, Seriake Dickson. The PDP lawmakers, who dominate the House, were said to have met the governor at the Government House Yenagoa to reaffirm their loyalty to him following an alleged move by the House to begin impeachment proceedings against the governor. The 16 PDP lawmakers, who reportedly met behind closed doors with Dickson, dispelled the impeachment reports and said they were solidly behind the governor. It was learnt that PDP lawmakers, who were absent at the meeting, were members representing Southern Ijaw Constitution 1, Felix Bonny Ayah; Ogbia Constituency 1, Mitema Obordor and Ekeremor Constituency 3, Michael Ogbere. The Speaker of the House, Monday Obolo-Bobou, who led the lawmakers to the meeting said that the Assembly had enjoyed unbroken stability and cohesion for almost eight years under the leadership of Dickson. The Speaker also denied speculation that some members were planning to defect from the PDP to other political parties. He said the House of Assembly had robust partnership for almost eight years working with the executive arm of government led by Dickson in the development of the state. Obolo-Bobou explained that the three members of the party were absent at the meeting because of other official engagements in the interest of the state. He assured the people of the state that the House of Assembly was committed to ensuring that the Restoration Government finished strong. Also, the Deputy Speaker, Abraham Ngobere and the member representing Yenagoa Constituency 2, Ebiwou Koku-Obiyai, said the members were committed to deliver service to their constituencies. She said: “We have a sacred mandate as legislators with our people, the people of Bayelsa State, which we will continue to do. “We’ve had about 8 years of very effective administration by the Restoration Government, ably led by the Governor and we the legislature have given the needed legislative backing to project and programs of this administration. “The seedlings we watered during the dry season have grown to fruit barring plants, and we’ve all enjoyed those fruits. We are here to assure the people of Bayelsa State that as part of the Restoration government, as lawmakers who have worked with this government, we are here standing tall side by side with the Governor, to finish strong with him”.