Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf  The much anticipated trial involving the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in the ongoing litigation brought by the ex-staff of non-consolidated banks scheduled to hold at the National Industrial Court of Nigeria, Lagos Judicial Division last Tuesday was stalled, no thanks to the absence of the NDIC, which in this case is the first defendant. Speaking at the resumed hearing at Court 10, Hon. Justice Mustapha Tijani of the National Industrial Court of Nigeria, Lagos Judicial Division, expressed dismay that the spokes counsel of the NDIC wasted the time of the court by making no representation whatsoever during the resumed hearing. According to Justice Tijani, the proceedings of the day could not go on because of the absence of the first defendant and the failure of the second defendant to respond to the interrogatories. Specifically, he said, the unexplained absence of the first defendant and its spoke counsel and its failure to respond to the interrogatories , which is central to the case at hand according to the claimants counsel had to be adjourned until such a time the parties to the case are present in court. Justice Tijani however imposed a fine of N100, 000 against the NDIC as cost for absenteeism and subsequently adjourned till December 17-18, 2019. Addressing journalists, counsel to the claimants, Daniel Omotilewa said, “The matter was meant for trial today after it was first adjourned to November 11-12th. But the court couldn’t sit because of the federal government declared public holiday. Answering the interrogatories is germane to this case. The first defendant was not in court under the pretext that he was stranded in Abuja. Of course, the judge did not think the excuse was tenable and subsequently issued a fine of N100, 000 against the NDIC for failing to make representation in court, stressing that the sum must be paid before the next date of hearing.” It may be recalled that the consolidation exercise introduced by the then CBN governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo which swept through the banking sub-sector, left some banks defunct as a result of their inability to meet the new N25billion capital benchmark. Consequently, over 10, 000 ex-staff of banks sued the NDIC and the CBN over non-payment of their N9.8billion gratuities 13 years after they were retrenched.