2019 AFCON top scorer Odion Ighalo of Shanghai Shenhua, in-form Super Eagles and Lille striker, Victor Osimhen and Leicester’s Wilfred Ndidi have been listed by Confederation of African football (CAF) in its preliminary lists of nominees for the 2019 Africa men’s Players of the Year awards. In the Africa Women’s players of the Year awards, Super Falcons’ skipper and three-time recipient of the award,  Asisat Oshoala who plays for Barcelona leads Nigeria’s charge. Other Nigerians listed for the award in the women’s category are Chiamaka Nnadozie (Rivers Angels) and Uchenna Kanu (Nigeria and Southeastern Fire). In the African Youth Players of the Award, Osimhen will battle compatriot, Samuel Chukwueze, who plays for Villarreal and 14 other players across the continent. The Super Eagles and Super Falcons were also listed in African Men and Woman National Team of the Year award, while Coaches Gernot Rohr (Eagles) and Thomas Dennerby (Falcons) are up for the African Men’s Coach of the Year and African Women’s Coach of the Year award respectively. Meanwhile, out of 30 players in the men’s category, 10 of the nominees play in the English Premier League. Egypt’s Mohamed Salah, who has won the men’s title for the last two years, is joined on the list by his two Liverpool team-mates, Sadio Mane of Senegal and Guinea’s Naby Keita, following their European Champions League success. Manchester City’s Riyad Mahrez, who helped Algeria win the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, is one of four Algerians nominated for the men’s award – more than any other nation. Some nominees on the men’s shortlist are also named on other lists, including Uganda and Mamelodi Sundowns goalkeeper Denis Onyango who is also nominated for the newly-named African Interclub Player of the year award which has been re-introduced by CAF to reward Africa-based players. Madagascar’s famous run to the quarterfinals of the 2019 Nations Cup, on their tournament debut, has earned them a place on the list for the men’s national team of the year, with their coach Nicolas Dupuis also nominated. In the women’s player category, the 2019 Women’s World Cup in France is well represented with seven of the 10 names on the list having featured at France 2019. The list of nominees is compiled by a panel of media and technical professionals and the awards will take place on January 7, 2020 in Hurghada, Egypt.