A yet-to-be issued clearance by the Federal Government is delaying the kick-off of the security outfit put together by Southwest governors. The outfit is codenamed Amotekun. Sources told The Nation that the National Security Adviser (NSA) was streamlining the procurement of arms and ammunition for the outfit by the six Southwest states of Oyo, Ogun, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti and Lagos. The states came up with the joint security outfit to curb banditry, kidnapping for ransom, armed robbery and other breaches in the Southwest. The source said that the Federal Government was trying to avoid a repeat of what happened in Ogun State under the administration of Governor Ibikunle Amosun, when the arms bought to boost the state crime-fighting outfit – Quick Response Squad (QRS) —were warehoused in the Government House. If the NSA gives the nod, the outfit will be launched in December. The Director-General, Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission, Seye Oyeleye, told The Nation that there were strong indications that the outfit would be unveiled later this month. Ahead of the launch, security advisers to the six governors in the region met yesterday at the commission’s Ibadan headquarters to finalise operational guidelines for personnel of the outfit. A source at yesterday’s meeting of security advisers confirmed the launching next month. The governors in the six states told our correspondents that the need to properly finalise operational guidelines has been responsible for the delay of its launch since the idea was agreed upon in July. They disclosed that all equipment, including vehicles and communication gadgets, have been bought. They spoke through their security advisers. The Special Adviser to Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde on security, Fatai Owoseni, told The Nation that the state has procured necessary equipment needed for the joint operation. He also confirmed that the operational guidelines was on the agenda at yesterday’s meeting. The DAWN Commission held a security summit on behalf of the six governors in June from which the idea of a joint security outfit was developed. The personnel are to be made up of local hunters, traditional rulers, members of vigilante groups, men of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC). Each state is to contribute 20 vehicles equipped with communication and security gadgets for the operation. Owoseni said: “Sequel to the security summit organised by DAWN and that of the Inspector- General (IG), the structure was initiated. As far as Oyo State is concerned, we have procured the vehicles needed. But there are other logistics and management of the outfit. That is the part that is being packaged. These include the command and control set up, communication network and how personnel will be utilised. Governors have been meeting informally on that which will form the concept of operation. Security advisers are meeting to finalise it. Very soon, before the end of this month, they may take off. Virtually all the governors have acquired mobility. But the concept of operation must be put in place.” The former Lagos State Commissioner of Police, however, said there will be no special recruitment for Amotekun. He said both regular security personnel and non-state actors, including vigilances and traditional rulers who are already working with the police will make up the personnel of the outfit. Lagos State government said it would donate 20 special vehicles as part of its contribution to the security architecture. Information and Strategy Commissioner Gbenga Omotoso told The Nation: “I do not think there is a fixed time for the exercise. It is a continuous thing and Lagos signed an agreement to contribute 20 security vehicles to the operation. “The vehicles will be available at any moment from now. They have security gadgets fitted and so, may have to be specifically ordered.” The Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola, Ismail Omipidan, told our correspondent that the state had acquired 20 security operational patrol vehicles and electronic communication gadgets to contribute to the joint security security outfit. He added: “What we are working on now is harmonization of different security groups to optimize their performance.” Omipidan also disclosed that Oyetola had ordered that the Olajokun Park at Gbongan Junction on Ife/Ibadan Expressway in Ayedade Local Government Area of the state be converted to an operational base for activities of the joint security outfit. Disclosing that the state’s huge investment in security, Omipidan said the Gboyega Oyetola administration is constructing two helipads, where helicopters that will aid air surveillance of the security operatives. Though he declined comments on the location of the two helipads for security reasons, he said they are 80 per cent completed. In Ondo Jimoh Dojumo, who is the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the state Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Security Matters, affirmed that vehicles, motorcycles and communication gadgets had been procured. He, however, hinged the delay on the recruitment of people of high integrity who will not compromise with criminals to the outfit. Dokumo said solid preparations were needed for such sensitive scheme. Ondo state Police Command’s spokesman, Femi Joseph, said the command had adequately prepared to ensure the success of the scheme. According to him,such scheme that centred on protection of human lives must be properly handled in order to get good result. Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, also disclosed that equipment was ready for the outfit. Speaking through his Special Adviser on Security Matters, Brig. Gen. Ebenezer Ogundana (rtd), he revealed that the state had procured all necessary security equipment and patrol vehicles needed. He said the governors in the zone have been assiduously working to ensure that the outfit gets officially inaugurated soonest to ensure that the region becomes a ‘hot zone’ for criminal-minded people. He affirmed that the inauguration would happen soonest. He said: “All efforts are on top gear to ensure that the operation takes off as soon as possible. I think it’s a process. I know they are already pulling resources together. “As far as Ekiti is concerned, all equipment needed has been procured but we can’t launch it now until the other five states involved are ready. This is to ensure that the operation works effectively and efficiently in the region. “Everything is set for the official inauguration of ‘Operation Amotekun’ but the governors have to meet with other critical stakeholders to determine mode of operation.” In Ogun State, 100 patrol vehicles and 200 motorcycles have also been donated to the Ogun State Government through its Security Trust Fund. But they have been lying idle at the Arcade ground, State Secretariat, Oke – Mosan, months after they were donated by the governor and received by the IGP for the state police command. The Chief Press Secretary to Governor Dapo Abiodun, Mr Kunle Somorin, was not available for comment on the outfit.