Bayelsa Governor Seriake Dickson, who voted at Oruerewari, Polling Unit 005, Toru Orua in Sagbama local government area, asked INEC  to cancel the election in some parts of the state, where the exercise was characterized by alleged brigandage, hijacking of electoral materials and personnel. He also called for outright cancellation of the elections in Nembe and Southern Ijaw local government areas. He said: “I call on the Chairman of INEC to issue an order canceling the process in all the wards, in all the local government areas affected, in all the wards and units, where materials have been stolen or hijacked, where officials have been kidnapped and held hostage to enable the APC cook up non existing figures”. Dickson described the APC as an unpopular party accusing the APC-led Federal Government of plotting to foist a one party system in the country. He alleged that rogue elements in the Nigerian Army connived with the APC thugs to perpetrate electoral fraud and insecurity in some parts of Southern Ijaw, Ekeremor and Ogbia and even the state capital, Yenagoa. He said: “Materials meant for Eniwari community, Opuama ward, most locations in Southern Ijaw as we earlier predicted were hijacked. As everyone knows, the APC has no foothold in Bayelsa to win an election but they have an armed militia, surveillance contractors who kill and maim for the APC.  They also have the Nigerian Army and rogue elements of the Police Force working in concert with them to deny the citizens of these communities their right to vote. “So as we are speaking, in our country, in this day and age, gun wielding militia men with the aid of security forces have overrun the election officials and most of the electoral officials in Southern Ijaw. These officials as we speak, have been kidnapped and held hostage. This has been the lot, this has been what we’ve been managing since 2015, with APC at the center, not caring about the lived and dignity of our people. The APC at the center are too hungry and determined to make Nigeria a one party state. “The president has to wake up and do something. What is going on in Bayelsa in the name of election is not a democracy. I call on the President to call on the security agents particularly the Army to stop desecrating Democratic governance and subjecting the image of the country to ridicule. I call on the Inspector General of Police to be true to his professional calling and direct the DIG and all the security operatives to protect the people of Bayelsa”. I do not want to be pushed to call on them to defend and protect themselves.” But the APC accused the governor and his party of masterminded violence in some strongholds of the APC to discredit the exercise in those areas while manipulating results and th electoral process in his areas of strength. The Chairman of APC, Amos Jotham, Chairman, said having seen the defeat steering it in the face, the PDP perfected high level of violence and tried to intimidate voters bit for the intervention of the military. He specifically noted the widespread violence in Yenagoa the State capital, precisely in Ward 2, Onopa community and Opolo where materials were allegedly hijacked by PDP thugs loyal to a PDP lawmaker. The State APC Chairman, who used the occasion to call on all security agencies to take note of the situation, said that the PDP, currently drowning in the state following  lack of popularity and acceptability of its candidate, decided to resort to hijacking of election materials as the only way out. He said: “Other areas where election materials were hijacked by the PDP are Sagbama Ward 6, 7, 11 and 14. We have noted high level of electoral misconduct in Sagbama, the LGA of the incumbent governor, Henry Seriake Dickson. “We call on all APC supporters to maintain peaceful conduct throughout the process. It is very glaring that the APC is coasting to victory because of the popularity and acceptance of its flag bearer David Lyon who is poised to transform Bayelsa State from its current state of quagmire the PDP led administration has taken the State into”. Former President, Goodluck Jonathan, expressed disappointment over the late arrival of election materials to his polling unit, 39, in Otuoke in ward 13 of Ogbia Local Government Area in Bayelsa State. Jonathan, who came out to cast his vote met only journalists on ground, when he arrived his polling unit about 8:30a.m. “Where are the electoral officers?” He queried, saying: “Well, this is where I will vote, but since they are not here yet let me go back inside. You see now, youths of nowadays, you need to do more.” But Jonathan later emerged with his wife, Dame Patience, to cast his vote in the presence of Ukuachukwu Orji, who is the INEC supervisory resident electoral commissioner for Ogbia LGA. He said: “My wife and I were able to cast our votes today as soon as the polling booth at Unit 39 Ward 13 in Otuoke opened just before noon. I urge Bayelsans and voters in Kogi State to go about performing this important civic responsibility in a peaceful manner. “I am encouraged by the determination and yearning of Nigerians for good governance to believe that we will soon get to a point where we will adopt the right attitude and innovation that will strengthen our democracy”.