From Sola Balogun Like the hen that lays the golden egg, Achievers University, a private university in Owo, Ondo State has come of age. Not only has the institution earned successes in its 11 years of existence, it has gradually nurtured it’s vision of producing well-rounded graduates with promising careers ahead of them. At its combined 8th and 9th convocations, the institution again sensitised the Nigerians home and abroad about the gains of using quality education to achieve national cohesion, purposeful leadership and economic development. The institution, which was founded over a decade ago by an indigene, Dr. Bode Ayorinde, a politician and businessman, also used the occasion to galvanise support for democratic governance, as aptly canvassed by Revd Matthew Hassan Kukah who delivered the convocation lecture. Kukah, who is the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, bagged Achievers University’s doctorate for his commitment to societal ideals and national unity. He used the occasion to underscore the virtues of the institution and its handlers, noting that parents and their wards should grab the rare opportunities being offered by Achievers to make the younger generation “swim successfully in the ocean of life’. As a vindication of the institution’s commitment to academic excellence, Professor Tunji Samuel Ibiyemi described the journey so far as a strategic and progressive one. Having obtained its licence to operate as a private university in 2007, the institution took off formally on April 2, 2008 with eight programmes in just two colleges. Today the institution boasts of 22 programmes in four colleges, while it just graduated its first set of post graduate students in Accounting, Business Administration and Computer Science Professor Ibiyemi also explained how he university has blazed the trail having obtained accreditation for such programmes as Nursing Sciences, Medical laboratory Sciences, Law, Sociology, Natural and Pure Sciences as well as Community and Security studies. On the growth of physical infrastructure in the university,the VC cited the new ultra modern female hostel with a total 810 bed spaces. This is in addition to the existing 756 capacity male hostel; both of which have common rooms, decent restaurants,mini mart and laundry facilities.  According to the VC, the University shall also complete its engineering building complex before March 2020. The proposed edifice, which has 1000 seater lecture theatre and a well equipped office for staff. On the proposed College of Communication Studies, the VC described Mass Communication as the backbone of all programmes in all Nigerian universities. He hinted that Achievers University has since commenced building of an edifice to house the new college while awaiting the final decision of the NUC    which recently approved Faculty of Communication Studies as a replacement of Mass Communication which used to be a department in the Faculty of Social Sciences. Also speaking on why Achievers University proposed an additional Diploma/ Certificate programme for all its first degree holders, Rev. Victoria Imolehin hinted that beginning with the 2019/2020 session, every student will have the opportunity to earn a diploma or certificate. The programme is provided for all students who are desirous of that extra value and is available on weekends so as not to interfere with regular programmes, morally sound, properly educated and entrepreneurially oriented, who would be useful to himself and to the society. In line with this vision, the university has a unique feature that gives parents and guardians extra value for their wards during the course of their study at the university. She explained further that each student will henceforth be free to offer a maximum of two out of the following programmes before graduation: Certificate in Computer Programming, Diploma in Law, Diploma in French  Language, Diploma in Procurement Process, Diploma in Theology and Church History as well as certificate in Communication Skill and Public Speaking. On the modality of the programmes, Rev. Imolehin disclosed that students would be allowed to access any two of these programmes at their 200 and 300 levels, in addition to the degree programme. Also the programmes are designed to ensure that students gain confidence in themselves before entering the labour market. Besides, the university has lately initiated collaborations with the United kingdom and the USA on how to assist graduates of Achievers University to proceed on their post graduate studies outside the country. According to Imolehin, the collaborations would entail processing travel documents in favour of graduates of Achievers University who would be treated in-state students in foreign universities. In addition to these, such post graduate students would benefit from a discount of 60 percent of their total fees while also gaining research grants in their chosen programmes. 