 AN ex-militant leader, Eris Paul, popularly known as Ogunboss, has accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State of recruiting armed thugs for the November 16 governorship election in the state. But Paul, a former commander, Movement for Emancipation of Niger Delta (MEND), alleged that the state-owned security outfit, Operation Doo-Akpo, was spearheading the recruitment. In a Save-Our-Soul message, the ex-militant leader called on the National Security Adviser to the President, Maj.-Gen. Mohammed Monguno and the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomole, to handle his complaints with seriousness. Specifically, Paul called for the immediate disbandment of Operation Doo-Akpo to stop the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from its plans to use it to abuse the electoral process. He said: “Operation Doo-Akpo is Dickson’s self-owned army in the state that is being used to terrorise political enemies. This same outfit in 2015 was used in hijacking electoral materials from Amassoama community in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, which almost led to shootout between a stop-and-search military checkpoint and the governor’s security outfit. “Some two years ago, about nine youths from Amassoama community were gruesomely killed during a peaceful protest by operatives of the local outfit, Operation Doo-Akpo. “Dickson’s ambition is not worth the lives of every Bayelsan and we are using this medium to call on the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), the National Security Adviser (NSA) to the president, and the party Chairman Chief Adams Oshiomhole for the urgent ban of the illegally constituted security outfit. “We are also aware that the PDP administration under Governor Seriake Dickson and the sinking ship of the ruling party has started recruiting criminals to hijack electoral materials in some riverine communities. “We want to call on the Chairman of our able and committed political party, APC, Adams Oshiomhole, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and National Security Adviser (NSA) to quickly intervene before things get out of hand. “Two weeks ago, Doo-Akpo men were seen around 1:20am at Onobom community in Ogbia Local Government Area of the state while escorting known thugs and cultists on a speedboat owned by a serving local government chairman. “Dickson and the PDP have never won any violence-free election in the state. Therefore, we call for its immediate ban before the November 16th governorship election in the state.”