 The health and wealth of a nation depends on the Nigerian woman. Women’s education is key to addressing maternal mortality.” These were the words of the Chairman, Committee of wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO) and wife of the Lagos State governor, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu COWLSO’s 19th National Women’s Conference held at the Eko Hotels and Suites. The theme of this year’s conference is: “Unlearn, Learn and Relearn: 21st Century Women’s T.H.E.M.E.S Perspectives/Approach.” Speaking further, Mrs Sanwo-Olu said, “Maternal mortality is abysmally high in Nigeria and we regard the death of a woman in preventable circumstances as unacceptable. The issue of maternal mortality has been taken for granted in Nigeria when it is supposed to be seen as a national emergency.” She is also of the opinion that educating the woman will go a long way in arresting this trend. “An empowered and educated woman would raise responsible children. As a nation, we need to invest effectively in maximising the capacity of women. As women, we must strategically position ourselves to take full benefits of the programmes of government. “To unlearn means to do away with habits that are outdated and as well jettison practices that are against public good and public safety. In this 21st century, women must also embrace new ideas and new innovations to be relevant.” She therefore urged women to learn to think outside the box and even go a step further to think without the box, to fit into the modern society. She announced that the Lagos State government has launched N4billion through the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSSTF), to empower Lagosians with ingenious business ideas, and in line with the philosophy of giving opportunities to women. According to her, “Fifty per cent of the beneficiaries have been listed to be women. Another 10,000 farmers in the state are to benefit from 200million-dollar World Bank facility to be disbursed in partnership with the state government under the Agro-Processing Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support Project (APPEALS). “Out of the 10,000 beneficiaries, 35 per cent has been earmarked to be women, while 10 per cent would go to people with disabilities and youths. These and many more are the initiatives our women can plug into to be empowered economically.” Facilitators were also at the three-day event to educate participants on topics that bother on health, business, education, fitness, entertainment, among others. Topic such as “The 21st Century Woman: Built not born to influence the society,” handled by Mrs. Ibukun Awosika challenged women to ensure that their daughters are well-trained and educated. Her words “Every human being is born to have a power of influence. There is need to redefine how that women is portrayed.” Mrs. Funke Adejumo, Co-pastor, Agape Christian Ministry and founder, Felix Adejumo Foundation, also speaking, said, “The total woman has a dynamic spiritual life. She is relevant; beautiful; honours her husband; she is repackaged and refuses to die in the kitchen.” She however urged women to be submissive wives and participatory mothers, by learning to pray, love and train their children. Speaking on “Entertainment of Tourism-Prism of Possibilities,” C.E.O, Tourism Edge Consultant, Mrs. Omotayo Omotosho, challenged women never to underestimate any profession because opportunities abound in the business of tourism. On her part, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Titilayo Goncalves, tasked women to take total control of their health. Her words: “Without wellness, you cannot be wealthy.” “The committee urged women to take advantage of opportunities in entrepreneurship to improve their lives, while also urging them to join hands with the Lagos State Government in the effort to engender value re-orientation in combating disobedience to road regulations and traffic laws. The three day conference also came up with a communiqué which reads: “Government at all levels must continue to partner with the private sector to develop and implement strategies that will showcase the nation’s potential in entertainment and tourism to the world. 