  The General Manager of the FCT Water Board, Aliyu Ahmad Nahuche, who spoke with our correspondent, admitted that indeed residents of the areas have been hardship regarding the water supply. Nahuche said: “Yes, I know they do not have water like other parts of Abuja. It is not twenty-four hours, but there is a supply. The infrastructure that is supposed to be provided for Bwari is not completed. The responsibility of that is not in our purview. It is in the purview of the Satellite Town Development Authority (STDA). If infrastructure had been in place and handed over to us, then we operate. “The infrastructure in Bwari has not fully developed. We have the transmission line, the tank and one line for the city. We have a transmission line that goes to Bwari, which is to distribute to other parts of that area. But those infrastructures are not fully completed, which also affects these places you have mentioned, Ushafa, Peyi, Kogo and others. “We do all our best to make sure we give them water even though like I said, it is not as constant as it is supposed to be. The major line that carries water to Bwari distributes on the way before getting to Bwari, which is not supposed to be so. The water is supposed to reach the tank and start redistribution. In Peyi, Jigo and Pampara they have water, though they are tapping, that tapping is affecting the supply to Bwari. “They are supposed to deliver the main bulk of water to Bwari then we have the secondary line coming back to Ushafa, and then other villages and towns would be able to get water. The second reason is the terrain to Bwari is not like the one that comes to the city. We send the water to the city by gravity, but in Bwari it is an elevated supply. We have to pump the water continuously for people to get it. Pumping requires energy, electricity, sustenance of AEDC supply or standby generators. “Getting all that efficiently is not an easy thing. It is not easy because power is not constant; pumping the generator continuously is not very easy. This contributes to the reason why they do not have water on a smoother level like the city but we are seriously working on it. We have been discussing with the engineering department on that issue. We go through the budget and the process of procurement and others. “We have been communicating with the STDA to know the update on what they are doing. It is their responsibility to put in the infrastructure. They have started. The Arab construction company has been in Bwari for so many years. It is just that I don’t know the process, maybe budgeting and other things may slow down the work. It is ongoing. Putting infrastructure in place is not only about water, roads, sewage lines, drainages and others.”