 Depression, which is a feeling of displeasure and low self-esteem, can happen at any age but it is most visible from a teenage age. As a psychological sickness, if it is not well doctored or, say, treated; if the sickness should last for a very long period, and there is no solution to it, the person might resolve to suicide. This is the reason for a large number of suicidal acts in our century. We read and see people take their lives from the setting of the sun to the rising of the moon. Depression can be partly compared to a virus that attacks the human body, and when no cure is found, it has no choice than to lead the body to death. Like a virus, it nurtures a psychic ailment in the hearts and minds of people until there is a cure or no cure. What generates depression in our century (21st Century) are issues of domestic violence, cyber-bullying; and many more. Every day, the world loses great minds, world-changers to this sickness—depression—because we have all failed to look into the minds of one another. Instead of embracing our differences; warming up our cold hearts, and defining a colourful existence, what we do is injure ourselves. We fail to heal our aching hearts, leaving the sickness to continue exerting its deprecating growth. Several human beings on this planet are seeking tutelage in drugging and more since they feel there is no one to talk to; no one to survey their mind and exhume them from their horrific pains. Many parents, at times, have failed to realise that bringing up a child requires emotional support. When your child comes to you with a particularly eccentric question or behaviour, do you shun your child or do you serve as a psychotherapist who is capable of healing your child’s psychic war? Yes, it is a psychic war because two enemies conflict in the mind; one is “good” while the other is “evil”. They both fight for domination; and if perhaps a parent is unable to procure a psychological weapon to defeat the deadly enemy, a child is left lonely and as the loneliness continues, depression continues to nurture its seed until it produces the fruit of suicide: A bitter-sour fruit that many cannot eat. This is why one of the solutions to depression is “talk therapy”. It is a medicine that requires the patient to discuss private distress with the right person or a psychotherapist. Many depressive patients resolve their psychic state after conversations with the right person or a psychotherapist. But what happens if there is no one to talk to? What happens if there is no one to open your broken soul to for fixing? The depressive sickness will remain as a predator over the person’s life. This is why we all need to be empathetic and compassionate in dealing with ourselves. Empathy is the ability to feel another individual’s heart in yours. If I can connect my mind to another person’s mind, then it is possible to help the person out of a troubled state. We keep losing lives because we have failed to realise that our lives are tied to one another. Losing the other individual is like losing a part of your existence. We must show empathy to others as much as we are compassionate towards ourselves. We can all be patients and doctors at once as long as we know that there is an immortal (divine) touch within us that brings us together. We exist in a century where we are all wearing masks and hating ourselves. What happens in a century where you search all the corners of the world only to discover that there is no hope of finding whom to trust? This is the grinding status quo in humanity currently, and it is excessively destroying life (yes, life because we form life). We have read of World War I, experienced World War II; and now it appears that depression is our Third world war. We have refused to create more weapons to fight this war; we have failed to hospitalize the injured, instead, we neglect ourselves, refusing to lend a helping hand. We have imprisoned love. It is for this apposite reason that I will say that one thing that can heal the planet once again is love. If we all express love the way it should be, without prejudice, depression itself will face depression until there is no more space left for it in our hearts. Love is not a physical property, it is in our hearts, and it is one electrical cord that connects people together. But it appears that we are disconnecting ourselves from the orbit of love and many are losing their hearts to the darkness of depression through all forms of domestic violence, cyber-bullying, rape, wrong convictions, failures, insecure sense of self; and many more. These are sicknesses and they can be healed through a medicine—Love. I believe that love is the antidote to every psychological war. Love is the only war that can war against war itself. Love is expressed through conversations but many are unable to find people to connect their dying hearts with, to be restored to life once again. We should be the reason kindness exists in the world. The world can experience a new beautiful scene if we all come together to fight our wars. That is the pathway to a safer future for humanity. Somewhere in the world, someone needs your love and care. Have you helped anyone today? Have you rescued any dying heart? I would admittedly conclude that we are the reason the world exists, and we need to help ourselves out of troubles and pains that we experience. You must recognize the fact that your purpose as a human being is to provide a solution to a particular sickness that has been affecting lives. Great men have always done this. You need to imagine yourself as a person among many sick minds with a healing medicine. If you fail to treat your companions with this medicine, they are liable to losing their lives. Thus, we must all, together, pull ourselves out of our psychic war which I call our Third World War. We must all engage in “talk therapy” of love to fight this fierce enemy—Depression. Oso, a public affairs commentator, writes from Lagos