 IT was a gathering of Clerics in the Cherubim and Seraphim Unification Church of Nigeria, leaders, members, families and friends, last Sunday when the Hope of Everlasting Glory Church (Mont Zion), The Eternal Sacred Order of the Cherubim and Seraphim celebrated its 70th adoption anniversary and thanksgiving. With most of the gathering clad in white, it was a day to give thanks to God, sing praises, dance, eat and drink, at the ceremony which held at the Church in Akoka, Yana, Lagos State. The service featured reading of several Bible passages, song renditions, prophetic prayer sessions, thanksgiving, preaching, curing of the anniversary cake and fund raising for the church’s Army of Salvation sectarian. The theme was: “O Lord our father, everlasting is your name”. According to Church’s Elder-in-Charge, Superintendent Apostle General Wale Taiwo, the anniversary celebration indicated Gods faithfulness and goodness to the church. Represented by the Assistant Elder-in Charge, Superintendent Apostle Oluranti Taiwo, Superintendent Apostle General Wale Taiwo, he urged the church to remain steadfast, believe in God, be prayerful, honest and Godly. He added that Christians must set the pace for others, ensure Godly behavior, be trustworthy and live like Christ. In his sermon, Supervising Apostle Yemi Adewusi, of C and S, Oke Ibukun, said the anniversary signifies a milestone for the church. According to him, 70th adoption anniversary is a celebration of freedom from bondage and sin, having the Holy Spirit and the ability to relate with God directly. “We started celebrating this adoption 70 years ago, we were in bondage but we are now born again. The adoption means that we are no more in sin but we are now sons and daughter of God.” He added that the celebration was also an avenue for people to become ‘born again’ and for those already ‘born again’ to renew their dedication to God. He urged the gathering to develop a father-son relationship with God, adding that Christians should persevere, stick to God and not to be distracted by the challengers in the country, but be ready to hold leaders accountable. Supervising Apostle Jacob Hodonu, of C and S Mount of Protection, said the anniversary is a reminder to all that Christ has adopted them and they now have the rights to be called sons and daughters of God. He urged the Church no to take the grace of God for granted, noting that the price for salvation was paid for. “We are to acknowledge Christ in all we do and work towards being part of the Kingdom of God. “We should not deviate from the part of our elders who has showed us the way that Jesus is the truth, the way and the light,” he said. He urged Christians to keep praying for the nation, be righteous and live right, adding that the leaders should do the right thing because posterity will judge them.