Frank Ikpefan, Abuja The National Youth Service Corps Monday said that it had successfully prosecuted and secured jail terms for two of the three fake graduates arrested at the Taraba State Orientation Camp this year. The scheme noted that they were handed over to security agencies for prosecution. NYSC Director-General, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, who confirmed the conviction in an interview in Abuja, said that the fake graduates have been jailed three years for presenting fake credentials. Ibrahim said that prosecutions of other arrested fake corps members were ongoing in Kebbi, Abia and other states. The DG noted that the two jailed fake graduates were given the option to pay N10, 000 fine. He said: “All the fake graduates arrested during the NYSC camp are undergoing prosecution. For the ones that we secured their jail terms are the ones in Taraba. They jailed two of them and one of them was discharged and acquitted. We are further trying to investigate that person. “But two other fake corps members were jailed three years with an option of N10, 000 fine. We still have other prosecutions ongoing in Kebbi, Abia and nationwide.” The DG called for the establishment of a “high powered committee made up of various stakeholders to tackle this menace of fake certificates being used for NYSC.” He said: “The NYSC cannot do it alone. We require a high powered committee made up of various stakeholders to tackle this menace of fake certificates being used for NYSC. “The committee will include the Federal Ministry of Education, the National Universities Commission, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the NYSC. “Such inter-ministerial committee is very crucial to nipping this issue of fake certificates in the bud.” The NYSC had in September 23, after the Batch B Orientation Course, handed over a total of 65 intending corps members during the just concluded Batch B Stream 2 Orientation Course, for allegedly tendering fake certificates. The authorities of the scheme said that the arrested corps members, caught across the 36 states’ orientation camps and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, had been handed over to the police for “further investigation and possible prosecution.” The scheme had noted that the fake graduates were consequently decamped. The corps said: “The total number of fake corps members nabbed during the 2019 Batch B Stream II orientation course was 65. All of them were handed over to the police for further investigation and possible prosecution. “They were picked from different NYSC camps all over the federation.”