The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday demanded justice for its Kogi State Women Leader, Mrs. Acheju Abuh, who was burnt to death in her home on Monday, allegedly by political thugs. While invoking the wrath of God on the perpetrators of the gruesome killings, the party called on the police to immediately track down and bring her killers to book. In a statement in Abuja, spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the death of Abuh and others killed by political thugs in the Kogi election would never be in vain. “Our party once again mourns our compatriots killed by the APC in this election, including our Woman Leader, Acheju Abuh, who was burnt to death by APC thugs at her home on Monday,” it said. The party insisted that the “violent rigging” of the Kogi and Bayelsa states governorship elections by the All Progressives Congress (APC) could not stand. The statement further said: “The NWC maintains that there is no way the PDP will fold its hands and watch the mandates clearly given to its candidates, Engr. Musa Wada in Kogi state and Senator Douye Diri in Bayelsa state, left in the hands of repressive usurpers, manipulators and murderers. “Indeed, the nation is still at shock over the brazen show of violence, where security forces coordinated the invasion of polling units, shooting and killing of voters and carting away of ballot boxes to government facilities where results were altered and fictitious figures given to INEC to declare the APC candidates as winners. “Nigerians watched with horror as APC thugs and security forces traumatised and held voters hostage, murdered our compatriots, injured and maimed many more in violent attacks that involved the deployment of police helicopters. “Our party has been made aware of the roles played by the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu as well as the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu in the elections. “While we urge these officials to do some introspection on the anguish they have caused the people since the rigging of the elections, the PDP NWC assures that it will never hesitate to expose such ignoble roles at the appropriate time. “The irreversible fact remains that though evil may appear to thrive for a while, truth and justice will always prevail at the end. “The APC and its candidates must bear in mind that what they could not get through the ballot box, they cannot get by violence, manipulation and killing. “The PDP is therefore undeterred in the determination to use all legitimate means available and allowed within our democratic practice to confront the usurpers and retrieved our mandate in Kogi and Bayelsa states.”