Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado Ekiti  There is palpable fear in Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado-Ekiti, as the university management has been accused of making underground moves to sack over 500 workers. The Nation gathered that the workers were those that were employed by the former Vice Chancellor, Prof. Samuel Oye Bandele. It was also learnt that some professors and workers, who were unduly promoted during that time, might be demoted over allegation that academic due process was not adhered to in their elevations. One of the affected workers, who spoke of condition of anonymity, told The Nation that the new management, chaired by Pro- Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Prof. Bamitale Omole, had consistently been complaining that over bloated workforce exists in the university and that prompt action must be taken to correct it. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), EKSU chapter, had in September threatened to embark on strike owing to inability to pay their salaries and other benefits. The ASUU Chairman, Dr. Kayode Arogundade, disclosed that the monthly wage bill of the university had increased from N380 million to over N502 million, while the monthly subvention from the government stood at N260 million, leaving the university to grapple hard to make up for the N262 million shortfall internally. The source, who was employed as an academic staff, said: “I can confirm to you authoritatively that efforts are in top gear by the university management to issue out sack letters to over 500 workers because of complaints that the university was overstaffed. “We have been notified and anytime from now, the letters of disengagement will be distributed and this has been creating panic and tension in the university,” he said. EKSU’s Public Relations Officer Mr. Bode Olofinmuagun said the management had no plan to sack or demote any worker. “There is no tension on campus over sack issue. I am on campus as I speak with you. The university is peaceful and I am not aware of any such plan,” he said.