By Jane Chijioke The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Lagos Chapter has expressed its desire to celebrate the International Students’ Day on November 17, with Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu at a breakfast meeting. It said the meeting would provide a platform where issues relating to student-government relationship would be addressed. Addressing reporters, its Chairman, Comrade Busari Abdul-Qowiyy Adelaja, said despite the significance of the day in the life of students, its commemoration had always been in form of walk from Ikeja to Alausa through which students express their grievances on the state of education in the state. He said the group was ready to change the narrative and pleaded with the governor to accede to their request. Adelaja said the students voted him as they believed that he would bring positive change to their plight and also address issues facing the state. The union would also hold a summit on November 28 to sensitise its members against violence to promote peace in the state. To curb sexual harassment in tertiary institutions, the national body of NANS has created a portal through which students who are being victimised can lodge complaints. Adelaja said NANs would encourage students to report such cases as they are not required to give their names when filing their complaints. He said the union would ensure that any lecturer found guilty would be brought to book. “We cannot continue to allow sexual harassment thrive in our institutions. After the BBC investigation went viral, we collaborated with NANS at the national level and created a portal that would assist students to speak out. We cannot tolerate lecturers’excesses anymore. We have partnered lawyers in this fight and we are ready to do our best to protect the interest of our students. “We believe it is our responsibility to speak out and stand by victims of sexual abuse, saying the culture of silence must end. We need to be accountable for the wellbeing and care of our students, ensure justice for survivor of sexual abuse and the political will to prosecute and punish offenders,” he said. The immediate past chairman NANS, Lagos chapter, Samson Adewale, called on stakeholders, including governments, parents, teachers and students to eradicate sexual harassment in schools. 