By Augustine Ehikioya, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari and a national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu yesterday congratulated veteran journalist, Alhaji  Mamman Daura, on his 80th birthday. Buhari hailed him for many years of love and sacrifices for the nation, especially in his chosen career, journalism. The President recalled Daura’s “remarkable brilliance from childhood at the Katsina Middle School and Government College which caught the attention of Northern Regional Government, leading to sponsorship for further studies in the United Kingdom in the 50’s and many years to follow.” He noted that the knowledge had, overtime, only translated into more wisdom. Buhari assured Daura that “his footprint on the development of the country, and quintessential attention to family values, will always be remembered and appreciated” and extolled him for the visionary role he played in the banking sector and management of companies, and development institutions. Mamman was in the civil service before joining the New Nigerian newspapers, where he rose to be Editor and Managing Director, before venturing to the private sector as entrepreneur. Tinubu described the former newspaper editor as a study in integrity, humility and discipline. He also called the octogenarian a resourceful pillar of support for President Buhari, his cousin. He said: “I write to join you, your family, friends and associates in thanking God Almighty who has made it possible for you to attain this milestone age. “At 80, you are of sound mind, sound health, in high spirit and remain as brilliant, radiant and quick-witted as you have always been. Alihamudulilai. We are grateful to Almighty Allah for this and we pray for many more years for you. “Your life is a study in high integrity, humility and discipline. An extremely private person who hardly talks about himself, your accomplishments, however, speak highly of you. “You are a reputable veteran journalist, successful entrepreneur, a nationalist and an Islamic faithful who has made important contributions to this country. Indeed, you have done a lot for our country. “A man of great character, you have been a resourceful pillar of support for our president, Muhammadu Buhari. Many have rightfully described you as imbued with immense talents, your character, however, remains an inspiration to me in particular. “Our country is lucky to have you at this particular time. I’m highly honoured and privileged to know you because knowing you is a wonderful thing. “As you age gracefully, we pray that Allah continue to keep you in good health and continue to grant you His blessings. “ Daura was born on November 9, 1939.