 German  coach Gernot Rohr has picked Samuel Kalu’s winner in the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier against Benin  Republic at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo  0n Wednesday as one of the best  goals under his spell as Super Eagles’ manager. The win coincided with Rohr’s 40th match in charge of the Eagles since his first match in the 1-0 home win against Tanzania in an international friendly on September 2, 2016. Though Kalu’s goal was 59th goal scored by Nigeria in both friendly and competitive matches since the former Bordeaux coach took over the reins of the Super Eagles, the 66-year-old was excited like a kid given a chocolate bar as he purred over the magical goal scored by the Bordeaux striker against Benin. With the game tied at 1-1,  the 22-year-old Kalu swanned through the Beninese defence to score what was his second goal for the Super Eagles after being among the goals in that 4-0 lashing of Libya in the 2019 AFCON qualifying match played in Uyo over a year ago on October 10, 2018. “The goal from Kalu (against Benin) was wonderful with an extra ordinary dribbling and wonderful shot,” admitted Rohr who has won 20 of his 40 matches with the Super Eagles.“ Of course, I have seen other great goals from the Super Eagles but Kalu’s goal too is a beautiful as some of the best goals I’ve seen.” Under Rohr, the Super Eagles have impressed on the road on the continent without losing any of its six previous World Cup and AFCON qualifying matches by claiming stunning wins against Zambia (2-1); Seychelles (3-0) and Libya (3-2) while they recorded an identical 1-1 draw in the other three matches against Cameroon, Algeria and South Africa. “Our expectations for the Match Day 2 game against Lesotho on Sunday in Maseru is to recover very well after the tough win against Benin in Uyo,” Rohr further said. “We had two players injured. Samuel Chukwueze had a knock on his knee and Ola Aina has a calf problem but we see how it goes before we travel. “I’m very okay with the performance of the team against Benin and I’m very impressed with both Kalu and Ola who were not in the team that played 1-1 with Brazil in the friendly in October. “The good thing about the Super Eagles is good spirit and solidarity among the players because irrespective of the starting 11, we still have the same ideal and commitment. “This is encouraging for the future and we would go to Maseru with the same commitment,” he noted.