By Tajudeen Adebanjo The University of Lagos (UNILAG) has trained 30 imams in mosque management. They graduated on Saturday and got Diploma in Mosque Leadership and Management (DMLM) under the department of Religious studies. The programme, The Nation learnt, was conceived as a platform for professional training of imams and different categories of serving or intending officials of mosques. Unilag Vice Chancellor Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe urged the graduating imams to be good ambassadors of the school and Islam. He advised them to positively change the society through their sermons and mosque leadership. Represented by the Dean of Faculty of Education, Prof. Monday Ubangha, Prof Ogundipe said: “I urge you to be good ambassadors of Unilag and Islam. You are carrying the certificate of the school and you are enjoined to be good representatives of the school at all times.” The acting Head of Department of Religious Studies, who is also the coordinator of the programme, Dr. Ismail Musa, said the 30 students have been successfully exposed to various learning experiences, including practical demonstrations in Tafsir and Khutbah delivery. “The feedback we obtain from the beneficiaries in terms of significant changes in their orientation and understanding of their enormous responsibilities is both impressive and encouraging. Our colleagues in the academia have also been appraising the programme since its inception,” he said. Dr Musa, who is also the Chief Imam of the institution, said two universities have already indicated interest in starting similar programmes based on the success story at the Unilag.  The chairman on the occasion, Dr. Fatai Lawal, described the programme as laudable and one way of promoting peace and unity. He congratulated the graduates, urging them to make the mosque a more friendly environment where people will be encouraged to seek knowledge. Chairman of Unilag Human Resources Development Centre Prof Wakeel Ishola said the success of the programme would provide a solution path to the plethora of socio-economic problems confronting the nation, as the new religious leaders would positively impact on the society. Mudeer of Daru-Dawah Wal-Irshad, Arabic and Islamic Centre, Isolo, Sheikh Ridwani Zuglool, urged the graduates to continue to seek knowledge, keep abreast of developments in the country so as to be able to treat issues of interest in their sermons. Imam Gbenle AbdulWasiy, who emerged as the Best Graduating Student with a cumulative GPA of 4.64, also clinched the Best Prize in Arabic Grammar and Khutbat Presentation, Best in Principle of Mosque Management and Best in Professional Research. He was closely followed by Imam Mojeed Yahya Kolawole with CGPA of 4.21.  