The Federal Government, through the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, appears to be leaving no stone unturned in its quest to position mining to drive economic diversification. The signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Russian Ministry of Trade and Investment on scientific and technical cooperation in geosciences and the commissioning of a Geology & Mineral Museum attest to its resolve to improve the nation’s geological and mineral information systems. These strategic moves hold promises of encouraging investments across the entire mineral value chain and ultimately, transforming the mining sector. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports.  Despite holding an abundant amount of mineral resources to drive her on-going economic diversification, Nigeria so far has not been able to reap the full potential benefits on offer.  Africa’s largest and most populous economy has not been able to optimise the exploitation of her nature-endowed mineral resources to underpin broad-based sustainable growth and socio-economic development, due partly to inaccurate and unreliable geo-scientific input upon which most mining ventures are supposed to thrive. However, concerted efforts to leverage on improved geological and mineral information systems to change this narrative and hopefully, position mining as Nigeria’s next oil have taken centre stage.  And the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA), which is the nation’s custodian of all geosciences information, is the focus of the latest push by the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development to force the country’s optimal mineral resources exploration and exploitation for industrialisation and job creation. The NGSA is a parastatal under the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development. The Agency, established by an Act of the National Assembly on May 22, 2006, has the statutory role of providing relevant and up-to-date geosciences information necessary for economic development of Nigeria. This is accomplished through a systematic process of gathering, collating, assessment and dissemination of all information related to rocks, minerals and groundwater resources of the country. Apparently aware that effective mining is based largely on good quality geological and mineral information systems, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite, has since turned his attention to strengthening the NGSA to deliver on his promises of turning around the fortunes of the mining sector. Already, on his behest, two major strategic interventions targeted at the agency have raised fresh hopes of not only encouraging investment across the entire mineral value chain, but also quicken investment decisions. These include the recent signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Russian Ministry of Trade and Investment on scientific and technical cooperation in geosciences and the commissioning of a Geology & Mineral Museum. While the MoU is expected to boost geoscience information for reliability and investors’ attraction to the mining sector, the Museum, which harbours Nigeria’s diverse historic geological information and data, will, among others, serve as a contact between the investing public and the diverse mineral types in the country. Adegbite, who signed the game-changing MoU on behalf of the NGSA, in Sochi, Russia, during the Russia-Africa Summit, explained that its purpose was to express the commitment of the parties to conduct activities in the fields of geosciences on the basis of equality, reciprocity and mutual benefit. “The MoU spelt out the forms of cooperation expected, which include exchanges of scientific and technical information; exchange of study visits and scientists,” he said. Other contents of the MoU that has put various stakeholders in the mining sector in an expectant mood included collaboration on research activities, joint organisation of symposia, conferences, workshops, training programmes and other forms of cooperation as may be mutually agreed between the parties. Other areas of cooperation include research and development on basic geology, geological maps compilation and regional mineralisation correlation, methodology and technology, among others. The MoU seen as a shot in NGSA’s arm also included aero-geophysical survey, geo-database construction and geo-information sharing, marine geology, research and monitoring of geo-hazards etc. And with the MoU’s broad contents, an excited Adegbite acknowledged the passion and efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari to change the mining sector’s narrative by putting in place mechanisms that would fast-track development and achievements. “President Buhari has given us so much support in the mining sector and it is now bearing fruits,’’ he said, in a statement made available to The Nation. He stated that the African Export-Import Bank was party to the MOU. While Mr. Gerald Chilhota represented the bank’s President, Prof. Benedict Oramah, the CEO and Chairman of Russian State Geological Holding (ROSGEO), Sergey Gorkov, represented the Russian Ministry of Trade and Investment, during the signing of the MoU. The MOU, which aimed at boosting Nigeria’s industrial minerals base to support local industries, create jobs and conserve foreign exchange, also described the deal as a win-win for the ministry, the NGSA and the mining sector. The minister sure stated the obvious. For instance, the NGSA, as the custodian of all geosciences information, stands to leverage on the cooperation tap from the Russian experience in the areas of mineral exploration and exploitation. The agency will also benefit from the exchange of expertise and capacity building, as well as technology transfer in the areas of mining, geological data gathering, dissemination and geo-database development. The MoU’s capacity to scale up research is no less heart-warming. It was envisaged that research projects on critical minerals for national development and improved research methodology will enhance accuracy and credibility of results. This will, by extension, reduce investment risks in the sector and also lead to quick investment decisions. Indeed, Russia is acknowledged as one of the richest countries in natural resources such as gold, iron ore, chromium, manganese, copper, lead zinc, titanium, nickel, platinum, tungsten, phosphate, tin and diamond. Incidentally, Nigeria also has evidence of huge resources in most of these mineral commodities, which have remained largely untapped. A scientific and technical cooperation between both countries in geosciences will therefore, help in properly evaluating these mineral commodities and enable accurate estimate of reserves. The agency will also benefit with best international methodology for documentation and presentation of needed investment geo-information through exchange of information, scientific and technical personnel.  The ministry also Nigeria’s collaboration with Russia in geological maps compilation and regional mineralisation correlation will also assist the ministry in exploring for iron and steel raw materials to support the evolving revitalisation of the Nigerian steel industry. The cooperation will provide the ministry with skills in the effective enforcement of standard mining regulation and monitoring framework in a manner that mining is carried out in strict adherence to environmental regulations. Also, the ministry will benefit with skills in mines reclamation/utilisation for agriculture and tourism. Besides, the cooperation with Russia on airborne geophysical surveys will help optimise the usage of the nationwide geophysical surveys conducted with World Bank facilities and also add value to the results to enhance full utilisation of the survey across the mineral sector. According to experts, Nigeria has a vast coastal surface area of about 46, 300 (853 km facing the Atlantic Ocean and 28,000 km terrestrial portion). Cooperation in marine geology will, therefore, further expand the frontiers and base of Nigeria’s mineral resources. A marine geological mapping will in addition help to map out heavy metals that found their way to the nation’s ecosystem and become harmful to plants, animals and humans. On geo-hazard monitoring, research will benefit the entire sector with skills in prediction, detection and management of geo-hazard. This will upscale the level of safety to life and infrastructures and ensure investor confidence. Cooperation in the area of hydro and environmental studies will improve the management of climate change as well as remediate air and mines pollution on groundwater crops and ecosystem in the two countries. On the strength of these envisaged benefits, NGSA Director-General Dr. Abdulrazaq Garba said the signing of the MoU was another “dimension to the ministry‘s success and its efforts towards achieving international collaborations. He commended the minister for being pragmatic, prompt and responsive by signing the landmark MoU.  Mineral Museum to the rescue The icing on the cake of the renewed push to leverage on a more robust NGSA to transform the mining sector was perhaps, the recent commissioning of the agency’s Geology & Mineral Museum. The facility, which was commissioned on November 12, 2019, harbours diverse historic geological information and data purposely for geological research, education and public outreach/enlightenment. Adegbite explained that with the museum, previous geological and temporal geo-scientific information can be accessed, analysed and correlated with present findings to further understand existing geological models typical to a target area of interest. He added that the facility could also be used for model re-establishment or upgrading. “First hand geo-information can be accessed through the museum as a reference point alongside temporal variations. This will aid in mineralisation model building,” he said. The minster added that “The museum will serve as a contact between the investing public and the diverse mineral types we have in the country.” Interestingly, the ministry’s current focus on the agency in an attempt to re-energise the nation’s mineral value chain is coming at a time it stepped up its mineral assessment programmes in an effort to develop metallic and industrial minerals, in line with the Federal Government’s objective to diversify the economy. For instance, the NGSA represented the ministry in a recent collaboration with the Cement Technology Institute of Nigeria (CTI) in a project aimed at the inventorisation and assessment of all carbonate rock resources (limestone, marble, magnetite, and dolomite) of Nigeria. The project identified and characterised the resources of the various carbonate rock types in terms of their location, size, chemistry and suitability of the commodity for cement manufacture. The end-users of the data generated include Cement Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, local and international investors (agro millers and manufacturers of polished/dimension stones. Others are Federal and State governments.