 NATIONAL Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) said on Monday that it has destroyed substandard and fake drugs worth over N3.2 billion in the last two years. Speaking to newsmen in Abuja, Director-General of the Agency, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye said, “NAFDAC intercepted a truck with Registration No. Delta AXB715ZH conveying substandard and falsified medical products en route Kano. The products, worth about six million Naira, included Rebok Paracetamol, Aldox (Doxycycline 100mg), Buscomac 10mg and sterile water for injection. “The agency has destroyed substandard and falsified medical products worth more than three billion Naira (N3,226,681,737.00). “A study of counterfeit and substandard medicines in Nigeria conducted by NAFDAC in collaboration with World Health Organisation (WHO) and Department for International Development (DFID) in 2005 revealed that counterfeit medicines stood at 16.7 per cent in 2005 as against 40 per cent in 2001. Thus, it is high time we did the survey on the prevalence. “One of our strategic plans is to reduce Substandard and Falsified medicines (SFs) to not more than 5 per cent prevalence in Nigeria by year 2025. Globally, the prevalence is about 10 per cent”. She explained that NAFDAC has gained international recognition in the use of cutting-edge technologies to fight substandard and falsified medicines and other unwholesome regulated products. These technologies include: Truscan (Raman Spectroscopy), GPHF Minilab, and Mobile Authentication Service (MAS). Adeyeye stressed that the agency is in dire need of improved funding for staff welfare and equipment, noting that there is the urgent need for the procurement of 100 Truscan equipment, a modern hand held device used to detect counterfeited drugs, which is relatively expensive at $50,000 per piece. She said, “Our staff get death threats in the course of doing our job asides physical attacks. We face very dangerous situations every time, and that is one of the reasons why I continually emphasise that our staff should be regarded as agents saving the country. “Also, our salary structure needs to be looked into because some of our staff cannot afford to rent a good place in Lagos or Abuja. The danger with a low salary is that there is temptation that comes with it.” She admitted that poverty is a major factor that makes a lot of people fall victim of cheap fake drugs, but she emphasised that because a drug is cheap does not mean it is good.     