NAIJABINGO, a brand new category of social gaming, has been launched into Nigeria’s fastest growing gaming sector. The new games, officially introduced to the public at a media event last Sunday in Lagos, Nigeria, by Zaretan Entertainment Limited, is the Nigerian version of popular family pastime called Bingo, Tombola or Housie in different parts of the World. Speaking at the unveiling event, Michael Asuelime, Chairman, Zaretan Entertainment Limited, said Naijabingo offers offline and online social gaming experience and it retains the unique flavour of the original bingo rhymes. He added that Naijabingo is easy to play with players having better chances of winning than other games. “We wanted to provide a game where everyone has equal chances of winning and you do not need any special skill or historical outcomes to predict the numbers,” Asuelime said. According to him, Naijabingo comes in pocket size game slips in attractive colours of Red (for Sunday Games) and Blue (for Wednesday Games). “The current offering is the offline version and requires participants/players to purchase game slips from accredited game shops in their neighbourhood to be eligible to play. In fact, we are really excited to bring Bingo halls to peoples’ homes.” Narrating further, Asuelime explained that two games each are played on Sundays and Wednesdays of every week with each game having six grids containing numbers 1 – 90 and each grid has 15 numbers in them. The aim of the game, he noted, is to mark all the 15 numbers in any grid from the winning numbers for the particular game. Asuelime stated; “The winning numbers to be marked are randomly selected under supervision of officers from Lagos State Consumer Protection Council (LASCOPA) and announced while the players are expected to mark the winning numbers correctly on the corresponding grid on their NaijaBingo® game slip. Once the player correctly marks all the 15 numbers on any of the grids for the game in play, that player has won or will share in the Full House Prize money for that game.”