SIR: On December 7, 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari gave assent to NOUN (Amendment) Act thus paving the way for law graduates of the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) to attend Nigerian Law School. The gesture drew ovations from every nook and cranny of the country not least among the graduates of the university. The 8th Senate had earlier conducted a public-hearing with all the stakeholders including the Council of Legal Education (CLE) during which the latter pointed out that “Correspondence” as mode of learning in the NOUN Act was inconsistent with the rules and regulations guiding the admission into the law school and assured that if rectified, NOUN law graduates will be included for admission into the Nigerian Law School. Consequently, the senate moved into action and after rigorous legislative processes, passed the amendment bill and transmitted it to the president who without any delay gave his assent. On his part, the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu had put all machinery in place to see to the resolution of the conflicts to enable the innocent citizens caught in the quagmire to conclude their academic programme. Regrettably, since the gazette of the NOUN (Amendment) Act few days after its assent by President Buhari which made it an implementable legal instrument, CLE has been allocating admission quotas to its ‘accepted’ universities in the country for vocational training in the Nigerian Law School excluding NOUN. In fact, not less than three sets or sessions had been admitted, concluded and called to the Bar. In addition, the body had publicly invited applications from foreign students for admission into the Nigerian Law School. Meanwhile, law students that graduated from NOUN; a federal institution still roam the streets with no defined offences.  A stakeholder meeting mandated by the presidency finally held for the first time on October 29, at the Federal Ministry of Justice with the Minister of Justice/Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) and management of CLE, Nigerian Law School and NOUN after much pressure. However, it is sad that no communique or resolution has been made public in respect of the meeting. Could the silence be another ploy to keep the students in endless waiting while fresh graduates from other universities are admitted to pursue their legal careers? Sadly, most of the arrowheads behind the maneuvers have their children studying either abroad or in expensive private universities in the country. Or is the Nigerian Law School; a facility owned by the federal government, a personal property of some privileged citizens? Nigeria cannot continue to display ‘commando’ leadership styles, channeling muscles and powers which are most unnecessary. These students didn’t admit themselves into NOUN but by a management legitimately put in place by government. The continued frustration of these innocent law graduates from completing their career is not only insensitive but a big threat to national security. A law degree without vocational training and call to bar is akin to a graduate in aviation, architecture, medical studies and other professional courses without professional endorsement to operate. By implication, these law graduates have been technically encumbered from working, deprived means of livelihoods for many years except those that are already in employment. President Buhari should use his good offices to ensure that the quagmire comes to an end. Enough of the gimmicks and tactical delays!  Lagos.