A military gun truck on Sunday crushed a tricycle popularly called Keke NAPEP in Damaturu, the Yobe State capital, killing two passengers including a female student of the Federal Polytechnic Damaturu. Findings revealed that the accident occurred at a junction along Gashua Road where the military vehicle collided with the tricycle. The accident drew reactions from residents and civil society organisations in the state. Executive Director of CSOs in the state Abubakar Baba Shehu said the position of the CSOs will be made public after investigation. The state government and the military have  vivited the family of the deceased to condole with them. In a statement, the Director General, Press Affairs to Governor Mai Mala Buni, Abdullahi Bego said that the Brigade Commander 27 Task Force Brigade of Nigeria Army and the Commanding Officer 233 Tank Battalion with officials of the state government have visited the family of the deceased. The statement also said that Governor Buni has directed the acting Secretary to the State Government to liaise with the military and commence a full investigation into the matter. Governor Buni also directed that free medical access be given those wounded and receiving treatment at the hospital. The statement reads: “His Excellency Governor Mai Mala Buni has been briefed about an incident in Damaturu yesterday in which a KEKE NAPEP rider with passengers was crushed by a military vehicle in an accident which claimed the lives of two persons. “Already, the Brigade Commander 27 Task Force Brigade, the Commanding Officer 233 Tank Battalion and officials of the State Government have visited and commiserated with the families of the victims. “His Excellency has learnt that one of the victims, Hussaina Baffa Bello was a pre-ND student of the Federal polytechnic Damaturu while the other fatality was a toddler. “Governor Buni’s thoughts, sympathies and prayers are with the families of those who lost their lives and with the victims who sustained injuries. “The governor prays Almighty Allah (SWT) to grant repose to the souls of those who died, fast recovery to those who sustained injuries and fortitude to bear the loss for families of the victims. “His Excellency Governor Buni has directed the office of the acting Secretary to the State Government to liaise with the military in order to have a full investigation and ascertain how the accident happened and how such could be avoided in the future. “The governor has also directed the State Ministry of Health and the Hospitals Management Board to ensure that those who sustained injuries are given access to free medical care”.