All Progressives Congress (APC) has said it has assurances of winning the two governorship seats in Bayelsa and Kogi states come November 16. Speaking on the party’s chances during a chat with The Nation in Abuja over the weekend, the acting National Secretary of the party, Chief Victor Giadom, said all the indices in both states have been positive for the APC, adding that the party is not leaving anything to chances. According to him, while the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State has been losing both leaders and members to the APC in the past weeks, the APC in Kogi has been up and doing sorting out all forms of disagreements within its ranks, all to make sure that the party takes advantage of the positive indices on its plate. He said: “First, I hope you are aware of the crisis in the Bayelsa PDP, to the extent that cabinet commissioners and other appointees of the present government in Bayelsa are finding their way into the All Progressives Congress (APC). That is a clear manifestation of what will be the outcome of the November 16 election in that state. For us in the APC, we are very convinced that with our candidate, David Lyon, our party is well positioned to capture Bayelsa State. “We have no worry about what the outcome will be because democracy or election is about the people. It is the collective decision of the people of Bayelsa that will prevail and looking at what is happening in Bayelsa, it is obvious that Bayelsans are tilting towards the APC. They have tried the PDP for a long time and they appear not to be convinced any longer that that is where to be; so they have emptied themselves into our own party and we are very sure of victory. “For Kogi, we have been able to put everybody together and the party has put a reconciliation meeting in place with aspirants in the party in the state. Everybody is now on board, by the grace of God and we feel come November 16, our party will win Kogi State. Kogi and Bayelsa are up for the APC.” Responding to the insinuation that the APC had been showing signs of failure as a party and might not last beyond the reign of President Muhammadu Buhari, Giadom said such thoughts were only found with those who did not know how solid the party’s foundation was. According to him, the APC is currently devoted to delivering its promises to Nigerians and it will not allow the insinuations redirect its focus from what it considers very important. “Such insinuations were everywhere, before the last election, but APC proved them wrong, all the nay sayers. You don’t stop people from speculating, especially when you have a large family and that is doing as well as APC is doing. You can’t stop them from speculating, but we know our party has a very sound foundation and we have followership and members that can deliver our party any time, any day. “We are not bothered about all that. What our party is concerned about now is delivering on its promises to Nigerians; that is what we are focused on right now, we don’t want to be bothered by speculations of those who don’t know better”, he said.