 MANIFESTING to the meaning of his name, self-styled ‘Africa’s Giant’ Burna Boy, has become the first African Artiste to sell out Wembley Arena (SSE Arena) in London and also win the Best African Act award at the 2019 MTV Europe Music Awards(EMA) on the same night. Following his sold-out show in the SSE Arena, the artiste whose real name is Damini Ogulu, received a plaque from the management of the venue in recognition of this feat. The ‘Anybody’ crooner was not present to pick up his award as he was shutting down the 12,500-seat facility, London’s second largest indoor arena after the O2 Arena and the ninth-largest in the United Kingdom. He however, had a representative pick up the award on his behalf at the star-studded event held in Seville, Spain on Sunday. Burna was nominated alongside fellow Nigerian, Teni the Entertainer, South Africa’s Prince Kaybee,Toofan, Harmonise and Nasty C. With his MTV EMA win, Burna Boy joins the exclusive list of Nigerian superstar artistes who have won the much coveted international honour. Past Nigerian winners of the MTV EMA Best Africa Act award include 2Baba Idibia, D’Banj, Tiwa Savage and Davido. Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director Viacom International Media Networks Africa (VIMN Africa) and BET International, said: “African music continues to make significant contributions to global entertainment and culture. We are proud of and congratulate Burna Boy from Nigeria for winning the Best Africa Act at the MTV EMA, which showcases and celebrates the best talent from the world.” This year is definitely a year of adventure and wins for Burna Boy. Some months ago, he won the Best International Act at the BET Awards. The MTV Europe Music Awards, is an event which can be described as a ‘night for women’ as each category of the awards were dominated by women. When nominations were announced, famous American singer and actress,  Ariana Grande,  led with about seven nominations but surprisingly, she did not win any award. The big winners on the MTV Europe awards were BTS with three awards. Halsey,  Taylor Swift and Billie Eilish also won two awards each. Shawn Mendes also won Best Artiste. Highlights from the MTV EMA award show included MTV EMA Host Becky G teaming up with Senegalese-American superstar Akon for the first global performance of their reggaeton smash “Como No.” The duo rolled down the runway-like stage on gliding carnival floats. The procession was marked with an explosion of colour, 54 dancers and a blend of instruments in a standout moment. The event also had performances by artistes like Halsey, Niall Horan, Dua Lila, Ava Max, Green Day, among others.