 Lagos State Government has said it will begin payment of the new minimum wage of N35,000 with effect from this month. This was contained in a circular dated 27th November, 2019 addressed to heads of all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and signed by the Head of Service (HOS), Hakeem Muri-Okunola. The HOS said the payment of salary for November is delayed beyond the 23rd day circle in order to process payment of the new wage. “The consequential increase of the new minimum wage for senior and management grade levels is as follows: GL 07: 30 per cent; GL 08-10: 25 per cent; GL 12-14: 22.5 per cent and GL 15-17: 20 per cent,” Muri-Okunola said. He said the approved minimum wage and consequential adjustments are more than the Federal Government’s approved recommendation, which demonstrates the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration’s commitment to workers’ welfare. The HOS urged civil/public servants to show “commitment, dedication and selflessness in the delivery of qualitative service to the citizens of Lagos, whose fulfilment of tax obligations largely contributes to the payment of these salaries. “In addition, public servants are expected to give unalloyed support to the state government’s agenda, as we collectively strive to actualise set goals.” Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has said that his administration would give the issue of the consequential salary adjustment for the new minimum wage very serious and positive consideration. He spoke yesterday at the inauguration of the permanent secretariat of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN), at Magbon in Abeokuta. Prince Abiodun said that his administration had always prioritised workers’ welfare and would continue to ensure that the civil bureaucracy enjoyed all the benefits due it. “Our civil servants have been well attended to since we came to office. I have listened patiently and taken note of a number of your requests, including the new minimum wage implementation,” he said. The governor said that his administration would give consideration to people’s welfare. The other issues the governor promised to ‘positively consider’ relate to “the hurriedly recruited candidates through ASCON, the support for your effort in putting up this building; the issue of Certificate of Occupancy; the promise made by the previous administration towards the infrastructure of the housing estate for senior civil servants…let me assure you that all these and other issues will be given very serious and positive consideration.” Abiodun added: “For us as a government, we will not take our public servants for granted because they are equal stakeholders in our building our future agenda together. We are committed to the welfare of our workers in terms of prompt payment of salaries, workers emoluments, human capacity development and other welfare schemes.” He said that his administration would ensure that the promise made by the previous administration towards providing basic infrastructure for the 51-unit housing estate was fulfilled. The governor called for the continued support of his administration from public servants, saying: “On the promise that was made by the previous administration towards the infrastructure of your housing estate, let me assure you that it will be given very serious and positive consideration. All we ask for is the continued support, cooperation and dedication of all our public servants,” he said. The National President of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN), Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama, represented by the Vice-President, Comrade Kennis Ngene, thanked the governor for providing an enabling environment for the association to thrive, adding that the inauguration of the secretariat was a legacy for the future.