Yinka Adeniran, Ibadan The Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport, Mr Abdulfatai Buhari has said, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola couldn’t have said Nigerian roads are not in deplorable conditions. He added that his recent meeting with the minister in his office showed that Fashola knew and understood that many roads across the country need serious attention. He said Fashola had presented him with a list of about 3,800 roads across the country that needed urgent attention, but that budgetary approval was only made for 500 roads. Buhari, who represents Oyo North Senatorial District of Oyo state spoke on Sunday while fielding questions from reporters after attending a Thanksgiving Service in honour of Mrs Bimbo Oladeji, representing Ogbomosho North State Constituency. The service which was held at Masifa Baptist Church, Citadel of Glory, Ogbomoso was attended by dignitaries including Ex-Governor Christopher Alao-Akala, Senator Ayo Adeseun, all the members of the state house of Assembly, Dr Samson Adegoke (Megida), friends and associates of the two-term lawmaker Speaking on the state of the road, Buhari noted that although Fashola had identified over three thousand roads for attention, the five hundred arrived at was a product of prioritisations and spread across the country. He said “The state of our roads are really horrible. If you look at this years budget, N260billion has been budgeted for roads in Nigeria, but I must be honest with you, the road so far are deplorable all over the country. From the North, West, East and South, it is horrible. But, the money is not enough to do the job that is prioritise. “Like the Trunk A roads in the Southwest for example today, it is Lagos to Ibadan, Ibadan to Ogbomosho and Ogbomosho to Ilorin, those are the ones picked, which are Trunk A roads in the region. “The same thing with the Eastern Bypass in Owerri, South-South and other regions. “You know in Nigeria, we prioritise and politicise everything. If you pick a particular section, other sections will not look at the benefits that will go to human beings generally and those to enjoy the use, they will say you are bias because you belong to a particular place. “About five days ago, I was with Fashola and we were discussing the state of Nigerian roads, he brought out a list, over 3,800 roads were listed, but the money that is available can only repair 500 roads and and the 500 roads must be spread and not put in a particular section of the country. “That is what is happening. I can assure you that, it may take sometimes, we will reach there. On Ministers Fashola’s comment on the state of the roads has been exaggerated, the Senator said, “He (Fashola) has never said that. I was with him five days ago, he even showed me the map and the plottings of their priorities. If he had said that, he won’t show me the map or their priorities, he won’t even tell me we have over 3,000 roads that needed attention. “The only thing he said to me when I was there was that, what they met is not what it is now, that they have achieved a lot. “You will even agree that before January next, the Oyo-Ogbomosho road would have gone very far because it is in the budget. “What the Minister told me was that before next year, he will try and work hard to ensure that the road project advance. There are several roads that needs attention, but with the prioritisation, it will help work.” In a remark, Ex-Governor Akala called on politicians to be loyal and consistent in their dealings and make sure they give effective representations to their constitutes. While commending the celebrator for representing her constituency well in the state Assembly, Akala warned politicians to shun the habit of neglecting their sources after attaining electoral victory.. In her remarks, Oladeji said the event is to thank her constituency for their support, adding that she has benefited immensely from the support of their Ex-Akala and would always stand by him.