 Policemen said to be driving against traffic on the Long Bridge end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on November 18 must have forgotten that the law is no respecter of persons. But now that their action has claimed two lives, they would realise that their uniform is not a licence to commit illegality; it is actually a symbol of law and authority. Apparently they would have got away with the crime if they had not killed in the process because many of their colleagues who should have called them to order or got them arrested would merely have looked the other way. The vehicle in which the policemen were travelling, a Toyota Hilux van with number plate GGE 960 DD crushed two motorcyclists on a Bajaj motorcycle with number plate MEK 418 VH to death on the Long Bridge end of the expressway at about 10.05 a.m. The policemen immediately took to their heels even as other motorcyclists mourning the dead threatened to burn their van while emergency responders moved in and took the injured to the hospital. The remains of the deceased were deposited at the Lagos State Emergency Centre at the old tollgate area. According to the Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ogun State, Clement Oladele, “Three people were involved in the accident, one died and the two injured victims were rescued to the Lagos State Emergency Centre, Ojota, Lagos. The body of the dead was deposited in the hospital’s mortuary.  “The suspected cause of the accident was route violation as the driver of the vehicle was speeding, while driving against the traffic. The vehicles involved were a white Toyota Hilux pickup van with number plate GGE 960 DD and a Bajaj motorcycle with number plate MEK 418 VH.” However, the spokesperson for the police in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said two passengers died, while the motorcyclist sustained injuries and was rushed to hospital, where he was responding to treatment. Here, the number of fatalities is not really important. Even if the accident recorded only one fatality, it was bad enough. What is paramount is why the policemen should be driving against traffic in the first place. While it might be too early to be judgmental on the matter, especially as we are not sure whether the policemen involved have turned themselves in or they’ve been arrested, it is not out of place to say that driving against traffic is common among all our security agents. As a matter of fact, virtually every person in one uniform or the other sees himself or herself as above the law. This impunity is common among the military men, policemen, and even in some instances, traffic officials. Yet, there are rules of engagement, even when these officials are on emergency assignments. As Oyeyemi noted, driving against the traffic is a serious offence and not even security agents or ambulances could do this except when on emergency. Even then, the vehicles must be security vehicles or ambulances that must carry a sign that they are on emergency assignment. In this particular instance, there was no such evidence; at least none yet has been presented to the public. This is why the police authorities must get the suspects arrested. This should not be difficult, especially since the vehicle was registered and branded, as Oyeyemi said. We align with the Ogun State Commissioner of Police’s order that everything must be done to get those involved. It is not enough to seize the vehicle. The owner/driver must be traced and made to face justice to serve as a deterrent to other law enforcement agents who take the laws into their hands. Policemen are law enforcers; they should therefore not be the very people breaking the law.