Gbenga Omokhunu and Jennifer Obasuke, Abuja Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister of State Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, has threatened to revoke undeveloped plots in all the resettlement sites to pave way for speedy development in various sites across the nation’s capital. However, the minister assured that the FCT Administration will not jettison the Resettlement Scheme despite challenges being faced. The vision of President Muhammadu Bahari’s administration, according to her, is to embark on completion of all abandoned and ongoing projects. Aliyu issued the threats on Friday at Shere Galuwyi Resettlement site while on tour of facilities in Bwari Area of Abuja. She called on allottees to commence development and directed the Satellite Towns Development Department, (STDD) to evolve measures that would fast track completion of Mpape, Shere-Galuwyi road project. She affirmed that the Mpape, Shere and Galuwyi road was one of the major satellite roads that if completed would boost the economic life of Bwari residents and FCT as a whole, while regretting that the project that had started in 2006, has not reached appreciable stage. According to her, the marching order on the 19 kilometer road was in line with president Muhammadu Buhari led administration’s determination to deliver dividends of democracy to the people including residents of the Territory. Speaking further on the Galuwyi resettlement site, the minister called on Directors of Resettlement Department and Satellite Towns Development Department, to synergize and come up with processes that would provide the enabling environment for the people to move in. “All the people that have allocations in Galuwyi should hesten up work on them, by doing so more developmental projects will come. But if they are having some challenges they should channel them to us. “Economic life of these people that will stay in this place must be taken into consideration. So all the Secretariat should do the needful for us to have head way here. No body will be happy to pack in here without the basic social amenities on ground” she said. While at Bwari Area Council Secretariat, the chairman of the council, Hon. John Gabaya, called on the youths to embrace peace, stressing that the FCT Administration will only attract developments to the council in an atmosphere of peace. The council boss thanked the FCT Minister of State for the visit, just as he pledged to support the administration irrespective of political differences.