The Medical Director, Jericho Hospitals, with branches at Mafoluku, Oshodi, Lagos and Sango-Ota, Ogun State, Dr. Adebayo Boye, in this interview with Omolara  Akintoye, explains why pregnant women should avoid self-medication and why they need to take their routine drugs during pregnancy IGNORANCE, people say, is a silent killer and even in this present age, it is still affecting a lot of individuals. Some pregnant women are still ignorant as recent developments have it that most of them still have miscarriages, which could have been avoided if they are adequately informed. Miscarriage, according to Boye, refers to the spontaneous ending of a pregnancy before the 20th week of gestation. Recent reports have it that miscarriage happens in 10 to 25 percent of all pregnancies. Causes of miscarriage, Boye said, are numerous, ranging from gross malformation of the foetus (baby in the womb). Example is gene abnormality occurring in either parents or abnormal implantation of the foetus; general medical diseases of the mother, such as severe fever (malaria and typhoid fever), syphilis, diabetes  (uncontrolled),  severe hypertension, chronic kidney diseases, gross malnutrition; hormonal insufficiency – some chemicals essential for growth and stability of pregnancy may not be enough, like progesterone. Thyroid deficiency may also cause miscarriages; womb abnormalities – (a) hereditary malformation like double womb, multiple fibroids, injury to the cervix, either during dilatation for painful menses (dysmenorrhoea) or operation for incomplete miscarriages or termination of pregnancy. Others include: trauma – miscarriage may follow abdominal operation to the womb or the eggs (ovaries) – operation like myomectory for fibroid and oophorectomy of egg tumour/growth; accidental injuries like road traffic accident from cars, bus or motorcycle or domestic accident – slip on the floor at home. Emotional disturbance – miscarriage sometimes appears to follow emotional disturbance such as fright or sudden bereavement and finally drugs that induce strong womb contraction in early pregnancy (names withheld). “From the above, there are avoidable/unavoidable causes. By trying to prevent febrile infection during pregnancy most especially malaria, control of diabetes and hypertension and prevention of malnourished state, also to try as much as from accident-prone situations (b)pregnant women should be advised to stay off drugs without prescription from doctors and avoid self-medications,” he warned.  But recent causes of miscarriage have it that lifestyle factor such as living in the city can trigger miscarriage. To prevent miscarriage, Boye said the risk of women having miscarriages can be reduced if women do the following: Not smoking tobacco during pregnancy; not drinking alcoholic beverages during pregnancy; eating a well-balanced and healthy diet; avoiding contaminated foods while pregnant as these may cause food poisoning and increase the risk of miscarriage; attaining your healthy or optimum weight before conceiving; treating the identifiable causes such as antiphospholipid syndrome or weakened cervix may also prevent miscarriage. This leads to why pregnant women to an extent need to take their routine drugs as prescribed. Boye said routine drugs should forestall complications or morbidity during pregnancy, delivery and post-delivery. According to him, the benefit of taking their drugs both mother/child especially in pregnancy will contribute to a wholesome development of the child. “Folic acid supplement for instance is very effective for embryo development. Haematinics containing iron, multivitamin, folic acid, nicotinamide, copper, calcium, manganese and magnesium sulphate are all essential for the growth of the baby and prevention of anaemia during pre and post delivery.  Magnesium sulphate is for the prevention of pregnancy-induced hypertension, while prophylaxis is for the prevention of malaria at six months and eight months respectively,” he concluded.