The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, David Lyon, has reiterated his determination to succeed Governor Seriake Dickson during the November 16 poll. MIKE ODIEGWU reports.  David Pereworimini Lyon, the standard bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State was born on December 20, 1970. The 49-year-old Lyon grew up from the oil-rich creeks of Olugbobiri in Southern Ijaw, the largest Local Government Area in Bayelsa State. For Lyon, growing up was difficult. But, he conquered the challenges through hard work, diligence and never-say-die spirit. “I had a humble upbringing and grew up among a people that emphasised love, hard work, diligence, peaceful coexistence and principle-centered living,” he said. Following his love for education, Lyon toiled and through self-help attended St. Gabriel’s State School 1, Olugbobiri where he obtained the First School Leaving Certificate (FSLC). He went to studied at the Community Secondary School, Olugbobiri, where he sat for the West African School Certificate Examination (WASCE). His desire for higher education propelled him to get admission at the Rivers State College of Education where he obtained the National Certificate of Education (NCE) in Mathematics and Chemistry. Lyon, who is married with three children, was famous for engaging oil multinationals operating in his community to live up to their social responsibilities to Olugbobiri became an oil industry player, especially in the security sub-sector when he proffered lasting solutions to illegal oil bunkering, pipeline vandalism and illegal refining of crude oil, which were rampant in Southern Ijaw. A public analyst and environmental rights activist, Alagoa Morris, said Lyon’s formula saved the operations of the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC), which had threatened to pull out of the area, following unchecked economic crimes and sabotage by oil thieves. “It was later I got to know that it was David Lyon’s effort that actually led to the gradual reduction in Local refinery operations in the headquarters of the business. Until now, you will not see any local refinery site or camp in Southern Ijaw local government. This has reduced oil industry related pollution in Southern Ijaw local government area and by extension; Bayelsa State and Niger Delta. It has also led to increases in 13 per cent derivation for Bayelsa State. “In fact, before then, the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) threatened to stop operations in its swamp area, which was largely Southern Ijaw local government. This was attributed to the level of oil theft, illegal bunkering and local refinery activities, and, NAOC was not meeting up when compared with expenses in the area. That also threatened how much Bayelsa received from 13 per cent derivation monthly.” Indeed, Lyon, a Christian,  has been a successful businessman and has deliberately and consistently grown and expanded his business empire. He once worked as a foreman in Western Geophysical Company Ltd. But he is now the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Darlon Oil and Gas Nigeria Ltd, Darlon Group Nig.Ltd, and Arutex and Sons Nig. Ltd. Commenting on Lyon’s entrepreneurial skills, Morris said: “Actually, David Lyon has been in business, as astute businessman, who has demonstrated dexterity in same. He has successfully managed his business; unlike some sailing politicians, who have since abandoned their professions and relied completely on our commonwealth, which they can get only in politics. Some of them are lawyers but their law firms are on lock and key, gathering dust and all the monies they are making comes from politicking. “In addition to stopping the local refinery operations, Lyon’s company has given employment to many people, mostly youths, in our communities. Over 5,000 persons have been so engaged. During my recent trip to one of the communities in Boma Clan, I was informed about 80 youths of the community are employed by the security company associated with David Lyon. This is highly commendable; when juxtaposed with the fact that not even local, state or federal government has that record in our communities.” On his contributions to the economy of Bayelsa as an individual, Lyon said: “I have partnered with multinational oil companies to generate employment for legions of youths in the state. In fact, my company, Darlong Security Company Nigeria Limited, is the highest employer of labour in Bayelsa State, after the state government. It is also the single most contributor to the Internally Generated Revenue by any indigenous firm in Bayelsa.” Lyon is not a political neophyte or a rookie in politics. His search for a bigger platform to effect social change and transformation compelled him to join politics in the Third Republic. As a member of the defunct, National Republican Congress (NRC), he contested and won a councilorship election at Ward 4 in Southern Ijaw. But the military incursion aborted his tenure in 1997. But, Lyon would not give up. He said: “I continued my political journey and became a founding member of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Southern Ijaw. My dexterity, astuteness and collaborative skills in politics paid off when I was appointed as the Caretaker Committee Chairman of Apoi Olodiama Local Government Development Center in year 2000. “My brief tenure as Caretaker Committee Chairman witnessed an unprecedented surge in development, peace and stability. I am a card carrying and financial member of the All Progressive Congress (APC), who is committed to the governance values and transformation programmes of the party”. Undoubtedly, during the trying times of the APC in Bayelsa, Lyon was said to have stood as its main financier. He kept the flag of the party flying and eventually won the admiration of most party members. Lyon is also known for his philanthropic gestures. Through his David Lyon Foundayion (DLF), he has been floating a functional scholarship schemes with beneficiaries drawn from the eight local government areas of the state. He provides regular financial and material assistance to the elderly, widows, physically-challenged persons and other needy individuals. On Lyon’s philanthropy, Morris said: “David Lyon has done much without regard to where beneficiaries come from. Through the David Lyon Foundation, he has reached out with scholarship to indigent students in secondary and tertiary institutions in all the eight local government areas of Bayelsa State. Some of these beneficiaries are in the best private Universities. “Just to mention two of such students who are studying Medicine and Surgery. He takes the elderly and physically-challenged along in his stride of generosity. Most politicians who have benefited from fat constituency funds from our commonwealth cannot even do some of these things David Lyon has continued to do for about ten years. “This gesture by David Lyon is unlike those of some selfish politicians who would want to display some levels of philanthropy when it is close to election simply because they are targeting some political office. They disappear if they fail until another election approaches.” Lyon said: “I am a core philanthropist that have extended help to several communities and individuals in terms of scholarship, bursary, construction and rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, payment of hospital bills, disaster intervention programmes, amongst others.” Morris, however, mocked persons alleging that the APC candidate lacked the ability to express himself in English Language. He wondered how he could sit atop a business group conducting his transactions globally without communicating effectively. He said: “Bayelsans, who see David Lyon as their choice for Creek Haven  as Governor after Seriake Dickson should be rest assured that those petty issues of him not being educated or cannot speak English fluently show his detractors and opposition are only displaying how  jittery they are and have nothing else against him. “Yet, they are dead wrong. Was it in Ijaw language that he addressed the media; Their antics are well known; one of which is,  give a dog bad name so as to kill it. I am not campaigning here for David Lyon, as I have not met him one-on-one in life before and nobody from his political party or camp has reached out to Alagoa Morris. “All I am concerned is that Bayelsans have been paying for darkness for too long. No portable water. Our communities are still largely dependent on the rivers for drinking water as in the days of Isaac Boro. “They still lack functional health and educational facility. No good transport system, suffering serious coastal erosion and flooding, among others. Governor Dickson has done his best for the state, becoming the very first to serve eight years. Posterity will judge how far. Come 16th November, 2019 as the electorate exercise their franchise; let it be the ballot and not the bullet”. ‘ Governor Dickson has done his best for the state, becoming the very first to serve eight years. Posterity will judge how far. Come 16th November, 2019 as the electorate exercise their franchise; let it be the ballot and not the bullet ’