Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja  In their bid to evolve a uniform and effective public service delivery system for the 19 All Progressives Congress (APC) states, the third Federal Government(FG)/Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) Parley on Policy Synergy has been scheduled to hold next week Monday. Announcing the meeting in a statement issued in Abuja yesterday, the PGF, the forum of governors on the APC platform, said the parley would hold in Jos, the Plateau State capital, adding that President Muhammadu Buhari is expected as Special Guest of Honour at the event. The statement, which was signed by the Director-General of the PGF, Salihu Moh Lukman, also said the governors of the 19 APC states, principal officers of the National Assembly as well as APC legislators, Ministers of Internal Affairs, Transport, Education, Humanitarian Affairs and Minister of State for Health, would be expected as participants. According to the statement, the programme is aimed at refocusing public service delivery at the local government level and it will see to the birthing of a common service delivery framework for all the 19 state, including the new addition, Bayelsa State. “The 3rd FG – PGF Parley on Policy Synergy is scheduled to hold on Monday, November 25, 2019 in Jos, Plateau State. The theme for the parley is: Strengthening Public Service Delivery. “The aim is to facilitate the development of a commonly shared service delivery framework for local governments, effective oversight from States and synergy with the Federal governments that would reposition the local governments for excellent public service delivery to achieve the fundamental goals of local governance. “The President, HE Muhammadu Buhari GCFR will be the Special Guest of Honour. Participants expected at the parley include 19 Progressive Governors, Principal Officers of National Assembly & APC Legislators, Ministers of Internal Affairs, Transport, Education, Humanitarian Affairs and Minister of State for Health. “Other participants are EFCC Chairman, Director, Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit, Executive Secretary, Universal Basic Education Commission (UBE), Executive Secretary, National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA) and many other government functionaries invited from the 19 APC controlled states. “The Parley will focus on five key areas: Internal Security, Education, Transport, Health and Social Investment. Accordingly, the Ministers of Internal Affairs, Transport, Education, State for Health and Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management will make presentations at the parley. “Some agencies under the above ministries like Primary Health Care Development Agency, Universal Basic Education Commission, Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission will join the ministers to highlight priority issues to be considered as components of the commonly shared service delivery framework for local governments in all APC states. “At the end of the FG – PGF Parley, some understanding will emerge on required actions needed to institute commonly shared service delivery framework for local governments, which will influence programmatic relations between FG and APC states in the area of strengthening local governance. “Some new initiatives that APC states can act upon towards instituting new efficient management models would also emerge for Forum’s further consideration and approval”, statement said.