The governorship candidate of the African Democratic Party (ADC) in the last governorship election in Ogun State, Chief Gboyega Nasir Isiaka has said the Believe Movement, have “total confidence that the present administration is taking the state to a higher pedestal”. He said although he contested under the ADC, he cannot speak for the party and its direction in the present political arrangement. Isiaka, who spoke after leading his political movement on a visit to Governor Dapo Abiodun in his office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, said with what is on ground, the administration was moving in the right direction. Said he: “I am not ADC. I only contested on the platform of the ADC. But I am a very strong member of the ADC. ADC has its national and statement chairmen but I have come because I led a political movements into ADC some months ago, So, I have come here on the platform of that movement” He added: “Majority of us are ADC, but we are not here to talk about the ADC because ADC has its own procedure of going about things. Let me assure you that positive things between the relationship of the Believe Movement and the APC will happen soon”. Isiaka was accompanied by former chairman of the PDP, Chief Joju Fadairo; the three ADC members House of Assembly – Adegoke Olusesis Adeyanju) Egbado North I; Aruna Lawal (Egbado North II) and Jemili Akingbade (Imeko/Afon). Other are a former Commissioner for Women Affairs, Chief Mary Ogunjobi, and Mr. Yemi Sodimu, broadcaster and former Special Adviser on Information under former Governor Gbenga Daniel. Isiaka said: “We came to see our Governor as a way of moving our relationship forward. We had interactions with our people all over the State and they mandated us to come and talk with our Governor. All the areas that needed clarification, we have gotten them. So we need to go back to them and within the next couple of days, the full outcome of this meeting would be made to the public. “We are very confident because the morning shows the night from what we have seen in five months. If we have not seen positive signs, we probably would not have graduated our relationship. I have come with the leadership of my political structure all across the state. This is to signify the fact that we are very confident and happy the way government is going about putting the State in a greater scale.”