Are there secrets that Nigerian casinos don’t want you to know about? There sure are, a new website called FOX9JA has discovered. And now they are releasing their findings to the general public so that they know about them. These secrets can take many forms. For some casinos, it involved hiding their true size. In certain circumstances, some casinos look like huge companies that are rolling in money. In actuality, they are tiny firms. Other casinos look like small local operators but are huge multi-national companies.  FOX9JA takes a look at them and reveals the truth about which is which. This allows consumers to look at a full package of information and make up their own minds about where they want their money to go. The company also looks at the profits each casino makes every year, from the lowest bottom lines to the major operators that claim financial gains as much as 20 times more than the smaller casinos.  The Bet9Ja review offers up some interesting information. The bonus is 100 percent matching funds up to 1,000 naira. You have to make a deposit of at least 100 naira to take up this bonus. This results in receiving a Bet9Ja free bet just for signing up. unlike the Bet9Ja bonus, you have to make only at least 50100 naira for your first deposit to be credited with matching funds from Betting. But once you do, you will receive those matching funds up to 100,000 naira. So, this is the place to go if you have the big money to spend on your first deposit. Nairabet in contrast to Bet9Ja only requires a minimum deposit of 50 naira to be given your matching funds. And they will match your first deposit up to 50,000 naira. That’s a decent deal and certainly better than signing up for up to 1,000 naira.  Merrybet’s bonus offer is strange. For one they don’t give you any matching funds. Instead what they do is give you 5% of your weekly losses back to you. But you have to opt in to this program to venture into it, or your losses will not be recorded for the promotion. What they will do is ask you to refer a friend. If you do so you will get 50% of their first loss deposited right into your account. Also, FOX9JA reveals that if you bet for a while and just ask Merrybet they will give you a free betting voucher. Another factor looked at by FOX9JA is how large the bets are at each casino. To give an instance, a casino that processes nothing but super large bets might have an edge to insiders. Casinos on the other hand who are only taking in smaller bets might be much more accessible to the common man.  FOX9JA goes behind the scenes to see what’s happening. The information is presented so as to be clear and concise for the average consumer to understand. Of particular note, there is a graphic that compares the profits for each casino that operates in Nigeria. This is the data that Nigerian casinos wanted to be kept private. They could have kept this data to themselves but decided that releasing it would be the best idea.  Knowing these secrets is vital to consumers. Just take a look at the Bet9Ja free bet and compare it to others. You’ll see that if you are a high stakes player there are better places to go to. This is the type of information people need to have at their fingertips when they are betting in Nigeria.  