Two domestic workers, who allegedly stole a Cuban diamond jewellery, a Frank Muller and Rolex wristwatches worth N243 million belonging to their employer, have been arrested. Alex Obinyan, 39, a cleaner and Ayuba Samson, 29, a car washer, were nabbed on Wednesday in Borno State after fleeing their master’s Lekki, Lagos residence. They were arrested after selling the Cuban diamond chain and Frank Muller wristwatch for N6 million and N4 million in Lagos and Abuja. Police declined to give the name of their employer, who The Nation learnt, is a popular celebrity with vast investments in Lekki, Lagos. Obinyan was said to have spent eight years working and living with the celebrity in Lekki before the incident. His colleague, Samson started working at the celebrity’s residence two months ago after returning from Chibok, his home town. They were on N80,000 and N50,000 monthly salaries. The suspects, who were captured on the Closed Circuit (CCTV) leaving the celebrity’s residence, have confessed to stealing the Cuban Diamond Chain valued at N54 million, a Frank Moller Wristwatch worth N140 million and a Rolex wristwatch worth N49 million. According to Obinyan, they sold the Cuban Diamond Chain at Eti-Osa, Lagos for N6 million while the Frank Moller watch was sold in Abuja for N4 million. RRS quoted him as saying: “I have been working with him (celebrity) in Lekki for over eight years. I am used to moving those valuables around the house wherever I found them in his car. I have never thought of stealing them. “When Samson came and he saw me with the gold chain laced with diamonds, he convinced me that we could make a fortune from stealing them. He was not with us before. Within two months of his stay, we planned to steal these things. “Oga was in the sitting room. We stole the chain along with a Frank Moller wristwatch and a Rolex wristwatch. Before escaping, we already got a buyer for the chain. We sold the Cuban Diamond chain at Eti-Osa for N6 million. “The following day, we escaped to Abuja where we bought a Toyota Corolla. We sold the Frank Moller watch in Abuja for N4 million to raise more money for our escape to Borno State, where we intended to start new lives and businesses”. Obinyan in his letter to the celebrity informing him of his departure reads in parts, “…I know you will be shock why I write to you but the truth is that due to some quite observation I have come to a notice that you are not a person that someone can rely on. I have been patient enough to see if you can help me but you keep on promising me up to now there is no avale. “To cut the story short, I have decided to stop working for you, and I’m sorry to mention that but you have to bear with me. I have gone for good, because I cannot continue to work for a person that doesn’t care about me and doesn’t value me for the rest of my life”. RRS said the suspects were arrested in Maiduguri. Also arrested were the buyers of the items. RRS Commander Olatunji Disu, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) urged Lagosians to always do a background check of all their workers before employing them.