By Our Reporter  The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) urged Nigerians, especially Muslims, to espouse peace with their neighbours and eschew hate as they observe today’s Eid-ul-Maulud celebration. In a statement by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC said: “…This special day is very significant for all Muslims and, indeed, all lovers of peace, a noble virtue which embodies the life and times of the Prophet. “We urge all Muslims in particular and Nigerians in general to continue to live together in peace, be law-abiding and eschew hate and bitterness to enable us build a country that we can all be proud of. “Our nation is currently going through multifarious challenges, which the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration is working hard and succeeding in fixing one after the other. And only an atmosphere of peace and sacrifices and love for the fatherland, which Prophet Mohammed exemplified in his lifetime, can make this happen.” House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila advised Nigerian Muslims to pray for continuous peaceful coexistence in the country. In a statement by his Special Adviser (SA) on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said: “I join millions of Nigerians to congratulate our Muslim brothers and sisters for witnessing this year’s Eid-Maulud. It is indeed an occasion worth celebrating. “I urge our countrymen and women, especially Muslims, to use the occasion to pray for our country at this time of our development.”  Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi urged Nigerians to remain prayerful for the sustenance of peace, unity and progress of the country. In a goodwill message, the governor felicitated with President Muhammadu Buhari and other Muslim faithful on the Eid-ul-Maulud celebration. He said the Islamic event reinvigorates the virtues of faith, sacrifice, obedience, love, tolerance, charity and peaceful co-existence, which exemplified the deeds and teachings of Holy Prophet Muhammad. Ugwuanyi advised Nigerians to have faith in God and sustain the prayers for peace, unity and progress of the country. Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu (SAN) congratulated Muslims in the state on the celebration of the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. He said: “…As a nation, we have had our own share of challenges, some of which are not too detached from religious extremism, bigotry as well as lust for materialism. These can only be avoidable vices if we imbibe the true teachings of the Holy Prophet, as enunciated in the Holy Qur’an. “Despite these challenges, our collective hope lies in the true teachings of the Holy Prophet and those whose strong faith in such teachings have contributed in no measure to social harmony. We shall overcome as long as our faith in Almighty Allah remains unshaken.” The need for Muslims to renew their commitment to religious harmony was the centre of advice from Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule. The governor urged Muslim faithful to always promote religious harmony and values for peaceful co-existence. A statement yesterday in Lafia, the state capital, by his Director General, Strategic Communications and Press Affairs Mallam Yakubu Lamai, quoted the governor as saying that equitable development as well as political and national stability can only be guaranteed when people embrace dialogue, mutual understanding and empathy. Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade has urged Muslims to show love to one another and imbibe the virtues of perseverance and tolerance.