Oyewola Soji, SIR: Writing about the deplorable condition of Oyo/Ogbomoso federal road is repeating one line-poem severally for the deaf and dumb to recite. But we must keep talking until we are heard and the road is rehabilitated. We have to say however, that when a poor man blows the alarm, he receives a poor response, but people are dying on the road. Goods worth billions of naira perish on daily basis. It is rather appalling that the oldest and shortest route between the southwest and northern part of Nigeria is this bad! Neglect of timely repairs makes rebuilding necessary. Apapa port is the busiest of all the five seaports in our country. Goods cleared there from are usually conveyed on Lagos – Ibadan – Oyo – Ogbomoso – Ilorin road. The heavy weight of these goods causes damages to the road to the extent that it is now a death trap. Whereas billions of naira are budgeted for the construction and rehabilitation of roads yearly, what Nigerians get is perfidy from the men in the corridors of power. It is a shame! The eye sees not itself except by reflection. More shameful is the fact that the 20km Odo Oba – Egbeda axis of the federal road that encompasses Ogbomoso, the second largest city in Oyo State after Ibadan is a failed road. Meandering through it takes an eternity if one survives. Many prominent indigenes of the town and promising youths, leaders of tomorrow have had their lives cut short there. Bread winners of many families have been felled by death on the road too. Their wives and children have literally become mendicants. It was gathered in 2009 that Ipeba- Eyenkorin axis of the Ibadan – Ilorin (old) road was going to be dualized. Same should be revisited with a view to putting an end to carnages on the road. It will equally expose the aesthetic of Ogbomoso and adjoining towns therein. The federal government of Nigeria should as a matter of urgency, declare a state of emergency on Nigerian roads. They are all tarred with the same brush. Motorable road is one of the dividends of democracy that are sine qua non to the citizenry Noblesse oblige.  <adexsoj4581@gmail.com>