THE ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), has reacted badly to the voiding of its state and national elections victories in Zamfara State by the Supreme Court. The apex court had upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal which judged that the APC did not present candidates in the said polls because it flouted the rules. The party had been sundered by internal squabbles, leading to the presentation of candidates in complete violation of party constitution and the Electoral Act. But party chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, has described the apex court’s decision giving victory to the PDP as ‘imposing strangers’ on Zamfara State. He came to this conclusion because the APC appeared to have cleared the polls when they were held in February and March. He, however, said nothing of the drastic and unlawful manoeuvres engineered by the departing governor, Abdulaziz Yari, to impose candidates on the party. Nor did he say anything about how he also resisted imposition and tried valiantly to ensure the party did the right thing in other states. Similarly, Itse Sagay, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and professor of law, has asked the party to approach the apex court to give the jurists an opportunity to reverse their decisions on the Zamfara and Rivers State cases. He cites some legal authorities to underscore his conclusion that the court based its judgement wholly on technicalities without delivering justice. But he was generally silent on the perverse politicking that led the APC down the road of impunity, nor did he try to justify why an errant party should be rewarded or placated by the courts simply because an election had been concluded, an election that at first seemed to favour them. The eminent law teacher also said nothing about why the party should not in fact be punished for flouting the law and hoping to profit from impunity. The APC does not seem to be prodigiously litigious. But if the case should be reopened, the apex court should hurl it back at the appellants with fury. The problem was neither the law nor the judgement of the eminent jurists. The problem was a pampered party that hoped to deploy executive influence to profit from illegality. The message must be sent loud and clear that in no circumstance would the law countenance the kind of malfeasant behaviour indulged in by the APC in Zamfara and Rivers. The law is the law. In any case, technicality, for as long as it is still a part of the laws of Nigeria must not be demonised. The APC was punished for its errors; the case must, therefore, remain closed. If the party decides to fritter away their members’ dues by engaging in unnecessary and sentimental legal adventures, the party chairman should be held responsible. If they put their house in order next time, present the right candidates, and appeal to the needs and conscience of the electorate in subsequent election seasons, there is no reason for them to lose elections, or lose with ignominy when they don’t win, or for the courts to judicially steal their victories or impale them on the spike of legal technicalities. THE ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), has reacted badly to the voiding of its state and national elections victories in Zamfara State by the Supreme Court. The apex court had upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal which judged that the APC did not present candidates in the said polls because it flouted the rules. The party had been sundered by internal squabbles, leading to the presentation of candidates in complete violation of party constitution and the Electoral Act. But party chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, has described the apex court’s decision giving victory to the PDP as ‘imposing strangers’ on Zamfara State. He came to this conclusion because the APC appeared to have cleared the polls when they were held in February and March. He, however, said nothing of the drastic and unlawful manoeuvres engineered by the departing governor, Abdulaziz Yari, to impose candidates on the party. Nor did he say anything about how he also resisted imposition and tried valiantly to ensure the party did the right thing in other states. Similarly, Itse Sagay, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and professor of law, has asked the party to approach the apex court to give the jurists an opportunity to reverse their decisions on the Zamfara and Rivers State cases. He cites some legal authorities to underscore his conclusion that the court based its judgement wholly on technicalities without delivering justice. But he was generally silent on the perverse politicking that led the APC down the road of impunity, nor did he try to justify why an errant party should be rewarded or placated by the courts simply because an election had been concluded, an election that at first seemed to favour them. The eminent law teacher also said nothing about why the party should not in fact be punished for flouting the law and hoping to profit from impunity. The APC does not seem to be prodigiously litigious. But if the case should be reopened, the apex court should hurl it back at the appellants with fury. The problem was neither the law nor the judgement of the eminent jurists. The problem was a pampered party that hoped to deploy executive influence to profit from illegality. The message must be sent loud and clear that in no circumstance would the law countenance the kind of malfeasant behaviour indulged in by the APC in Zamfara and Rivers. The law is the law. In any case, technicality, for as long as it is still a part of the laws of Nigeria must not be demonised. The APC was punished for its errors; the case must, therefore, remain closed. If the party decides to fritter away their members’ dues by engaging in unnecessary and sentimental legal adventures, the party chairman should be held responsible. If they put their house in order next time, present the right candidates, and appeal to the needs and conscience of the electorate in subsequent election seasons, there is no reason for them to lose elections, or lose with ignominy when they don’t win, or for the courts to judicially steal their victories or impale them on the spike of legal technicalities.