The fate that has befallen Nigeria since that date  is far worse than what befell June 12 “Even before the Annunciation of June 12 as Democracy Day, the “same nihilist voices” were already primed to degrade it and ridicule what should be a potent signpost for future generations. Such voices even made desperate efforts to annul its history, no different from the original act of annulling an event “universally acknowledged as the fairest, the most orderly and peaceful election ever conducted in Nigerian history”. – Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka in Democracy Day Primer (1).” Your Excellencies, I crave your indulgence to stand on existing protocols. The  acute  shortness of the notice to me to participate in this historic event  was happily mitigated  by the fact that, and I am not exaggerating,  given the suffocating conditions under which he was   undeservedly  incarcerated , not even Chief MKO Abiola can tell the JUNE 12 STORY, like some of the distinguished personalities on the high table here today. By the time you add the likes of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Professor Wole Soyinka, Femi Falana SAN, and Olisa Agbakoba SAN, and a few others to those of the personalities amongst who I am privileged to sit up here, you would have put together, a cast of the most qualified Nigerians to tell the June 12 story. Advance for recognition, Sir, the incomparable Lt. General Alani Akinrinade, who shone like a thousand roses throughout that entire story. So important , so crucial and respected,  but eternally feared by  General Abacha and his goons,  was the retired  general,  that only military ingenuity  saved him from being  fire-bombed to smithereens. Unfortunately, his imposing house, somewhere in Ikeja, Lagos, did not escape that fate. It was literally bombed out of its physical presence. Step forward, distinguished Hon. Wale Oshun – Member and Chief Whip, House of Representatives in the Third Republic, Secretary of NADECO, home and abroad, and now, Chairman, Afenifere Renewal Group. Whoever appreciates how critical the secretary is in any organisation, and knows that NADECO, home and abroad, was the vehicle that drove June 12, would know how critical Hon Oshun was to the event we are celebrating. The man who, under God, pilots the affairs of Ekiti State, the LAND OF HONOUR today, and anchors the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, our CHIEF HOST today, was that young ‘PIRATE’ whose voice you heard at the most unlikely of  hours on RADIO KUDIRAT. He is the man who, but for God, would have had his body fed to the fishes  of the ocean had the battalion of Abacha killers looking for him, all over the world, laid their filthy hands on him. Needless to say, every one of this trio had to flee Abacha’s Nigeria lest the entire June 12 miscarry. They became refugees for Nigeria, but more importantly for the Yoruba nation to survive an ordeal that was primarily targeted at extinguishing it, whilst our compatriots further South, were junketing home to observe rollicking yam festivals. Professor Soyinka recently alluded to that fact when he warned against ethnicising June 12. He wrote: “After the annulment, I recall that when we tried to mobilise opposition to that sadistic impostor, fanatic voices of ethnic irredentism informed us bluntly, verbally and in print, that the Yoruba should go and solve their problems themselves, since we had let them down in the lead-up to the Biafran war of secession, and should seek no collaboration from that side of the Niger”. One recognises, in today’s renewed voices of ethnic denigration, the same chant of a hate chorus, the fanning of divisive embers. It is gratifying, therefore – and here we come to some cheering news – that this tendency has become a source of concern to many of the leaders of that former secessionist state. It led to recent counter efforts under themes such as Hands Across The Niger, later followed by Hands Across The Nation encounters that have taken place both within the nation and outside her borders. It is crucial that those laudable initiatives continue in the same spirit of civic responsibility and nationally craved closure. We must, however, sound a warning: these high-minded efforts are increasingly vitiated by the fanatic and obnoxious voices of an irrepressible handful. No, we are not speaking here of organised protests and demonstrations to keep Biafra alive – for those of my school of thought, these are both legitimate expressions of the democratic will, and cannot be suppressed”. Distinguished ladies, and gentlemen, with these men on the podium today, I am sure  I need  not tell you that my job is already more than half done. But then, not so fast. Therefore, please  permit me a little excursion into  that watershed event in our national history; one  which the statesman in President Muhammadu  Buhari has now effectively cast in stone even if only as a stepping stone to greater things to follow as he promised in his Democracy Day speech.  Nation building is, after all, a marathon, not a sprint. God bless him, for who can ever forget that for the eight straight years that MKO’S fellow Egba, President Olusegun Obasanjo, was in office, not to mention those of the minions he inflicted on the country in succession to himself, it was taboo to mention Abiola’s name. Jonathan was, of course, immediately shut down when he ineligantly sought to name the University of Lagos after him. Nor  would it be a surprise either to note that a few weeks ago, with the June 12 anniversary approaching, we started hearing the gospel according to Fulanisation. That exactly is what bitterness can do especially when the object of your jealousy is being appropriately canonised in your very eyes. WHAT THEN IS JUNE 12? Another of the major dramatis personae of June 12 , Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu  recently put  June 12  in perspective when he said as follows in a press statement he  titled: ‘June 12: The Truth that Sets Democracy Free in Our Land. “Observing May 29 as Democracy Day delinked the country’s democratic experience since 1999 from the protracted and bitter struggle against military dictatorship from June 12, 1993, till the forced exit of the military in 1999. According to him, “without those who stoutly stood on June 12 and sacrificed life, limb, freedom, economic ruin, psychological devastation and more, in the battle against tyranny, there would most certainly not have been any May 29, 1999 handover to commemorate. He therefore urged Nigerians not to take the democracy enjoyed today for granted or do anything to threaten its existence, explaining that it was not won on a platter of gold. As first and foremost a historian, it behoves me to say something about that historic day, itself. June 12 is the culmination of several years of General Babangida, no, the military’s, theatrical politics of lies and chicanery, during which they dribbled Nigerians to no end. On June 12, 1993, Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola, a Chartered Accountant, business mogul and philanthropist, won the Nigerian presidential election. He ran on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) with Baba Gana Kingibe as his running mate. For the first time ever in our history, Nigerians voted without regard to religion or ethnicity, voting two Muslims as president and vice president, respectively. It was one occasion Nigerians spoke with one voice, in all parts of the country; North, South, East and West, voting into office, a man they believed would represent the interest of all Nigerians and make Nigeria truly the “Giant of Africa”. Unfortunately, the election results were nullified, for no cogent reasons, by General Ibrahim Babangida, who would be forced to step aside only to be succeeded by a worse ogre, General Sani Abacha, after a sham of an Interim Government headed by Chief Shonekan, another Egba man. The fate that has befallen Nigeria since that date is far worse than what befell June 12. Nigeria has been crawling ever since but nothing could be worse than the greatest beneficiary of June 12, Olusegun Obasanjo, willfully doing everything to bury the day, as well as dance on Chief Abiola’s grave. But God, not man, is the Almighty, and He has more than  proved himself through the instrumentality of the very last man you could ever  have adverted your mind to –President Mohammadu Buhari, a northerner and a Muslim, and certainly, not an old student of Abeokuta Grammar School, like Abiola and Obasanjo. Rather than Abiola being allowed to usher in an era of peace and concord, development and growth in Nigeria, it has been instability, terrorism and unprecedented insecurity; the saving grace now being the hope of every Nigerian that President Buhari would quickly restore sanity, maximally reduce insecurity, and pretty soon, translate his professed love for true federalism into reality. Your excellencies, my Lords, spiritual and temporal, members of the state House of Assembly, members of the State Executive Council, Body of Permanent Secretaries, gentlemen of the press, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I thank you.