The new National President of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), Comrade Quadri Olaleye has said that for the trade union movement in the country to succeed in this new dispensation, it must be determined to tackle myriads of problems plaguing the labour movement and the nation at large. Olaleye who emerged President at the 11th triennial delegates conference of the Congress in Abuja at the weekend told employers of labour in the country that it will no longer be business as usual, but said his leadership was prepared to work in harmony with government and employers to ensure industrial peace in the country. He assured that the TUC will continue its collaboration with its sister Congress, the Nigeria Labour Congress to ensure that Nigerian workers are not denied their rights. While promising to run an open and transparent union, he stressed the need to reposition the labour centre in line with the dreams of the founding fathers, pointing out that being elected as President of the Congress was a dream come true. He said “I thank God Almighty for the grace he has given to me to see this memorable occasion in the history of my union. This is the first time my Association would clinch the position of the President of the Congress, in more than four (4) decades of its existence. “This opportunity came as a surprise to me after we have conceded for peace to reign. Indeed, it is God ordained! What we are witnessing today is more than just a change baton; it is also a call to service. Trade Union Congress of Nigeria, by this election, has just fulfilled the aspirations of the founding fathers of my great union -FOBTOB and has also chosen to reaffirm the confidence we have in the current leadership of this great Congress. “In the past few months, we have engaged each other on the way forward for the Congress likewise, charting a new course in order to further build on the democratic process that was established by the founding fathers of the congress. “These efforts made us to realize that majority of our comrades are eager and determined to build a new Congress that is respected and also enjoys the confidence of the Nigeria working people. Change is the only constant thing in life. “I must affirm here that for the Trade Union in Nigeria to succeed in this new dispensation, it must be determined to tackle myriads of problems plaguing the labour movement and the nation at large. “In this new dawn, it would no longer be business as usual if we want a congress that works for everyone. As I mentioned earlier, this came as surprise. Notwithstanding, the unflinching support of seasoned professionals, in diverse fields, in our various affiliates, would made this task achievable. “Moreover, you would agree with me that our Congress has gone through turbulent periods in the time past, but the challenges facing our Trade unions are real and cannot be solved in a short span of time. Consequently, with determination and our resolution to choose hope over fear; unity of purpose over conflict and discord all will become history. “I want to mention here without mincing words that the task ahead is arduous. I am confident that with the help of Almighty God, we will surely succeed. Let me therefore reaffirm my commitment to work assiduously to pursue our planned programs and implement them with a high sense of responsibility, honesty and integrity and in line with the constitution of the congress, without undermining the collective efforts of other elected Officers. He however admonished his colleagues to be good ambassadors of the Congress, saying “the world of work has changed, our nation has changed, our union has changed and we must be ready to key into the change mantra without wavering.” Those elected alongside are Olaleye are Comrades Innocent Bola Audu of Association of Civil Servants of Nigeria, ASCSN, as 1st Deputy President, Oyinkan Olasanoye of Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) as 2nd Deputy President, Hygenius Chika Onuegbu of Petroleum and Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, PENGASSAN, as 3rd Deputy President. Others are; Comrades Muhammed Yunusa of Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations, Government Owned Companies (SSASSCGOC) as National Treasurer, Isaac Egbugara of Construction and Civil Engineering Senior Staff Association, CCESSA, as Financial Secretary, Dr. Chris Okonkwo of Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies, SSEA&AC as Auditor I, Dr. Obinna Ogbonna of Nigerian Union of Allied Health Professions, NUAHP, as Auditor II, Ambi Karu of Textile Union as Public Relations Officer, PRO, Dr. Benjamin Akintola as Trustee I, Dr. Adeyemi Ademola of Hotel and Personnel Services Union as Trustee II and Samuel Omaje of Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools, ASSUS, as Trustee III. Also elected are; Comrades Shaibu Afisatu of ASCSN as Chairperson, TUC Women Commission while the immediate past president of Congress, Dr. Bobboi Bala Kaigama is an ex-Officio.