The Nigeria Police Force, Ebonyi state command has arrested a 26 years old man, Anthony Sunday for allegedly burying his 5 months old daughter alive. The suspect was said to have committed the offence at Okwerike village Abaomege in Onicha local government council of the state. He was said to have been having constant disagreements and fights with his wife whom he accused of cheating on her and allegedly decided to get back at her alleged unfaithfulness by killing their daughter. He allegedly carried their five months old sleeping baby named Roseline to an empty land behind his yam ban and buried her alive in a shallow grave. It was gathered that the wife after the day’s quarrel in the morning where she was as usually accused by her husband of keeping late nights, fed and bathed Roseline during which she slept and was left under custody of her father and other siblings, while the mother went out. Roseline’s disappearance and death was not noticed by any other person in the vicinity until the mother came back and wanted to breastfeed her but could not find her. Meanwhile, search parties were set up and they sought her to no avail. Later, the least expected suspect ( her father) started confessing all that transpired and exhumed the dead body of the innocent child behind his yam ban. He attributed the blame to the wife, who according to him always makes him upset. Meanwhile, the suspect has been arraigned before an Abakaliki Magistrate court presided over by Magistrate Ruth Okeh in a suit numbered MAB/357c/2019 for on the charge of causing the death of Roseline by burying her alive. According to court records, the offence is punishable under section 319 (1) of criminal code cap 33 vol 1 laws of Ebonyi state of Nigeria, 2009. However, the Magistrate ordered that the suspect be remanded in Abakaliki prison as the court lacks jurisdiction to entertain the matter. He instructed the police to forward all documents and evidences in the matter to the (DPP) Director of Public Prosecutions(DPP) for further action. The matter was adjourned to 29th day of July 2019 for report of compliance at the High court. ENDS