An international trade show, Food and Beverage West Africa exhibition, which focused on improving the Nigerian food industry, has ended in Lagos. The three-day event provided business opportunities for retailers, manufacturers, suppliers and distributors to network for more market access. The exhibition, the maiden edition, was organised by BtoB Events. It attracted about 150 exhibitors from 20 countries with over 2, 000 attendees. Food, groceries, food processing equipment, beverages, catering and hospitality sectors, and others displayed at the event. The expo ran through June 18-20. BtoB Events Managing Director, Jamie Hill, explained that the exhibition was an avenue for Nigerian business owners to expand their food businesses across the country and export to the Economic Community of West Africa States (ECOWAS). He also noted that it was a medium to assist the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the country. “We need to keep investing in Agriculture and in our SMEs. With this yearly event, they hope to improve their expansion on the market and work towards the long term goal of increasing local production and exports from Nigeria. “It is a business to business platform being the largest food and beverage trade exhibition that creates opportunities for global food businesses to come together in West Africa and meet partners and discuss new business goals,” he added. The event, which eld at Landmark Centre, Victoria Island, Food and Beverage West Africa exhibition enabled participants to shop from varieties of products at discounted prices. It also afforded them free practice sessions and on-site tasting of food and drinks. It was also an opportunity for them to have a first hand information from the makers, know how to use some items and ingredients and also got some healthy tips about the products. A participant, Mrs Chika Davies, who has a passion for culinary activities, learning some tips which she would explore in her home was pleasing to her. Some of the exhibitors commended the food expo, saying it afforded entrepreneurs, who want to go into food business to see the opportunities that lie there. Beyond the business benefits of the exhibition, they explained that there were still varieties of food that are yet to be explored given that agricultural products can be used to satisfy various needs. They noted that such platforms like food exhibitions to expose people to different kinds of foods, ingredients, how to use the ingredients, how to make beverages and prepare some foods. Deputy Manager (Exports), of Shangarila Private Limited, Bilal Ahmed, an exhibitor from Pakistan, noted that there are still basic knowledge for food that people are yet to know.  He said from his interaction with shoppers, he realised that there were some food ingredients, which people either do not know about or do not know they can be used in different ways. Likewise, Tolaro Global Director-General, Serge Kponou, a Benin Republic based firm, explained that Cashew can be used beyond just chewing the fruit. He highlighted the uses of cashew as a basic food item for every household which can be used as a spice for different foods, used in making soup and also used as milk.   He said it was a nutritious and healthy food, which many are not aware of. At the event, Nigerian businesses accounted for a third of the exhibitors. While other businesses from Pakistan, India, Benin Republic, South Africa, Morrocco, Kenya and others. The event also enabled registration of new members into the Restaurant and Food Services Proprietors Association of Nigeria (REFSPAN). 