Residents of Panko Community in Badagry Local Government Area of Lagos State can now have reasons to celebrate as the Jrado I of Panko community, Chief Samson Awonronsu Gbewa has promised to ensure all-round development and peaceful co-existence among the people living in the area. Meanwhile, he had implored that the peaceful atmosphere being experienced in the community be sustained to enable those who are indigenous and non-indigenous to the town to succeed in their various areas of endeavours. Gbewa made the appeal during his installation as the Baale of Panko community by His Royal Majesty (HRM) Aholu of Ajara Agamathen, Aholu Agano Toniyon 1 in Lagos. The occasion was also a platform for the installation of the Baale of Tande Community also by the Aholu. Gbewa said though he was yet to draw his agenda of development for the people until the final installation by the Lagos State government, nevertheless his administration, he said, would focus on provision of essential amenities that would impact profoundly on the people living in the area. These amenities, he said, would include entrepreneurship and youths’ development, among others. “I am going to do something visible that will prove to the people that somebody that has their interest at heart is there for them. “God is in control of everything. I will depend on God for direction on how to take care of the people of the community. I will try my best possible and, by the grace of God, the people of the community will benefit from my efforts. “I will always take care of my people. Should there be any issues in the community, we will find ways to resolve them and they will know that we are there for them,” he said. On the issue of insecurity, the Baale said the community had its own competent village security outfit under his watch. He, however, said when there is any issue(s) that require(s) the presence of the police, he will always mobilise them. He, nonetheless, urged the people to co-operate with him in moving the community forward, even as he said urged them to have confidence in God and in him that issues bordering on the development of the community would be resolved. Elijah Ajose, a resident of the community, described the event as a remarkable experience. According to him, the community had been without any community head for many years back. He thanked God for the installment of a new head of the community He expressed the confidence that he would ensure peaceful cohabitation among the people in the community, adding that the installation of the baale will engender peace as the people will live in unity and harmony with one another. “We have been canvassing for peace in Nigeria at large and having him (Chief Samson Gbewa) as the Baale will help to promote peace in the community, the people have confidence that he will lead them in the right way”, he stated Continuing, Ajose said: “He has been part of this community and we have studied him. That’s why we have full confidence in him that, by the grace of God, he will take the community to a greater height.” He, however, appealed to the Baale to use his good offices to address the issue of lack of electricity supply to the community and bad roads in the area which he described as death traps as well as development programmes for the youth, especially in the area of education to enable them to compete with their contemporaries elsewhere. He should meet with relevant authorities to provide these essential amenities for the people. “We want the government to do something about that and we believe that, through him the community will be developed,” he said. The Ajara paramount King urged the Baales and the communities to ensure that they lived in peace with one another and implored that their reign would usher in rapid development to their communities. Last year, the Ajara communities had witnessed the installation and presentation of staff of office to three Obas by the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode.