THE ancient city of Ile-Ife, the ancestral home of the Yoruba worldwide, has always appealed to local and inbound tourists.  With a monarch with deep passion for tourism and culture, a first-class resort and   a rich throve of history, heritage sites and monuments, Ile-Ife is set to make gains in terms of tourism receipt.  This was what the Nigeria Association of Tourism Operators (NATOP) set out do in Ile-Ife. The association held its 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) at Ife Grand Resorts and Leisure  and used the opportunity to tour the heritage sites with a view to generating packaged tours for Ile- Ife. The theme of the AGM was: ‘Impact of Culture, Partnership and Governance in Nigerian Tourism Development’. In her opening address on the occasion, the NATOP President, Hajia Bilkisu Abdul, said the decision of  NATOP to come to Ile- Ife for its AGM  was part of its deliberate efforts of the Nigerian tour operators to promote destinations in the country. She said the association had held past AGMs in Calabar, Cross River State and Jos, Plateau State. In his address , the Board of Trustees Chairman of NATOP, Mr Nkereuwem Onung, praised the Ooni for his giant strides in tourism and called for greater co-operation between the tour operators and the monarch. Nkereuwem said the private sector needs to persuade government to give attention to tourism. His  words: “There is need for the private sector to persuade government to give attention to tourism. There is, therefore, the need for us to join hands together to grow tourism and pressure the government of President Buhari to prioritize tourism. We believe that the low hanging fruits of tourism will grow our GDP.” Among the dignitaries at the NATOP AGM was the Director-General of the National Council of Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe.  Runsewe commended the tour operators for  holding their AGM in the culturally and historically important city of Ile-Ife. The traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, was happy with the presence of the tour operators. He praised the NCAC boss, Otunba Runsewe,  for  the high value and premium promotion enjoyed by Nigerian culture under  his watch. The Ooni, who bestrides the cradle of the Yoruba race and sits on the oldest traditional throne in Black Africa, commended  Runsewe for pushing the quest for a new culture economy to the front burner of national discourse, making Nigerians very proud. “I can see everything turning around for culture and tourism in Nigeria very soon and I stand to appreciate Runsewe’s undivided attention and dedication to see the sector blossom profitably” he said. The Ooni, who is also a frontline investor in tourism economy with the Ife Grand Resort planted to drive domestic tourism, called on the private sector to join hands with Runsewe to change and sustain the positive narratives for cultural tourism as poverty buster and employment influencer. Earlier in his address, Otunba Runsewe, who led industry operators to appreciate the oba for hosting  NATOP  delegates, praised the vision of the Ooni for  transforming the geo-tourism and economic landscape of Ile-Ife through the luxury resort. “This place is a masterpiece planted by a visionary leader and I am encouraged by this very significant intervention which represents the very picture of what we want to see in Nigeria from our people and other traditional rulers,”Otunba Runsewe. To further open the resort and the entire Ife land tourism architecture to visitors, the NCAC boss told the Ooni to use his goodwill to attract the construction of a light rail from Lagos to Ile-Ife.