•We need a greater show of urgency to tackle tertiary education On the face of it, the announcement of the allocation of N208 billion to the tertiary institutions sounds generous and enlightened. But given the accretion of problems in the universities, polytechnics and colleges of education, the sum only shows how desperate the problems are and how little the governing elites are prepared to deal with it. The president thinks with this allocation, the higher institutions will improve “our school system and graduates as well as prepare products of our educational system to meet the challenges of tomorrow’s work place.” The money will be dispensed through the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND). This runs far short of the demand of N1.1 trillion by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) who have wept over the decay of the universities, as well as the polytechnics and colleges of education. The scores of federal institutions that need the funding call for urgency. Last year, the minister of labour, Chris Ngige, was under the siege of labour generally but we have consistently had the problem of meeting the needs of higher education. We have often treated the sector with palliatives. It will not work. The decay started very early in our nationhood, when in 1993, the Babangida administration set up the Education Tax to address the drift. This was not working, so the TETFUND came into effect in 2011. The idea is to draw the fund from the taxes of the corporate and business world, and it was fixed at two percent. The mandate is to handle the essential physical infrastructure for teaching and learning, institutional material and equipment, research and publications, academic staff training and development as well as other critical challenges in the institutions. To work, it has a board of trustees that will ensure that the funds are properly managed, monitored and disbursed. In spite of these apparently neat arrangements, there have been challenges. One of them is that the TETFUND is difficult to access. Some of the universities and polytechnics have openly complained of this. This might also be because of the strict principles on the disbursement of the funds. As in every aspect of Nigeria, corruption is always a worry. The tertiary institutions have always been asked to abide by the Nigerian Procurement Act, which details rules of application, disbursement and reporting of expenditure. What it means is that the country needs to really understand how to turn policy into implementation and ultimately the quality of life of Nigerians, especially the young citizens. Another challenge is that the top institutions see TETFUND as the major source of funding. But there are top institutions around the world that use their positions to draw money to help their pursuits of quality. Our universities do, but with little effect on the overall financial outlay. The society is also philistine, and it reflects in the corporate culture that would rather lift up the profile of an entertainer of vanity than the quality of the mind. N208 billion on its own is not even enough for research where top schools in the world spend more than a million dollars a day on research alone. Infrastructure continues to suffer decay; teachers of the best quality also jump at the least opportunity to teach even low level institutions in Europe and the United States. The laboratories are deficient, and the students are caught in the poverty of a country where education, though comparatively little in fees in Europe and America, cannot afford to pay tuition. The education sector, not just the tertiary variety, needs urgency. The governing elite has not come to terms with it. Hence, no Nigerian university has ever broken the 1000 rank in world ranking. To pay N208 billion is a little drop, even then let us see the impact.