The Police Command in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja says it has arrested one Mustapha Aliyu, 22, with a freshly severed human head. The Commissioner of Police in charge of the command, Mr Bala Ciroma, disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. He said the suspect was arrested on May 19 following a distress call to police operatives in the territory. The commissioner said that the victim was a 3-year old boy of Rugan Fulani near Leleyi village in Kwali Area Council of the territory. He said the suspect had confessed that prior to his arrest he had beheaded four children and given their heads to his master who was now at large. Ciroma said the suspect told the police that he was paid N170, 000 for every male head he severed and N160, 000 for every female victim my master. He said his victims were taken from Sheda, Kwali, Kilankwa, Gwako and Leleyi villages all in Kwali Area Council. The police boss said efforts were being intensified to arrest his master who was currently at large. In a related development, Ciroma said the Command had smashed five notorious drug peddling syndicates operating at Gwarimpa Village, Galadimawa, Karu and Apo areas of FCT. He said the smashing of the peddlers was part of the on-going operations launched by the command’s Anti Narcotic Unit to curb drug peddling in the territory. According to him, the special operation led to the recovery of 14 wraps of cocaine, 292 wraps of dried leaves suspected to be marijuana (Indian hemp), Diazepam tablets, Tramadol tablets, Roche (Rohypnol) tablets and other illicit drugs. He said the suspects arrested were: Anas Abubakar, Musa Buhari, Abdullahi Adamu, Adamu Ibrahim, Abdullahi Adamu, Mahi Ibrahim, Sanusi Attahiru, Yushau Dahiru, Nazifi Kabir, Samuel Jacob, Dennis Salisu, Muktari Buhari, Ezekiel Donatus, and Nazifi Saidu. The commissioner cautioned members of the public against buying drugs from quacks. He said that one Adamu Ibrahim, 26, was arrested by operatives of the Anti-Narcotic Unit of the Command at Gwarimpa Village with 12 bottles of fake codeine syrup and forged drug stickers. According to Ciroma the suspect, arrested during a raid, uses the fake stickers to replace the original stickers on the cough syrup bottles to indicate that the drugs contain codeine. He said the idea was to boost his illicit trade and make more profit at the detriment of his customers who bought each bottle of the fake drug at N1, 000. The police commissioner said that the suspects would be arraigned in court upon the conclusion of investigations. He said that the commands Anti Narcotic Unit had recorded remarkable achievements in the renewed effort of the Command to tackle the menace of drug abuse since its inception three months ago. Ciroma said that the ongoing clampdown by the Unit on the suppliers of drugs and those peddling them was a reflection of the concerted efforts by the command to deal with the problem of drug abuse. He said that so far, about 30 suspects were arrested during raids by the unit at black spots identified for drug peddling. He said that some of the suspects arrested had been charged to court and convicted for the crime while others were still under investigation. The commissioner said that the unit had recovered 32 bags of dried leaves suspected to be Marijuana (Indian hemp), bottles of codeine syrup, tramadol, diazepam and other illicit substances. (NAN)