GTI Capital Group has launched a development scheme to empower stockbrokers with the requisite resources to widen the scope of their operations and become the main catalysts for the investment market. The inaugural edition of the GTI Associate Brokers Scheme was launched at a ceremony at the Marina, Lagos head-office of GTI Capital Group. The GTI Associate Brokers Scheme seeks to retool stockbrokers with the requisite knowledge, technologies, know-hows, ideas, networking and opportunities to fully explore the full value-chain of the investment market. The GTI Associate Brokers Scheme is endorsed by the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS). Speaking at the launch, GTI Capital Limited Group Managing Director, Mr. Abubakar Lawal said stockbrokers have important roles to play in the development of the  economy as they provide essential services upon which the economic foundation is built. According to him, the economic development of any nation, including the wealth of individuals in it, is built on value creation and stockbrokers, by training and functions, are supposed to be at the forefront of value creation. He called for a new generation of goal-driven stockbrokers with a global worldview beyond the limited function of stock trading noting that the GTI Associate Brokers Scheme is designed to empower brokers to unlock the vast economic potential of Nigeria and the African continent. “The essence of this programme is to open our minds to the fact that we need to transit from trading value into value creation. In every market, we have three types of players- people that create value, people that trade value and people that watch and tell the story. People that create values are the game changers. Look around in Nigeria and globally, you will see that people that create values are the bedrocks of the economy,” Lawal said. He emphasised that brokers must look beyond immediate marginal gains to long-term value creation by providing innovative financial solutions and ideas to help the development of businesses and public infrastructure. He noted that the training and capacity building scheme is part of the corporate social responsibility programmes of GTI Capital aimed at stimulating the natural endowments of the Nigerian to enable the country attain its pride of place in the comity of nations. “We can make Nigeria great again, so it is all in your hands, your calling is to create, we have so many funds sitting down in the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), have you ever thought of moving them without using gun, or are they not meant for you? How do we change the narrative from being a poverty-stricken country to being an independent and highly productive nation? That is what this programme is meant to achieve,” Lawal said. He added that the programme would also support the continuous development programme of the CIS by bridging observed gaps in the transitional phases of enrollment, qualification and practice of the stockbroking profession. He commended the leadership of the CIS for its support on the programme assuring that GTI Capital Group would always be ready to collaborate with the institute in its drive to expand the frontiers of the profession. experiences and ideas on how to navigate the dark water of the markets and see beyond the immediate narrow scope into global horizon of opportunities. “For us at GTI, ours is to enable people to see as widely as possible and to explore the opportunities that will bring them to realisation of what they have destined themselves to be,” Ike-Muonso said.