An Igede-Ekiti Magistrate’s Court in Ekiti State on Wednesday sentenced a 70-year-old man, Adeyeye Olorunyomi, and his two sons to six months imprisonment for conspiring among themselves to commit felony. The septuagenarian and his sons, Akindele Olorunyomi (30) and Ojo Olorunyomi (36) were arraigned by the police before Magistrate, Mrs. Adesola Omotoso on a six-count charge of forcibly entering a farm belonging to one Oluwadare Olowookere and Adekunle Olowookere. The Police Prosecutor, Sgt. Olubu Apata told the court that the offence was committed in the town between 25th and 27th February, 2019. Apata said that the convicts stole three timber of trees valued at N100,000 belonging to the complainants. The prosecutor added that the convicts also obstructed one Insp. Aliyu Umar and four other police officers from effecting their arrest after a complaint was lodged against them at the Igede Ekiti Police Station. The Court heard that the convicts also conduct themselves in a manner likely to cause breach of peace by marking twenty eight timber wood with cutlass on the farmland of the complainants. Apata further said that the convicts did unlawfully damage the economic trees such as cocoa trees, kola nut trees, banana trees and cocoa yam trees belonging to the complainants. The prosecutor noted the offences contravened section 516, 81, 390,356 (2), 249(d) and 451 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. He added that the convicts claimed that the land was given to the complainants by their great grandfather but the complainants countered that the land has been in their possession for over 100 years. The prosecutor said it was in the proceedings that the magistrate found the convicts guilty of the charges. The convicts pleaded not guilty to all the count charge and the matter proceeded into trial. The Magistrate, Mrs. Adesola Omotoso, sentence each convicts on count one, two and three to six month imprisonment, while in count four, five and six, they were discharged. Omotoso, therefore sentence the convicts to six month imprisonment to run concurrently without an option of fine.