About 105 out of 6, 174 first degree graduands would be graduating with First Class from Bayero University Kano (BUK) during its 35th convocation scheduled to hold between June 10 and 15, 2019. Addressing reporters in his office, the Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof Muhammad Yahuza said a total of 9, 571 graduands will partake in the convocation. He said the number is made up of 6, 174 first degree graduands, 107 PhD graduands, 2, 269 Master’s degree graduands and 1, 039 Post Graduate Diploma graduands. The Vice Chancellor added that there was an 11 per cent increase in the number of graduates compared to last year which was 8, 634. Yahuza said one of the graduating students this year, Abdullahi Umar Abdullahi, is visually impaired.  He said the Special Education student would be graduating with a Second Class Upper. He said BUK also lowered UTME cut-off marks from 180 to 150 for the blind so as to encourage them to embrace tertiary education. He added that the university had spent N17 million awarding scholarship to indigent students During the convocation, Yahuza said honorary degrees will be conferred on Senator Bello Hayatu Gwarzo, Mr. Tony Onyemaechi Elumelu and Dr. Folake Solanke (SAN) for their outstanding performance in their various fields of endeavour, as well as service to humanity. He added that “Emeritus Professorship will be conferred  on Prof Abdulkadir Damgambo who retired from the services of the University in 2010 (after serving meritoriously for 37 years), but who has continued to serve the University through teaching, research and supervision of postgraduate students.” As part of the convocation, the Vice Chancellor said the Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), Prof Suleiman Elias Bogoro will inaugurate some projects in the old and new campuses of the university on June 14. Same day, the convocation lecture entitled: “Revitalising University Education in Nigeria:The Triple Helix Model,” will be delivered by the Executive Secretary of the National University Commission (NUC),  Prof. Abubakar Rasheed who was the university’s immediate-past Vice Chancellor. Former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd), is expected to chair the lecture. Prof. Yahuza, however, noted that, “Bayero University has also continued to attract funding and support from non-governmental organizations from Nigeria and beyond.”