The Director-General, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Mr. Alex Okoh has explained that the bureau intervened in the renovation and provision of learning materials in Local Education Authority (LEA) Primary School, Dutse Alhaji in Bwari Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) because of indigent pupils. Speaking during the commissioning of the renovated projects in Dutse Alhaji, he advised that intervention should not be targeted at those that are well to do because it is more impactful to give to the poor. The project was the first Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) project of the BPE, according, Okoh, who promised to also renovate the only block that was yet to be renovated in the school as soon as fund is available. He said that “We think that the area of intervention should not be those who already have or those who have the capacity to access such facilities. For intervention to be impactful and meaningful, it has to be targeted at those who can least afford it. “So we did a scoping, we did a scan of such institutions, primary institutions to university that fit the criteria in terms of being indigent and incidentally, that such threw up LEA Dutse Primary School.” The BPE, said Okoh, at the celebration of its 30th anniversary recently, part of the decision of the celebration of the landmark was to identify a series of projects and sections in the economy and national life that required intervention as part of the bureau’s corporate  social responsibility. He noted that the sections that were mentioned were the education, health, environmental  and people with disability, but eventually, the BPE decided to intervene in education. He emphasised the importance of primary education in human and career development, stressing that without a solid and standard basic educational foundation the society, cannot be firm. Okoh said that “among the primary school children you see today is another Director General ofthe Bureau of Public Enterprises. Perhaps, among the  people we are providing for today, there is the next President, Muhammadu Buhari, the president of Nigeria. “So, it is important that we take this level of our education very seriously. It is the basic foundation upon which other educational pursuit will be built. And if the foundation is shaking, you can be lest assured that rest of the building will not stand.” Confirming the gesture of the BPE, the school headmistress, Mrs. Idowu Ajoke Adebomi, enumerated some of the projects as : renovation of two blocks of classrooms, reconstruction of a modern toilet, construction of drainage system, provision of furniture, provision of school uniforms, provision of teachers tables and chairs,  provision of pupils exercise book and donation to the novel “Shun Violence and Embrace Peace” to ensure as well as to promote peaceful co-existence. She called on HRH, Hakimi, Alhaji Abubakar Bako to help provide security for all the facilities. Meanwhile, Bako promised to secure the necessary security for the school and its facilities. He joined the headmistress to call on the BPE to also renovate the only building that has become an eyesore in the school.