Troops have neutralized scores of bandits/kidnappers in Sokoto and arrested ransom collectors and informants working for them, the Nigerian Army said on Monday. Its spokesman Col Sagir Musa who disclosed this in a statement however said a soldier was killed during encounter. He said: “In continuation of ongoing offensive operations against armed banditry and other criminal activities within Sokoto State and its environs, troops of Operation HARBIN KUNAMA III on 23 June 2019 while on routine aggressive patrol to Danboa village intercepted some notorious bandit’s informant and logistics suppliers at Burkusuma market all in Sabon Birni Local Government Area of Sokoto State. “The troops acting on credible intelligence report raided the location and apprehended the criminals who were transacting in the market. “Notable among them were: Mallam Ibrahim — Confirmed to be a notorious bandits informant and collaborator renowned for collecting ransom on behalf of the bandits. “Mallam Ashiru Goni — confirmed to be another notorious bandits courier agent who specializes in transporting logistics for bandits within and outside Sokoto State. “Mamman Taratse — A confirmed logistician for the criminals, – he specializes in the sale of rustled cattle at various markets within and outside Sokoto State. “Similarly, troops in response to complaints of bandits’ activities at Magira village stormed and raided the location and engaged the bandits in a fierce battle. “Consequently, the troops pursued the bandits to their hideouts killing scores, while several others escaped with gunshot injuries. Unfortunately, one soldier paid the supreme price during the encounter. “The General Officer Commanding 8 Division, Major General Hakeem Oladapo Otiki on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen TY Buratai commended the troops for the exploits and thanked the locals for providing timely information that led to the successful encounter. “He enjoined members of the public to continue to support the ongoing operation by providing timely and accurate information to enable the troops sustain the tempo against armed banditry and other criminal activities in Nigeria.” 