Two teachers from Chrisland School, Lekki on Tuesday defended the supervisor of the School, Adegboyega Adenekan, alleged to have defiled a two year old pupil of the school (names withheld) two years ago. Adenekan, 47, was charged before an Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court for allegedly inserting his penis into the two year old child’s vagina thereby defiling her. The incident allegedly happened sometimes in December 2017 in the school premises when the child was two years and eleven months old. In her testimony, the victim had told the court that the school’s supervisor defiled her in his office and in the toilet. Adenekan had however pleaded not guilty to the charge of defilement brought against him by the state government. During resumed proceedings before Justice Sybil Nwaka, the Assistant Head Teacher of the School, Mrs. Adebola Adeola Tolulope, told the court that there was no way that the defendant could have defiled the child within the school premises. Led in evidence by the defence counsel, Olatunde Adejuyigbe SAN, Tolulope, who said she had worked for the school for 19years, said that the victim gave conflicting accounts of where the alleged defilement took place. “When the matter was reported to the school, the victim’s mother was invited. She came along with her friend whom she described as a lawyer and church member. “She told us that she is the only one that bathes her daughter. But when the child was brought from her class for questioning, she said, ‘Aanu used to bath me and hurt my bum bum.’ ‘The child’s mother was visibly disturbed on hearing that. She then opened up and said Aanu is her husband’s niece.” The Head Teacher said when the child was asked to show where Mr. Adenekan defiled her, she took them to the Assembly Ground, which is an open space. She said her mother shouted at her and told her to show them the other place she was defiled and that the child took them to the Canteen. “I was shocked because the canteen is a very busy place where we have the maintenance office, the driver’s lounge and the kitchen. There was no way she could have been defiled there. “This child was in KG2 at that time and Mr Adenekan was a Supervisor of the primary school section. His office was on the last floor. ‘’There was no way he could have taken the child out of the class without the Teacher or Assistant Teacher being aware,” the witness said. The victim’s class teacher, Ruth Ujunwa, also told the court that the children in her class where always escorted to and fro the restroom. “The child is intelligent I agree, but there is no way a two year old child can draw a penis. “We don’t teach pre-school children how to draw. We treat these children like babies because of their age, so we accompany them everywhere within the school premises. “The school is well structured. My Lord, so such a thing could never have happened,” Ujunwa maintained. Justice Nwaka has adjourned the matter till June 25 for continuation of trial.       