 As Super Eagles gear up to the kickoff of their 2019 Nations cup in Egypt against Swallows of Burundi on Saturday, holidaying free Agent Efe Ambrose has urged the team to focus on one match at a time as no two matches are ever the same and no two opponents are the same even with same set of players. Super Eagles profile according to the former Celtic defender has risen to an all-time high and this should be an added advantage for the team.  “The national team has become a big brand and the popularity of the team keeps growing and I think this will be an added advantage. The Eagles should just focus on each game at a time and give every game its deserved attention not worrying over the entire group matches at the same time to avoid undue pressure,” he said Ambrose who was recently released by EFL Championship Club Derby County after a short term contract believes Eagles stand a good chance of winning the nations cup but must resist the temptation to underrate any team including the debutants. The 2013 Nations cup winner under late Coach Stephen Keshi, played five out of six games including the final which he started against Burkin Fasso at the 85,000 capacity FNB Stadium in Johannesburg. Some analysts say Eagles were handed a soft draw with two debutants Burundi and Madagascar with Guinea as the only opponent in the group with Nations cup experience having featured in the continental fiesta  over 11 times finishing as runners up in 1976 and as quarterfinalists on four occasions. Despite wearing the toga of under dogs going into the opening match against Eagles on Saturday, Burundi Coach Oliver Niyungeko insists that the Swallows stand equal chance of success as every other team in the competition. He said it is wrong to opine that debutants have nothing to prove as they have to prove that their qualification for the event is not fluke. “My target is to ensure we do our best.  We have to compete and show that our qualification was no fluke. There are 24 teams and each has an equal chance and we are also part of that with an equal chance” he enthused