The Nigerian Army has absolved itself and personnel of any wrongdoing during the 2019 general elections. It also dismissed allegations of attempted assassination, hijack of INEC materials as well as imposition of curfew in Rivers State as untrue. A statement signed by Army spokesman Col. Sagir Musa said the Army would, however, embark on administrative transfer of some personnel from the 6 Division in Rivers state to douse tension in the area. It added that the Committee set up by the Army Chief to look into matter met with all stakeholders before arriving at its decisions. The statement reads: “The Nigerian Army has absolved its personnel from allegations of misconduct during Operation SAFE CONDUCT 2019. “A committee set up by the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai to investigate the allegations of unprofessional conduct leveled against the Nigerian Army personnel during the 2019 general elections interacted with stakeholders including Governors of Bayelsa and Rivers  States, among others. “The Committee analyzed and reviewed the petitions received against Nigerian Army personnel from various stakeholders and found that most of the allegations were untrue, baseless and unsubstantiated claims. “It was also found out that the allegations of alleged assassination attempt, soldiers unilaterally imposed curfew, abducted and illegally detained INEC staff and diverted INEC materials to Nembe-Basambiri was misrepresented. “The Committee received submissions from some individuals in the state which revealed that painting Nigerian Army as the aggressor during the elections was a deliberate attempt by some individuals to tarnish the Nigerian Army’s image. “However, the unprofessional conduct of some personnel was still under investigation and appropriate sanctions will be meted on the offenders according to military law, if found guilty. “It is also pertinent to inform the public that steps are underway for the gradual administrative redeployment of personnel in 6 Division to douse the observation by some  individuals that troops have overstayed especially in Abonnema community.” 