WE all thought it was some mythical construction. Fiction. Some contrivance to stop us from visiting our beautiful countryside. Or the product of the fecundity of some people’s minds. How wrong we were. From the ever-busy Lagos – Ibadan Expressway – of sweating road builders, whose work seems to be going on for eternity, long fuel trucks parked on both sides of the road in a big community of vices (drug peddlers and their clients, women of doubtful virtues, diesel thieves siphoning their stock from the vehicles) and an army of hawkers pushing their wares of  bread, biscuits, apple and all sorts of edibles at your face. There are also officers stopping vehicles to remind motorists that “your boys dey here o”. Turn off the road to hit the Ibadan-Ife section and in a few minutes you are confronted with the majesty of nature. Beautiful green forests of tall trees (teak, gmelina, cassia and others), singing birds, grazing cows and the rumbling Asejire dam. Women are hawking bush meat. Some are roasting their stuff, the aroma harassing the nostrils and tempting you to stop for a quick bite. Corn farms and women offering farm-fresh corn on the cob. You wind down the car’s glasses and soak in the fresh, clean air that the city lacks. There are road-side canteens offering fresh palm wine, pounded yam and, of course, bush meat. All these are threatened now. The Southwest countryside is being ravaged, not by some strange locusts or rebellious farm hands. No. Some malapert rogues, implacable and deadly criminals have seized this seductive land by the jugular– from Ibadan-Ife to Ilesa and Akure and Akungba. Iwaraja-Efon and Ado-Ijesa-Isu. They are snatching motorists off their vehicles and herding them into bushes, demanding hefty ransom for their freedom. The stories are touching – torture, rape and death. And payment of hefty ransom in a society where many find feeding a herculean task. Nobody is immune to this madness. The rich are not safe; the poor are in panic. Security agencies seem to be helpless, but I won’t join the thinking in some circles that they are part of this game of death. No. They may not seem to be doing enough, but the conspiracy theory, plausible as it may seem, isn’t that straightforward. A woman told of how she and her family were tortured for six days. The family lives overseas. Dad, mum and daughter were on holidays. Their heart shattering account , which has been trending on the social media, is titled, “Horror in the kidnappers’ den”. They had travelled from Auchi to Akure.  They planned to stay a few days in Lagos before returning overseas. The journey turned a nightmare on the Akure – Ilesa road. Shortly after the Ijare Junction, they had a flat tyre–apparently contrived to get them stuck. The driver parked to change the tyre. That was the beginning of six days of horror and bestiality that sounded so incredible, like a scene from a movie. They were hit with guns and blood was all over their bodies. That, in any case, was just a tip of the iceberg of madness the family experienced. The daughter was screaming. Wrote the woman: “ ‘Mummy, daddy, what’s going on’? There was no time to say a word. They marched us into the bush, firing into the sky. They hit me on my chest. They hit my daughter on her head, blood oozed. At this time, it was better to kill me. I shouted at one of the armed men. His response was hell. He went straight for my private part, tore my dress with his gun. The others ripped my dresses. I was left with my undies. My husband and daughter started crying. Two of them dug their teeth into my breasts.” One of the gunmen removed the girl’s dresses and carried her on his head as she struggled. The woman said the gunmen were from a certain part of the country; going by their language. How did she know? She said she school in that part of the  country. After being herded into a forest for nine hours, they were asked to choose who should be raped between mother and her nine-year-old daughter. The father protested that he was a moslem and his religion abhors homosexuals. He was punished for his effrontery in telling them who a true Moslem is. They took turns in raping the poor woman for days. In the madmen’s den, according to her, were “two women, two ladies and three men”. There were some people whose legs were chained to trees, she said. At the camp were traditional medicine men, a big kitchen and some other things of comfort. “I was not allowed to put on any additional clothing on my body for 24 hours. The rain fell once. I became the relic and a sexual museum for the armed men who in turn addressed me and asked questions about my financial standing. New men joined the camp. They organised military training for the men, teaching them how to shoot and walk through circles of glowing fire,” she said. The family was released after paying N8million. They are now back overseas, swearing never to visit Nigeria again. She concluded her terrifying story with an admonition for the people to rise against these monsters. She said: “I pity Yoruba people… I worry about the conspiracy of silence by the people themselves, the ignorance, the treachery and the illusion that one day things will get better… .” A few weeks ago, former students of Christ’s School, Ado – Ekiti were raising money to free one of them who was abducted in Efon-Alaye by some criminals. With him were two boys; twins. Well built and strong, one felt it was not proper to be grabbed like chicken and led away by some tiny ruffians. He challenged them. They slit his hand with a machete. A bus carrying some church members of a Lagos church was attacked on the Ife-Ilesa expressway by armed men who suddenly jumped onto the road. The driver almost rammed the vehicle into the intruders, who jumped off and opened fire. Luckily, nobody died. That was on June 1. There is also the audio of a man negotiating ransom with a kidnapper, who spoke smattering pidgin English in a tone that sounds like that of a man struggling to beat a terrible hangover. Kidnapper: Boy how are dey? Victim’s relation: I’m fine Kidnapper: How much dey ground now? Victim’s relation: Emmm, as in cash, let me explain to you because every member of the family is running up and down. In cash now we have N285, 000 but the person that bought the car (the man on the other end is grumbling). Wait o! Listen to me, the person that wants to buy the car, he wants to buy the car for N385, 000. He said he will bring N200, 000 by 5 o’clock. So, please hold on… . That means if we add this one, it will be 580,000 or so… Now, I am going to the family house. I want to see how much they have gathered there because…every member of the family is donating money. So when I get to the family house now, I will call you. Kidnapper: Listen to me. You dey hear wetin I tell you now Victim’s relation: Eehn, go ahead. What did you say? Kidnapper: I dey tell you; you wan talk now. Victim’s relation: Okay, go on. Kidnapper: Even na 50 million you gather now, you no go fit comot this man for my hand. Victim’s relation: Okay. Well, I will relay your message to the family. Kidnapper: You hear? Victim’s relation: Because even me as I am talking to you, I am not well, I am receiving treatment. But let me go to the family, we will call you. Kidnapper: Why you go call me? I say even na 50 million you gather now, that money, you no go fit comot this man for my hand. You dey hear that? Victim’s relation: So what do you want us to do now? Kidnapper: Go find flenty money. We must do away with the ethnic profiling. Criminals do not operate by tribe. Besides, these gangsters could not have found their evil trade so easy and lucrative without collaboration with some dirty indigenes of their areas of operation. Who are their collaborators? Who runs their chain of supplies? Where are their guns coming from? Are the security agencies doing enough? Why can’t the states in the Southwest form joint patrol teams to man these roads until these crooks are flushed out? What are our traditional rulers doing? Who owns the farms from which the hoodlums operate? How do they keep the cash they collect? Are they invincible and invisible? I think we should not leave it all for the government. Every community should organise its own security within the confines of the law. Why not a Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) to save our countryside that will love to visit quite often?