John Dyegh, who holds a doctorate degree in Economic History and represents Gboko/Tarka Constituency, Benue State, in the House of Representatives, and is an aspirant for Speaker. He spoke with reporters in Abuja on his vision for the Lower Chamber and other partisan issues. Excerpts: Why are you running for the Speaker of House of Represenatives? How prepared are you for this position? I have decided to join the race for Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives because of my abiding and unyielding faith in a united and prosperous Nigeria anchored on the natural principles of equity, justice and harmony. My being in the race is also a response to the clarion call by my constituents, colleagues in the House across party lines, party faithful and other stakeholders in the North Central geopolitical zone and Nigeria in general, for me to offer myself for this office. And like I said when I was making my declaration, I am ready to offer my time and talents, and make sacrifices for the good of every Nigerian. I believe that I have the requisite experience and competence to lead the 9th House of Representatives, having spent eight years in the Green Chamber. I am mentally, physically and psychologically prepared and it is my conviction that my colleagues who know my abilities and capabilities would like to have a Speaker like me. With a Ph.D in Economic History and a public and political life spanning over two decades, I feel am eminently qualified to preside over the House of the people. Remember, I am coming in for a third term and in the legislature, the longer you stay, the more experienced and efficient you become. So, I am coming into the race with a rich wealth of legislative experience that will benefit Nigerians. I believe that I have the wherewithal to team up with other arms of government and take Nigeria to a positive and sustainable next level. I dream of a next level that is devoid of bandits attacks on our innocent citizens; a next level free from kidnappers and armed robbers; a next level of peaceful coexistence between farmers and herdsmen; a next level of improved economic fortunes of this country; a next level of massive jobs for the unemployed and a next level of all that is good for you and me. In concrete terms, what exactly are you bringing to the table, should you be elected Speaker? We will also ensure enhanced capacity of Legislators and legislative support services through training and retraining to enable the 9th National Assembly pass National Priority Laws in critical sectors such as Security, Employment and Productivity, Power and Agriculture. Thirdly, we will deepen oversight processes of the National Assembly to ensure value for money and project performance by MDAs in compliance with the Appropriations Act. My administration will also instill openness in the financial operations of the National Assembly to guarantee accountability, transparency and responsiveness. Most importantly, we intend to initiate legislative measures and laws that will promote and engender national unity, providing equal opportunities to all Nigerians, irrespective of ethnic, political, social and religious affiliations; and work with legislators in a multi-partisan manner for the stability of the House and Nigeria at large. We will also work round the clock to create effective collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), civil society groups and development partners for active participation of all sectors of the Society in the law making and legislative processes. Then, we will sustain and deepen independence of the National Assembly and ensure harmonious interdependent working relationship with the executive arm of government without undermining the principles of Separation of Powers. Are you aware that the APC has zoned the position to the Southwest and chosen Femi Gbajabiamila as its preferred candidate? Don’t you think your ambition amounts to anti-party activity? My loyalty to the party is not in doubt. I am so loyal that I cannot indulge in anti-party activities. I did the party’s bidding in 2015, in spite of the odds against us then. I worked for Gbajabiamila and supported him fully. But this time around, we are giving the party an option. We are giving members of the Green Chamber an option to look at fair play. We are insisting that there must be fair play in Nigeria. We are insisting there must be fair play and justice in the Green Chamber. Democracy is a system of government that confers choices on the people. We have the right to exercise our fundamental human right of choice. I have not condemned the party and I am not fighting the party or anybody in the party. My loyalty to the party is 100 per cent. When I was doing the party’s bidding in 2015, everybody said I should go the other way. I said no, let me do the party’s bidding. I am a party mam. So, if I am giving the party an option today, they should also look at what I did for the party yesterday. My desire is to be part of President Buhari’s next level, which I strongly believe will transform this country for the better. I have absolute respect for the president and I hold all our party leaders in high esteem and would not do anything contrary to that. But, I want to be given the opportunity to also contribute my quota towards strengthening our democracy especially the legislature. I have absolutely nothing against Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; but I am eminently qualified to lead the 9th House. Therefore, exercising my right as a Nigerian; as a member of the APC and as a member of the House of Representatives should not be taken as an affront on the party or its leadership. It is only a process of offering members of the Green Chamber an option to choose from. There are insinuations that you have been endorsed by the PDP caucus in the House. How true is this? I think this question should be directed to the PDP caucus. I am not a member of the PDP; so I am not privy to what they have decided. However, it is true that the PDP caucus had invited all the contestants and six of us appeared before the caucus, including Gbajabiamila, Bago, Onyejeocha, Olatunbosun, and Nwajuiba. But, since after that engagement, I have not heard anything from the caucus. If you are telling me now that I am the choice of the PDP caucus, it means my candidature has been accepted by all. You must have it at the back of your mind that the PDP members are also members of the House and all honourable members have a vote to cast. So, nobody is inconsequential; every honourable member is important. In most of your interviews, you seem to lay claims to the fact that the North Central has not been treated fairly and should be compensated with speaker. But, the outgoing Senate President is from the North Central, including previous occupants of the position. Is that not enough for the zone? I believe for a zone that contributed huge votes to the APC to emerge victorious in the presidential election; it will be unfair to take away the Senate President from us and leave us with Deputy Speaker. It is not fair because you said you are taking the Speakers to the Southwest but you have failed to give us convincing reasons why those of us from the north central should not contest. But we are saying the south west already has the office of vice president and the north central has nothing at hand. It will only be fair, if the position of Speaker is given to the Northcentral, having taken away the seat of Senate President to the North East. We do not have problem with that. All we are saying is, if you are taking away number three from us, give us number four and not number six. But I want Nigerians and in fact our party to know that the Northcentral has neither produced Speaker nor the Deputy Speaker since 1999. We are saying that reward in politics is based on what you bring to the table and the Northcentral brought the third highest number of votes in making President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term a reality and enabling the APC to form Federal Government. We are not quarrelling; we are only appealing to the party to take a second look on its zoning arrangement based on the facts we have put before the leaders, perhaps they were not aware of this. But these are the facts on ground. Most importantly, I want our party to also take a closer look at the provisions of Section 14 (3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which states that: “the composition of the Government of the Federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect the federal character of Nigeria and also to command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few States or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that government or in any of its agencies”. Does the present zoning arrangement conform to this provision? How do you intend to resolve the frosty relations between the legislature and the executive? Everybody is concerned about the constant misunderstanding between the legislature and executive arm of government. I believe there is no harm in disagreeing to agree; but when it degenerates to a level that the Nigerian people are left to suffer, it does not augur well for us as a nation. We intend to run a responsible House that will be anchored on the principles of separation of powers and check and balances. We will work for Nigerians and Nigeria. Whatever decision we would take will be in the interest of the nation. We will not allow our personal biases or interest to override national interest.