Black soap, popularly used in Nigeria and across the African continent is very rich in its antiseptic quality and unique for its notable potency and efficacy in treating skin related infections without side effect. Black soap is claimed to have originated from Nigeria, though other African countries also claim it originated from them, but research has proven that the component used as input is the only difference. The age-long evolution of black soap is as old as the black man. Black soap is prepared traditionally from a lot of locally sourced materials in different parts of the continent with different methods but the same result is achieved. At present, black soap is most widely produced, used, and distributed by Ghanaian women using the original Nigerian process and recipe. Made from locally harvested plants and barks, back soap is gentle, nourishing to the skin, and highly moisturizing owing to its natural oil content. Traditionally, black soap is made by women, just like my Grand Mother used to prepare the stuff while I was growing up. The texture and colour differ slightly as there is bound to be varying results as they are produced differently using manual process. As result of the absence of harmful chemical in black soap such as silicon oxides, aluminum oxides or iron oxides which usually found in commercial soap products, it is highly effective in the alleviation of many minor skin aliments such as Rosacea, Acne, evening out dark spots, smoothing thin facial lines, and eliminating razor bumps. Black soap is rich in potassium, a vital mineral and key ingredient in the maintenance of cell integrity, black soap promotes skin cells hydration, which keeps the skin internally moisturized. Availability of materials Raw materials are readily available in every local community in Nigeria and Africa at large. Machinery/equipment: Monetary involvement: The monetary requirement for this project depends on the capacity you wish to install. With as low as N740,000 to as much as N120million is suitable for the investment .