SIR: A chick that will grow into a cock can be spotted the very day it hatches; meaning you can easily foresee the future of something through the character and tell-tale signs it shows today. The overwhelming drums of discord emanating from various ethnic juggernauts as a result of ‘false alarms’ of attack on innocent citizens in the South by herdsmen calls for a holistic analysis of the issues in an unbiased perspective. We need to tackle the hate parasite and resentment infesting deep into our national consciousness, douse the tension and calm frayed nerves in the interest of peace, development and national cohesion. Breaking the shackles of conflicts needs the efforts of unbiased or sincere moderator(s) early enough. The dearth of moderators early in conflicts leaves on its trail tears and blood. The consequences of wars whether commissioned or not are far reaching and breeds sores of vengeance in the aftermath. Knowing how porous our borders are and the unchecked migration of foreigners from war-torn Libya etc. with attendant arms proliferation, I suspect a foreign invasion of our territories by trans-border bandits in the guise of Fulani herdsmen may be in the offing. I commend the president of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, for his visit to the Southeast last week to bridge bridges and I suggest he hires a National Peace Ambassador to do the peace bidding across the nation in earnest to douse tensions. Statesmen with bedrock of consistent principles, moral compass, vision and that possess the abilities to build consensus across divides are needed at this crucial time to change the old rhetoric and the long tradition of suspicion and fragile peace through defining what made us and emptying what might have marred us. Nigeria being a major brand in the African continent must make peace within to muster the moral courage to sell African ideals. But we are presently cursed by unrepentant politicians who have, over the years, funded and encouraged arms proliferation and consequently helped to itch the idle but armed hands. Herdsmen and farmers are partners in Nigeria’s agricultural progress in providing nutrition for the teeming population. The aim of the government to advance the practice of the herdsmen in possessing ranches has caused a lot of ill-will and allowed mischief makers to breed new methods to divide the country. New approaches must be employed in achieving the needed modern ranching for the herdsmen. Statesmanship is not an exclusive preserve or title of political office holders but for persons possessing skills in managing public affairs for the common good as there is no sitting on the fence in nation building. Nigeria is still in the hiding of underdevelopment and moral collapse yet some people want to light the strained tunnel accommodating the inflammable. Historically, such threats materialize, not because it had a foundation but because parties were forced into conflict through sustained propaganda of faceless groups that want to discredit the government. But with our inextinguishable lifeline of trust in God and the patriotism in our sovereignty, we can quickly stop asking the questions of ‘is it politic” and begin to give answers to the questions of “is it right”. If we don’t stand for something, we may fall for something involuntarily. When Rome boils, everybody loses because as hunger is felt by a slave, so is it felt by the king. 