As he settles into his second term of five years as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) following his reappointment by President Muhammadu Buhari and confirmation by the Senate, there are high expectations that Mr. Godwin Emefiele will continue with the widely acclaimed policies and consummate professionalism that characterised his first term. He has been generously acclaimed for the deft expertise and courageous vision that helped to steer Nigeria out of a difficult economic recession, especially as he also served as the government’s key adviser on fiscal policy before President Buhari’s delayed formation of his cabinet in 2015. Emefiele’s proficiency will certainly be key to accelerating economic growth in the critical years ahead, and his warning that the country must brace up for necessary tough decisions in the near future indicate that he has no illusions about the nature of the challenges ahead. One of Emefiele’s key successes has been the strong support that the CBN under him has given to the Buhari administration’s efforts to diversify the economy and reduce Nigeria’s excessive dependence on petroleum sales as her major revenue earner. This has been particularly evident in the CBN’s Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), which has had a positive impact, particularly in the agricultural sector.  Through its agricultural credit support to rice farmers, for instance, the ABP has facilitated a significant increase in local rice production per hectare, thus enabling the country to make significant foreign exchange savings from reduced importation of the commodity. Emefiele’s challenge is to intensify his philosophy of ‘Produce, Add Value and Export’ (PAVE) by not only improving on its rice production stimulation initiative but also extending the ABP to other viable commodities such as fish, wheat, sugar, tomatoes and cassava, among others. He should also aggressively pursue one of his stated key objectives of diversification of the CBN intervention funds towards the capital market, human capital development, power, oil and gas, education and health, to complement government’s efforts. The CBN’s exclusion, in 2015, of 41 items from being imported with foreign exchange accessed from the official foreign exchange market also increased patronage of local goods while stimulating increased local production considerably. Its innovative management of the country’s foreign exchange market was best illustrated by the creation of the Inter-bank/wholesale, Invisible, Small and Medium and the Investors/Exporters windows, which also provided for the bureaux de change and parallel market segments in the foreign exchange regime. These policies, in addition to the sanitisation and curtailing of dysfunctional speculative activities by bureau de change outfits helped significantly to stabilise the exchange rate under Emefiele, with foreign reserves also appreciating impressively to $47.3 billion in April 2018. Through its weekly interventions in the foreign exchange market to the tune of over $18.1 billion since February 2017, the CBN, under Emefiele, mopped up excess liquidity, thus enabling a drop in inflation rate from 18.72% in January 2016 to 12.5% in April 2018. At the same time, it boosted the confidence of investors in Nigeria’s fixed income securities such as Treasury Bills and Bonds with attendant increase in capital inflow of $12.2 billion in 2017, representing a 138.7% increase compared with 2016. The maintenance of this kind of policy pragmatism and dynamism is critical in Emefiele’s new term. Equally notable is the alertness and effectiveness of the CBN Consumer Protection Department under Emefiele, with over N55 billion refunded to customers by commercial banks, being illegal and excessive charges. The CBN governor must however task his professional ingenuity to get the country’s banks to play their developmental roles in the economy by making credit available to real investors, especially small and medium businesses, at interest rates that are not inimical to their profitability and sustainability.