Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, has identified courage, commitment, vision and grits as the qualities the next candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the November governorship election must possess. The governor, who spoke in Yenagoa, the state capital, said the qualities were needed for such individual to protect the interest of the state and the Ijaw nation. He insisted that the candidate of the PDP must have the consciousness and capacity to play opposition politics in the country. He stressed the stakes in the next governorship poll were too high to be left in the hands of “lilly-livered politicians who only play establishment politics and shy away from the realities on ground.” Dickson directed the religious team and the body of clergy in the state to organize special prayers for the emergence of his successor. The governor said that the issue of selecting a governor for Bayelsa State was so crucial that it was important for the state to commit the process into the hand of God. He said that he would embark on extensive consultations with key stakeholders of the state including former President Goodluck Jonathan towards ensuring a peaceful and hitch-free primaries designed to produce the party’s flag bearer. “I wish to also mention on this important issue of the next person to govern the state. I have directed our religious team to come up with a date when we will formally gather to fast and pray in seeking the face of God concerning the person who will take over from me as governor of the state. The team has chosen June and so we will all find time as a party to have that event”, he said. Commenting on the forthcoming local government elections, the governor emphasized that women and youths would be given priority for councillorship positions across the state in recognition of their sustained support to his administration. He said: “I desire to see more youths and women being carried along in the forthcoming local government election because of the incredible support they have always given to my administration. “A minimum of 20% should be given to the women in appreciation of their support and as a source of empowerment to their families.”