Suspected bandits have shot wife of Bunza Local government Council chairman, a policeman and a member of the local vigilante group at Zogirma community in Kebbi after a botched kidnap attempt. The three victims are receiving treatment at the intensive care unit of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Birnin Kebbi. Aliyu Usman, a resident of Zogirma community, told newsmen when the bandits came into the community they shot sporadically and abducted the woman from her home. “They went to the chairman’s house but couldn’t initially gain entrance. They shot at the door several times and when they entered they took his wife,’’ Usman said. He said that a policeman and a member of the vigilante group went after the bandits in an attempt to rescue the woman. “They started shooting and they shot the woman, the policeman and a member of the vigilante group in the process,’’ he said. When newsmen visited the FMC, the Chief Medical Director, Dr Hamzat Balarabe, said the centre had to quickly operate on the vigilante group member for him to survive. “We are planning to move quickly on the woman too as she has multiple fractures and a wound at the lower part of her chest,’’ he added. The council Chairman, Alhaji Bello Zogirma, who confirmed the incident, said the suspected armed bandits invaded the community at about 1:40am on Sunday and shot sporadically to scare away residents. “The bandits in their numbers had kidnapped my wife and a father in the family but no lives were lost during the attack. He said “The kidnapped persons have regained their freedom after exchange of fire between the bandits and the police with support from the vigilante group in the area,’’ Zogirma said. He added: “I have learnt that immediately after the attack, combined operations of the Army, Police and other security operatives was launched around the bush. “And it paid off as one of the suspects that sustained gunshot injuries was arrested in one of the hospitals in Kamba where he was taken for treatment by the bandits.’’ The council chairman commended Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and security operatives for their quick response to the attack. Bagudu has since visited the hospital to see the three people that were injured during the attack.