An Ado-Ekiti Magistrates’ Court has sentenced Lawal Abdullahi (32) and Abubakar Abdullahi (33) to five years imprisonment for threatening to kidnap a resident, identified simply as Alhaji Garba, and demanding N10 million ransom from him. The convicts, whose addresses were not provided, faced a three-count charge of conspiracy, threat to cause violence and attempt to kidnap. The prosecutor, Inspector Oriyomi Akinwale, told the court that the convicts committed the offence on April 27 at 4 p.m at Ayede-Ekiti. Akinwale said the convicts conspired to commit felony to wit: demanding money with threats on Alhaji Garba. On count one, the prosecutor averred that the convicts also threatened violence on their victim. On count two, he added that they conspired to extort and kidnap the man and demanded N10 million ransom from him. Akinwale said the offences contravene sections 516, 86 and 407 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012. The prosecutor said Lawal Abdullahi married the complainant’s daughter through which he got information about him. He said Lawal conspired with Abubakar Abdullahi to demand N10 million ransom from their victim. According to him, the convicts threatened that if the man failed to provide the money, they would kidnap and kill him. Akinwale said Garba promised to give them N500,000 out of the N10 million they demanded from him. The prosecutor said the complainant took the convicts’ number to the police, adding that they were tracked by the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team in Ekiti State branch to Ijebu-Ode in Ogun State. He said the convicts were apprehended at Ijebu-Ode and taken to Ekiti State where the offence was committed. The convicts pleaded guilty. The prosecutor urged the court to place the maximum punishment on the convicts due to the prevalent wave of kidnapping in the country. The Magistrate, Mr Timothy Abe, sentenced each of the convicts on first count to five years imprisonment; to one year on the second count and to five years on the third count. Abe sentenced the convicts to five years imprisonment to run concurrently without an option of fine. 