We live in a world of QUESTIONS and ANSWERS. If there were no questions and answers, there would be no airplanes and airports, motor cars, radio and television stations and skyscrapers, to mention a few of the gains of the spirit of adventure and enquiry. Some readers of this column often ask me why this page is short on questions and answers. I reply that many of the enquiries end up in those long essays they find there every Thursday. I cannot deny, though, that the mail box does not always run over, despite responses to enquiries on telephone, text messages, Whatsap and on Facebook.The column of today is an attempt, therefore, to kill many birds with one stone. It is a reminder  of our CLINIC DAY of old in which answers were provided to questions…  Chapped lips Many people, especially men, do not bother about their lips. Women do. I grew up to imagine that European women were born with natural red lips. Even when at 14 in high school, I heard the song. It was much, much later when the lips of Nigerian women began to become red that I knew there was something called LIP STICK. Even when at 14 in high school  I heard the song Lucky Lips in which the singer said… “lucky lips are always kissing, lucky lips are never blue”,  I thought kissing and kisses made the lips of European women red, if they were not reddened from the womb and had thought kissing made women’s lips red. I did not find Nigerians kissing. So, I thought, again, kisses made those lips red. By the time I knew of the lipstick, I knew it was a weapon in the sex appeal paraphernalia of women. Much, much later, still, I learned the lipstick was also meant to protect the lips from chaffing, chapping, blistering, cracking and from breaking down into those other unsightful presentations you may be familiar with. The lipstick is still in vogue despite increasing awareness that many of them are constituted with dangerous substances, some of which are so toxic that they may cause cancer. The culprits among them are brands with the longest shelf lives on the lips. I pity women who paint their lips with them because they swallow some of the paint when they eat, however, they masterly try to avoid doing so, if you clandestine observe them over a meal. Some women have gone overboard. Their lipstick colour must watch their dress, bags and shoes … and perhaps their briefs. I was lucky to marry a woman who was not into lipstick culture. I began to show more than passing interest in the lips when my wife pointed out to me my bad habit about my lower lip. Everyone has his or her bad habits about practically everything, while some people pick their noses with their fingers and in public, I indulged in peeling off the top layer of my chapped lips. This habit was so bad and frequent that it sometimes caused one uproar or another. Here is what I cannot deny I  do because, sometimes , the lip may bleed or spot a healing  sore. I got tired of hearing…”so, you’ve done it again”, a gentle, loving corrective pat on the offending hand. I had to find a solution to the problem and the habit which accompanied it. I shared my experiences with an enquirer who was faced with this challenge, as I am doing here as well. I found that the lips are no different from the skin anywhere in the body. When they are rough, scaly, peeling or insightly, they are either dehydrated or are unprotected from a harsh environment or reporting to us underlying nutritional deficiencies or health challenges becoming inside the body. There are many home remedies one may call up for rescue work. There are many good proprietary products which do the work as well, if not better, specially outdoor. The first step is to drink enough clean, alkaline water every day, take the daily requirement of a good zinc supplement as zinc is required for more than 200 purposes in the body, including prostate gland health, fertility, good health, fertility, good vision, hair skin and nail health. Foods and proprietary products which contain silica are also. Licking of the lips should be discouraged. It may worsen dehydration by the weather. Breathing through the mouth may cause infections in the oral cavity which may impact on the lips. The lips may profit from natural moisturizers and antimicrobials such as aloe vera, cucumber, honey, coconut oil, almond oil, shea butter and bees wax, to mention a few. Aloe vera is moisturising, anti- inflammatory, anti-microbial and exfoliating. Cucumber is about 90 percent, contains vitamin c for collagen formation. Collagen holds the cells and tissue together, preventing sags, cracks and shapelessness. Its caffeic acid provides anti-oxidant protection against free radical damage. The juices of these natural substances are left on for some time and then rinsed off. But the oils may be left on for as long as possible. To care for my lips outdoor and overnight, I adopted two proprietary products. One is aloe vera-based. The other is bee wax based. I do not rule out coconut oil when it is handy. ALOE LIDICE comes from aloe vera. It is a great company, especially in the harmattan months, it takes the scalding and cracking etc out of my lips. The beauty of it all is that hardly does anyone notice I rub anything. I always run into trouble with it though when I am generous enough to share my experience with a challenged person and bring it out of my pocket to reveal my secret. The women snatch it. Believe me, I hide it from my wife as well. It is good for all seasons, not just the harmattan. My other great company is TENDER CARE BALM made from bees wax among other natural constituents. I do not show this to women for understandable reasons. Literally speaking, I stole it from them because of its bees wax constituents. This product is multi-purpose for many beauty needs of a woman. It is designed for application on the lips to moisturise them, nourish and prevent chapping. It is applicable also in the sides of the eyes to hydrate the skin there, thereby checking fine lines. That’s not all. On the elbow, it also prevents dryness and cracking tender care balm has its uses in pedicure and manicure as well, to soften and smoothen curticles. You can know why I can only mention and not displace it before a woman. It is for my lips only.  Whites (Leucorrhea) Many men have no idea of what WHITES
are. But they should be able to guess what
it is from its other name, LEUCORRHEA, for this sounds very much like diarrhea, watery evacuations from the intestine. Whites or leucorrhea are whitish discharges from a woman’s secret place. It afflicts many women. And many possible causes have been adduced for it. Some gynaecologists, such as Dr Catherine Northrop, says in her book, WOMAN’S BODY, WOMAN’S WISDOM, which captures about 35 years’work experience, that the fashion of wearing slacks or pairs of trousers is partially accountable for it. She says a woman is meant to gown so she can “suck in” radiations of the earth. This not being the cause nowadays, the secret place cannot easily bear assaults in the multiple sexual partner syndrome. The secret place secrets lactic acid to kill off harmful bacteria and to protect friendly bacteria. In the animal kingdom, female animals accept males formatting only when the females are “on heat” during their menstrual cycle. But the human female, whose body, like that of the human male, is descended from the animal, take on the male just at about any time. Now, semen from the male is alkaline and neutralises the protective acid environment of the secret place. With the protective cover thus removed, unfriendly germs and parasites profliferate. The mucus membrane inflames, producing mucus and other secretions to trap and flush them out. Lymphocytes and leucocytes, immune system defenders, are mobilised, confront the unfriendly agent. Antibiotics do not help in the end because they destroy friendly and unfriendly bacteria alike and unfriendly bacteria recover from onslaught faster than friendly bacteria. The outcome is that milky white or yellowish discharge which may sometimes turn green. This condition may affect bedroom relationships as it soils the bodies and linen. It is one reason many women aren’t always ready for the other room. Men, in their obtuseness, do not always read the weather correctly until they end up in the storm, furious or angry if they are uncouthly understanding and re-assuring, even helpful, if they are mature. As every woman likes to stay clean and be found clean, many ways out of this challenge have been sought. Even if women cannot abandon the trouser for men, which they should, and if they cannot hold themselves till the ripe time of the cycle, they can, at least, support, through the diet, the mucus membrane in the seed place to produce more lactic acid in the war on whites or leucorrhea. Vitamin A should be the first port of call. It supports the health of mucus membranes throughout the body. Many vegetables and herbs have been found to knock out whites, through diverse pathways. Some of them are golden seal root, corriander (cilantro), pomegranate, alma (amalaki), fenugreek seed. Where pomegranate fruits or powder are not easily available, a proprietary product called POMESTEEN may be tried. Pomegranate seed is one of the principal consultants. There are many proprietary formulas which work faster than the diet. Goldenseal root powder mixed with egg white, a natural protein, may be massaged into the vault overnight. Goldenseal root may not be used for longer than seven days at a time in one month. As it may be dehydrating. After the therapy, it is common to rehydrate with aloe vera softgel or vitamin A or vitamin E softgel inverted overnight for some days. It is also suggested that the woman undergoing this therapy take, afterwards, friendly bacteria capsules orally and simultaneously also insert in the vault. In India, women massage the secret place with mango seed extract before sexual affairs as a form of contraception. If the extract kills sperm, it will kill bacteria as well and stop whites. There are many proprietary products in the market which confront whites and make the woman happy. ALOE GELLY, an aloe vera-based product, has proven its mettle as a moisturizer and healer. It is probably best used at bed time. Some women have been ventured into ALOE FIRST, that great healer of injuries, including surgical wounds, when damaged occured in this region. I recall the case of a woman who visited a native doctor to have uterine fibroids extracted. She was given potions of hot spices which included peppers to flush into the uterus. Not only did she fail to achieve her objective, the secret place was literallly “cooked” like boiled tissue. For days, she lay in bed cooling off with an electric fan and spraying ALOE FIRST in and around this organ. In the end, she emerged without as little as a scar, like many conditions of burns similarly healed. I do not know what has become of FEMININE WASH, a douching preparation made from sage and other antimicrobial and healing herbs. Remember sage, like garlic and apple cider vinegar, were among the plant medicine which saved four robbers in Europe who went on raids to homes abandoned by rich people where many people had been killed by the BLACK PLAGUE which wiped out about half of Europe’s population hundreds of years ago. (Google THE BLACK PLAGUE). Sage remains a powerful constituent of many douching formulas today. I do not know as yet if it is present in FEMINELLE, a douching formula which has been making the rounds of Nigeria for some time. FEMINELLE WASH is designed as deodorising and cleansing gel which moisturises and supports elimination of bacteria with a good presence of lactic acid. I have a passion for CLEAN WOMAN, another proprietary product for the health of this region.