The today’s world where it seems like there are no jobs and those with jobs are losing their jobs, what must an employee do to ensure they are productive and stay relevant in the workplace? I have come up with three keys that I teach employees who want to ensure that they remain relevant in the workplace. Gone are the days when opportunity came but once, or people sat on their hands waiting for a goose to lay a golden egg for them. Those whose names are etched in the sands of time, are those who consciously and subconsciously attracted and created opportunities for themselves. This article centers on three keys any employee must cultivate in order to help them attract and create their own opportunities in the workplace. The first key to recognizing opportunities in the workplace is PERCEPTION. Perception simply put, is how we view things. It is the lens with which we view the world. C.S LEWIS said ‘change the way you look at things and the things you look at will change’ A recent study showed that a reason for reduced productivity from employees is that most employees do not see their current jobs as launching pads into their future. The average employee only sees their current workplace as a place to earn a salary and move on to the next big salary. In order to find opportunities in the workplace there must be a mental shift in the mindset of the employee. An organisation where employees come to work daily solely for a pay cheque is bad for both the employee and employer. The key to causing this mental shift is in the organisational culture, contrary to what the average executive thinks, culture doesn’t stop at a training or seminar, it is lived out daily. The key of perception is not only useful in the workplace but in life, a person who always sees the glass as half full would most likely do more with the glass than the person who sees the glass as half empty. The second key for employees to recognize opportunities in the workplace is MINDSET. The mindset of the average employee is one that would never find opportunities and hence will kill productivity in the workplace. A mindset for recognizing opportunities is one that doesn’t stop at identifying problems but goes the extra mile to create solutions. The average human being is an expert at finding the problems, maybe that is why our country and even or world is the way it is. Everyone is a problem finder and no one is a solution provider. A person who is solution driven will automatically attract opportunities. Nobody forgets a solution provider, the only reason why we know names like Steve Jobs or Mark Zuckerberg is because of the solutions they have provided to the world. To create opportunities for yourself in the workplace and outside the workplace, train your mind to stop talking about problems and to be a solution provider. The third key to recognizing opportunities is BEHAVIOR. Behavior simply put, is how we act. What makes, shapes or destroys a person is their behavior, without behavior, the above mentioned keys are rather useless. People say behavior drives people and people drives business, this simply means that behavior drives business. In one’s quest for creating or attracting opportunities, the fuel that sustains opportunities is behavior. A renewed perception births a changed mindset, a changed mindset must therefore birth a difference in behavior. A person seeking opportunities must daily ask themselves ‘what is everybody doing, and how can I do it differently?’ I have found that the popular saying ‘opportunity comes but once’ is not always true. I say opportunities can be attracted and created using the keys given above. An employee who creates opportunities for himself or herself is well on the way to rapid growth in the organisation. For more information on self -development through coaching for yourself and your organisation, follow me on social media or send me a mail at gbemieobadan@gmail.com.