Member of the House of Representatives, James Owolabi, has promised to work for the listing of the 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) of Lagos State in the constitution. Former Lagos State Governor Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu created the 37 LCDAs in 2004 and drew the ire of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who withheld the state’s allocation for years. The Supreme Court ordered the release of the funds. According to Owolabi, this is the time to work for the listing of the councils by the National Assembly. He spoke with reporters at the weekend during his victory party at Ifako-Ijaiye Mini Stadium. The lawmaker, who represents Ifako-Ijaiye Federal Constituency, said Lagos with over 20 million population was more than qualified to have over 60 local governments. “It is not a gainsaying that Lagos State deserves more from the Federal Government. It is the economic hub of West Africa. More developmental projects need to be brought to the state if we truly want Nigeria to develop,” he said. The lawmaker lamented that erosion was a “serious problem” in his constituency. He said he had visited several areas, promising to do all within his power to address issues confronting his constituents. “Erosion is hitting my constituency seriously. We have this challenge and I have started going round to see this. This is my first priority,” Owolabi said. He said he was determined to be very close to the people at the grassroots and be their voice. “I want to advise my people to calm down, I am going to deliver. I am close to the grassroots. I have been contesting for so many years now, since 1995. I know what they what, people should calm down, I am going to deliver,” he said. The lawmaker said he would constitute an advisory committee comprising critical stakeholders in his constituency on the peculiar needs and challenges of the people. The committee, he said, would comprise members of Community Development Committee, Community Development Association, transport unions, market women, among others. Owolabi said the nation’s security challenges would be best handled by state police. A party leader, Alhaja Fatimah Balogun appealed to the National Assembly to fast track the listing of the LCDAs. The council, she said, is the closest to the grassroots, hence the need to be expanded and well-funded.