Of the two trucks in the commercial vehicle segment – Actros and Arocs – introduced into the Nigerian market last year by Weststar, Arocs has become the toast of users of trucks. According to Weststar, it has since been touted as the new force in construction. The auto firm said Arocs takes on every challenge in the construction business with tailor-made solutions for every vehicle body. The truck is equipped with a robust and high-torque engine, Mercedes PowerShift 3 and a new unique suspension and frame design, all as standard. It comes with a durable powertrain that delivers precisely the power needed in off-road transportation, construction sites or extreme terrain. It also comes with increased ground clearance with high angles of approach to ensure optimised agility even in challenging road conditions. Combining power, robustness and efficiency in a unique way, the Arocs continues the 120-year old tradition of Mercedes-Benz Trucks in the construction industry while bringing them into the future with innovative technology. Designed to provide a reliable, high-torque drive configuration to suit the construction industry down to the ground, the Arocs offers a number of frame and suspension configurations developed to excel both on and off-road. From platform vehicles and concrete mixers to heavy-duty tippers, the Arocs is a tough and robust vehicle that will meet any challenge in construction and off-road transportation. The six-cylinder engines have higher engine efficiency through the wastegate turbocharger, the optimised viscous fan clutch and the intelligent auxiliary consumers. The OM473 (Euro III), a state of the art six-cylinder in-line 15.6 liter engine opens a new dimension in high performance engines. The turbo compound unit transforms thermal energy into mechanical energy and thus increases the operating efficiency of the engine: the engine has additional power but lower fuel consumption by using the X-Pulse fuel-injection system which reduces the fuel quantity utilised in the engine. The new Arocs comes with Mercedes PowerShift 3 as standard and manual gearshift as an option. The gearbox is 100 percent made by Mercedes-Benz ensuring the best integration with engine and axles, providing a wider range of gears for operation in optimal torque ranges and optimised start-off capabilities. With Mercedes PowerShift 3 one gets the best shifting strategy at any time (30-50 percent faster gear changes than manual) with friction reduction for minimised wear and tear of the driveline. Providing a wider range of gears for operation in optimal torque ranges and various driving modes for different road situations, such as Power Mode, Crawl function and Rapid Reverse. The narrow frame in the new Arocs comes with a width of 744 mm and a longitudinal member thickness of eight or nine mm, which is made of cold formed, high-strength fine-grained steel, is used in vehicles intended for deployment mainly on construction sites and for off-road driving. This ensures highest reliability and torsional flexibility even in difficult conditions. Mercedes-Benz offers many safety and assistance systems to reduce risks and increase comfort for the driver. More safety is provided due to more than 400 sensors which are fitted on the truck to ensure safe and efficient driving. These safety systems include the Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS), Acceleration Slip Regulation (ASR), Hazard warning lights flashing in case of emergency braking, Active Brake Assist 4 and Attention Assist as some of the highlight features. Weststar Associates said the truck is available for immediate order with the best Aftersales service and support.