The International Labour Organisation (ILO) Director General Guy Ryder has said 55 per cent of the world’s population is still not covered by social protection. He said global commitment to social protection is a prerequisite to securing sustainable transitions over the life course. Ryder, who spoke at a high-level forum on social protection as part of the current centenary celebration of the global labour body, said sustainable social protection system would become increasingly critical to provide support in a fast-changing world of work. Participants at the forum noted that digitalisation, demographic shifts, climate change and globalisation would affect the way people manage transitions during the course of their lives. They stressed the importance not only of decent job creation policies but also of social protection to help workers, particularly the most vulnerable, and manage the transitions. The Managing Director of International Monetary (IMF), Christine Lagarde, spoke of “social spending,” which she said includes social insurance and social assistance, as well as public spending on health and education. She said: “Social spending is not just an expense but rather can be among the wisest of investments in the well-being of our societies. Expansion of access to education and health generates broader productivity across the population, allowing all citizens to flourish. To reap the rewards of stronger global economy societies must begin by strengthening social programmes today. “I would argue that social spending is a core component of the social contract needed to fulfil the missions of our respective institutions.” Also, United Nations (UN) High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, noted that by mitigating the negative impact of unemployment, creating access to further education, improving labour market opportunities and securing access to at least the core contents of the right to health, food, water and sanitation, education, housing, social security systems, you can ensure that individuals in the society are protected from the worst impact of upheavals.” General Secretary, European Trade Union Confederation, Luca Visentini said it was essential that workers, including those in the gig economy, had access to lifelong learning and “have real access to universal social protection systems that can protect them from shocks… but at the same time can also make transitions smoother.” But, he added, “all this doesn’t work if there is not a clear strategy in place for quality job creation Joannie Marlene Bewa, UN Young Leader for the Sustainable Development Goals, said, “we have to make sure we have inclusive policies that build on, not only the needs of the most vulnerable, but also hear the voices and needs of young people.” 