Since April 18 when fire broke out at Chevron facility on an oil-well located in Ojumole community in Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State, there have been apprehensions over its environmental and health hazards. DAMISI OJO reports that at a meeting between Ojumole community and Chevron, the oil firm promised to ensure that the well-being of members of the community would be its topmost priority. On April 18, fire broke out on an oil-well located between two communities in Delta and Ondo states. Expectedly, the situation had sparked heated disagreement between Polobubo leadership and the oil multinational, over the designation of the facility on fire. While the community identified it as Ikpalapkala-Bou oil-well, located in their Ijaw community in Delta State, Chevron is said to have maintained that the facility is Ojumale oil-well, which it said is located in Ondo State. Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) has said it’s doing everything possible not to ignite communal crisis between the Ijaw of Polobubo in Delta State and Ilaje of Ondo State. It added that it has been playing safe, dealing with both sides equally, even as it said it is not its duty to determine who owns the land on which the facility is located. Members of Ojumole community in Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State have urged the oil-producing company to ensure that immediate measures were taken to ease the negative effect of the fire on the environment and the health of the people. Responding, the oil firm assured that safety of lives of the people in the host communities of Ilaje Local Government Area would be its topmost priority. It said contrary to allegations of neglect of the people of Ojumole community in Ilaje Local Government Area, the organisation maintained that no effort would be spared in enhancing the lives of the people. The General Manager of the oil firm, Mr. Esimsje Burkin, an Engineer who addressed the six-man ad-hoc committee on fire incident set up by the Ondo State House of Assembly said CNL has been supportive of the communities in its area of operation and sensitive to their plights. Recall that the fire incident occurred on April 18, 2019 at Ugbo llaje Ojumole, Oil Well in Ilaje Local Government Area. While commenting on the fire incident that occurred at Ojumole field in NNPC/CNL JV’s Western Niger Delta area of operation, the General Manager said the company was currently working with Emergency Response contractors to safely put out the fire as quickly as possible. He said due to the peculiar terrain of the well’s location, there was the need to create an access path to the slot leading to the well head. This, according to him, would enable the heavy equipment and men required to safely put out the fire gain access to the well location. He said the oil firm would continue to keep all stakeholders, including the government, regulatory agencies, media and community leaders abreast of efforts of the company aimed at putting out the fire. His words: “A joint investigation visits (JIV) by a team made up of regulatory agencies, community stakeholders and the company, was carried out on Saturday, April 20, to ascertain the extent of the spill, impact on the environment, if any and cause of the spill. “The JIV to the site of the incident by a team made up of regulatory agencies, community stakeholders and CNL, determined that the fire incident was caused by third party interference. There were protective mechanical components and installed barriers on the well head, which were tampered with by oil theft. “As a result of the third party activity that led to uncontained release of hydrocarbon from Ojumole Well with resultant fire incident, the hydrocarbon has been burning continually. Residue of oil is collected while the water and gas in solution have been the source of the fire”. Chevron GM, however, said the company placed the highest priority on the health and safety of its neighbouring communities, workforce and protection of the nvironment and its assets. The Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, Bamidele Oleyelogun enjoined Chevron to consider the safety of lives and social well-being of the people by ensuring that the fire was put out as quickly as possible. According to him, members of the House had been having sleepiness nights over the ugly incident. Oleyelogun urged the oil company to find lasting solution to the fire as an unbiased umpire. Dr. Akin Akinruntan, who spoke on behalf of the community also urged Chevron to pay due compensation of 2.5 billion dollars to those communities that are within eight kilometers radius to the fire-ravaged area, among others. He, however, reeled off possible health hazards that are likely to ravage the lives of the people who are already out of their fishing business, if something urgent is not done. Other agencies and stakeholders that made their contributions at the meeting were DPR, NEMA; community and youth leaders, among others. The six-man ad-hoc committee on fire incident set up by the state House of Assembly, however, adjourned the meeting till after Chevron returns from the site of the affected oil well.