The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has recorded tremendous achievements in the last sixteen years, its Acting Director-General, Mrs Aisha Dahir, has said. She spoke at the pre-retirement workshop for Federal Government (FGN) workers due to disengage in 2020 under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). According to her,  the achievement would not have been possible without the support and understanding of all stakeholders, especially the contributors, who are about to retire. The workshop, organised for intending retirees in  2020 under the CPS, she said, was very important, adding that the commission considers contributors who are about to join the CPS retirees as very important stakeholders, hence the need for the sensitization workshop. According to her, the objectives of the Pension Reform Act (PRA 2014) are to ensure that every person who worked in either the public service of the Federation, Federal Capital Territory, states and local governments, or the private sector receives his retirement benefits as and when due. The objectives include establishing uniform set of rules, regulations and standards for all aspects of pension administration, and payment of retirement benefits to retirees, among others. She said: “As part of our annual regulatory activities, the Commission has commenced the verification of prospective retirees, who will be retiring in the year 2020 from the public service of the Federation. The verification exercise is scheduled to hold from July 1 to August 2, 2019 in 15 centers across the country. The exercise, therefore, necessitated the need to undertake adequate sensitisation and public enlightenment in order to prepare prospective retirees on the steps to take towards a hitch free retirement life. “The intending retirees will be sensitised in three arears, which include enrolment exercise and documentation requirements, accessing retirement under the CPS and life in retirement. It is our hope that the workshop would inform them on what they need to know on documentation requirements, payment of retirement benefits and best ways to enjoy life in retirement.” In the commission’s pension summary report, she disclosed that pension assets have grown to N9.03 trillion as at March 2019. The assets gained N117 billion between February and March this year, even as N6.51 trillion of the assets was invested in Federal Government of Nigeria securities. She noted that the CPS implementation has greatly impacted the economy, stressing that the major visible areas of this impact are the economic and social spheres and that the pension assets, are slowly but surely changing Nigeria’s financial landscape and by extension, the course and pace of our socio-economic development.