THE newly elected chairman of Katsina Football Association (KFA) Aminu Balele Kurfi believes that he has put structures in all cadres of the state football organisation and what is left for him in football is a quick intervention at the grassroots level which will be a feeder team to the senior team, Katsina United. Kurfi scored 39 votes out of 40 to be elected as the new chairman of the Katsina FA on Saturday. For years, Katsina state did not feature on the map of Nigeria football until Governor Aminu Masari took the mantle of leadership in the state. The governor found the right man in the right direction within eight months when he was elected, and Kurfi was appointed the chairman of Katsina United and also as the Senior Special Adviser (SSA) Sports to the Katsina State Governor. As soon as he took over, a state team known as Katsina Spotlights FC was rebranded and called Katsina United which participated in the Nigeria National League (NNL) and promoted to the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) in the same year and won the NNL Super Four. Katsina United is the only team among the promoted clubs which had never been relegated. Under him, the junior team, Katsina feeders was promoted and reached the round of 16 in the 2017 AITEO Cup, the only junior team that reached that level that year. Katsina United also reached semi-final in the 2018 Aiteo Cup, what is more, is the consideration  of building the youth team, the team’s U15 team emerged runners up in the first edition of the U15 NPFL/LaLiga competition. In this year’s edition, they became overall winner, beating Kwara United in the final. In a chat with NationSport, Kurfi a.k.a Dan Arewa promised to source for funds to bankroll the  various programmes and events of the Association. “Our focus is reviving football at the grassroots level; reduce the cost of spending in scarce  resources so as to allow the government divert the little resources to other sectors. We will try and run an independent FA by looking for sponsorship to finance our activities,” Kurfi told 