A missed flight by former National Planning Minister Prof Abubakar Suleiman on Monday stalled his trial and that of a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Mr Dele Belgore (SAN) at the Federal High Court in Lagos Suleiman’s lawyer Tayo Oyetibo (SAN) informed Justice Rilwan Aikawa that his client was not in court because he missed his flight to Lagos. Oyetibo said it was not in Suleiman’s character to be away from court as he had always been present for his trial. He apologised for the former minister’s absence. Prosecuting counsel Rotimi Oyedepo confirmed that he was informed, but said that he would reluctantly concede to the adjournment request. During an earlier hearing, Belgore told the court that he never met or dealt with former Petroleum Resources Minister Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke, who is also named in the charge but is said to be “at large”. He said he was not aware that the N450million he signed for in 2015 came from her as he believed that the funds came from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) headquarters following a fund-raising. Belgore was the Goodluck Jonathan Presidential Campaign Organisation coordinator in Kwara State during the 2015 general elections. He also told the court that he did not personally take the money out of the bank. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) charged him, Prof Suleiman and Mrs Madueke with money laundering. In the nine-count charge, EFCC said they “directly took possession of the sum N450million,” which they allegedly indirectly spent, adding that they “reasonably ought to have known [that the money] forms part of the proceeds of unlawful act.” The prosecution accused them of making cash payment of N10million to Kwara State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Dr Emmanuel Onucheyo. EFCC said they also paid N10million to a Commissioner of Police Garba Saliu on March 27, 2015 without going through a financial institution. The sums, the commission said, exceeded the amount authorised by law and violated Sections 1(a) and 16 (d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) (Amendment) Act of 2012 and punishable under Section 16 (2) (b). The defendants pleaded not guilty. Justice Aikawa adjourned until Wednesday for continuation of trial.