With about 24 hours to the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term administration, not a few Nigerians expect the movement to the ‘next level’ to start earnestly on May 29. The promise to move Nigerians to the next level of progress and prosperity was believed to have played a great role in the electoral victory of the President in the February 2019 Presidential polls. So many Nigerians are anxiously waiting for the continuation of the CHANGE agenda of the government that will immediately eradicate poverty and hunger in the land. They want fast development of various essential infrastructures and facilities in the country to at least correspond to the huge human and natural resources Almighty God has blessed Nigeria with over the years. Above all, they want Nigeria not only to become the real Giant of Africa indeed, but become a true force to be reckoned with globally on all fronts, especially in technology, manufacturing and industrialisation. Knowing what Nigerians expect of it, the Buhari administration appeared to be leaving no stone unturned towards shedding every weight that will likely slow it down from moving Nigeria and Nigerians to the next level in the next dispensation. To this end, the government towards winding down the first term successfully has held series of emergency Federal Executive Council (FEC) meetings in the past few weeks. Apart from some of the FEC meetings ending around 10pm in the night, it was also believed that the longest FEC meeting was held in the last few days. The outgoing cabinet was believed to be meeting to give the next political heads of the various ministries clean slates to operate without complexities in the next dispensation. In efforts to wind down successfully, the ministers were believed to have given account of the various approvals and status of the various projects approved by the government in the first term. Also towards winding down the first term administration of President Buhari, valedictory session was held for the outgoing cabinet members last week Wednesday. One common point all the 31 ministers revealed during the valedictory session was that Buhari’s integrity, humility and leadership style have impacted their lives in the past three and half years. Seeing the valedictory session as graduation ceremony, they felt  the tenure was a unique school that will reshape their lives and careers for the rest of their lives. But none of them, during the valedictory session, gave any indication they wanted to repeat the Buhari’s school of integrity, unlike in the past when ministers shed tears during such valedictory sessions and won’t want the experience to come to an end. The outgoing ministers, last Wednesday, appeared to be ready to move ahead and face what the future holds for them. The valedictory session, however, did not end without kind words for them from President Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, whose positions are already guaranteed in the next dispensation. Buhari said, “Our first meeting in this chamber was in November 2015. Over the past three and a half years, we worked together to deliver our campaign promises. “I strongly believe that it is this team work that led to the successes recorded during our first term. “Many would have given up. Indeed, many outside commentators said our situation was well-nigh hopeless. However, we all came together and pushed forward to deliver our campaign promise to rescue our country from its parlous state. “Although we all had a common vision, we frequently had heated debates in this room on the best way to achieve our goals. “These differing views are what made the decisions we took all the more rational. It is this quality that made me retain my cabinet for the full term. Each of you in this room has a unique skill and strength. “We are a reflection of the Nigeria we aspire to achieve. A diverse but tolerant nation where no one is silenced and where every opinion should be heard and considered. “I want you all to leave this meeting proud to have served your nation to the best of your ability. You should be proud to have been part of the Government that liberated the local governments previously under Boko Haram rule. “You should be proud to have contributed to our food security and economic diversification agenda which led to the revival of our rural agrarian economy “You should be proud to have been part of the team that developed the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan which led Nigeria exiting its worst recession in decades. “You should be proud to have introduced the social investment program that enhanced livelihoods of millions of Nigerians. “You should be proud to have participated in settling outstanding pensions of many senior citizens abandoned by previous governments while supporting state governments to meet their salary arrears. “And of course, you should all be proud to have overseen the most ambitious road, rail and airport rehabilitation programs in the history of our country. “I want to put on record, that your achievements in the last three and a half hears has guaranteed your position in the history books of this nation. You have certainly built the foundations for an improved economy and a more purposeful government.” he stated Also the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo said “I thank Almighty God for preserving our lives to serve our nation this past four years. “I will like to thank Mr. President for the opportunity to serve as your vice president and your running mate twice. My deepest gratitude come from the great trust that you reposed in me at all times. “I want to use this opportunity to greet our cabinet colleagues, this has been an exceptionally patriotic and talented team. “Everyone brought experience, knowledge, wisdom and selflessness to council deliberations at all times. “I pray that you will all go from glory to glory, that you will never fail or fall. As we all depart from council, I pray that the lord that has guided us this far will be our help in the years to come, in Jesus name.” While the President and Vice President have commended the outgoing cabinet members, some Nigerians have continued to guess how the next cabinet will be made up. With the way the ministers have been commended for their contributions in the last three and half years, some Nigerians believed that the President may eventually retain all the ministers, even though they are first expected to submit their handover letters to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation today. Other Nigerians want only the ministers that have performed excellently well to be retained. Some Nigerians also want complete new set of technocrats for the next dispensation. While the President is at liberty to pick any of the options to constitute the next cabinet, and as usual keep the list to his chest, this should be done in a way that will urgently speed up Nigeria’s movement to the next level as promised. The next cabinet members should be ready to hit the ground running as no time should be wasted from 29th of May, 2019, knowing that four years will move like a twinkling of an eye given the enormity of work to be done. 