There are a ton of amazing Android apps out there. However, their usefulness is usually limited to the habits of the people using them. So we have checked through and found these ten (10) amazing applications. These apps can be used by everybody. Without further delay, here are the best Android apps currently available! 1. Curator Curator is for anyone who wants to better organize their photo library. The app allows you to tag photos and search through photos based on those tags — making it much easier to search through the thousands of photos that you probably have on your device. The app can also intelligently tag photos itself based on the composition of the image, which is a handy feature. 2. Canva Canva is a quick, user-friendly photo editing app that’s designed with social media use in mind. The app comes with a variety of ready to use templates, filters, fonts, and other tools that you can apply to images in your device’s gallery or in Canva’s selection of free and premium images, which you can then easily share to your favorite social network or media platform. You can use Canva to quickly set up a cover photo or account avatar for Facebook or create crisp and clean Instagram stories, Twitter banners or the perfect Youtube thumbnails. 3. Otter Voice Notes Otter Voice Notes is a transcription app that makes taking voice notes a breeze. Otter can record from your phone’s internal mic or through a Bluetooth device; it then automatically transcribes your work nearly in real-time, complete with punctuation, speaker ID, and searchable playback of your recordings. Users can edit transcripts to fix any errors, and transcripts can be exported to text or to other apps, or shared with a group or through public, view-only links. 4. Microsoft To-Do Microsoft To-Do is a smart, no-nonsense to-do list app that presents a sleek and distraction-free interface, while intelligently suggesting tasks based on long-term patterns, upcoming deadlines, or stuff that you weren’t able to see to in the past days. Users can keep task descriptions simple, or add detailed descriptions, color codes, categories, and more. 5. CamScanner CamScanner turns your phone camera into a portable document scanner and OCR tool, allowing you to quickly turn photos of your paper documents into JPG or PDF electronic formats, which you can then save into your cloud storage or share through social media or email. Scan quality optimization and smart cropping let you handle everything from receipts to contracts and even office whiteboards with ease. 6. LastPass LastPass is one of those must-have Android apps. It’s a password manager that lets you save your login credentials in a safe, secure way. On top of that, it can help generate nearly impossible passwords for you to use on your accounts. It’s all controlled with a master password. It has cross-platform support so you can use it on computers, mobile devices, tablets, or whatever. There are others, but LastPass always feels like it’s one step ahead. 7. Alarmy If you have a hard time getting up, even if you have set an alarm or use an extra loud alarm clock, then you are probably in need of Alarmy. At its core, it asks you to take a photo using the camera of the phone. That photo cannot be just any snapshot however as you have to take a snapshot of a location in your house (garden or front, or even somewhere else) that you have selected previously. This means that the alarm continues until you get up, move to the location you need to take a photo of and take that photo. Since you need to get up, there is a high chance of you staying up. 8. Contacts+ Contacts+ is an address book replacement that helps organize your contacts and integrates with your social media accounts and communications. The app automatically imports information from linked social networks such as Facebook, Google+, Twitter and LinkedIn contacts, allowing you to access them all in one place. Contacts+ allows you keep conversation histories from your friends, family and colleagues. 9. Evernote Evernote is one of the premier cross-platform note-taking services, allowing users take and upload notes, pictures, audio and video snippets and organize them into cloud notebooks that can be synced across different devices. The free version lets users upload 60MB worth of content monthly. 10. Trello Trello is an easy to use, flexible and fun project management tool. It includes a handy drag and drop feature when working on your boards. You can manage your team and their tasks through each board you create. Everything is displayed neatly and coherently, and you will have no problem following your project’s progress through this platform.