Cross River State governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, has expressed the commitment of his administration to the welfare of members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) posted to the state. The governor said the state government owes members of the NYSC the primary responsibility of providing an enabling environment to ensure the success of the scheme. Ayade, who spoke during a visit to the 2019 Batch ‘B’, Stream 1 Corps Members deployed to the state at the NYSC permanent orientation camp, Obubra, said the 46-year-old scheme has been a tool in nation-building and integration. The governor, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Mrs. Maryjane Ebri, said: “Since the inception of the NYSC scheme about 46 years ago, Cross River State has enjoyed a healthy collaboration with Corps members whose performances have left indelible marks in all the 18 local government areas. “The people and government of Cross River State greatly appreciate all the sacrifices and efforts put in place by our Corps members to take our state to higher grounds. “We will, therefore, continue to support the scheme to deliver its optimal performance in the areas of primary health care; education, infrastructure and agriculture which I am aware are the basic areas corps members function during their period of primary assignment.” Ayade, who promised that people of Cross River State would treat members of the NYSC with respect and dignity, also advised them not to neglect the area of skills acquisition, which will curb unemployment in the country. State Coordinator of the NYSC, Mr. Eddy Megwa, who expressed gratitude to the governor, said his presence was a sign of the state government’s acknowledgement of the laudable contributions of the NYSC. He revealed that a total of 2,000 corps members comprising 1,200 males and 800 females were duly registered at close of registration and are getting along with the regimented camp life. He pleaded with the governments to intervene in the renovation and upgrade of camp facilities. Megwa advised the corps members to dedicate themselves to the national clarion call to speak and represent what Nigeria stands for. He appreciated the camp officials, host community and collaborating agencies for their efforts in making the orientation camp favourable for corps members.