Twenty-three years after, the killers of Kudirat, wife of the late Chief Moshood Abiola, are still at large. Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU writes of the pro-democracy activities of the Amazon, who paid the supreme prize. She was the most outstanding woman crusader for justice, equity and fair play during the dark days of the military. Her life was on line. But, no sacrifice was too much to make. Her priority was the de-annullment of the historic June 12, 1993 presidential election won by her husband. It never happened.  Kudirat Olayinka Abiola died as a fighter for popular rule. It was an untimely death. Her husband, Chief Moshood Abiola, was in detention for winning a popular mandate. Kudirat had a hint about the impending doom, having been alerted by diplomats from friendly countries. On that fateful June 4, 1996, she had an appointment to keep at the Canadian Embassy. She left her Ikeja residence with hope. But, she never got to the Victoria Island. At Oregun/Seven Up Junction, she was gunned down by assassins. A cenotaph has been erected at the site to remind Nigerians, both present and future generations, how an innocent blood was shed by blood thirsty soldiers of fortune who loomed large on the country for years. Two years after, her husband also died mysteriously in detention; in the hand of his tormentors. The whole June 12 struggle appeared to be in vain. When civil rule was restored in 1999, it was nearly a double tragedy. Power was transferred from the military to military cronies, lackeys, confederates and majority of people who scuttled June 12. Alhaja Kudirat was one of the numerous wives of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) presidential flag bearer. The annulment changedcher status and forced her into the pro-democracy movement. Having traversed the vast country with her husband during the hectic campaigns, Kudirat was confident of victory. To her charging, the election results were cancelled on frivolous excuses. She developed a steely determination that dared military bullets. When her husband was in solitary confinement for claiming his presidential mandate, Kudirat confronted the military dictators. Her leadership motivated other pro-democracy groups to spring up and seek the actualisation of the election. In 1994, when the struggle got to a head, Kudirat was actively involved in sustaining the oil workers strike, which succeeded in crippling the nation’s economy and weakened the military government. Kudirat was subjected to harassment.  She had frictions with courts over her stance before her eventual release on bail. Despite the harassment, she continued her campaign. She and the late Chief Alfred Rewane funded the pro-democracy activities, which unsettled the military. When protesters were detained, she would promptly visit police stations to secure their release. On one occasion, the late Rev. Tunji Adebiyi was bearing a letter from Lagos-based National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) leaders to the late Pa Adekunle Ajasin at Owo, Ondo State. The ‘stop and search’ team of policemen conducted a search on him at Maryland, Ikeja and the ‘incriminating letter’ was found with him. In excitement, the Inspector leaped for joy, saying that the “heroic” act of apprehending a NADECO operative will fetch him promotion. The DPO was in the same mood of excitement. Kudirat stormed the police division. She was full of charisma and carriage. The Amazon understood that the policemen wanted to used the arrest to impress their bosses to get promotion. But, Mrs. Abiola calmed them down, explaining that they will get better promotions under an Abiola presidency. Her persuasion secured Adebiyi’s release. Kudirat knew that she was operating in an atmosphere of danger. She was planning to process her visa to leave the shores of Nigeria before she was killed. Few days to the third anniversary of the June 12 election, she was shot dead by assassins. Kudirat was born in 1951 in Zaria. She was the second senior wife of her husband. Her children are Yusau Olalekan, Hafsat Olaronke, Abdul Muman, Hadi, Moriam and Khafila. Kudirat’s killing was the subject of an investigation and trial. The murder was allegedly ordered and carried out by six men. Abiola died in her car. Her driver also died. Her personal assistant who was later accused of being involved with her assassins was in the car, but was not hurt. Her husband continued to be detained without charge after her death. Chief Abiola late died in suspicious circumstances. At the time of her death an anti-military rule “Radio Democracy” had just been created and it was based in Norway. It was backed by the American, British, Swedish, Danish and Norwegian governments to help end military dictatorship in Nigeria. The Radio station’s name was changed to Radio Kudirat. In 1998 a street corner in New York was renamed Kudirat Abiola Corner, despite protests by the Nigerian Government. In October 1998, Major Hamza Al-Mustapha appeared in court with the previous President Abacha’s son Mohammed, charged with the murder of Kudirat. Paying tribute to her memory, Second Republic Kaduna State Governor Babarabe Musa prayed for the repose of her soul. To the elder statesman, Kudirat was an outstanding campaigner for democracy. He said: “I remember her for her dedication, her commitment to the nation, and in particular, the actualisation of June 12 election won by her husband. I wish her a happy rest.” NADECO and Afenifere chieftain Chief Ayo Adebanjo lamented that the fruits of Kudirat’s struggles were enjoyed by those who opposed June 12. Adebanjo, who was detained by the military hailed Kudirat’s life of sacrifice for democracy, saying that she was a source of inspiration to other fighters. He added: “She is a woman to be remembered. She stood firm at a time to be remembered. She was a source of courage to pro-democracy forces.”