The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has barred the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) of Oando Plc, Wale Tinubu, and his deputy, Omamofe Boyo, from being directors of public companies for a period of five years. The nation’s apex capital market regulator also ordered the resignation of some members of the company’s board of directors. But in a swift reaction on Friday, Oando described the directives from SEC as a calculated attempt to prejudice the business of the company, threatening legal action against the regulatory body In a statement it released yesterday, SEC said it had concluded investigation into alleged corporate governance abuses at Oando and found that the company was guilty of serious infractions and market abuses. SEC also directed the payment of monetary penalties by the company and affected individuals and directors, and refund of improperly disbursed remuneration by the affected board members to the company. SEC also directed the convening of an extraordinary general meeting on or before July 1, 2019, to appoint new directors. These, among others, SEC stated, were part of measures aimed at addressing identified violations in the company. According to SEC, following the receipt of two petitions by the Commission in 2017, investigations were conducted into the activities of Oando and certain infractions of relevant laws were observed. The Commission further engaged Deloitte & Touche to conduct a forensic audit of the activities of Oando. “The general public is hereby notified of the conclusion of the investigations of Oando Plc. The findings from the report revealed serious infractions such as false disclosures, market abuses, misstatements in financial statements, internal control failures, and corporate governance lapses stemming from poor board oversight, irregular approval of directors’ remuneration, unjustified disbursements to directors and management of the company, related party transactions not conducted at arm’s length, amongst others,” SEC stated. The Commission stated that as required under Section 304 of the Investments and Securities Act (ISA) 2007, it would refer all issues with possible criminality to the appropriate criminal prosecuting authorities. The Commission added that other aspects of the findings would be referred to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). “The Commission is confident that with the implementation of the above directives and introduction of some remedial measures, such unwholesome practices by public companies would be significantly reduced. “Therefore, in line with the Federal Government’s resolve to build strong institutions, boards of public companies are enjoined to properly perform their fiduciary duties as required under extant securities laws,” SEC stated. SEC’s directives meant to prejudice our business, says Oando In a statement Friday, Oando Plc described the directives from the SEC as a calculated attempt to prejudice the business of the company. Signed by the Company Secretary, Ayotola Jagun and Head of Corporate Communications, Alero Balogun, the statement said the alleged infractions and penalties are unsubstantiated, ultra vires, invalid and calculated to prejudice the business of the company. According to the oil company, it has not been given the opportunity to see, review and respond to the forensic audit report and so was unable to ascertain what findings were made in relation to the alleged infractions and defend itself accordingly before the SEC. “The company reserves its rights to take all legal steps to protect its business and assets whilst remaining committed to act in the best interests of all its shareholders,” Oando stated. 