The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has been hailed for completing the N24 billion Ogbia-Nembe Coastal Road in Bayelsa State, which has opened up land access to many communities for the first time in history. The road, constructed in partnership with Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC), covering 29 kilometres through swampy terrain with spurs to 14 other communities, is to be inaugurated shortly, according to the Acting Managing Director of the Federal Government’s interventionist agency, Prof. Nelson Braimbaifa. Speaking in an interview in Nembe over the weekend, according to NDDC’s Director of Corporate Affairs, Charles Odili, the Opu Nembe Bassambiri Council of Chiefs, through its Secretary, Chief Afrebo Okpoma, stated that with the completion of the Ogbia-Nembe road, the communities in the area had been spared the dangers of travelling through the waterways. Okpoma said: “Before the road, we were travelling through our waterways, but since the road was completed, we now drive in with our vehicles. “When we were travelling through the waterways, there were always bad boys who were attacking the passengers and robbing them. There was this fear each time we were travelling that the bad boys might be there, but since the road was constructed, we no longer witness such ugly incidents. “Commercial activities have increased. Our Igbo brothers, who are not good swimmers, were not coming here to trade. When we were coming through the waterways, you would not see the Igbo traders coming to Nembe to trade, but since the road was completed, the Igbo traders are now coming in with their goods, during our market days. “Our people now commute between Nembe and Yenagoa, the Bayelsa state capital freely, up to late in the evening. If you leave Nembe by 6pm, before 7.30pm you are in Yenagoa and likewise one can travel from Yenagoa to Nembe at any time. Our secondary schools have been upgraded from grade C to B, because of the road link.” The secretary also stated that before this time, building materials were brought through the sea, which made the items very expensive. He said: “Today, we pay far less than what we were paying before the road. So, it has reduced the cost of building and increased the number of buildings in our communities. New buildings are springing up daily, because of the road. “What we can say to NDDC is that if you have a child that is doing well, you have to praise the child and encourage him to do more. The NDDC can help us to open our village roads, to help reduce the problem of unemployment for our youths.” A regular user of the road, Dr. Iti Orugbani, who is an indigene of Nembe-Bassambri, described the strategic road as fantastic. Orugbani said: “You cannot compare any project to this road. The days of frequent boat mishaps are over for us. We are truly enjoying the road. “We are very grateful to the NDDC for constructing the road. We applaud the commission, because for us, there is nothing you can compare with this road. In the past, Nembe people and others were involved in boat mishap, but these days, we hardly lose lives on the waterways, because most people now use the road. We no longer have to deal with the problem of encountering sea pirates.” Okpoma also commended NDDC and the executive management, while urging them to continue with the good work they are doing, advising that they should distance themselves from politics to avoid being distracted. He noted that with the completion of the Ogbia-Nembe road, it would be the expectation of the people that work would commence on the Nembe–Brass section of the project, stressing that the success story would be complete when the road gets to Brass, which hosts the the Nigerian Agip Oil Company’s oil export terminal.” 