The management of Plateau Specialist Hospital in Jos, the state capital, has handed over the baby boy allegedly stolen by a woman to its parents, Mr and Mrs. Chukwuebuka. The baby was stolen from the hospital two weeks ago when the infant was just three days old. A woman, who reportedly disguised as a hospital worker, told the mother that a doctor directed her to pick the baby from the mother. But she disappeared with the baby, putting the hospital in confusion. With the help of security agencies, the baby thief was trailed and arrested and the baby was recovered alive. Handing over the baby to its parents at the hospital in Jos yesterday, the Chief Medical Director (CMD), Dr. Philemon Golwa, expressed delight at the professionalism of the police. He said: “For this baby to be found alive, he is a miracle baby. We will build a monument in his name for surviving this ordeal at a very tender age. “Today is a day of celebration for a life that was thought to be lost but has now been found. On that faithful day when we were told that this baby was missing, we were worried. We went to the police and they did their work. “Most of our workers here were interrogated and kept behind the counter. We had to allow them to do their work. I was not sure of what to say throughout the period, but God has made it this way that today, we are celebrating. “Any baby that comes with a circumstance like this turns out to be great in the society. That is why we have to tell the whole world what is happening. We had a breakthrough last Thursday and the person that did the technical work of transferring the baby from here to another hospital has been nabbed and she admitted to her fault. “The police are trying to demystify how the baby was taken from the ward and how she found her way to another hospital. For us here, we celebrate with the parents. We have seen our lapses; after this, we are taking some measures to correct the abnormalities. “The incident was very technical. We are going to reinforce some of the basic mechanisms of security within the hospital. Not many people will be pleased, but you have to bear with us because we need to curtail something like this.” “For the mother, we will follow up and ensure her treatment is completed. We will be monitoring the progress of the baby from time to time. We are going to immortalise the baby. As part of our contribution, we are taking care of their bills. We don’t expect them to pay any bill again.” Expressing their gratitude, Nwagod and Mary Chukuwebuka expressed appreciation to all those who stood by them to ensure the baby was recovered. They happy parents said they would name the baby Onyiyechi, meaning God’s gift.  