THE 2019 Africa Film Academy Workshop, which held on Thursday at the Lift Hall, Enugu, with an attendance of over 500 participants, achieved its aim which is to create a paradigm shift in the African film industry. With veterans like Patience Ozokwor (Mama G), the Aneke Twins, Ofiafuluagwu Mbaka , Steve Ebo Afam Okereke alongside rising stars from the various sectors of the industry, the well-attended workshop dwelt on key industry specialist areas that professionals should focus on to boost professionalism and increase investment. Different facilitators at the workshop offered subject-matter expert view to enhance creative output of the industry in general and professional credibility of practitioners from the ropes of movie-making, to the value chains of funding and distribution. While speaking on thriving in the film business, Jim Jermanok, an award- winning writer, director, producer, author and speaker based in New York whose film “Em” won the Grand Jury Prize at the Seattle International Film Festival and the Criterion International Inspiration Award, opined that to stop learning is to stop living, “for life is a class and we all are students.” He further asserted that,  “to be successful is to call persistence to service. Don’t stop going when the going gets tough.” The representative of BVA Consultancy spoke on how to access funds from the Bank of Industry for films and other creative endeavours. Martin Gbados, the producer of the award-winning film, ‘Solider Story,’ also spoke to the students about distribution and contracts. He particularly applauded the adoption of digital distribution channels, which have been on the increase. Also in attendance was the Enugu State Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Rita Mba, as well as 200 participants sponsored by the Enugu State Government. The sponsorship was to the tune of N2million with additional funding from the Osigwe Anyiam Osigwe Foundation. During the Gala night which held on Friday, May 24, 2019, AMAA’s  founder, Ms Peace Anyiam Osigwe, spoke about the need for the filmmakers from the South East and South South to improve the quality of their films and hoped that soon a film from there could go to Cannes, Berlin, or Toronto. Hon. Barr. Chima Obieze, Don. Sylvester Chinedu Nwaeke and Chief Kenneth Anike, received the Africa Film Academy special recognition for support to film industry. And inducted in to the Africa Film Academy Gold Patrons Club  were Hon Amos Oshi , a supporter of film makers who is building a film village in Enugu; Chief Alexander Chukwudimma Nwokeabia and HRH Igwe Edwin Edeoga. The Speaker, Enugu House of Representatives, Edward Ubosi, was inducted into the Platinum Patrons Club.  The club is a membership to individuals who support the advancement of the work of the Africa Film Academy programmes in Africa cinema, especially training and canvassing the inclusion of African cinema for all. Ubosi promised to look into the request from South East Filmmakers on building a film village in Enugu, which will not only put Enugu on the creative map but also create a value chain of opportunities in the creative and entertainment industry.