Vice President Yemi Osinbajo  on Tuesday spoke on the importance of the June 12 Democracy Day. He said the celebration of the day has attested to the President Muhammadu-led administration’s commitment to progressive ideals, “especially as it relates to the political history of the country”. Prof Osinbajo gave the explanation when he received at the Presidential Villa, Venezuelan Vice President, Aristobulo Isturiz, who is leading his country’s delegation to Nigeria’s Democracy Day. Mr. Isturiz is among world leaders at the head of their countries’ delegation attending the maiden June 12 Democracy Day activities in Abuja. Explaining Buhari administration’s beliefs in resolving some of the issues around the annulled June 12, 1993 presidential election, Osinbajo added: “One of the principal issues, politically, was the recognition of that election in 1993 which was won by, now late, Chief MKO Abiola, an important progressive opposition leader. “That is why we are celebrating June 12 as our new Democracy Day. So, we are really very happy that you are able to share with us a very special event – the celebration of our new democracy day.” On deepening ties between Nigeria and Venezuela, Prof. Osinbajo said: “We believe that the collaboration between our countries in the economy, culture and science, amongst others, will be useful to our people. We need to do a lot as there are many areas for potential cooperation including in agriculture, oil and gas and mining.” Isturiz spoke on the need for improved cooperation between both countries, including the auspices of the non-aligned movement, describing Nigeria as an important mobiliser on the African continent. Receiving North Korean Vice Premier of North Korea, Mr Ri Ryong Nam, said the potentials for an enhanced cooperation between both countries were enormous. Osinbajo said: “I agree that we can work out a more dynamic model of cooperation, especially in agriculture and technology. “Food processing is one major area that we can look into. I hope we will be able to advance discussions on cooperation in the identified areas, and there are many other areas where we can deepen this cooperation.” The vice premier congratulated Nigeria on the occasion of the country’s Democracy Day. He said that his country acknowledged the efforts of the Federal Government under President Buhari to improve the economy and ensure socio-economic stability. Mr Ryong Nam said: “I am moved by the efforts made by your government to ensure social stability and unity. Your country has also achieved eye-catching successes, through reforms, in the economy, making Nigeria a leading economy in the region.”