It was nearly mayhem on Tuesday as electricity consumers, staffs of the Federal Competition, Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) and energy providers with other stakeholders gathered at Ikeja to proffer solution to the prolonged challenges in the electricity sector. In a related development, similar meeting though with less hostility was held on Thursday in Victoria Island, Lagos. The Consumers who were visibly aggrieved called for severance of the DISCOs from providing energy in the country as they accused them of incompetence, high handedness, insincere billings, hoarding of meters amongst others. Displeased electricity consumers stormed the venue of the town-hall meeting before the kickoff time of 10.am. The ‘Forum’, the first of its type in Ikeja, was organized by the FCCPC in conjunction with the MacArthur Foundation. In attendance were officials of the Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company, (IKEDC), and regulatory agencies like the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) amongst others. At VI Forum, which is the second time FCCPC was holding such a forum, had officials of the EKO DISCOs in attendance. The first one was last year, unlike the Ikeja meeting; consumers at the VI meeting were less violent, which was attributed to EKO DISCO having better interactions with their customers. Aggrieved consumers alleged daylight robbery by the field workers of Ikeja DISCO. A consumer in the Ikeja meeting, Lawal Isiaka Babatunde of Odozie Rd Ojodu complained that since Engineer Adodo of IKEDC removed their transformer on January 6th that the area has been without light. Babatunde who spoke on behalf of the residents of the 11 streets affected said that after several complaints they were asked to pay N26million as debts incurred. He said; “How could we have incurred such debts within the six months of staying without light” queried the consumer. “Residents who owed up to December 2018, before January 2019 when the transformer was taken have paid their outstanding bill of 1million and there is no other money owed the DISCO.” “We have held meetings with FCCPC and IKEDC to no avail. For over five years now Ikeja DISCO has been giving over 300 houses in my area the same crazy estimated bills. They bill everyone exactly the same,” cried Dr. Tunde Aina of Ikorodu. “My community has sent me to seek redress as every effort we have made in the past to resolve this issue have failed. Each time we go to their office they insult and bully us. How can residents of one room use the same energy as those in flats and bigger houses”? He questioned. The National President of the Landlord/Tenants Association of Nigeria, Prince Rilwan Akiolu said it was unfortunate that the DISCOs have decided to transform to thin gods because the supposed regulators are not penalizing them because they pay them subventions. “They have no regards for consumers or the rule of law. They disconnect consumers without due process etcetera. Untill the regulators live up to their responsibility the challenges in the power sector will continue. Also complaining, Mr. Princewill Ekwujuru said; “I have been paying N10, 000 every month to Ikeja electric as I already told you. By my calculation, I discovered that I am spending N360, 000 annually to refuel my generator at every N1000 every day together with exorbitant payment to Ikeja DISCO, yet, they refused to give us prepaid meter in our area.” Expressing his disappointment with the way DISCOs are exploiting consumers, the Director General of FCCPC, Barrister Tunde Irukera, reiterated his warning to the electricity distribution companies against arbitrary billings, group disconnections, billings for power not used, abuse of consumers rights, etcetera. “As a way out of the exploitative tactics whereby consumers are no longer battling with estimated billings but are now being confronted with crazy billing, we will want the providers to embark on giving out prepaid metres to all consumers as fast as possible,” he said. Certainly aware that ethics or simple honesty is the building blocks upon which the whole society and business is based, since business is integral part of economic growth and development in any society, Irukera, came out with three rules, which he made the consumers to accept as golden rules that can foster lasting relationship between the energy providers and consumers. The three rules are; consumers should always pay their correct bills as at when due; to police their immediate environments against illegal connection of electricity and never to indulge in fighting energy officials on official duties. However, the chief executive officer of EKEDC, Mr. Adeoye Fadeyibi said the company has improved tremendously on its customer service delivery within its operations. He stated that EKEDC had the responsibility to satisfy its customers adding that the company would try all it could to ensure maximum supply of electricity to its customers. He condemned the attitude of consumers who vandalize its equipment and bypass meters to short change the company. In his speech, the Chairman of NERC, Professor James H. Momoh who was represented by the Deputy General Manager, Consumer Affairs NERC, Mr. Shaibu Shittu disclosed that the present metering gap in the industry is about 5,046,906 when compared to total customer size of 8,840,801 which he said represents 57 percent deficit in metering. He assured consumers that the commencement of the Meter Asset Provision (MAP) scheme, was in line with MAP regulation 2018, stressing that it will go a long way to assuaging the long pressing issues of metering in line with the regulatory requirement. “It is expected that the present metering gap would be closed within the next 3 years with the effective implementation of the DISCOs meter roll out plan under the MAP scheme. Appealing to consumers to be patient in dealing with DISCOs on meter installation, he assured that, “the Commission will not sit back and watch consumers continue to be exorbitantly charged or estimated for energy consumed or not consumed”. However, at the moment that is what most consumers are going through, paying for energy not consumed.