You have heard about added sugars versus naturally occurring ones, but what does that mean exactly? And how does your body react to each type? Experts say ‘Sugar is not great for you.’ This fact has been made incredibly clear to us in the past few years. While you already know it is a good idea to try to avoid added sugar, what about sugar that is naturally occurring in healthy foods like fruits? While they are both sugar, naturally occurring sugars are those that are present in foods like fruits and vegetables. Naturally occurring sugars include fructose, glucose, lactose, and more. Added sugars, on the other hand, are table sugar (AKA sucrose, which is a combination of fructose and glucose) and sweeteners that are added to foods. Recently the World Health Organisation recommended that for optimal health we should restrict our added ‘free sugar’ intake to just 25 grams or 6 teaspoons per day. But what exactly does this mean? The simple rule is: Sugars naturally occurring in fruits, vegetables and dairy are okay but sugars removed from their original source and added to foods, we need to be wary of. ‘Free Sugars’ are those sugars that are removed from their original source and added to foods usually as a sweetener or as a preservative for longer shelf life. They are estimated to now be around 60 different names. When reading a label, it is important to check the ingredients list and look out for any sugars under hidden names. Often, sugar will be on the list but companies are getting cheeky now and are using these other names like ‘evaporated cane juice’ or ‘organic palm sugar’ as a disguise and to avoid the word sugar. These are still an added ‘free sugar’ and usually contain fructose as a sweetener. Many of these sugars contain the molecule called fructose. Fructose is what makes foods sweet. It is one half of table sugar and its why most of us have a sweet tooth. Fructose is found in fruit (and a small amount in vegetables) but there is a big difference when we eat it in fruit as opposed to it being a ‘free sugar’. Fructose in fruit is encased in fibre which hugely affects its metabolism in our bodies. The fibre helps to slow down the absorption and so it does not get fast, direct access to the liver like it does when it is ‘free’. However, when fructose as added or free sugar is able to access the liver very quickly, there is no regulation process for it (because it was so rare in nature when we were evolving) so it rapidly gets turned into fat. This process is greatly affected and halted when the fructose is absorbed with the fibre of the fruit. Lactose The other important point to understand is around a natural sugar found in dairy products called lactose. If you are reading a label for plain milk you will notice it has a fair bit of sugar in it. This is a natural sugar and is not the ‘free sugars’ the WHO is talking about. Flavoured milks however, are different; they have lactose plus added sugar.