The  Coalition of APC Stakeholders Forum (CASF) in Taraba State on Saturday vowed to support “all the programmes of the Muhammadu Buhari administration.” The forum said it is in total support of the president’s three-point agenda of security, economy and fight against corruption. CASF spoke at a press conference in Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, saying Buhari’s agenda will return the country to the path of development, if fully supported. The national chairman of the group, Rimamnde Bitrus Nuhu; state chairman, Lawan Mohammed, and other officials urged the APC government to introduce a law against indiscipline and enforce all existing laws of the country, in order to restore sanity into the Nigerian system. The group, however, noted it was “cardinal and essential to mend the crack within the APC at all levels, as issues bordering on the experiences and conduct of the 2019 primary elections of the party cannot be forgotten in a hurry.” Nuhu said there were key fundamental issues that the party must address to heal the wounds of aggrieved members. CASF disclosed that the key issues to be addressed were captured in a 19-point communiqué and urgently requiring attention of the party top leadership and Mr. President. Among the issues is a request to all aggrieved persons, who are in court against fellow members, to withdraw their litigations. The forum also wants the national secretariat of the APC to refund all the monies paid for the nomination forms, alleging that “the primaries were either not conducted or conducted in line with the regulations of APC electoral Act and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The group hailed the courage and efforts of the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, which, it said, paved the way for victory of the president and other national assembly members. It, however, called on the party’s national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to “modify his system of party management,” saying the party would have recorded more victories at the general elections, but for his leadership style. It urged the party and President Buhari to “reward the steadfastness of the party faithful at all levels with appointments.” 