Nigeria must confront its growing drugs problem AS if its other development challenges were not formidable enough, Nigeria has received official confirmation that significant numbers of its citizens are involved in drug and substance abuse. In its report, Drug Use in Nigeria 2018, the United Nations Office of Drug and Crime Control estimates that 14.3 million citizens, representing 14.4 percent of the overall population, used drugs last year. The report emerged from the first comprehensive national drug use survey to be conducted in the country. It was carried out in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the Centre for Research for Information on Substance Abuse (CRISA). Drawing upon 51,000 respondents, the report contains very sobering figures. The country has 376,000 high-risk drug users, out of which 80,000 inject drugs. In 2017, 10.6 million individuals used cannabis, 4.6 million abused opioids, and 2.4 million misused cough syrups. Another 481,000 citizens abused tranquilizers and sedatives, 340,000 used ecstasy, 300,000 resorted to solvents and inhalants, 238,000 used amphetamines and prescription stimulants, while 92,000 indulged in cocaine. Given the comprehensiveness and depths of the survey, it is difficult to contest these figures, especially as their veracity is borne out by the increasing cases of drug abuse that have become a sad fact of contemporary Nigerian life. At bus stops, touts smoke marijuana openly. The abuse of codeine and tramadol has become so widespread that they have been banned. Even lizard droppings and latrine fumes are favoured choices for those seeking artificial highs. This looming tragedy is the end result of a toxic mix of poor parenting, peer pressure and increased westernisation. The situation is made worse by the lack of effective policy responses incorporating education, prevention, counselling, treatment and rehabilitation. The first thing to do in addressing the problem is to retool the country’s policy formulation and institutional framework. The National Drug Control Master Plan 2015-2019 is the third in the series, and is based on the quadruple pillars of drug law enforcement, drug demand reduction, enhanced control of narcotics and psychotropic substances, and effective coordination. Exactly what has been achieved? How many deadlines have been met? What lessons have been learnt? It is obvious from the worrying statistics that the battle against drug and substance abuse has not been as effective as it should be. Greater efforts must go into educating young Nigerians about the dangers of drug abuse. It is especially important, given the blatant approval of the practice in popular culture, especially the country’s lively music scene. Credible celebrities should be deployed in anti-drug campaigns which detail the physical, psychological and social consequences which are likely to result from drug abuse. Drug-testing procedures should be integrated into the admissions and employment process in order to make it less easy for habitual abusers to conceal their proclivities. Better counselling and treatment options must be made more easily available. This means properly equipping healthcare institutions and civil society organisations to offer such services. It is when such critical interventions are lacking that drug and substance abusers feel that there is no lasting solution to the situation in which they find themselves. Law enforcement will also have to improve its capacity to deal with the problem in a more-nuanced way. While capturing large consignments of drugs is useful, more emphasis should be laid on apprehending the barons who finance this dubious business. The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) must work more closely with its international counterparts to stem the importation of drugs and psychotropic drugs nto the country. Ultimately, however, all citizens must work together to ensure that drug and substance abuse do not become the crippling obstacle to personal and social development that they have become elsewhere.