Organised Labour made up of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has asked Nigerians not to lose faith in the Nigerian nation in spite of the mirage of challenges in the polity, but do everything possible to safe guide the country. In its Sallah message signed by the President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, the Congress also ask Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of the Ramadan fast which teaches discipline, forgiveness, good neighbourliness, self-control, and service to God and humanity. The statement reads: “We at the Nigeria Labour Congress wish to congratulate as well as celebrate with our Muslim brethren as they mark the Eid-el-Fitr. “Eid-el-Fitr (the festival of the breaking of fast) marks the end of the Ramadan fast during which fast, abstentions from indulgence, utmost discipline, special prayers, giving of special charity and performance of other acts of piety are observed in total obedience and submission to Allah. “Eid-el-Fitr, therefore, among other things, represents a magnificent celebration and showing of profound gratitude to Allah. “On the occasion of this Eid-el- Fitr, we urge all Muslims and non-Muslims to imbibe the spirit of Ramadan fast which teaches us discipline, forgiveness, good neighbourliness, self-control, and service to God and humanity. “This Eid-el-Fitr comes at a significant point in our national life when we are confronted by rising incidence of insecurity, unemployment, poverty, instability and renewed separatists agitations. “Accordingly, we would want to use the occasion of this Eid-el-Fitr to call on the government to rededicate itself in its service to the nation especially on the issues of security, stability, economy, justice, and confidence-building. “We similarly urge all Nigerians, in spite of the overwhelming challenges in the polity to continue to have faith in their country and to do all that is necessary to safeguard and promote its sovereignty, integrity and prosperity.
“We have no doubt, we shall overcome, as one people with a common destiny. Once again, wish our Muslim brethren a peaceful celebration.” On its part, the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) congratulates all Muslim faithfuls for the successful completion of the Ramadan fast, adding that the spiritual exercise which is one of the five pillars of Islam is necessary for both personal cleansing and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the country. In its statement signed by its President, Comrade Bobboi Kaigama and Secretary General, Comrade Musa-Lawal Ozigi, the TUC asked Nigerians to shun activities that defile their own body such as hate speeches and divisive tendencies. The TUC said “Congress enjoins all Nigerians to shun activities that defile their own body and, are also capable of throwing the country into a major crisis. One of such is hate speeches and other divisive tendencies. “It is our belief that to achieve the next level of socio-economic development we must as a country first of all embrace peace. The world knows we are a very religious people which is why they wonder when godly virtues are not seen in the way and manner we conduct our activities. “The question is ‘what is the essence of fasting if it will not bring you closer to your Maker?’ We cannot be involved in unlawful activities and expect to have a close relationship with our Creator. That is a false life. “It is not enough to deny ourselves food, water and other activities that gratify the body for one month only to turn around to loot our collective wealth or sponsor communities against themselves. “Fasting should make us turn a new leaf. We cannot keep swearing by the Quran and Bible on assumption of office only to deny our fellow Nigerians the basic necessitates of live. We must desist from such ungodly acts. “This is the time to focus on our creator. This is the time to be patient and yielding. Let the Ramadan remind us that as a country we need to be upright and honest to achieve the dream of a prosperous country. “We must all understand that our purpose in life is to live in obedience to our Creator’s will and to make other people happy. If we do these Nigeria will regain her glory.”