Former Governor of Oyo State, Mr Abiola Ajimobi, has admonished his successor, Gov. Seyi Makinde, to build on successes of his administration and stop looking at mundane issues. Ajimobi, at a reception organised for him by Ibadan Elders Forum on Saturday, said that the state could not afford to go back in terms of development. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the reception ceremony, held at the Ibadan House, Oke- Aremo, attracted prominent sons and daughters of the state. “I pray that Makinde succeeds as governor of the state. It is in our interest that he should succeed. “We have raised the bar of governance in this state and can’t afford to see it go down again. “I heard them say that members of our cabinet carted away government cars. We have served and left. He should stop looking at mundane issues,” he said. The former governor said that those he worked with during his time did not profess themselves to be perfect, urging the new governor to build on their success in the interest of the citizenry. Ajimobi said his administration met the state in bricks and left it in marbles, urging Ajimobi to be a progressive governor. “He must build and not demolish. He must correct and not destroy. We must not return to the era of brigandage. “We know the dual carriage roads we built can’t be returned to single lane and the bridges we have constructed cannot be pulled down. We have taken Oyo to greater heights and it must not go down. “Every journey begins with a step and it ends with a step. We did not achieve perfection but achieved successes,” Ajimobi said. The former governor commended the Ibadan Elders’ Forum, saying it was the promoter and sustainer of whatever successes his administration achieved. He apologised to all those he might have offended during his administration. “We can’t do things the same way; otherwise I will not be me. Whoever I have offended should forgive me, and I have forgiven those who offended me too,” he said. Prof. Emeritus, Oladipo Akinkungbe, in his remarks, said leaders come and go, and posterity would always judge them, if their names should be written in gold or otherwise. “I congratule Ajimobi today because his leadership has proven to be in gold,” he said. Chief Onikepo Akande, a two-time Minister of Industry, said the Ajimobi-led administration did well in peace, education, health and agriculture. Prof. Idowu Olayinka, the Vice-Chancellor, University of Ibadan, said that Ajimobi raised the bar of good governance in the state. Earlier, Amb. Olusola Sanu, the President, Ibadan Elders’ Forum, said the achievements of the Ajimobi-led administration had showed in concrete terms that he has raised the bar of governance. Sanu said that the purpose of the gathering was to ensure that such kind of glorious era should not be allowed to pass unsung. He congratulated Makinde, promising that the forum would hold a befitting reception for him at the appropriate time. “Let me take this opportunity to wish Makinde God’s guidance as he administers the state. “May I also say with all emphasis that as the governor of this state, you have the full support of the forum,’’ he said. NAN reports that event was attended by members of the National Assembly, members who served in Ajimobi’s cabinet, local government chairmen, traditional rulers and other well wishers. (NAN)