The senator representing Lagos West, Solomon Adeola, said on Wednesday that he will keep fighting for the recognition of the 37 Local Government Areas created in Lagos State. Adeola, in a statement by his media adviser, Chief Kayode Odunaro, said he would work for the national interest in the Ninth Senate. The senator, who spoke at an inauguration dinner organised to celebrate his second term in the Senate, seconded the nomination of Senator Ahmad Lawan for Senate Presidency and stood in as Lawan’s agent in the tensioned soaked election on Tuesday. Adeola noted that while he did his best to represent his people in the Eighth Senate in spite of the leadership challenges of that session, the coast was now clear for him to continue effective representation and putting issues of his constituents’ welfare and interest of Nigeria in the front burner of the Ninth Senate. He said: “I once again restate my resolve to represent you and not represent myself in the Senate. I state clearly that I will continue with all my personal projects like public toilets, boreholes and transformers for my constituents in addition to constituency projects I am able to attract. “I hereby restate my legislative agenda to include the continuation of the struggle to get constitutional recognition for our legally and constitutionally created 37 Local Government Councils; continue the agitation for a “special status” and funding for Lagos State as the former Federal Capital Territory and economic capital of Nigeria and pursuit of a new Revenue Allocation Formula that gives more funds to states and local government councils. “I have also committed myself to media welfare bill passage as well as support for any water provision related bills in the 9th Senate.” The senator added that as the country moves to “Next Level” administration, his constituents should still “count on him to defend democracy and its institutions from any dictatorial tendencies and work in tandem with the programmes of our party, APC and administration of President Muhamadu Buhari”. Dignitaries that attended the dinner include Cardinal James Odumbaku and Pa Tajudeen Olusi both members of the Lagos State Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC); HRM Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, the Olu of Ilaro and Paramount Ruler of Yewaland; Chief (Mrs.) Kemi Nelson, APC National Women Leader (South West) and Alhaji Tunde Balogun, APC Chairman, Lagos State. Others include Simbi Wabote, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board(NCDMB); , one-time Lagos State Commissioner Wale Edun; Alhaji Enilolobo Abdullahi, Lagos APC State  Organising Secretary; Otunba Akeem Ade Adigun (SOCOPAO), President of Yewa City Club; the Eze Ndigbo of Lagos State HRN. Eze Christian Uchechukwu Nwanchukwu; 28 LGA/LCDAs APC and Council chairperson as well as other top APC political leaders from Lagos and Ogun States.