THE Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) is a branch of the Nigeria Police Force under the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). As the name implies, their duty is to be investigative as their emergence was targeted at fighting violent crimes like armed robbery, kidnapping and communal clashes. However, the squad, in a very uncanny way, has assumed a very scary and infamous status akin only to its medical name equivalent, SARS – ‘Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome’. Their operational mechanics is replete with nationwide tales of a Hobbesian level. To the average Nigerian, the name SARS evokes images of official impunity, extortion, deaths, bullying, threats and general abuse of official power. For some time now, the #ENDSARS advocacy has been trending on the social media as citizens who had been  victims of the unlawful and sometimes deadly antics of the agency formed the advocacy group to force the government to reform or abolish the squad. Since then, no remarkable reform seems to have occurred either with staff training, job description or respect for the rule of law. If anything, there are more deaths and dehumanising stories by victims. The latest victim of the unbelievable brutality of SARS is The Nation’s South South Regional Manager, Sola O’neil, who escaped being shot by mere providence on his trip around Okada junction in Edo State, a few days ago.  Sola was not travelling alone. Their vehicle was stopped and all their electronic gadgets confiscated. They were harassed, insulted and physically and verbally abused in ways that made them regret their citizenship of a country that can tolerate such official impunity  against  unarmed citizens. In the normal terrorising style of SARS, the passengers were all thoroughly  humiliated, their privacy invaded as the SARS officers forced them to unlock their electronic  gadgets and phones, their personal effects strewn on the highway and their personalities degraded and impugned. The last straw was when one of the officers, after physically abusing the journalist, corked his gun and was ready to, in his words, ‘waste’ the journalist but for the intervention of another  man in the environment. The most terrifying aspect of the journalist’s encounter with the untagged SARS operatives was the fact that the chief tormentor had the effrontery, after the passengers had been allowed to board the vehicle , to go back to tell the journalist that he was lucky that it was not yet dark or else he would have shot him dead under the cover of darkness. This is very poignant. There seems to have been no prosecution of offending SARS operatives; so no deterrent. Equally disturbing is the fact that the whole officers were all in sync about the brutalisation of regular Nigerians, but on finding out the status of one of the passengers, they seemed to mellow down and blame him for not quickly identifying himself. Ironically and sadly too, the officers had seized their phones and threatened anyone who by any means wanted to record the incident. Now, this says something the Nigerian government and the police authorities must ponder seriously. We are appalled by the lack of action to reform SARS after citizens and even Amnesty International had documented its atrocities, ranging from extra-judicial killings to extortions and bullying. If Nigerian government can condemn acts of racism and xenophobia but tolerate the impunity of SARS, the world can never understand the value we have for life and the dignity of the human person. For an agency under the police to act with so much perverted sense of justice, and the fact that the #ENDSARS campaigns that have been on the global stage did not spur government to action is an ill-wind that blows no one any good. Tales of SARS woes from all parts of the country in a democracy that should operate under strict adherence to the rule of law should worry the Inspector-General of Police. Again, we appeal to the government to live up to the demands of governments which must guarantee the security of lives and property. It tastes sour in the mouth that a squad sustained with tax payers’ money drills the people under some dire Hobbesian state where life is short, nasty and brutish. The irony of replacing robbers, kidnappers and other social miscreants with an institutionalised terror group that SARS has turned into is retrogressive, to say the least.