Bisi Ilaka, chief of staff to Seyi Makinde, new governor of Oyo State, has made some rather serious allegations on a radio programme, to which Bolaji Tunji, special adviser on media to former Governor Abiola Ajimobi, has countered: Ilaka should provide concrete evidence and quit making wild allegations. “We have been in government for barely a week and a half,” Ilaka had said in response to a question. “But from what we have seen so far, the scale of larceny by the last government is unprecedented. Everybody knows that getting car is not the problem of the immediate past governor. Why did he take away government vehicles?” “It is not limited to him,” Ilaka further alleged. “His commissioners have gone away with vehicles, same as the heads of parastatals. There are no vehicles there and a lot of these cars were bought by the end of 2018 and early this year.” But before the live radio programme even ended, Tunji had fired a pointed challenge, via a text message, to Ilaka, to walk his talk with concrete evidence or shut up: “Let them list the names of people who made away with official vehicles. Everything done by the Ajimobi government was done legally.  Ajimobi insisted on following due process on sensitive matters. He [Ilaka] should get appropriate advice before saying what he does not have information about.” Indeed, for political office holders, the transition period from one government to another appears the high season of inanity and banality; but inanity excused by a generally felt culture of impunity with public property. Both show how little regard, over the years, politicians have for themselves as a class; and even the contempt they seem to have for the people that honour them with public office. How else would you interpret the very suggestion of a former public office holder converting official cars to private use, after his official tour of duty had ended, and expect nothing would happen? The thing though, is that many – if not most – of these allegations are apocryphal, and not real. Otherwise, how come, with records from the past, most of the allegations – if not all – just fizzle out until the next season of banality: the next change of guard from one government to another? That is why the polity must not take Ilaka’s allegation lying low. Indeed, Ilaka himself must take seriously the Tunji challenge, and respond with facts and figures. In fact, with concrete evidence, the Oyo State government should approach the police, and seek to retrieve those vehicles; and thereafter, press charges. Luckily, the former governor doesn’t enjoy immunity again. It would be strange though, for a governor who was no pauper before assuming office, to just make away with government vehicles he really doesn’t need; or if he does, could afford. Still, Ilaka gave the impression that the theft was near-epidemic, allegedly involving not only the governor, but also commissioners and some former parastatal heads. Those are grave allegations that must not be allowed to fade out just like that. However, the omens appear not good.  It has been more than one week since that allegation was made; and since June 10 when it was reported in newspapers.  Yet, it doesn’t appear as if Ilaka is taking up Tunji’s challenge, to name names and proffer proof. There, therefore, appears a looming sense of déjà vu: after the initial thunder of accusations, the allegations are quietly forgotten, and everyone moves on! That would be playing reckless politics with hard-earned reputations. However this present case pans out, politicians must learn to respect their class; or at least respect the people on whose behalf they claim to enjoy power and its lollies. Transition from one government to another should be a time to focus on the enormity of service ahead; not to throw wild tantrums about an old order, particularly when not backed with proof.