Police have commenced investigation into the alleged Monday night’s murder of a Lagos businesswoman, Abimbola Ayanwale, The Nation learnt on Thursday. Ayanwale, a clothier, was alleged to have been murdered by someone who called her on her mobile phone after she returned home that day from work. She was said to have gone out shortly after receiving the call only for her dead body to be pushed off a commercial bus near the Maryland Mall on Ikorodu Road. According to a tribute on Facebook by her relative Adegoke Adekemi, they were called around 11pm on Monday that she was dead. “Aunty mi Ayanwale Abimbola Modinat, you were still active on WhatsApp till 8pm yesterday (Monday). Only for us to be called around 11pm that you’re dead! How do these things happen? “One minute, you’re healthy and bubbly. The next minute, you were called by someone, you went and you were shot to death! It’s a wicked world! “My heart is just about to explode. I can’t wrap my head around this. Rest in peace Aunty mi. We will miss you dearly,” Adekemi wrote. It was gathered that Close Circuit Television (CCTV) footage obtained from a shop near the shopping mall showed when her body was pushed off a moving commercial bus. Her legs were allegedly tied with a bullet wound seen on her body. Her friends and relatives, who took to social media to mourn, described her death as a clear case of murder, noting that none of her valuables were stolen nor her body part missing. They ruled out the possibility of her falling victim to one-chance operators, insisting they would have stolen from her and pushed her off, not her body as seen from the CCTV footage. Contacted, Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) said there was no sign of bullet wound or stabbing on the woman’s body. He said investigation has commenced on the matter to ascertain the true position. Elkana said: “We are investigating. No sign of bullet wounds or stabbing on her body. She seems to have jumped out of the moving vehicle.” Asked if it was true her legs were tied and she left the house following a call, Elkana declined to comment further on the issue, stating that the police would not want to compromise ongoing investigation.