Abia State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has lauded the impact of President Muhammadu Buhari in the Southeast Geo-political zone in the last four years. This is even as the party said they are expecting that President Buhari would ensure that the Southeast receives better attention in the last four years of his administration. The Abia APC chapter which stated that President Buhari has performed marvelously better than all his predecessors as long as keeping campaign promises through visible projects in the Southeast is concerned. Abia APC speaking through its spokesman, Comrade Benedict Godson said that the second swearing-in of President Buhari is a manifestation of his good did and urged the president to do more for the South East and Abia. “Those of us in Abia have benefited directly from this wonderful leader called Buhari. The Enugu-Port Harcourt Highway, Umuahia/Ikot-Ekpene Highway, Aba-Azumini Road, Onitsha-Enugu Highway, Second Niger Bridge and even the continuation of works at Owerri-Onitsha Highway are all there for eyes to see not mere stories. “In Abia alone, the promotion he has given to the made in Aba products has transformed our brand in the state. Aba products have been there for ages, but through the contracts given to them like the one of military boots, it gained national acceptability which has impacted greatly. “He went on to show his love and magnanimity more through the Ariaria Independent Power Plant which is currently giving 24 hours electricity to West Africa’s largest SME centre. “The School Feeding Programme of Federal Government is running smoothly in Abia. We know it very well that next four years will be better for us under Buhari because he is a promise keeper.” Godson further said that the Abia people have already demonstrated their love for APC by voting in Dr. Orji Uzor-Kalu as Senator as well as Hon. Nkiru Onyejeocha and Barr. Benjamin Kalu for House of Representatives respectively. He pleaded with the president to complement the love shown by the people of the state by appointing a true party man who understands both his job and what is required in the party as a minister in Abia. “Our people love APC and they’ve demonstrated it through the ballots. Inasmuch as some of our mandates were stolen which we know we shall regain, the ones we got at hand can testify that Abia is for APC. “In the last election in Abia, we gave the president very good number of votes and we even defeated a serving deputy speaker in Abia State House of Assembly who is of the opposition. “All we want is for the efforts of all those who worked to make this success possible to be complemented by appointing a minister that knows both his job and the party so that we can have more voice in the state. “With Dr. Orji Uzor-Kalu, Hon. Onyejeocha, Barrister Kalu, a party man as a minister and several others who will regain their stolen mandates through the tribunal, Abia APC under the leadership of Hon. Donatus Nwankpa will do greater things. “We say congratulations to Mr. President as he pilots the affairs of our great nation in the next four years. To God be the glory.”