Nigeria spends $500 million (about N153.2 billion) on palm oil importation annually, despite having sufficient arable land to support local palm oil production. But, a public-private sector collaboration to ramp up local production, cut imports, diversify the economy and create jobs is on course. The renewed push is aimed at restoring Nigeria’s status as a global powerhouse in palm oil production and export. The exploration of opportunities in the palm oil value chain may have also opened a fresh vista for the newly inaugurated state governments particularly in the South-South and South-East regions to boost their revenues and create jobs. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. The need to reclaim Nigeria’s position as a global powerhouse in Crude Palm Oil (CPO) production and export has never been this compelling. As at Thursday, June 6, 2019, the price of crude oil, the mainstay of Nigeria’s economy, stood at $63.36 per barrel, down from about $71.17 in May. The prognosis, therefore, is that oil price may not rebound to its 2014 pre-recession level of about $112 per barrel soon. What this means is that while Nigeria may have exited the recession, which was majorly caused by the crash in oil price at the international market, her financial woes are far from being over. Rather, they are bound to intensify in the coming months and years, as governments at both the Federal and state  levels gradually come to terms with the reality of the newly approved N30, 000 National Minimum Wage, for instance. At least, 70 per cent of the states are said to have agreed to pay. And with the new wage regime and indeed, other statutory financial obligations that will be tossed on the path of the newly inaugurated governments at all levels, it means that there is the urgent need to put more steam to the on-going economic diversification aimed at weaning the economy of its age-long dependence on oil as a major source of revenue and foreign exchange. In doing so, experts and industry operators believe that the nation’s palm oil industry remains the low-hanging fruit for the various levels of government to give more impetus to economic diversification. According to them, Nigeria was the world leading producer of palm oil in the 1950s and mid-1960s, supplying about 645,000 Metric Tons (MTs) of palm oil annually to markets across the world and boasting an enviable global market share of about 43.0 per cent. Palm oil alone reportedly accounted for as much as 80 per cent of Nigeria’s export earnings. It also created millions of direct and indirect employment opportunities for Nigerians. Malaysia, one of the Asian emerging markets, was even said to have obtained the oil palm seedling with which she built her thriving oil palm business from Nigeria. Although, the Asian Tiger has since refuted this claim, it nonetheless underscored Nigeria’s towering status and visibility in the global palm oil industry. Sadly, Nigeria’s visibility in the palm oil business has since fizzled out. From controlling about 43.0 per cent market share, Nigeria is said to currently account for a paltry seven per cent of total palm oil output. Today, Malaysia and Indonesia are the top producers of palm oil. While Indonesia currently produces 32 million tons of palm oil, Malaysia boasts 17.7 million tons. Both countries have been exporting palm oil products to Nigeria. The country, which was once the bride of the international palm oil business, is now a net importer of palm oil to meet her growing domestic demand. She has between 450, 000 and 500, 000 tonnes annual palm oil supply shortage. This is made up of about 300, 000 tonnes of Technical Palm Oil (TPO) for the production of soap and about 200, 000 tonnes of Special Palm Oil (SPO) used in the food industry. And closing the supply shortage via import has been digging a hole in the Federal Government’s purse to the tune of $500 million, about N153.2 billion, annually. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, who recently dished out this humongous and disturbing palm oil import bill, described it as sad. He said it was worrisome that the country was still importing palm oil in spite of sufficient arable land in the South-South and South-East regions of the country to produce palm oil in commercial quantity. Emefiele, who spoke at a stakeholders’ meeting on the “Palm Oil Value Chain” held in Abuja, recently, said: “Despite placing oil palm in the forex exclusion list, official figures indicate that importation of palm oil had declined by about 40 per cent from the peak of 506,000 MTs in 2014 to 302,000 MTs in 2017. “This indicates that Nigeria still expends close to $500 million on oil palm importation annually and we are determined to change this narrative.”  Push for self-sufficiency in palm oil The CBN governor expressed optimism that with the help of the state governments, Nigeria could reach self-sufficiency in palm oil between 2022 and 2024 and ultimately, overtake Thailand and Columbia to become the third largest producer over the next few years. To achieve the targets, Emefiele said the apex bank  intends to support improved production of palm oil to not only meet the domestic needs of the market, but to also increase exports in order to improve forex earnings. Consequently, he said all the state governors in the South-South and South-East had agreed to provide at least 100, 000 hectares each for large scale oil palm farming. That is not all. The CBN chief also announced that as part of its Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) and Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS), it will work with large corporate stakeholders and small holder farmers to ensure the availability of quality palm seeds for this year’s planting season. “We will also ensure the availability of agro-chemicals in order to enable improved cultivation of palm oil. We will also work to encourage viable off taker agreements between farmers and large-scale palm producing companies. Loans will be granted through our ABP and CACS programmes at no more than nine per cent per annum to identified core borrowers,” Emefiele said.  States govts dig in If there is anything that has raised hopes of changing Nigeria’s palm oil narrative, it is the decision of some state governments in the palm oil producing regions to throw their hats in the palm oil production ring. At least, 11 of those states are said to have indicated interest to partner with the CBN to revive the ailing sector. For instance, Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki who was at the stakeholders’ meeting in Abuja, has answered Emefiele’s clarion call to change the palm oil sector’s narrative through the provision of more land to investors with proven financial and technical capabilities to support the development of large-scale palm oil plantations in the country. Obaseki specifically announced that 70, 000 hectares of land are currently being cultivated in his state. The governor’s interest in the emerging revolution in the palm oil sector is understandable. Edo State, The Nation, learnt, parades the largest palm estate in Nigeria. Obaseki, who commended the CBN for the low interest loans for the oil palm sector, is sure to latch on the sector to prepare Edo for life without crude oil, if he gets a second term in office. Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel is no less excited over the prospects of anchoring the diversification of the state’s economy on palm oil production and export. Udom, who was also at the meeting, said Akwa Ibom was poised to immediately begin domesticating the palm oil revival initiative in the state. He, however, identified inappropriate pricing as a major challenge to the palm oil business in Nigeria. He also called for incentives for operators in areas of land clearing and provision of improved seedlings. Similarly, Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu declared his state’s commitment to the initiative for “value addition.” He said Abia has a plan that is attractive for investors to explore. According to him, there was no better way to restore the country’s glory than this kind of investment. “We pledge the commitment of our state,” he affirmed. Apart from Edo, Akwa-Ibom and Abia, other states that are palm oil producing states in Nigeria are Delta, Cross River, Bayelsa, Rivers, Anambra, Enugu, Imo, Ogun, Ondo, Oyo and Ekiti. With their inauguration, last week, the stage appears set for states within the palm oil producing belt to leverage on the CBN-led push to revive the sector to diversify their economies and create jobs.  The challenges However, as promising as the unfolding revolution in the sector appears, it will certainly not be a walk in the pack for both the federal and state governments. The inappropriate pricing, which the Akwa-Ibom State governor identified as a major challenge, is only a fraction of the formidable hurdles in the path of a vibrant palm oil sector in Nigeria. The consensus of industry experts is that there is the need for a comprehensive and holistic approach to address some of the fundamental issues agitating the minds of famers/plantation owners and other operators along the palm oil value chain. A recent report by Lagos-based Financial Derivatives Company put the issues in perspective. The report, which was accessed by The Nation, listed one of the critical issues as farmers’ inefficient, outdated machinery and techniques. The report, which said manual processing techniques still hold sway, added that about 50 per cent of current palm oil production in the country is lost to inefficient, outdated machinery and techniques. The challenge of lack of standardisation also stands out. At present, most small-scale farmers cannot meet the standards required for exports due to improper documentation, certification, accreditation and product packaging. There are also issues around the nation’s weak milling infrastructure, land accessibility and community unrest, among others. These have continued to stunt the growth and development of the palm oil sector, and ultimately, discouraging private investors.  Smuggling is pain in the neck If the state governments summon the political will to address the afore-mentioned challenges, working with investors, it still remains to be seen how they hope to tackle smuggling of palm oil into the country, which is largely within the Federal Government’s purview. The National Palm Produce Association of Nigeria (NPPAN) recently raised the alarm over the illegal entry of CPO into the country. In a letter entitled: “SOS to the Federal Government on illegal entry of Crude Palm Oil (CPO) into Nigeria’, the association lamented that corruption at the borders had allowed smuggled palm oil into the country at the detriment of huge local investments. The letter jointly signed by its ambassador, Dele Olanubi; Chairman Ondo State Chapter, Bolarinwa Adetula and Oyo State Coordinator, Abiodun Adejo, and addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari, NIPPAN said many of its members who heeded the Federal Government’s call in the last three years for private intervention in the oil palm industry are now at risk of losing billions invested in the sector. “Virtually all of our businesses are at the verge of collapse because of unbridled corruption culminating in smuggled palm oil into Nigeria due to porous borders. Also, banks have tightened the noose around the investors over unsettled credits and loans running into billions of naira. The jobs of millions of Nigerians are at stake if immediate positive steps are not taken to stop illegal entry of CPO into Nigeria,” the group said. NPPAN reiterated that Nigeria was losing more than $500 million worth of palm oil annually. Listen to NPPAN: “Our members had taken the risk to obtain loans running into billions of Naira from commercial banks and micro-finance banks to reactivate abandoned plantations. “CPO output increased tremendously within the last 24 months. The price was stable at N300, 000 to N350, 000 per metric tonne within the last 18 months up to October 2018. Since November 2018, we have noticed a downward slide in the price of CPO. In January 2019, the price dropped to between N220, 000 and N240, 000 per metric tonne, even when the February to June season is yet to commence. “We then wonder what the price would look like during the season, when CPO production is at peak. The local demand has waned.” The group added that buyers from the northern part of the country were no longer seen in the CPO producing states of the South, wondering if CPO was no longer used by industries or domestically in such places. At present, crude palm oil refineries in the country currently operate at 30 per cent installed capacity, making the need to ramp up local production imperative. This, according to experts, will be by addressing the issues around the supply of CPO to the refineries, as the existing refineries in the country cannot meet demand by individual and industrial users. The challenge of addressing the demand and supply gap for palm oil before banning its importation into the country was seen by many as one of the reasons why moves to ban the importation of palm oil and its allied products into the country have not been successful. Recall that the upper chamber of the 8th National Assembly, the Senate, had moved a motion, entitled “Urgent Need to Halt the Importation of Palm Oil and its Allied Products to Protect Palm Oil Industry in Nigeria.” It noted that the importation of the product into the country was a threat to government’s campaign on diversification. Will the 9th Assembly, which will be inaugurated Tuesday this week, restart the process of banning the importation of palm oil into the country? Will state governments summon the political will to walk the talk on diversification by removing all the hurdles in the path of a vibrant palm oil sector? While answers to these remain a matter of conjecture, what is clear, however, is that public-private sector collaboration is the way to go to ramp up local palm oil production and significantly cut imports, as well as diversify the economy and create jobs. 