Ahead of the inauguration of the Ninth National Assembly and election of presiding officers on Tuesday, the concerned caucus of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), on Wednesday said that the party was yet to zone the position of Deputy Senate President to the South-South geo- political zone. The group in a statement by Segun Bello and Sunday Umutu in Abuja took a swipe at Senator Ita Enang on his alleged position that Senator Ovie Omo- Agege, APC Delta Central, has been endorsed for the position of Deputy Senate President. The group said that Enang cannot speak for the party and can no longer speak for the Presidency against the backdrop that he is no longer the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate) in line with the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The APC leaders said, “Section 151 of the 1999 Constitution states that the appointment of all special advisers shall cease when the President ceases to hold office, while Section 171 states that the appointment of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and any office or the personal staff of the President shall cease when the President ceases to hold office.” The statement read in full, “Our attention has been drawn to the statement of Senator Ita Enang in an interview in 7.00am News of Radio Nigeria on Wednesday, 5th June, 2019. “In the interview Senator Enang stated that Senator Lawan Ahmad will emerge as Senate President of the 9th Senate while Rt Hon Femi Gbajiabiamila will emerge as Speaker House of Representatives. He went on to state that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege will emerge as Deputy Senate President. “Although, in the interview he was referred to as the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters we write to state that he spoke in personal capacity and expressed his own opinion and certainly not in any way the position of the Presidency. “It should be noted that his appointment as Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters ceased with the end of the President’s first term on May 29, 2019 as provided in Section 151(3) of the 1999 Constitution (As Amended). “Therefore, his statement about Senator Ovie Omo-Agege should be seen wholly as figment of his imagination, because he has probably supported him. “It must also be noted that All Progressives Congress, APC, nominated Senator Ahmad Lawan and Hon Gbajiabiamila for Senate President and Speaker respectively and not by any individual. “Senator Enang cannot and could not have spoken for the Party in the said interview. “We wish to state that APC has not zoned the Deputy Senate President to anyone. However, Distinguished Senator Francis Alimikhena has been seen as the preferred candidate for the position.” 