Kano State Government has presented relief materials and money worth N17.9 million to victims of flood disaster across the State. Three Local Government Areas, out of the seven affected, had already been presented with relief materials. They are: Gwarzo, Kabo and Rimin Gado Local Government areas. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje disclosed these at the flag off ceremony of distribution of relief materials to the Victims of 2018 flood disaster organised by the National Emergency Management Agency in Dambatta Local Government Area Ganduje, represented by his Deputy Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, explained the gesture was part of the administration’s commitment to ease the hardship of the affected people as only Allah SWT could compensate them on they have lost. Ganduje revealed his administration had earmarked N100million to support victims of the flood disasters, assuring “the remaining four local government areas that have been affected by the flood will soon be presented with the relief materials which include Wudil, Dambatta, Dawakin Tofa and Gabasawa ” “I want to categorically say that the State Emergency Management Agency had already estimated what have been lost at the affected local government areas of the State and they would soon be presented with assistance” The Governor then directed the Agency to as matter of urgent ensure that all the victims received their share of the relief materials at the appropriate time. On the National Emergency and Management Agency’s intervention in Dambatta local government area, Dr. Ganduje commended the effort of the Agency for its prompt action as at when due. “I want to extend our appreciation to NEMA and the Director General of this Agency for their prompt action when the State Government approached them on this issue and the subsequent assessment that follow” he said. He further thanked the Emir of Bichi Dr. Aminu Ado Bayero for having time to grace the occassion as his fisrt appearance at the public function following his appointment as Emir of Bichi. “I once again wish to congratulate the Emirs of the four newly created Emirates of Bichi, Gaya, Rano and Karaye over your appointment as fisrt class Emirs and urge you to continue to serve your subjects in the areas of security, health, education and economic among others ” Ganduje called. Emir of Bichi Dr. Aminu Ado Bayero expressed his gratitude to Allah SWT for his emergence as new Emir of Bichi which he described as yet another opportunity to serve his people and ensure peace and stability in the State and Country at large. He added: “We want to thank the State Government for bringing this programme to assist the victims of flood disaster in this area and called on the people to continue to cooperate with Government to achieve the set goals” Zonal Coordinator of the National Emergency and Management Agency Alh Rilwanu Suleiman said having received a report on 2018 flood disaster in Dambatta local government, the Agency in collaboration with SEMA Staff carried out an assessment of the affected victims with a view to come to their aids. According to him, there were 19 communities that had been assessed to be presented with materials covering the total number of 478 beneficiaries. He stated that the items to be distributed include food stuff, building materials, mattresses and nylon Mats 