Determined to improve lives at the grassroots, Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade has disbursed over N360 million to support 69 community development plans. NICHOLAS KALU reports that beneficiaries of the programme have pleaded with the government to extend its services to other communities. The Cross River State Community and Social Development Agency (CRSCSDA) established by the State House of Assembly to implement the Community and Social Development Project (CSDP), a World Bank-assisted project has, since 2009, been providing services that ensure poverty reduction and human development. The CSDP utilises the community-driven development (CDD) approach, a bottom-up development strategy, which lays emphasis on beneficiaries as the fulcrum of development by giving them a voice in decision-making in the area of development. In essence, the various communities that require any kind of intervention decide what they need and apply to the agency and provide a 10 per cent counterpart funding while the agency provides the remaining 90 per cent. Also the communities provide direct labour that makes sure that such projects are completed. The overall effect is that they are wont to own and protect the projects more as they feel they directly contributed to the establishment of the projects. Interventions by the agency cover areas of education, health, water, transport, rural electrification, community housing, natural resources/environmental and provision of infrastructure to improve the social and economic well-being of members of the communities. As the programme closes next year, the various communities that benefited from the programme have pleaded with the state government and other relevant organisations to extend it, given the impact it has had in the lives of the people at the grassroots. With projects in the nook and cranny of the 18 local government areas of Cross River State, these communities feel the model should even be adopted by governments and interventionist agencies in providing projects for the people. At the Stella Maris Seminary in Uyanga, Akamkpa Local Government Area, where the hostel accommodation for the students was renovated by the agency, the School Prefect, Anthony Ignatius was grateful to the agency for the gesture, saying it had made them more comfortable. “The ceilings were leaking. It was generally in poor condition, but it is better now. Now we no longer have leaking roofs and it has added more beauty to the school than the dilapidated state it was before. Now our hostels are more secure and it has improved our academic performance. We are grateful to the agency. The students are grateful and urge the agency to continue to do more,” he said. Rev. Fr Francis Okon, who is in charge of academics in the institution, said the renovated structure has provided comfort for the students because the hostel has good ventilation. “It has helped the students a great deal,” he said. In Anung Bahumono community in Abi Local Government Area, Biology, Physics and Chemistry laboratories were provided for the community secondary school in the area. Culvert and drainage were also provided. The traditional ruler of Anung Bahumono, Abi Local Government Area, His Royal Highness (HRH) Amos Ukomi, an Engineer, said the projects had greatly improved the lives of the people. “The agency has done a lot to empower the future leaders within this community and beyond. The people have done well to co-operate with the agency in terms of funding and provision of the required labour. “At present, we have one of the best science laboratories in Abi Local Government Area with complete science equipment. We are grateful to God and to the agency. Before now, its condition was abysmal. We normally went somewhere else to borrow materials for our children who are studying science subjects. “We could not continue like that and had to pool our resources and applied to the agency to come to our aid. Also here we used to have flooding problems. People could not cook or sleep in peace because of flood. Now we don’t have such problems anymore. The flood has been diverted and we are grateful for this,” he said. The Principal, Community Secondary School Abi Elder Philip Ezong Elemi, said: “The construction of the science laboratories has resulted in more students registering science subjects and we are making use of it very well. The provision of the laboratory has helped the students to cope better in terms of learning the sciences.” Miss Angela Ndem Moses, an SS2 student and the School Prefect (girls) said they were grateful to the agency for the laboratories, which have helped them in learning the sciences. “We are really grateful to the agency for the provision of the laboratories which have helped us a lot as science students. We are seeing most of the equipment in the laboratories for the first time; although we have heard about them before. We are really excited about the laboratories and they have helped us in our learning process,” she said. Also at the Government Secondary School, Akam, Ikom Local Government Area where an examination hall and science laboratories were also constructed, the students were also appreciative of the agency’s gesture. One of the teachers in the school, Mr. Edward Agbor said: “Before, we did not have an examination hall, but now that we do, the West African Examination Council (WAEC) has approved our school as a centre for their examinations. Also with the complete science laboratories, learning has improved as we have practical examination instead of just theory. It has also improved enrolment in the school. The Chairman of the community, Harding Njor said: “We executed the project with our counterpart funding. The whole money was pushed to us by the agency. We co-operated very well and the agency helped us to achieve these. The government should promote and support the agency to continue helping communities in the state.” Still in Akam community, where a health post was built for the community, a village head, HH Ovat Alfred Aluche said it had helped in reducing mortality rate in the area. “Before, it was difficult to transport someone in emergency to Ikom. So, anytime there is an emergency, it is treated here. The health post has been very efficient. It has improved the general health of the community and we are grateful. We pray that the agency be supported to do more,” he said. At Ajassor Market in Etung Local Government Area where open stalls, toilets and a mini-bridge were constructed, the Clan Head of Ajassor, HRH Anthony Ntui Etta II, said the people were grateful. “These have greatly improved the economy of this area. It has helped the farmers as more of their produces are being sold. The farmers are happy. They produce more and sell more. The bridge has helped us to connect communities and farmlands. Before, it was impassable. Now vehicles can easily move farm produces. Now, our entire farm produces pass through here. Life has been made easier for us,” he said. In Obanlikwu Local Government Area where a classroom blocks was constructed at Government Primary School in Omale community. The Head teacher, Abe Ignatius said: “This has helped us greatly more than ever before. In the past, students sat under the tree to learn. This was very inconvenient, especially when it rained. Then, whenever it rained, we would pack everyone into the one available classroom. Now they all have their own classrooms and it has helped to increase the population of the pupils. Most parents that took their children to private schools are now bringing them back. We pray they continue so that other communities would benefit from the programme as we have benefitted.” Still in Omale, where another mini-bridge was constructed, Village Head Begiayem, Omale, Bendi South, HH Ugbe Gregory Unimke, said: ‘We are grateful to the agency for the bridge it constructed in our community because, before now, it was very difficult to transport farm produces from our community. “It was in 2017 that we applied to the agency and it approved and constructed the bridge. Since then, our lives have been made easier. These days, vehicles are passing through here and we can transport our products such as cocoa, banana and plantain and so on conveniently. It has also increased farming activities and generally the economy of the community.” In Obanlikwu Community, Bayayam, where a solar-powered borehole was provided, with five per cent counterpart funding by the Bisu Divine Vulnerable Group, an elderly Paulina Eleshi, said for a long time they did not have water. “We used to go under the mountain. But now right here in our community, we can fetch water freely and as much as we want for various uses,” she said. In Busi II, Ijua Community still in Obanlikwu, where a mini-bridge was constructed, Chairman of the Community, Sunday Ochukware, said: “The bridge has helped us a lot. Before now, we suffered a great deal while crossing the stream to our farms and other communities. But we appealed to the agency and they came to our aid by constructing the bridge for us. Our people can now go to the farm with ease and farming activities have also improved. We have had cases where people even lost their lives here in the stream but it is no longer the case.” At Gakem Community in Bekwarra Local Government Area, Multi-purpose Business and Skills Acquisition Centre was built for physically challenged people, with five per cent counterpart funding, to help them raise fund for their upkeep. Mr. Mathias Atenanyi said the agency assisted them last year. “They helped us with money to start the business centre. They gave us money to build the skills acquisition centre, which we completed in February this year. They also sank a borehole for us at Abuochichie, which we are using now. We appreciate them for fulfilling their promise to us.” Egbung Angela said: “We have computer centre, tailoring and barbing centres, among others. Whatever we get from there we use to help and empower ourselves and others. We thought we had been forgotten but they showed us we have not been forgotten. We thank the agency for helping us. There are many others that also need this kind of support. They should continue doing this to make lives better.” In Afrike Okpeche Community still in Bekwarra where living quarters were constructed next to the health centre for members of staff of the health facility, Mr Joe Ekpang said: “This health centre has been here for some time but the workers had no accommodation. They always came from far and it was not the best in terms of delivering health service. “Sometimes there may be emergencies in the night and there would be no health worker available. With the provision of accommodation by the agency, we have the health workers in the premises at all times and it has really improved health care delivery in the community. We urge that the agency still be given the resources to do more because it has been of great assistance to the community. The services they render have impacted very much on the rural communities.” At Mary Knoll College in Okuku in Yala Local Government Area where a hostel was renovated, the Principal, Rev. Father U. Emmanuel said “The students now live in a more decent environment. We are grateful to the agency, even as we plead that it should continue to do more.” At Arkwa Community, Yala, where a solar water project and classroom blocks were provided at the Community Primary School, the Head of Itega Ekpudu Clan, HRH Ogam Odey, said “The project so far has affected us positively. The water project has helped us a lot. Before now, there was no potable water. Now that we have clean water to drink, we no longer suffer ailments as before. “For the classrooms, we now have a modern structure with zinc and we are grateful. Now our children are learning under more comfortable environment.” In Okuku, Yala where a skills acquisition centre known as God’s Favour Group Development Plan was established for the vulnerable groups, the Treasurer of the group, Gabriel Ogbudu said they came together to build the structure with the support of the agency. He said the centre which consists of a barbershop, a computer centre, shoemaking, tailoring and tricycle business, among others is to generate money for their upkeep. “We use the proceeds as the less privileged to help ourselves. We appreciate the agency for the gesture,” he said. In Yahe community in Yala where an electricity project was carried out, a community member, Odey Julius said: “We had long expected such project. We never had electricity. So, last year the agency approved this project. We have light now and the people are happy. People are now acquiring electronics. We can now have cold drinks. So, many businesses have sprout in the area because of the availability of electricity.” Speaking on their scorecard since 2015, the General Manager of the Agency, Pastor Victor Ovat, said increasing access of the poor and vulnerable people to improved social and natural resource infrastructure services in a sustainable manner throughout the state has been their focus. He said using the CDD model which puts the beneficiaries on the driver’s seat of their development and with the support of Governor Ben Ayade, who disbursed over N360 million to support 69 community development plans comprising 168 micro-projects out of which 92 in multi-sectors have been completed and put to use. Ovat also said N16 million has been disbursed as grants to vulnerable interest groups in support of five needs-based group development plans out of the 23 in the focal local government areas.