RAMPAGING bandits yesterday kidnapped the head of Yan Buki community in Kaura Namoda Local Government Area of Zamfara State, Buhari Ammani, along with his three wives. Also abducted by the gunmen were Ammani’s children and six other people. The incident occurred hours after gunmen also invaded some communities in Tsafe Local Government Area of the state on Thursday, killing no fewer than 18 persons, according to the Emir of Tsafe, Alhaji Muhammad Bawa. A resident of Yan Buki community, who pleaded anonymity, told The Nation that the bandits struck at about 1.30 am yesterday. The Chairman of the local government area, Alhaji Lawal Isa, also confirmed the raid. He put the number of the kidnapped at nine, saying it was the first attack in the area by the gunmen who have been causing trouble in the state. Although the spokesman for the state police command, Muhammad Shehu, also confirmed the attack, he debunked the number of people said to have been kidnapped. He said the matter was still being investigated, adding that the police would make public the actual number of people kidnapped. Explaining the killings in Tsafe, the emir, Alhaji Bawa, told the House of Representatives member from Gusau/Tsafe Federal Constituency, Alhaji Kabir Mai-Palace, in Gusau that the gunmen raided Bamamu, Danmale and Sako communities on Thursday evening, during which they went on a killing spree. Bawa said the bandits came on more than 50 motorcycles and shot sporadically. Mai-Palace had called on the emir to commiserate with him and the people of the area over the attacks. The emir thanked the lawmaker for the visit and his concern for his people. Earlier, Mai-Palace had described the attack as unfortunate and worrisome. He said: “Security is the major area I am giving priority to. It is very disheartening the way these bandits are attacking our communities. “If I go back to Abuja, I am going to raise these issues in the House with the aim of finding solutions to the problems. “As a representative of the people, I don’t have any commitment beyond the interest of my people. “l am also going to present this incident to the governor, Muhammad Matawallen-Maradun.” The lawmaker, however, urged the people of the state to remain calm and continue with prayers to seek Allah’s intervention to end the problem. The lawmaker donated cash and 20 mattresses to the victims in the hospital and held a closed door meeting with the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Tsafe Division of the Nigeria Police. 