Following the appointment of Oluwaseun Lloyd as General Manager of Sony Music West Africa, the record company has said its partnership with Lloyd who is also known as Banko is based on his pure love for African music and his desire to push the culture beyond the waters of the land. The music entrepreneur and former President of Davido Music Worldwide honed his craft in the music business in Canada, after which he returned back to Nigeria to set up Davido Music Worldwide. “We have no Iota of doubt that the record company is in safe and profitable hands under Banko’s management,” Sony Music West Africa said. In sharing his plans for the company, Banko expressed determination to grow Sony Music West Africa to the next level, saying he plans to diversify the company’s business interests and woo investors. “There is no reason why Apple, Tidal and Spotify should not have their platforms in Africa,” Banko said. “African music is overripe for platforms like Apple and Spotify to ignore. I will not rest until the voice of every talented West African is heard on the world music stage. From the bubbling city of Lagos, down to the Kente-dressed natives of Ghana, even to the football-governed country of Sierra Leone, let this message be passed into every nook and cranny of West Africa that Sony Music West Africa is here not just to make indigenous stars but build stars of tomorrow that would shine independently.” On his big plans for West African artistes, Banko said: “To every young, talented West African with a dream of bringing home the coveted Grammy Awards, we say, wake up from your dreams; the time has come to turn it to reality. In a few days from now, we will be knocking on your doors; do not hesitate to open them to us.” In times past, Sony Music Worldwide has watched great talents such as Angélique Kidjo, Davido, Wizkid spring out of the continent. This was why, in February 2016, the record company decided to invest in West Africa by setting up Sony Music West Africa in line with its vision to make Africa a musical repertoire centre of the world.