No fewer than 1,000 Nigerians benefited from the second edition of a 2-day free health Campaign organized for Oke-Ira Central, Ojodu LCDA held recently. Speaking at the event, the Convener of the health Campaign, Councillor, Ward C, Oke-Ira Central Ojodu Local council Development Area, Hon. Gbenga Opebi said the program was aimed at ensuring an all year round sound health for the good people of Ward C who gave him opportunity to serve. “This is borne out of my desire to give back to party faithful and the society at large and also leave a legacy behind” Opebi stated that poverty was one of the factors responsible for the way Nigerians manage their health, and called on government to provide affordable health facilities for the masses. He noted that the health programme would enable residents in the area get the required information on the need for regular check-ups, rather than resorting to self-medication. Opebi also explained that he has a number of other programmes for the people: “My aim is to bring all of these activities into one initiative that will educate and create awareness that would lead to behavioural change among the residents.” While declaring the campaign opened the Chairman Ojodu LCDA,  Comrade Kayode Ajakaye commended the initiator of the programme. He however enjoined the residents to avail themselves of the opportunity. He said “When you have information about your body, it would empower you to seek medical expertise. This can be achieved only when you do a proper check-up, which enables you to know your health status,” Tagged “Oke-Ira Health Campaign,” the event saw health experts conducting a sensitisation and screening exercise for malaria, arthritis, rheumatism, high blood pressure, blood sugar, diabetes, HIV/AIDs, hepatitis and tuberculosis, among other ailments. Drugs were administered to those suffering from one health challenge or the other. Speaking with one of the beneficiaries Mrs. Bola Elufisan, said the councillor was committed to holding several enlightenment health campaigns in the community, including seminars on disease prevention as well as the provision and distribution of high-quality anti-malaria drugs. Elufisan said: “I am very happy about the tests and because the drugs here are original, since they came directly from the pharmaceutical companies.” She further called on government to provide drugs in the general hospitals across the state at affordable prices. Another beneficiary, Mr. Jessy Obasi, said the programme was aimed at promoting awareness on how people could properly manage their health. He appreciated the convener of the health scheme for the initiative. Also speaking, the Supervisor for the lkeja Local Government Tuberculosis and Leprosy Centre, Dr. Oladimeji Olasukanmi, gave a health talk on the prevention of tuberculosis (TB). Olasukanmi said TB was a highly infectious disease transmitted from one person to another. “People should be aware that there are other types of TB, apart from the normal tuberculosis disease found around the chest area in the body. There is TB around the breast area too. Although that is rare, it is equally infectious,” he said. He explained that TB treatment was free, and early detection and treatment were important to a decrease in the death rate arising from TB.