the governors’ forum staged its opening act on a tableau of presumed impotence. Yet from the pack, each governor emerged breathing spunk and fire, setting in motion, sporadic outbursts of a feigned vigour. Each governor would insist that his vigour is real as lackeys and aides caress the swollen belly of his lies; the charade will persist until fabricated repute splits to reality’s vengeful lashes. Until then, he remains self-embowered, dour and stuck in mental indolence. His passion pales to the spunk of classical Athens’s ephebic youth, thus he is persistently impaled by his alter ego, the colossus which infects him with a crooked sense of the reality of things around him. Eventually, like the proverbial prodigal, he assumes bestiality of self, squandering goodwill, misappropriating trust and state funds. Such is the disposition of the incumbent governor. Last dispensation, his personality was regressive, an artifact of aggressive forging. In time, he would face his nemesis, the conflict between good and evil; right and wrong; savagery and humaneness; definitiveness and dissolution of self. Rather than strive to become a national treasure, he mutates to become a national terror, smothering hope and siring strife across gubernatorial wastelands. Power grants the governor a dangerous freedom. That savage streak supposedly consigned to religion’s medieval hell, now sprouts in the palatial glade of the State House and the soggy crevices of the governor’s psyche. Ultimately, it returns to its old place in nature; the abyss of the misguided functionary’s tyrant mind. Power intoxicates and corrupts. Thus under its influence, the governor’s mauls and steals. Paid sophists and the now ubiquitious media attack dogs attempt to rationalise his coarse boundaries of selfhood, claiming he is hopeless before the ravages of power or that he is lured into acquiescence by its sensual beauty. These are the voyeurs and errand boys of power. Those who like to slave and watch. They are the cohorts and lackeys of powerful governors – even among these, we have social hierarchies, a totem pole by which status, favours and privileges are dispensed. They are the ‘Yes-men.’ I would call them ‘associate savages,’ and they include the so-called captains of industry, journalists, non-profits, law enforcers, political party chairmen, to mention a few. Together, they pervert the provisions of the constitution; the 1999 Constitution – the fourth since independence – imposed by previous military government, increased states’ responsibility to provide social services and infrastructure. Perhaps intended as an interim document, the constitution was deliberately vague about demarcation. Thus while Nigerians clamour for a more realistic and humanely wrought constitution, overlap and ambiguity of responsibilities across government tiers persist with intense debate and confusion. Education governance, for instance, is split across the three levels of government (federal, state and local), but the collapse of primary and secondary schools nominally run by local or state governments forced the federal government to intervene through the Universal Basic Education (UBE) programme to reduce illiteracy. Transparency is equally lacking in state fiscal governance, something the Africa research Institute (ARI) attributed to unclear definition of responsibilities; ARI findings revealed that no state government has issued verifiable audited accounts since 2013 while there is little public scrutiny of state revenues and expenditure. Many state governors lack character, managerial expertise and tact thus they negotiate and grab power through fraud, bribery and brigandage; oftentimes, they flood state assemblies with lackeys, who will never hold them to account. And while the federal allocation is meant to supplement the revenue state governments generate from taxes on personal income, property and other sources, in several states, the federal allocation provides over 80 per cent of the total revenue; states’ internally generated revenue (IGR) often fall short of personnel costs. Consequently, some governors have resorted to frantic measures to improve the fortunes of their states. For instance, Ondo governor, Rotimi Akeredolu’s recent decision to foster the farming of indian hemp on a commercial scale and as a major revenue earner without viable economic and social safety measures betray a pathetic lack of practical, developmental ideas. A governor’s character and intentions are crucial to his state’s performance but in Nigeria, “Many elected governors have no programme or blueprint at the start of their tenure and instead of working out a few priorities that the state can afford, they set up expensive projects which they pass on to the federal government to fund, or abandon them when the funding runs out, according to Yussuf Tuggar, a 2011 governorship aspirant in Bauchi. True, in Ogun State, the immediate past governor, Ibikunle Amosun, in flagrant disregard of reality and managerial wisdom, initiated an international cargo airport project, which has rendered over 5,000 farmers landless and incapacitated in a severely depressed agricultural economy. And just recently, Amosun’s successor, Governor Dapo Abiodun, bemoaned the heartrending condition of the state’s major health facility, the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH). He decried the rust and mould-ridden wards, decrepit operating theatres and collapsed ceilings. At this juncture, you could be forgiven for seeking the wisdom in ex-governor, Amosun’s noisy celebration of a “250-bed” hospital complex at Oke Mosan, while the only university teaching hospital in the state and several Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) fell apart. Ill-conceived and moribund state-funded projects are found throughout the country, from Cross River’s failed plan to rival Dubai as a global tourist attraction to a former governor of Jigawa’s scheme to turn his Sahelian state into an IT hub, Nigeria seems beset by impractical governors. Lest we forget the sad case of a former governor of Katsina, who ignored infrastructure woes in his state to build and commission a new residence for the governor of Niamey Region in Niger Republic, valued at N60 million few years ago. Four years ago, oil rich Akwa Ibom equally derived almost all of its N462 billion (US$2.3 billion) budget from the federal “handout.” The handout covered only a fraction of its recurrent costs and when receipts from the federal revenue pool in the first nine months of 2015 halved compared to the previous year, due to the collapse in global oil prices, most states rapidly became insolvent. Thus one of Buhari’s first decisions as president was to authorise a bailout fund for 27 indebted states endowed with N338 billion (US$1.7 billion) of federal government funds. In addition, the Debt Management Office converted N324 billion (US$1.6 billion) of state debt to long term bonds. A former state finance commissioner told ARI, “Even when the oil price was high, virtually all the states were spending more than they earned,” adding that Buhari, “could have imposed conditions – revenue and spending targets – on the states before agreeing to bail out their debts and approve new money.” The federal government, in effect, he said, refunded the costs of state mismanagement and profligacy. It’s 2019 and Nigeria’s newly elected governors have begun what is known in street parlance as “Initial Gra-Gra” (IGG). On their watch, the states will manifest as a sick rose even as they wildly paint alternative portraits of their domains as a bower of bliss. The governors’ frantic art of concealment necessitates that truth’s approach must take the form of a raid. The press and civil society must rise to the challenge. 