Tiger nuts also called aya (Hausa), ofio (Yoruba) or chufas (Spanish) are a highly nutritious plant food with a high energy content (starch, fats, sugars and proteins). These small, round tubers (either fresh or dried) are rich in minerals such as phosphorous, potassium and vitamins E and C. Tiger nuts are very healthy as they help to prevent heart attacks, thrombosis and activate blood circulation. Due to the high contents of soluble glucose, they prevent cancer and lately some investigators have discovered that they reduce the risk of suffering colon cancer. The very high fibre content combined with a delicious taste, make them ideal for healthy eating. High fiber content The tiger nut has a higher fiber content than the oat bran, the cabbage, the carrot, plums and the Chia seeds. The fiber helps the organism to prevent constipation and acts as an appetite suppressant, which helps us to control our body weight. It has the same benefits for the heart as the olive oil Cardiologists recommend eating non saturated fats or vegetable fats and the tiger nut has a lipid profile which is very similar to the olive oil, which is considered one of the healthiest oils. One of the best natural magnesium sources available With only 100 gr. of tiger nuts, your body gets 13% to 17% of the daily recommended dose of magnesium. This mineral stays active in the body and participates in more than 300 biochemical reactions of our organism. Helps to control blood pressure It’s high content of amino acid arginine helps the body make nitric oxide which keeps our blood vessels dilated and have normal blood flow. Can help to prevent cancer and heart diseases The tiger nuts is a source of Vitamin E that protects us from the creation of harmful free radicals which are responsible for the death of the body cells. This fact, combined with a high content of oleic acid, has demonstrated that it reduces the risk of heart diseases. Gives your body more potassium than a banana Eating 25 tiger nuts gives the body 139 mg. of potassium, being this the same level as a potato or an avocado and exceeding the potassium levels of a banana. This mineral helps the cells and organs to work correctly. It also regulates the muscle contractions, which helps your digestion. Source of non-animal protein The proteins are fundamental for the human body. Different studies have demonstrated that the Chufas have a content of proteins which is 8% higher than wholemeal wheat. Also, the Tigernuts have more amino acids than standards of the World Health Organisation for proteins. Helps to control diabetes The high non-soluble fiber contents of the tiger nuts help the diabetics to regulate their sugar levels in the blood. Recent studies have demonstrated that the fiber doesn’t elevate the sugar levels in the blood as the carbohydrates. The tiger nuts milk is a perfect substitute of animal milk It’s very easy to make your own tiger nuts milk with cooking equipment that can be found in every kitchen. Together with a few chufas, we can prepare vegetable milk, that is healthy, without lactose and rich in calcium, vitamin C and E. Tiger nut oil is used in the cosmetic industry. As an anti-oxidant (because of its high content in vitamin E) it helps slow down the ageing of the body cells. It favours the elasticity of the skin and reduces skin wrinkles. It supplies the body with enough quantity of Vitamin E, very essential for fertility in both men and women.