Engineers have called on the Federal Government to reactivate Ajaokuta Steel Company so as to grow the nation’s economy. President, Nigeria Academy of Engineering (NAE), Professor Fola Lasisi,  who stated this at  the NAE’s 2019 Annual Lecture with the theme: ‘Fuelling the Nigerian Economy: State of the Domestic Refining and Distribution Facilities” and Induction Ceremony in Lagos, said doing so would lead to Nigeria’s industrialisation. Lasisi,  said the academy is committed towards the technological and scientific development of the country, adding that it was instructive to find a solution to the challenges confronting the  Ajaokuta Steel Company Limited. He said NAE recently featured a forum on two topics namely, ‘Sustainable Solid Minerals Development and Value Addition Chains: Quo vadis Nigeria,’ by Professor John  Ade Ajayi and ‘The Way Forward for the Iron and Steel Industry in Nigeria by Professor  David Aderibigbe. He said: “The academy notes the importance of this critical extractive multi-dimensional facility to the national economical development and engineering community.The academy is working with different stakeholders in the sector to provide solution and advise the Federal Government to resuscitate the extensive facility. Today’s event focuses or addresses an issue of significant impact to our socio-economic development specifically in focus is: Fuelling the Nigerian Economy, state of domestic refining and distribution facilities”. According to him, the choice of topic was in furtherance of our avowed commitment to positively impact our economy and the social life of Nigerians. The challenges of the effectiveness of refining impact directly on our lives at all levels NAE stands for a clear elucidation of the factors involved”. The NEA president explained that like their counterparts across the world, the Nigeria  Academy of Engineering has limited membership  with fellows  nominated on the basis of their distinguished  contribution to research and practice of engineering  and the advisory engagement to  the government and the private sector. He added that NAE has developed templates for development of outcome based engineering for the whole engineering family, (engineers, technologist, technician and tradesmen)on the basis of the   Washington, Dubai and Sydney  Academies. He said the adoption of these will enable the Nigerian engineering graduates meet global standards and  assist them to work globally. In this context, the president inducted 13 distinguished scholars  among them are  Prof Samuel Ibiyemi, Dr, Oyenuga Eribake,  Mekanti  Kachala Baru,  Anyoku Azubuike Onochie, Dr. Samuel Nnaemeka Anyakora amongst others  and three life achievement awardees Profs Buba  Garegy Bajoga, S.A. Balogun and S.O Adeyemi.