Since 33-year-old Ahmed Kolesho embraced table tennis in 2012, he was just doing it at his leisure time. But today, the University of Lagos computer science graduate had gained more than he could ever imagine from the sport. he is also aiming to secure his place at the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics Games at the continental qualifiers in Egypt. Apart getting employment through the sport with the Lagos State Government of Nigeria, Ahmed Koleosho’s health has improved tremendously. The Nigerian star made his debut at the 2016 Paralympics Games in Brazil and through the sport; he has travelled far and wide the corners of the world. “I had polio when I was four and I had been living with it. But I was able to attend schools and did my first degree in Computer Science at the University of Lagos in 2010. After then I was actually hoping to start something on my own. But in 2012, I started playing table tennis at my leisure time and few months into the game I started winning national tournaments and this made me to devote more time to the sport,” Ahmed Koleosho said. From 2012, Ahmed Koleosho has established himself as a force to reckon with in the class three (TT3) of the para table tennis event and in few days, he will heading to Alexandria with the aim of making another return to the Paralympics Games in Tokyo, Japan. Having featured in an international tournament earlier this year in Jordan where he settled for bronze in the singles and silver in the team event, Ahmed Koleosho is optimistic of clinching his ticket in Egypt later this month when the Africa PTT Championships hold on June 30 to July 2. “I think I will like to feature at the Tokyo Games because competing at big stage like the Paralympics Games is awesome. Already, I had picked some points from the Jordan tournament and heading to Egypt will surely cement my place at the Tokyo Games. There is no doubt that the host – Egypt remains the only threat to my ambition but I am fully ready to pick my qualification in Alexandria,” Ahmed Koleosho said.