The Lagos State Police Command has commenced investigation into the dead of a chartered accountant Rasaki Balogun, 56, and his alleged lover in Ejigbo, spokesman Bala Elkana said Monday. Balogun was said to have been found lifeless around 8am on June 20 by his wife Akorede at his 16, Taiwo Oke Street, Victory Estate in Ejigbo home. He said a team of detectives led by Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Ejigbo visited the scene and found the bodies covered in blood with the unnamed woman laying on a knife. The Nation gathered that the bodies were found lying face down in the sitting with burnt meat and stew on the gas cooker in the kitchen. It was learnt that the doormat at the man’s house was used as wage to prevent the blood from flowing out of the apartment and alerting other neighbours. “The man is said to be living alone in the house while his family lives in a different place. Identity of the mistress is yet to be established as he was said to have picked her about two days before the incident from unknown location. “The crime scene was sealed off for forensic analysis while the corpses were evacuated to hospital for autopsy. Homicide detectives from the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Yaba have taken over the case on the instruction of the Commissioner of Police Zubairu Muazu. Investigation is ongoing to unravel the circumstances surrounding their death,” he said. Meanwhile, the command also arrested a suspected land grabber and alleged serial killer Ojo Adesola, 45. Adesola was arrested around 7am on June 21 by a team on surveillance patrol along Amikanle in Alagbado, while he was allegedly conveying firearms in a white bus. Elkana said four locally made rifles and 38 rounds of live cartridges were recovered from the bus. He alleged that the suspect belonged to a notorious gang of land grabbers and hired killers, terrorising Ogun and Lagos States. “They act as warlords, waiting to be hired by anyone who can pay for their services to take over lands by force. They engaged in series of killings and maiming of land owners. “According to the suspect, they were hired by someone to dislodge land owners at Epe and that he was on his way to pick the other members of the gang for the operation, before he was arrested. “Police are on the trail of five other members of his gang who are at large. Investigation is ongoing.”