Dr. Lucy Okwuma is an Ophthalmologist who loves using fiction to situate medical problems. In her latest novel titled Neglected she anchors the lives of mental health disorders patients and comes out with the verdict that most suicide cases in Nigeria today emanate from that. She speaks to Edozie Udeze on this and how mental health disorder cases can be conveniently managed to save more people from taking their lives. Lucy Okwuma is a physician, yet she finds time to piece words together.  At the moment her latest novel titled Neglected is about to be presented to the public.  But how does she have time to write, to create her plots and weave stories around the things that happen in the world?  It is amazing really that in spite of her busy schedule which takes most of her time, this young and impressionable doctor still has time to rummage in the world of fiction and literature. A graduate of Imo State University, Owerri, where she specialized as an Ophthalmologist, a branch of medicine that takes care of the eye, and eye diseases, Okwuma explains that most of what constitutes her stories come from what she observes and often encounters in the cause of discharging her professional role to the general public.  “I am an ophthalmologist,” she simply enthused in an interview, “but I have time to write, to look into the problems of the society to pen down one or two issues.  The story of the Neglected dwells mainly on mental health disorders, detailing how this starts and how it can be curbed or controlled by those concerned.  It is a moving story especially now that cases of suicides are rampart among the younger ones.  Most of the time this is traceable to mental health disorders and perhaps members of the family are unaware of it.  Even the patient may not know.  Now the story begins from there and then moves on gradually”, she states. As a young doctor, Okwuma tries to see how to relate to the youths the best way she can.  She continues:  “Yes I’ve always loved reading books; literary works by great authors.  So, my inspiration, that innate urge to write came from that sort of foundation.  If someone has an issue of mental health disorder and does not discover on time it can escalate to the point that it can lead to suicide. In the book, I also emphasized on the fact that when the family eventually discovered this problem of mental health disorder, they did not take the patient to the hospital, but to a church.  They noted it was an attack and so did not give the problem the deserved treatment.  This is one of the problems people face these days, not being able to separate spiritual matters from health issues”. She admits however that there is no relationship between her area of medicine and psychiatry, yet it is proper for most physicians to be abreast of general health issues amongst people.  “Oh, there is no relationship per se.  There’s no relationship between eye and psychiatry, yet as a physician, we all did general medicine.  But then, it is easier for me to go into these problems to write a prose fiction to encourage people to always differentiate between health and spiritual matters”. Okwuma is of the opinion that more cases of psychiatry may rear their heads in the society if care is not taken to arrest the development early enough.  “Yes, I agree that more cases of suicide arise daily in Nigeria and world-over.  At the level of prevention…?  Oh, at times people are born that way.  The best you can do is to check and keep checking with specialists to control and checkmate.  Once you begin to notice that something is wrong, consult a physician.  The signs of those disorders will at a point manifest.  Yes, they usually do but don’t let them drag on and on leading to the point of suicide”, she cautions. Okwuma agrees that there is a thin line between Psychiatric problem and frustration.  “Oh, what causes frustration if it is not related to mental imbalance”, she fires back.  “There is a thin line between the two.  If you are saying it is due to poverty or lack of jobs, what of the boy that committed suicide two days ago simply because his girlfriend jilted him?  Does that make sense?  Is it economic frustration or lack of jobs?  No, this has to do with mental health.  So, that situation has to be controlled.  And also that is why we have to do our best to help control these ugly situations to stem the rate of suicides in our midst at the moment”. Neglected is a voluminous book of 321 pages, well packaged to bring out the message more clearly.  And Okwuma believes it is easier to let people read and grasp the import of this matter through fictional representation.  For those who cannot easily read medical books or have the time to grapple with medical terminologies in medial books concerning mental health disorders, a fictionalized form of the issue can as well help. On 6th of July, the book will be presented to the public and the author will be delighted to have many people turn up to grasp the essence of this wonderful work that may help to scuttle high rates of suicides in the society.  And when you combine beauty, with brain, what you get is the kind of menu Okwuma has offered to the general public – a book that is so generously offered in over one hundred and fifteen thousand words, making the book a serious dossier on the issue at hand.  “Yes, mostly my imaginations combined with a foreknowledge of the problem of mental health disorders and how some people are born with it, those gave me the story”. Okwuma gave instances in her fiction to buttress her point.  “My hope is that people who are struggling with mental health disorder will get hold of this book and read.  It will help; they will learn a lot of lessons from it.  People will get an idea of what the signs are and how to go about the treatment.  It is in the brain when people are born with it.  So, it is not what you can prevent; you can only treat and take care of it.  Depression also causes frustration which can even increase the crisis itself”, she finally offers with the seriousness of a physician hard-pressed to create an impact in the society.