 The groups, which lamented exclusion of southeast from leadership of the 9th National Assembly, the judiciary and executive said Ndigbo must re-strategise ahead of 2023 by mending fences with the North and Southwest to avoid being schemed out in positions of authority in the country. The statement, which was issued in Abakaliki, was signed by leaders of the groups; Mazi Alex Okemiri National President World Igbo Youth Council,  Dr Mrs Helen Ogbonnaya Chairperson Southeast Women Professionals and  Comrade Chidera Udoko President Igbo Students Union.  They urged President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately compensate the southeast by picking the next Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) from the zone and recommended immediate past Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu for the position. The groups said: “The recent exclusion of South East from the leadership of National Assembly, Judiciary and Executive is a wake-up call for Ndigbo to re-strategize ahead of 2023, mend fences with our
old allies, especially the North and South West. We cannot go solo in Nigeria project and  we are calling on the Igbo Traditional Rulers and clergy to chart the way forward.  Ohanaeze Ndigbo must reconcile with
Biafra agitators and the youths, and stop media assault on the ruling Party but should be non partisan in their policy statements. “We call for the total restructuring of Ohanaeze Ndigbo leadership with a new template to be more socio cultural in their modus operandi, and genuine reconciliation between the leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo to be facilitated by the South East Governors. Ndigbo should see the silver lining in the recent exclusion of South East in top echelon of
the country, there’s a golden opportunity in self rediscovering of Igbo as we must correct where we politically got it amiss. “ We congratulate  Southeast Governors  on their swearing  in, we call for synergy among them They shouldn’t hesitate to continue to work with President Muhammadu Buhari for the next four years, to
ensure that the revamp of Enugu coal mine, which was President Buhari’s electoral promise before he was sworn- in his first term is actualized in his second tenure. “We boldly support the call for Southeast to produce the SGF and we know that His Excellency Dr Ogbonnaya Onu is round  peg in a round hole, a disciplined and season administrator and a loyal party man. We advocate that the former Minister Science and Technology is the brain behind the merger of APC  and should be rewarded for his steadfastness and belief in the ruling party as the Next SGF, a position that will bring succour to the aggrieved people of South East zone, President Buhari should in the spirit of sportsmanship replace Northeast with Southeast in the position of SGF as Northeast is now in charge of the leadership of the Senate, and we boldly support Ogbonnaya Onu for the job of SGF.