The Resistible Rise of the Right OH dear, oh dear, yours sincerely can always tell when a people are driven by historical desperation to the end of their wits. There is a feeling of ennui and quiet foreboding about.  You sense that catastrophe is abroad but there is nothing you can do about it. As the Yoruba people will put it, the fact that the heavens is about to crash on everybody cannot be the sole problem of a single individual.  It is called reconciliation to fate under duress. Passing through Great Britain this weekend, yours sincerely could sense that the people of the mightiest Empire the world has seen so far are quietly reconciled to the inevitability of Boris Johnson as Prime-minister. The old Etonian has all but sewn it up. His opponents can only bite their fingers in volcanic frustration. Johnson already has one foot inside 10 Downing Street. The Spectator, a leading British magazine, has a huge banner of a headline in its current edition announcing the entrée of the contrarian charmer. Two decades ago, Boris was appointed its editor to universal chagrin. Back home, our friend and beloved aburo, Femi Fani-Kayode, aka FFK, the scourge of the Fulani aristocracy and nemesis of the Bororo clan, has also made strong pitch for BoJo letting it be known that they are great friends obviously from luxurious youth. Not only that, Femi has also let it be known that he is “Brexiting” from an unworkable and unviable Nigeria. You may not like Femi or endorse many things he says but there can be no doubt that he does not do things in half-measures. He may well find Boris as Prime-minister very sympathetic to the project of smashing up a Nigeria constituted by his (Johnson’s) colonial forebears.  There is Shakespearean irony all over. Old Etonian meets old Harrovian over the fate of Nigeria with the scent of roast beef wafting in the air. But how did it come to this? How did the world come to this sorry pass? It has been said that the Battle of Waterloo was won and lost on the playing fields of Eton where the Duke of Wellington was a pupil. For the second time in human history, Eton is about to determine the fate of humankind and there is going to be a helluva wailing and caterwauling over there. Boris has let it be known that he is going to crack the whip very hard on immigration.  That is just why he is a beloved darling of the defenders of the realm. Even The Economist chafes at that one. Readers should now go back to the lecture above in which we wagered that due to the pressures of globalization, the west was about cloistering itself in the cocoon of supra-nationality to ward off the adverse effect. But since 2003 when the lecture was written, western individualism has taken over with each country going for broke to protect its people. Hence the rise of xenophobia and extreme right-wing populism in the whole of Europe and America. Those who enriched their people and nations in the name of globalization are now afraid of the direct consequences, one of which is the globalization of human movement. But this too will pass. The human spirit will always triumph over man-made adversities. All hail King Boris.