The Presidential Committee on Impact and Readiness Assessment on African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement, chaired by Desmond Guobadia, has urged Nigeria to sign the treaty. Submitting the panel’s report to President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Guobadia said it will be in the overall interest of Nigeria to sign the treaty. According to him, over 200 submissions were received by the 44-man steering committee. He said: “Your Excellency, our report shows that on the balance, Nigeria should consider joining the AfCFTA and using the opportunity of the ongoing AfCFTA Phase I negotiations to secure the necessary safeguards required to ensure that our domestic policies and programs are not compromised.” According to him, the committee recommended the following safeguards: At the domestic level, he said, that the panel made two recommendations. He them as the establishment of the National Action Committee on AfCFTA to coordinate relevant ministries, departments and agencies to drive the implementation of the AfCFTA readiness projects and initiatives and the updating of AfCFTA’s negotiation mandate. Besides, the committee recommended that the Nigeria Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN) be strengthened by enacting its Enabling Law expeditiously. Listing the key discoveries of the committee, he said:  “Mr. President will be interested to know that intra-African trade which is trade among African countries constituted only 14.6 per cent of Africa’s total trade with the world. This means that African countries depend on countries outside the continent for over 85% of her total trade. “In comparison, intra-EU trade during same period was 69.8 per cent intra- American trade was 46 per cent and intra-Asian trade was 59.6 per cent. “The low level of intra-African trade pointed to low production capacity of African countries, high tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. In order words, African countries are still far from achieving self-sufficiency across all sectors.” The committee believed that the trade liberalisation offered by the AfCFTA would make African goods more attractive and potentially cheaper than similar products from outside the continent. Guobadia said: “Our study has shown that the AfCFTA is not without major risks and undesirable impacts. The most significant of which is the potential rise in smuggling and abuse of rules of origin. The risk is that it will provide incentive for traders to disguise goods imported from outside the continent as made- in-Africa goods, to qualify for duty-free treatment. “This risk is high for Nigeria considering that 92 per cent of Nigeria’s imports come from the rest of the world and smuggling, under-reporting of imports and other forms of abuse of rules of origin already constitute major challenges faced by Nigeria in ECOWAS. President Buhari admitted that the treaty will have positive and negative impacts on Nigeria and its neighbours. According to him, the recommendations will be considered in taking the next decision on AfCFTA. He said: “It has been over a year now since the African Union Heads of States adopted the Phase I Agreement on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) at its 10th Extraordinary Summit in Kigali, Rwanda, on 21st of March 2018. “Since then, a lot has been said about Nigeria’s decision to conduct a detailed study on how this agreement will impact us as a country. Let me state unequivocally that trade is important to us as a nation and to all nations. Economic progress is what makes the world go around. “Our position is very simple; we support free trade as long as it is fair and conducted on an equitable basis.  The AfCFTA will have both positive and negative effects on us as a nation and on our region.” According to him, the benefits of economic growth must be prosperity for the masses. He added: “I am very delighted to receive your report today and with the time spent, skills applied and energy invested, I am confident that the Committee has been thorough and diligent. “Let me assure you that your report will form part of the consideration in our decision on the next steps on the AfCFTA in particular and on broader trade integration subjects.” He explained that Nigeria had withheld its signature to the agreement because the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Manufacturers’ Association of Nigeria (MAN) among other groups kicked against it. They had warned that signing the treaty was extremely dangerous to Nigeria as it would open the country’s seaports, airports and other businesses to unbridled foreign interference and domination.