A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River State, Engr Ben Akak, has described the declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day by President Muhammadu Buhari as the beginning of unity among the various groups in the country irrespective of ethnic, religious or political differences. Akak in a statement in Calabar called on governments at all levels to initiate policies and programmes that will foster peace and unity among the people. He also charged religious leaders to intensify their teachings and preaching on issues that will stop discrimination among the people. “The declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day by President Muhammadu Buhari was received with mix feelings by Nigerians. While some people said it was belated, others said it was a welcome development. “As we all know, the 1993 general election was acclaimed to be the only election free from violence, killings, bitterness and other forms of electoral malpractices in the history of the nation. Chief M. K .O. Abiola who was the Presidential candidate Of the Social Democratic Party was said to have won that election. “The unfortunate annulment of that election by former President Babangida nearly led to civil unrest in the country if not for the grace of God. “Therefore, as a philanthropist and concerned Nigerian, I see the marking of June 12 as Democracy Day as the beginning of unity among the various groups in the country irrespective of ethnic, religion or political differences,” he said. He also called on the Federal Government to intensify efforts at checking the increasing wave of kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism, communal clashes, herdsmen-farmers clashes and other criminal activities in the country. “The President should run all-inclusive administration. Government at all levels should work together with traditional rulers to control communal crisis in rural areas. “I also use this opportunity to recall a statement by our Governor, Senator Ben Ayade during his swearing in for second term for the President to look into the plight of the state as result of ceding Bakassi to the Cameroon. “The Federal Government should also assist the state financially to carry out its projects, especially the Superhighway and the Deep Sea Port as the ceding of oil wells to other state is affecting the state,” he said.