The Eight National Assembly will conclude its business session on tomorrow with valedictory sessions in the Senate and House of Representatives. It will also mark the last day for 66 Senators and 135 members of the House of Representatives at the National Assembly who failed by the way side during the 2019 elections. The Ninth National Assembly will be inaugurated on Tuesday June 11, 2019 to usher in the beginning of a new legislative year. In the Senate only 43 senators found their way back to the upper chamber after the hotly contested Senatorial election on February 23, 2019. In the House, 225 members scaled the electoral hurdle to return to their seats. It will be sessions of chest beating and back patting during which Senate President, Bukola Saraki and House Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, will reel out the high points of their two chambers. It is also expected that the two out- going presiding officers may paint some low points of their chambers including perhaps what could have been done differently. Other members of the two chambers will also seize the opportunity to blow their trumpet. Those who did not make it back to the National Assembly are mostly expected to be upbeat to justify their stay as members of the Eighth parliament. The offices of the outgoing lawmakers have been cleared of their belongings including refrigerators and television sets which were resold to them at give- away prizes. The National Assembly management is repainting and refurbishing the offices to receive new members. While the Senators-elect and House of Representatives members-elect are already warming up to take their seats at the hallowed chambers of the Senate and House of Representatives having concluded their induction, most of those who failed in their bids to return are sulking away. The mood of those who failed to return could be gleaned from the near empty chamber witnessed since after the elections. Although some of the big guns in the Senate like Senators Godswill Akpabio and George Akume have gone to court to challenge their defeat, they attended plenary a couple of days since after the elections. After tomorrow the likes of Senators Saraki, Akpabio, David Mark, Akume, Musa Kwankwaso, Sani Yerima, Shehu Sani, Magnus Abe and Kabiru Marafa, will come to the National Assembly as visitors.