The skin is the body’s largest organ. So it’s important to take care of it. A lot of people suffer an increasingly rate of dry skin which could be caused by the weather condition, heat, harsh soaps and so on. It is very important that we keep attention to our skin and avoid any form of diseases as a result. There are varieties of remedies a person can use to relieve dry skin. Most of the treatments below can be used as moisturizers. And the best way to use a moisturizer is by apply it on a damp skin after bath. 1.     Coconut oil: Coconut is famous all over the world. This can serve as massage oil and a moisturizer for the skin. Coconut oil is natural oil that works well to treat dry skin which is as safe and effective as petroleum jelly. It was found to increase skin hydration and the number of fats on the surface of the skin. It has no chemical or additives and can be used to protect the skin in hot places. Due to the beneficial properties of coconut oil, it is used as an important ingredient in skin care creams.  2.     Shea butter: Shea butter is skin food that comes from the seeds of the fruit of the Shea (Karite) tree and that is naturally rich in vitamins A, E, F. it has been used in Africa and many other locations for years to improve the skin. It also has a long history of medicinal use for wound care. The concentration of natural vitamins and fatty acids in Shea butter makes it incredibly nourishing and moisturizing for the skin. One of the compound in particular, lupeol cinnamate, was found to reduce skin inflammation and even potentially help people with skin mutations which makes it beneficial for some people with acne. The good news is, it’s great to use on kids and babies too.  3.     Honey: Honey is a sweet food substance produced by Bees. It moisturises, heals and is inflammatory. These are qualities that suggest honey is an ideal at home treatment to relieve dry skin. It is completely natural and it can be applied directly to the skin. Raw honey is very incredible for the skin which has natural healing antibacterial properties. It is great for acne treatment and prevention. It is full of antioxidants and great for slowing down ageing. It is extremely soothing and moisturizing, which helps create a glow. Honey is clarifying because it opens up pores making them easy to remove accumulation.  4.     Petroleum jelly: It is originally promoted as a topical ointment for its healing properties. It is otherwise known as mineral oil, and it has been used as a moisturizer for years. Dry skin can itch, crack and even bleed. Since ointments are effective and less irritating than lotion, consider applying petroleum jelly to dry skin. Researcher found that the skin barriers found in older people are improved after they used petroleum jelly which supports the use to treat dry skin especially when caused by ageing.  5.     Drink Milk: Milk is a nutrient rich, white liquid food produced by the mammary gland of mammals. It has been part of human diet at least 8,000 years and provides a rich source of protein, vitamins and minerals. It has lactic acids that act an exfoliant and enzymes that help soothes the skin. The amino acids in milk help moisturize the skin well. You can apply it on the skin or drink a glass of it daily; it will help refurbish the skin. 