Nigeria’s apex capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has been gripped by internal squabble over the recent decision of the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) reinstating suspended Director General, Mounir Gwarzo. A group under the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria, SEC branch, yesterday held a protest at the office premises of the Commission over the reinstatement of the suspended Director-General of the Commission, Mounir Gwarzo. Some staff of SEC, who spoke under condition of anonymity, dissociated themselves from the protest describing it as a flagrant abuse of due process and attempt to tarnish the image of the Commission. The National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) had last Thursday ordered the reinstatement of Mounir Gwarzo, with all his salaries and allowances paid to him. In his ruling, Justice Sanusi Kado held that the Minister of Finance, who had suspended Gwarzo, lacked the power to suspend him even as the court dismissed three issues raised by defence counsel through their preliminary objection, ruling that the suit was not statute barred. Former Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, had on November 29, 2017, suspended Gwarzo in a controversial circumstance. Adeosun had hinged her decision on allegations of allegations of financial impropriety levelled against Gwarzo but Gwarzo had protested that he was suspended to cover up investigation into corporate governance abuses involving a leading oil and gas company. Justice Kado said the Minister of Finance did not have the power to suspend the Gwarzo because he was not an employee of SEC. The judge noted that in the absence of a board, the Minister of Finance only has supervisory power, which does not include disciplinary power to suspend the DG. Justice Kado said it was only the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, on the directive of the President that has the power of suspension. He said the Minister’s role was that of recommendation. It should be recalled that Justice Hussein Baba-Yusuf of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), had on April 16, 2019, discharged and acquitted Gwarzo on a criminal charge brought against him by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) in relation to charges of financial misappropriation. Gwarzo was, among others accused of collecting severance package worth N104.85 million while still in service in violation of the Civil Service rules.