President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday assured residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, that his administration will do everything possible to protect them despite Abuja residents voted against him during the February 2019 Presidential election. He gave the assurance while receiving residents of the FCT that paid him Sallah homage at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Jokingly describing the Abuja residents as unnecessary evil for not voting for him in the February election, he said that he would continue to protect the seat of power because any negative thing that happens to the place would also affect him and the entire residence. The President also pleaded with political leaders especially his supporters not to complain against his administration in order to avoid sending negative signals that would make his government unpopular. He said “I want to appreciate the number two man of the country (Vice President Yemi Osinbajo) because he knows what we are going through very quietly. I am very pleased that you came with this very powerful constituency… “I Appeal to you to remain exemplary so that those under you will know that the country is doing very well. If you break down and complain, the impact will reverberate all over and then, government will not be popular and whatever efforts we are making will not be appreciated. “I have just spoken to the senator on my left (Philip Aduda) and I told him that his constituency did not vote for me. So I was very pleased that when they made the arrangement they put him very far way from me. I have all the results of all constituencies. “I am not threatening FCT because to make FCT secure is to make myself secure and the Vice President. I think they are necessary evil that that was why they decided to vote for PDP.” Reflecting on his three earlier attempts to win the Presidential elections, he said,” During my long journey to this place, 2003, 2007, 2011, those were interesting political developments that enabled me visit all the local governments in this country, all 774 local governments. “First port of call whenever I visit any local government was to visit the community leader for understanding and support. I am very pleased that Nigerians understand me that although I was a governor, minister of petroleum and one time head of state, people know I don’t have a lot of money to give. “So when I went round, I smiled and greeted them and I think it has helped. Because by the time I went to campaign for my second and last term constitutionally, I visited all the states this time around, some two states in a day, I thank God for giving me the stamina to do it. “What impressed me most was the turn out in all the states and FCT. The number of those who turned out are more than what anyone can afford to pay or force to come and listen. So I am very pleased that a lot of Nigerians have voted me, sympathized with me for what I went through between 2003 and 2019. “I went to court up to Supreme Court and in 2011, I went to court for eight months. And in the last one, God answered our prayers and gave us victory, and brought in technology through the permanent voters card, (PVC) And INEC said whoever is aggrieved should go to court. “You all know as much as I know that most of my supporters are looking for the next day’s meal, we don’t have money to give. In 2011, I said God dey, in 2015 God brought technology PVC and that is how we won. “I thank you very much for those of you who suffered very much to support me. And I congratulate you for being happy that I made it and I assure you that I will continue to do my best in spite of the toughness of my neighbours.” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo insisted that Nigeria was on the threshold of greatness, noting that the security and religious challenges facing the nation was evidence that something great is on the way. He said,” First let me congratulate you on this very solemn occasion that marks the end of the Ramadan. “I want to say that God Almighty has been extremely good to you and to our government. I recall about two years ago when I had to host this particular event because you were away on medical leave at the time. “But God has been so good, not only did he bring you back healthier than when you left, but has also been gracious enough for you to have a second opportunity to lead our great. I thank the Almighty God for you and for all of us who have been a part of your government and who have been a part of what God has done in our midst. “The period of the fast is always a very good time because first of all, usually all of my friends who are usually very badly behaved, behave themselves much better. I pray and hope that the good behavior that they maintain during the fast will continue even for the next four years and beyond because I think we all need that. “Our country as it is today is at a threshold of greatness, you have said so many times. Any situation where something great and something important is about to happen, usually you will have very many and negative opposing voices that want to keep that thing from happening.
Continue on Page 2