Expo Changsha, the capital city of central China’s Hunan province, hosts the first China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo from June 27 to 29. A total of 53 African countries are expected to attend the event, aiming to expand their economic and trade relationship with the world’s second-largest economy. He Baoxiang, Hunan’s deputy governor, said that more than 1,500 foreign guests, over 5,000 domestic guests, as well as more than 3,500 exhibitors, buyers, and professional visitors are expected to attend the prestigious event. Representatives of international organisations like the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation, the World Food Programme, and the World Trade Organisation will also participate in the event. The expo is themed “win-win cooperation, forging ahead with the China-Africa economic and trade relations” and it is expected to focus on trade, agriculture, investment and financing, industrial parks, and infrastructure construction. The event will include 14 sub-forums and an exhibition that will discuss new steps to boost the economic and trade cooperation between Africa and China. The event will promote countries from Africa and cities in China. Investments and trade projects are expected to be signed during the event. So far, there have been a collection of cooperation projects between China and Africa. The event is also expected to cement the influence of the Belt and Road initiative of President Xi Jinping. Africa is one of the key partners of China for the initiative that aims to boost the economic and trade relationship of China to other continents including Asia, Europe, and Latin America. The Hunan province is the perfect setting for the first China Africa Economic and Trade Expo.it is the home province of New China’s founding leader Mao Zedong. It played an important role in China’s reform and opening up. It is located in the middle reaches of the Yangtze River in South Central China with an area of 211,800km2 and has a population of over 73 million. The Hunan province boasts its rich culture where mausoleums of Yan Emperor and Shun Emperor lie. It has abundant places of interest that are famous for both Local and foreign tourists. The province also has reliable and convenient transport systems that make moving around easy. It has two high-speed railways that connect Beijing and Guangzhou and Shanghai and Kunming. The province is open for foreign investments. It has established economic and trade contact with more than 180 countries and areas worldwide.