The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said the reckless dismissal of the alarming spate of kidnapping in the country by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo further confirmed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration has no iota of concern towards the pain and suffering of Nigerians. The party, in a statement Wednesday by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that by attempting to play down on the menace as not being “as massive as that”, Prof. Osinbajo clearly demonstrated that the APC and its government are not connected with the people but only pretend towards them during electioneering. “In dismissing the security problem, the Vice President is simply telling victims of kidnapping that as far as the APC and its administration are concerned, they have not suffered enough”, the statement said. The added that such anti-people disposition, as being witnessed under the APC, can only come from an uncaring and insensitive administration that does not have the mandate of the people. It continued, “It is therefore unfortunate that instead of being remorseful and seeking solutions, Prof. Osinbajo is rather playing on the sensibility of Nigerians by attempting to justify his comment, which has been widely condemned by citizens from all walks of life. “Prof. Osinbajo has only succeeded in showcasing President Buhari’s incompetence and failure in securing the nation. He has also ridiculed his office in the eye of the international community, who is well aware of the gravity of kidnapping and other security challenges confronting our nation. “What has Prof. Osinbajo said to the families whose breadwinners have been killed by kidnappers and many more who are still languishing in kidnappers den? “When will the problem of kidnapping  become “massive” for the APC administration when medical doctors, community heads, faith-based leaders, government officials and their relations, students, innocent school children, pregnant women and even expatriates are being kidnapped in various parts of the country? “While our party and indeed millions of Nigerians appreciate the efforts by our security operatives in fighting this menace, despite the operational challenges imposed on them by the incompetent APC administration, the PDP insists that President Buhari must bear the blame for the persistence of the security problems. “This is the reason Nigerians, at the 2019 general election, preferred a more capable and patriotic leader in Atiku Abubakar, who had already set out an operable blueprint to frontally confront and address the security challenges facing our nation without resorting to unnecessary blame game”.