Less than 48 hours to the election for the presiding officers of the 9th House of Representatives, about 230 members-elect of the House of Representatives have signed endorsement register for Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as the nation’s next Speaker. Also, six top contenders have publicly signed to endorse the candidacy of Femi Gbajabiamila and Idris Wase as the Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively. An overwhelmed  Gbajabiamila, however, assured the nation that he and his deputy, Hon. Idris Ahmed Wase will not disappoint Nigerians. The public endorsement took place at a signing ceremony held at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja last night. Abdulmumin Jibrin, Director General of the Gbajabiamila/Wase campaign organisation said the reason for the event was to show the world the strength of the Gbajabiamila/Wase team. He also said 60 members of the opposition parties have signed up for the team while adding that consultation would continue till the day of the election tomorrow. He said: The pretenders not contenders will know that the are seated in this hall “This is to show how transparent and our strength is which will be done by signing of endorsement”. Saying that the meetings would go into executive session after the signing ceremony where important issues of the election would be discussed, “We know we have the numbers but we don’t want to take anything for granted. In the next 24 hours we have to tighten the knots”. According to him, over 60 members of the opposition, including the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) have endorsed the frontline contestants, including the South East caucus, led by Him Pat Asadu that adopted Gbajabiamila/Wase team on Sunday afternoon. “Unlike 2015 we have made a lot of inroad into PDP. We knew we have to consult them and they are not even interested in Committee Chairmanship but to be partners in progress with APC. He said of the other top contender is unwilling to step down, “There are no problems, we’ll meet on the floor on that day. “Those supporting the others are hiding, but as we can see, we go everywhere with our supporters. We want to see the strength of the other contenders”. Deputy Speaker aspirant Idris Wase after appreciated the gathering and for believing in the two aspiring presiding officers. On his part, Gbajabiamila said: “This is more or less a night of gratitude, we’ve gone round the country. “We can only thank and not just for the moment but for the next four years. “This is because if you did not buy into our vision, it will not see the light of the day “But with this we are convinced the 9th Assembly will be like no other, a legislature where our members will stand shoulder to shoulder with any in the world. “Where opposition will also be proud. I’m in a vantage position having been an opposition and Majority Leader. That balance gives an edge.” He thanked Mr. President for being unequivocal on who he wants to work with. He also appreciated the party and its hierarchy, the Southeast PDP and APGA governors that gave their total support and endorsement, “It is for this reason that you see this amount of support from them. “I want to assure you that we will not disappoint Nigerians. We will do our best to move the nation forward.”