The Lacasera Company (TLCC), makers of Lacasera and Smoov drinks, has preached against practises which harm the environment and make living hazardous. The firm, last week held a sensitisation, clean up and tree planting as part of activities to mark the 2019 World Environment Day, themed: “Beat Air Pollution”. TLCC employees and volunteers turned up in large numbers, joined by collaborating partners and representatives of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) for a clean -up exercise on the Mile 2/ Oshodi-Apapa expressway. The firm urged stakeholders to come together and explore sustainable alternatives to reduce pollution that threatens human health. The Managing Director, Chinedum Okereke, said: “The environment should be seen as a trust given to us to protect for future generations. At TLCC, issues of the environment are not regarded as compliance issues, but rather as a responsibility we owe to posterity.” He implored the people to adopt an attitudinal change approach in the fight against air pollution, and be mindful of the environment while making choices on the type and quality of products they purchase. “With an estimated 92 per cent of the global population now breathing unhealthy air, The World Health Organisation (WHO) has identified air pollution as the single greatest global health risk today. Despite this, less than 10 per cent of cities currently comply with the WHO clean air standards – meaning that action at city level is essential. TLCC remains committed to promoting a culture of sustainability through participating in activities that help preserve the environment,” he added. The Assistant Chief Scientific Officer of LAWMA, Mrs. Aderonke Adesoye, praised TLCC for its efforts in caring for the environment. Adesoye said she was satisfied that there was a conscious effort by TLCC to protect the environment in its operations. She, therefore, challenged corporate organisations and individuals to do more. While addressing the need for proper waste disposal practices in the state, Senior Executive Officer of Coker-Aguda Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Mr. Samson Adediran, hailed TLCC for its commitment to the environment and the 2019 World Environment Day, particularly as it fell on a public holiday. 