The feud between Ogun state House of Assembly and the suspended Local Government Chairmen took a keen dimension on Friday as the lawmakers directed the affected chairmen – 20 Local Government Chairmen and 37 Local Council Development Areas(LCDAs)- to submit their financial report to the House within a week. The financial report, they said, should include details or list of their respective performances in the last three years to the Assembly within one week. Speaker Suraju Adekunbi gave the directive during a meeting with the Council and LCDA Chairmen and Councillors at the Assembly Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. The chairmen were at the House in respect of petitions against them over the handling councils’ finances but said the summon was persecutory orchestrated to “embarrass and humiliate” them. Adekunbi, who was represented by his Deputy, Kunle Oluomo, allayed their fears, saying the need to ensure fair hearing on petitions against some of them informed the summoning. The Speaker further stated the incoming 9th legislature has been empowered by the newly adopted South West standing order for State Houses of Assembly to continue the business of the 8th Legislature, upon its inauguration. He added the financial report required of them should include financial spending, covering income and expenditures, revenue and details of projects executed, for immediate submission to the 9th Assembly. He also disclosed that the House had received 113 petitions on the suspended chairmen, explaining the interactive meeting was meant to give them fair hearing to defend allegations contained in the said 113 petitions submitted to the Assembly. But speaking with reporters shortly after the meeting with the legislators, the Chairman of Ado Odo Ota LCDA, Saheed Alagbe, said the Ogun Assembly under the leadership of Adekunbi was witch – hunting them. Alagbe said the House has visited the Local Governments twice in the last four years for their oversight function, wondering what the  latest action was meant to address, if not to “humiliate and embarrass” some of them. According to him, the Local Governments Chairmen submit monthly report to the ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and Office of the Attorney – General  of the state regarding their activities. He explained the Assembly expected them to give account of what they do know and wondered why the Speaker Adekunbi has chosen to end his tenure on “bad note” with summoning of Councils Chairmen