Two organisations in the private and public sectors Medallion Communications Limited and National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) have advised the deployment of technology in the tourism and travel space to boost buinsesses in the sector. They spoke at the maiden edition of Tourism and Technology Summit in Lagos. President/CEO of Medallion Communications Limited, Mr. Ike Nnamani, said advances in technology has changed the way people travel, adding that the new innovations offer an interactive and exciting experience. Represented by the Chief Financial Officer of Medallion Communications, Mr. Olatunji Sulaiman, he said mobile technology has brought about significant changes in tourism and hospitability industry, noting that mobile phone has become “our tour guide, travel agency, best restaurant locator and maps”. According to him, internet of things (IoT) promises to bring significant changes to the tourism industry. “They include integrating sensors connected to the internet items like cars, suitcases and luggages, building and home equipment. All these enhance the security of the travelers, which makes an holiday to be  spent with relaxed minds,” he said. He also said virtual assistant technology insight into weather brings exciting moments on vacations.  According to him, it is possible to “teleport” to the most remote corners of the globe without getting off the couch. The Director-General, National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP), Dr Dan-Azumi Ibrahim,  identified six trends to watch out for in the industry. The trends include Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR/VR), Artificial Intelligence (AI), IoT, Voice Technology, Wi-Fi connectivity and wearable devices. Represented by the Principal Technology  Officer  at NOTAP,  Mr John Omesili, the DG said the country has the best brains around the world and must use them. He said the country could be the first to sell or franchise VR software for the digital tourism in the world. He  said the agency was working towards ensuring that all technologies in the country run on indigenous software. He said: “Today, using pay stack, we can directly charge cards and allow payments to be made to local businesses. “We have an online travel websites, such as Wakanow and hotels-finding service, hotels.ng. These brands use software to run their businesses; they show how ICT and Tourism can work together to bring desirable products to the market place.”