ELECTRICITY Distribution Companies (DisCos)  would have to invest $4.2 billion in the interface with the transmission network in order to follow their expansion plan. This was the highlight of a two-day seminar organised by the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), in collaboration with the European Union (EU), African Development Bank (AFD), and USAID/Power Africa NPSP, and top management in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI), The seminar, which also had in attendance the participation of DisCos (board members and top management) and others was for discussion and determination of their strategic approach for the development of the Performance Improvement Plans 2020-2024 (PIPs). The seminar followed the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) recent. It had 150 individuals in attendance that included 35 DisCos board members and 10 Managing Directors/Chief Executive Officers. The seminar recalled that according to a recently study published by the French Development Agency and the European Union, the Nigerian power distribution sector would need to invest more than $10 billion in the next five years to reach reasonable standards in quality of supply and service. NESI as a whole, it was discovered, needs to invest more than $100 billion in the next 20 years if Nigeria wants to cover 24/7 hours of power supply to its citizens. Other required investments that DisCos was expected to review the “first franchising pilot project in Kaduna Electric that will be developed by Konexa/Shell Foundation, will invest  $25 million in two feeders that supply energy to only 10,000 customers. It is important to keep in mind that NESI as today has almost 8.5 million customers registered. “TCN/DisCos interface project developed by TCN that is projecting that DisCos would have to invest $4.2 billion in the interface with the transmission network in order to follow their expansion plan. “Last but not least, the French Development Agency, the African Development Bank, the World Bank and the Central Bank of Nigeria, together with DisCos private investors, will discuss  finding ways of collaboration with DisCos in order to finance their PIPs in the short term.” The PIP Guidelines issued by NERC are a key element of the Power Sector Recovery Programme (PSRP). 