What has Ibom Air, the new entrant into the airline business, got to offer? Plenty, says its  Chief Operating Officer  (COO), George Uriesi,  who notes that the airline invested in Bombardier Canadian Regional Jet J900 (CRJ 900) aircraft because of their suitability for  Nigeria. Besides being cost effective , the aircraft are equipment suitable for the route and operational structure developed in the carrier’s business plan, he added. Speaking at the airline’s inaugural flight on the Uyo – Lagos- Lagos – Uyo route at the weekend, Uriesi said Ibom Air was investing in modern  planes to ensure reliable services by  a carrier that has designed few routes structure in its business plans. Uriesi, a former managing director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), said the carrier would fill the gaps in the air transport value chain, and assist to develop the Akwa Ibom airport, including the aircraft maintenance repair and overhaul centre. He said Ibom Air  was conceived to provide more reliable air transport services, deploy right aircraft on the route and design passenger friendly fares. Uriesi said: “We looked at the B737 and it is obvious we looked at the economics of the operations of the Embraer and the CRJ900 and eventually we opted for the CRJ. The pros were more than the cons. Investing in more modern aeroplanes means that we have a longer period of more reliable services and in terms of business plans, that is much better for us. Besides, the equipment is the right one for this route structure.” Uriesi said the  airline’s vision was to be a world class regional  carrier. He said: “We don’t have any ambition for long haul at all. We will settle in the country and after a while we will go into the region. We want to model ourselves around Comair of South Africa. They have been in existence for about 75 years.They have been profitable for 72 of their 75 years. They are such a world-class airline that British Airways has put their livery on it. They operate franchise for British Airways. They have no ambition to go anywhere other than Southern Africa. That is the type of model we are after.” He said Ibom Air  plans  to grow its fleet of aircraft from three to 10 CRJ900 aircraft in three  years. Uriesi said: “Already, the carrier is starting with three airplanes while the fourth aircraft will be added in August. “ We are going to have the biggest CRJ900 on the continent. The fourth one will come in in August. Again, the fifth aeroplane will come in the first quarter of  2020. But if the numbers are achieved before then, then we can bring it forward. It is going to be organic expansion  over the next three years. There are indications that it is going to be faster than slower .” The establishment of Ibom Air , he said, was part of the grand desire to  make Akwa Ibom a destination of choice for Nigerians and visitors to the country. Uriesi stated: “ Because of the airline now, the MRO will very soon become established properly. The airline is designed to be very well run. It is not a government parastatal. “The proposition is schedule reliability, on-time departures and superior customer service. Nigerians can plan against our schedule. Secondly, if we are leaving at 7am, we are leaving at 7am. The third is superior customer service when you interact with us. ‘We believe that we are an airline that provide this tripod of services to the passengers.” The, Engineering Director, Lookman Animasuan said the airline had a fleet maintenance unit,   with young and talented Nigerian engineers trained to familiarise with the CRJ aircraft type.