and the Executive Director, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency, RUWASA, Alhaji Aminu Dayyabu Safana were among top recipients that bagged the ‘Living Hero’ award, organized by a lagos based NGO: Citizen’s Rights and Leadership Awareness Initiative, for those who distinguished themselves in leadership qualities and exemplary performances in governance in the past four years Other awardees at the event which was staged in Katsina on Saturday include: Alhaji Dahiru Mangal, Chairman, AFDIN Group of Companies; Chairman, State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Lawal Buhari Daura Speaking shortly after receiving the award, the governor thanked the organizers, saying the honour had affirmed that his performance in governance has truly alleviated the plight of the citizens. He said ’’we are here for service delivery and doing what we are supposed to do. Providing leadership in difficult times is always a challenging one, we are determined to tackle insecurity, economic and political challenges as well as implementing polices that will enhance both the state and the nation’’ He further solicited the support and cooperation of the citizenry and security agencies to tackle security challenges in the state adding that: “Security is everyone’s business, so all hands must be on desk to address the challenge.” The Country Coordinator of Citizen’s Right and Leadership Awareness Initiative, Ambassador Oladipo Musibau, while presenting the award to Masari and other recipients, said the governor has, in the last four years worked tirelessly to turn Katsina State into a smart city. He said’’ “Selecting Governor Masari for the award was easy as his track records of exemplary performance towered above his peers. Other awardees were also selected based on their outstanding performances in different fields. “A new set of leadership is raised with honour and are appreciated for their good deeds and contributions to nation building’’. “We have to expand the narrative of building the nation through the instrument of honoring our living heroes well ahead before they may be no more.” On the RUWASA boss, whom he called ‘’Mr. Water’’, Ambassador Musibau, hailed him for transforming Katsina’s rural communities by ensuring adequate water supply and sanitation.  He said the agency had remained dogged in translating Governor Masari’s rural development polices and growth. 