Dennis Amachree, who was as an Assistant Director of the State Security Service(SSS), now Department of State Services(DSS), has seen it all. After retiring from the service, he ventured into industrial security. In this interview with PAUL UKPABIO, Amachree, who studied abroad and served last at the Lagos Command of the SSS, tells the story of his bitter-sweet experience in the security service, which he recommends for “citizens who have a passion for patriotism and nationalism”. He also proffers solutions to the present security challenges facing the country. Excerpts: In what ways would you say that your early background influenced the person that you are today? When you say early background, I believe you are referring to my years in the service to the nation? Before joining the Service, my teenage years had been greatly influenced by my activities in the Boy Scouts of Nigeria. We learnt to be self-reliant, citizenship and leadership. Those years shaped my life. Then came the Service for national security. In those years, I came to know Nigeria by travelling far and wide within the country, which finally molded me into a patriotic Nigerian. As a child, was education mandatory for you? In our days, education was so mandatory that if you skip school, the headmaster will send some boys to find you and bring you to school by force. When they bring you back, be ready for 12 strokes of the cane. You simply cannot afford to come late to school. Education was a priority and parents will go to any extent to ensure that their wards are in school. Who would you say determined your eventual life career? That is simple and clear. God Almighty determined and directed my eventual life career. I went to graduate school and studied Public Communications. My plan was to start a public relations firm, but God directed me into a profession that secures lives and property. Where did you grow up and what memories of childhood do you recall? I was born in Zaria, in present day Kaduna State. My dad was an instructor at the Nigerian Military School (NMS). That gave me the opportunity to speak Hausa fluently. After my father’s retirement, we all relocated to Port Harcourt. I was sent to our home town of Buguma to live with my grandmother and attend primary school. That gave me another opportunity to learn a second language, Kalabari. It was a blessing in disguise. The experiences were many. I learnt to swim in the rivers of the Niger Delta. We went fishing in the mangroves and other extra-curricular activities. Growing up was memorable fun. Your educational background? I got my West African School Certificate from the Kalabari National College, Buguma. Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Wisconsin and a Master’s degree from the California State University. I later attended the Wharton Business School for a certificate course for security executives. Tell us about your journey to the State Security Service. After my education in the United States of America, it was natural for me and most of my mates at that time to come home. Our objective then was to get educated and head back home to Nigeria, unlike these days where people go to the United States with the main objective of over-staying their visas. I came home and completed the mandatory National Youth Service and was thrown into the job market. I came to the realisation that unlike in the USA where I can get a job based on merit, the story was different here. The employment market operates on the basis of a referral system. If you don’t know someone who knows someone, you can’t get a job. It was very frustrating, going out every day, checking on offices where I dropped my resume,  only to be told “we will get back to you” and they never did. At a point, I wanted to pack my baggage and return to the USA, when I met a God-sent elder from my hometown who advised me to apply to the Nigerian Security Organisation (NSO). I have always admired the American Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) and this was like a golden opportunity. At that time, the General Muhammadu Buhari military administration wanted to inject graduates into the NSO and there was a mass recruitment exercise going on. I applied, was tested, interviewed, vetted, employed and sent to the Security Academy as an officer cadet. That wasv where the journey started and I have never regretted it. How did you rise to the top? Was it easy and smooth? In a structured system like the SSS, performance is key in climbing the ladder. Specialist courses are common and as you attend such courses, you also have the opportunity to specialise. As you accept responsibilities, your performance can make or mar you. Discipline and loyalty are key in surviving in a system like ours. I served as Assistant Director, Travel Control (responsible for all the seaports, airports and land borders). In that job, I travelled around the country and realised that we need to do more to effectively secure our international borders. For now, the borders remain porous, which is worsened by the ECOWAS free movement of persons in the sub-region. As exciting as it was, the job was also inherently dangerous. But on the flip side, we were trained to be patriotic Nigerians and that placed my colleagues and I above ethno-religious bickering in the country. When we were recruited, we were five from each state of the federation and till today, those of us still alive see ourselves as brothers and sisters. Where you came from or religious affiliation does not matter. What was important is the national assignment of keeping Nigeria secure. Can you recall moments when you were in life threatening situations during your career? My first duty posting after graduation from the academy was     executive protection, what we called Very Important Persons Protection Unit. I loved being a ‘bodyguard’ as we were always well-dressed and loaded with protective clothing and equipment; and mixed freely with top government personalities in-country and from foreign countries. It was a good job, with a lot of travels but the downside of it remains the constant tension anytime you are on duty. Anybody may want to embarrass or assassinate your principal and your job is to protect that VIP even at the risk of losing your life. Other situations that were life threatening were during attempted and actual military coups, because the NSO or later the SSS, was responsible for the protection of the Head of State or President, as the case may be. Coupists always target the protective details, in order to get to the principal. Such situations could be deadly tricky and I have been in two of such situations in Dodan Barracks. What is the difference between SSS and DSS? SSS stands for the State Security Service, which is the official name of the Internal Security Service. When the Nigerian Security Organisation (NSO) was split into three — the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) and the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) were formed. DSS which stands for Department of State Services was later adopted by the SSS at the advent of democratic government, to project an image of a friendlier Service.  It was realised then that many citizens dreaded the name SSS. One thing is, however, very clear; the DSS remains the most patriotic and national interest driven security agency in Nigeria. Now that you have retired from the State Security Service, do you miss the place? We served Nigeria our country and will continue to serve as the need arises. The place is home to both serving and retired staff. Do you have any regrets having worked there? No regrets at all. It is an honorable and elite service any Nigerian who happens to work there should be proud of. It is highly recommended for citizens who have a passion for patriotism and nationalism to enlist and serve. What was the turning point that led you into private security business? I got enlisted in the Service during the military era. In 1999 at the advent of democratic government in Nigeria, there was the need for security officers with government background in the industrial security sector. I was head-hunted by an oil and gas services company to be their Security Manager. It was like a sense of adventure to explore what happens in the private sector and I never regretted that move. It opened a new vista in my career as a security professional. What were the initial challenges when you decided to go into industrial security? The world of industrial security presented its challenges in the form of the objectives that drive our operations. In the Service, we were more concerned with national security, while in industrial security, we became more concerned with asset protection and loss prevention. It was easy to adjust, especially if you are ready to learn and apply the difference. How about your spouse; was it love at first sight? My advice here is that those striving  or looking for a life partner, should sit back, think and decide on marrying only their best friends. There could be lust at first sight, but definitely not love at first sight. If you have a robust friendship with your wife, you are definitely going to last for a long time. As a security expert, what is your take about the state of insecurity in Nigeria; the rampaging herdsmen; the border conflicts that leave many homeless; the militants in the creeks  the activities of kidnappers? As a security professional, the general state of insecurity in the country is a very serious concern to me and my colleagues in the intelligence community. I can assure you that the law enforcement and security agencies are working tirelessly to crack these threats. I will also appeal to Nigerians to see these issues as everyone’s to solve, not just the security agencies. We have to come together and fight this thing. It’s our fight. As a top security expert, what specific solutions do you proffer to the security challenges? There are many possible solutions to the threats that the country faces today. The security agencies are working on these solutions, but will need  concerted efforts and support from the three arms of government to conquer these problems. There must be a resolute political will to solve this problem. The security agencies need all the equipment, training and motivation necessary to do the job. Of great importance also is the judiciary that needs to expedite action on the cases of arrested terrorists and kidnappers. This will serve as an assurance to Nigerians that something is being done and we are winning. Any special hobbies? I have two special hobbies: voracious reading and man-watching. Man-watching as in watching people’s non-verbal behaviours. These actions are louder than voices and reveals more about a person. In our present global village, there are fake news, as there are pretenders and fake persons. However, if you know how to watch people, their non-verbal attitudes and behaviours will tell you more  about them than what they say to you. Were you into sports while you were young? I grew up as a swimmer, swimming in Asari-Toru in the creeks of the Niger Delta. It was competitive among the teenagers but not for a trophy. If you are not what you are today, what else would you have loved to be? I don’t have any regrets being a security professional, but if I am not, I would go back to my first love, which is Public Relations. What is the most challenging aspect of your job? Unexpected outcomes. Investigations is my specialisation and I am trained to go into it with an open mind. Professionally, there should be no pre-conceived outcomes. In most cases, the findings of most investigations present unexpected outcomes. Also, when intelligence is disseminated, some political consumers will take political decisions on it to the chagrin of the intelligence officer. These are challenges that define our type of business. Are you fulfilled? Yes, I am. I have experienced both public and industrial security at the top management levels. I have mentored a lot of security professionals and I feel fulfilled seeing them excel in their various security specialisations. I am a Fellow of three professional security institutes and was awarded the national honour of Member of the Order of the Niger, MON. What does the future look like for you? The future squarely rests in the hand of my heavenly Father and Controller – The Almighty God. My Bible tells me that He knew me before I was born, knows me very well now and knows my future, which is in His hands. So, I trust Him to direct me as He deems fit.