MULTICHOICE, the producer of popular reality TV show, Big Brother Naija, has announced that the much-anticipated reality show would kick off on Sunday, June 30. The TV show which had its maiden edition in the country few years back before moving to South Africa is finally back to Nigeria and it promises the same quality and more exciting experience all through. Speaking to journalists at a media parley in Lagos, CEO Multichoice, John Ugbe, said that all is in place for Big Brother Naija season 4, stating that viewers would get the same quality as the previous ‘Big Brother’ shows in terms of production, aesthetics, layout and ambiance. “The quality of the show remains the same as earlier stated,” said Ugbe. “We also are working closely with local suppliers to ensure that the look and feel is top notch and truly representation of the Nigerian culture.” He however said that power outage during the show isn’t a threat but an avenue for creativity. “I don’t want to spoil the viewing experience,” Ugbe said. “But on a more serious note, we don’t see these things as problems. For us, we just see it as avenue for our creativity to make sure we can deliver something. “We are very proud that last tear the finals was the number one trending topic in the world. That tells you that we will not use excuse of power failure or anything. Its raining? We know it rains here. We are not in Canada, we are in Nigeria, and in Canada even with the snow they find a way to do things.” On why the prize was increased this year, Ugbe disclosed that the company realised that things have become more expensive in the past one year which is the reason for the increment of the star prize and that the winner has to ‘live the life.’ “I think it should just get more exciting, things are getting more expensive every year and the winner has to live the life.” In another development, Multichoice also revealed that the first set of students from the Multichoice Talent Factory (MTF) would graduate in two months’ time. The West African Director, MultiChoice Talent Factory, Femi Odugbemi, disclosed this during the media parley. “The good thing is that we are not throwing them just out there,” Odugbemi said. “We have a lot of resources that we hope they would take advantage of. They are going to partner with each other. There are many things that they can pitch for. So there is a safety net to ensure that what we are teaching them, they get a chance to show the world. They can’t do that unemployed and we are aware of that.” One of the graduating students at the Multichoice Talent Factory, Adeniyi Joseph, expressed satisfaction, saying his stay at the MTF has moulded him to become an entrepreneur. “It has turned me into an entrepreneur,” Joseph said. “You are not here to be a camera man, you are not here to be an editor, you are here to understand the film industry and when you get out of here you are not hoping that you want to become an editor or work 9 to 5 somewhere. You are hoping to become and entrepreneur, employ people and create opportunities which is exactly what I have taken up from here.”