A five-month-old baby, Odunayo Aboyeji, who is struck by hole-in-heart problem needs a sum of N3 million for corrective surgery. According to the 33-year-old mother of the ailing baby, Abosede, Odunayo, who was born on January 5, 2019 took ill barely two months after she was born. Abosede, a tailor, who resides in Abule Odu area of Egbeda, a Lagos suburb, said Odunayo’s problem started after she developed catarrh. “It all started around 4am on March 31st this year. We were preparing for church when I discovered her nostrils were blocked. Initially I thought it was her umbilical cord that was responsible for her discomfort. I called a nurse to examine her and she discovered Odunayo’s palms and feet were pale. She also had irregular breathing.” According to her, the baby was immediately taken to Igando General Hospital where she was placed on oxygen and treated after several tests were carried out on her. “We were referred to the pediatric unit of the Federal Medical Centre, Ebute Metta where it was discovered that she had a hole in her heart. ”The doctor even drew a figure of the heart to explain the problem and show how the blood was mixing together in her heart and how she would be short of breath. ”We were told there was nothing FMC could do about her situation and were again referred to Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospitltal, OAUTH, Ile Ife where they said the surgery could be carried out. My husband went there and obtained the cost of the surgery. We were told it would cost N3 million. Doctors also said the surgery should be done as early as possible to ensure her full recovery. ‘’A medical report signed by Dr Adeyemo A.O. on behalf of the Head of Paediatric Department of the FMC, Ebute Metta, said Odunayo was brought to the facility with difficulty breathing and cyanosis  the lips among others. It confirmed a diagnosis of Tetralogy of Fallot (hole-in-the-heart) and recommended surgical correction. Abosede added: ‘’Odunayo is my second child.My husband, Tayo, is from Kwara State. We are poor and struggling to survive. ‘’We are appealing to kind-hearted Nigerians to help us raise the money for our ailing daughter’s surgery.’’ Donations should be forwarded to Odunayo Deborah Aboyeji, Account No. 2051265302, Zenith Bank, while her parents can be contacted on 08189881250 and 08179331000.