THE Nigeria-Egypt trade volume is in the region of $200 million is in favour of Nigeria, it was learnt. Notwithstanding, the Egyptian Deputy Chief of Mission to Nigeria, Mr. Mootaz Mansour said his country is doing everything possible to improve the relationship. Besides, he said attention is more on building a cordial relations among the two great countries in the continent, which include cultural and educational exchange. Already over 1,000 Nigerian students are in various universities across Egypt. Mansour who spoke yesterday at the second Educational fair of Egyptian universities in Nigeria said Egypt is also looking at improving cultural and educational relations with the country. He said the educational fair was part of the ploy to improve on the existing good relations with Nigeria. The envoy who revealed that 12 Egyptian universities are in Nigeria to participate in the fair, said his country has a scholarship programme for Nigerians yearly. According to him his country provides 70 scholarships to Nigerian students yearly. He also revealed that currently, there are over one thousand Nigeria students schooling in various universities in Egypt. “Though I don’t have the exact number now, but I think it is over a thousand Nigerian students schooling in Egypt . We present 70 scholarship per year to Nigerian students as well as other scholarships provided by private universities,” he said. Speaking on the second educational fair in Nigeria, Mansour noted that the success of the last fair in Nigeria was the incentive for the second fair which will also hold in Kano and Kaduna. He said, “This is the second education fair in Nigeria, the first was in October last year, it was a very successful event and it is aimed at encouraging Nigerian students to come and study in our universities and of course it is our aim to try to expand Nigeria -Egypt relations and one of the aims is to work on cultural and educational fronts and what we are trying to do is to encourage Nigerian students to come and study in Egyptian universities and a lot f the universities you found represented here they come all the way from universities in Cairo and other cities. “This particular fair will cover Abuja and then we travel northwards to Kaduna, Zaria and Kano.” He stressed that the success of the second one will play a determinant role in organizing another fair next year. According to him, “The first one was very successful and that is why there were a lot of incentives to host the second one. Hopefully, if this one is successful as well, we will have one next year. “ The envoy who also spoke on the forthcoming African Cup of Nations to be hosted by his country prayed that may the best team win. He however said he would be rooting for his homeland, even as he looked forward to Egypt -Nigeria final. 