Yobe State Governor, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni has enjoined Muslims all over not to neglect the needy but show them compassion. The governor, in his Sallah message to the people of the state, called on them to continue to imbibe the lessons of Ramadan, just as he called on the people of the state to give his administration the necessary support to succeed as their chief servant. “Ramadam fasting strengthens in the Muslim community the values of love of justice, equity and unity among other cherished virtues. “As a result of the lessons which bequeath to us through Ramadan fasting, we are expected to continue to demonstrate understanding and tolerance towards one another and show compassion to those in need. “This occasion therefore affords us the opportunity to make sober reflection and assessment of our conduct,” Gov. Buni said. He added that as the Holy Month of Ramadan comes to an end, the Muslim faithful should assess their conduct and align their behaviors to the teachings of Islam. Buni also reminded residents his promises to the people at his inaugural speech  is still close to his heart, just as he promised to soon hit the ground running. “While the public pronouncement that I made on the occasion of our swearing-in ceremonies are still fresh in your memories, we will soon embark on the commencement of the implementation of our planned programmes and policies of continuing from where the immediate past administration has stopped and consolidate on them as part of our drive towards executing the great and herculean task before us for moving Yobe State to the next level. “I wish to stress that, we will not relent in taking the necessary steps towards consolidating the achievements recorded in the state so far. I therefore urge all our good people to rally round our new administration, giving us every support, cooperation, worthy advises and suggestions as part of their contributions for the advancement of our beloved state,” Buni enjoined. Speaking the Yobe Central Mosque after observing the Eid prayers to mark the sallah celebration, Gov. Mai Mala Buni also re-emphasised his call for the love of humanity by the people. The governor who attended the Eid prayers together with his Deputy, Idi Barde Gubana, members of the State House of Assembly, the acting SSG, Baba Malam Wali, the Speaker, Yobe State House of Assembly, members of the immediate past State Executive Council and thousands of other worshippers in the state expressed happiness over the huge turn-out of worshippers at the venue. The eid prayer was led by the chief Imam of Yobe Mosque, Ustaz Hudu Mohammed who called on muslim to be self –righteous and avoid practices that will bring division among the people. The Nation observed that, both the immediate past governor, Ibrahim Gaidam and his deputy Abubakar Aliyu were absent at the praying ground.  