The much-hyped Anchor Borrowers programme of the apex bank, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), geared towards developing the nation’s agriculture sector and ultimately improving food security has witnessed highs and lows since its inception some four years ago. Charles Okonji in this report examines the issues The story goes of how a rich man decided to share his inheritance equally among his children. Few years later, when they all later returned home, most of them had made good in life. Sadly, one of the kids came back worse than he left: the prodigal son was not only broken physically, mentally and emotionally but was completely poverty-stricken with absolutely nothing to show for the immeasurable wealth bequeathed to him from his wealthy father! Today there are many prodigal sons amongst the many beneficiaries of the Anchor Borrowers Programme, most of who have not lived up to expectation. The news media has been awash with reports about many rice farmers who benefitted from the Anchor Borrowers largesse, but went underground shortly after receiving loans from the scheme. ABC of the Anchor Borrowers’ programme So far, over four million farmers have benefited from the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) packaged in 2015 by federal government to increase agricultural output. Specifically, on November 17, 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari launched the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) initiated by the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN. ABP aims at creating a linkage between anchor companies involved in the processing and small holder farmers (SHFs) of the required key agricultural commodities. ABP thrust is provision of farm inputs in kind and cash (for farm labour) to small holder farmers to boost production of these commodities, stabilise inputs supply to agro processors and address the country’s negative balance of payments on food. The design is that at harvest, the SHF supplies produce to the agro-processor (Anchor) who pays the cash equivalent to the farmer’s account. It is an all-inclusive programme as Federal Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development, State Governors, millers of agricultural produce, and smallholder farmers are to be involved to boost agricultural production and non-oil exports. As a revolving loan, the broad objective of ABP is to create economic linkage between smallholder farmers and reputable large-scale processors with a view to increasing agricultural output and significantly improving capacity utilisation of processors. The targeted beneficiaries are smallholder farmers engaged in the production of identified commodities across the country, such as cereals (rice, maize, wheat), cotton, roots and tubers (cassava, potatoes, yam, ginger). Also in the list are sugarcane, tree crops (oil palm, cocoa, rubber), legumes (soybean, sesame seed, cowpea), tomato, livestock (fish, poultry, ruminants) and any other commodity that will be introduced by the CBN from time to time. The anchor This shall be private large-scale integrated processors who have entered into an agreement with the SHFs to off-take the harvested produce at the agreed prices or as may be reviewed by the PMT. State Governments may act as Anchor upon meeting the prescribed conditions. Interest rate Interest rate under the ABP shall be guided by the rate on the N220 billion MSMEDF, which is currently at 9% p.a (all inclusive, pre and post disbursement). The PFIs shall access at 2% from the CBN and lend at a maximum of 9% p.a. Tenor The tenor of loans under the ABP shall be the gestation period of the identified commodities. Repayment Loans granted to the SHFs shall be repaid with the harvested produce that shall be mandatorily delivered to the Anchor at designated collection center in line with the provisions of the Agreement signed. The produce to be delivered must cover the loan principal and interest. Risk sharing In order to engender participation of PFIs in the programme, the CBN shall absorb 50% of the amount in default after satisfactory evidence that every means of loan recovery has been exhausted by the PFI. The PFI shall bear the credit risk of the balance Four years down the line The programme, adjudged successful thus far but not without any hitch. For instance, rice production through this programme has been phenomenal to the extent that the country is no longer dependent on imports and over N800billion saved through the process. In fact, rice farmers in the country are now boasting that before the end of year 2020, they would have flooded the Nigerian market with rice produced by Nigerians and that the country will no longer have business importing or smuggling rice because the price would be competitive. Speaking with The Nation, National Vice President of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Segun Atho, scored the contributions of ABP high, saying that his members have benefited immensely from the fund. “We have a model. We are professionally and gradually getting to where we are aiming to be. The fund has helped all the rice farmers in the whole country to improve and increase production. We have started producing RIFAN rice. “We, the rice farmers have decided to start processing our rice on our own because we have discovered that some of the rice millers have started jeopardizing our efforts. We are trying to see how we can make fresh farm rice available for consumers all over the country, starting from the 19 states in the North and the 17 states in the South, I can tell you categorically that almost all our members are complying and we have increased our output astronomically,” Atho disclosed. According to him, over one million rice farmers have benefited from the fund, and more farmers are still joining the association in order to benefit from it, adding that the obligation of the association is to make sure that we continue to mobilise farmers, as we have been doing for the past 20 years. “Before 2020, we would flood the Nigerian market with rice produced by Nigerians and the country will no longer have business importing or smuggling rice because our price would be competitive. We are seriously working hard to make sure that we achieve this dream because rice is a major staple food we have in this country,” he posited. For the Rice Millers Association of Nigeria (RIPAN), ABP is also a very laudable programme. According to the National president Tunji Owoeye, both Anchor Borrowers Fund and Paddy Aggregation Fund were successful programmes. He stated that the funds have allowed the threshold of Rice Value Chain to increase in terms of helping the farmers to have arrangement with the millers to increase their yield in terms of number of tons per hectare. “It has helped us to improve our capacity utilisation. It has created additional employment across board in the entire value chain, from production processing, to packaging and distribution. It has also improved consumption level. A programme like this cannot be without defaulters. So, from the onset, I know that they have their plans on how to recover loans from the defaulters. All that I can say is that it is a very successful programme,” Owoeye stressed. There are still challenges of issues of smuggling, which is a very big hindrance to the success of the programme. From the farmers’ angle, the challenges may be that of whether, flood and climate change.  It is something that we can keep improving on. Challenge with the funds From available information, our correspondent gathered from fund managers that the lofty initiative is been abused by many farmers most of have been defaulting on the loan repayment. Apparently worried by this development, the Bank of Agriculture went into partnership with the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) to help actualise the vision of loan recovery to suit the purpose the funds was originally created. The Nation recalls the collaborative efforts have pushed the defaulters into cooperating by paying back the loans. BOA had earlier stated the partner with the EFCC was to recover anchor-borrowers loan from defaulting farmers who took the loan since 2015 farming season. The former BOA Managing Director, Alhaji Kabiru Mohammed-Adamu, who started the collaborative efforts had recounted at the time that “For those farmers that refused to pay back, we can’t sit down without doing anything to recover the money. As such, we are collaborating with security agencies, the EFCC in particular, and they have been highly supportive to fish out where those funds have been diverted to. People have now embraced the spirit of repaying their loans, at least we are getting request to restructure and extend the tenure of the facility.” Echoing similar sentiments, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) the apex bank’s Director of Corporate Communications Department, Isaac Okorafor, restated its resolve not to fund defaulting farmers under its pet-project- Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP). He said, the initiative, scripted to rev-up food production in the country  has already disbursed over N56 billion involving more than 250,000 farmers across the country, with more than two-third of the state governments participating. The CBN’s spokesman, who made the disclosure to The Nation while responding to the issue of loan-repayment defaulters recorded in the programme, reiterated that only those farmers and cooperatives that pay back their loans and comply with the guidelines will get additional funding. Okorafor advised that they pay up their loans, comply with the guidelines and agreements and go ahead with their projects, while they should learn from successful ones in other states.