 Arsenal midfielder Mesut Ozil has married his partner Amine Gulse at an Istanbul ceremony. Ozil was seen walking with his new wife alongside a parade of beating drums and flares. The Gunners star also showed off his dance moves as he and his partner jiggled to the music. Ozil has showed his charitable side this week after making an incredible pledge to help out children in need, all as part of his wedding celebrations. The Arsenal playmaker issued a statement regarding what guests could expect to bring to his wedding as a gift. As is common practice wedding goers would bring something nice for the bride and groom, but Ozil has chosen to use his privileged position for the greater good. Taking to social media, Ozil issued a statement in which he called for guests to join him and Gulse in donating money for those in need. ‘As a professional footballer I am in a fortunate and privileged position. However I invite everyone who is willing and able to help to support a very special project close to both of our hearts that we will undertake with BigShoe,’ wrote Ozil. ‘Amine and I will bear the expenses for surgeries of 1000 children in need. I’d be happy if in addition, many more treatments all over the world can be fulfilled,’ he added. Ozil then posted an image of himself and Gulse, holding the white ‘BigShoe’ which forms the charity’s emblem. After beginning to work with the charity in 2014, Ozil has remained an ambassador for BigShoe and worked alongside German and Swiss doctors to help the most vulnerable in society. The former Real Madrid player had a glitzy pre-wedding bash in Istanbul on Thursday night. The pre-wedding party had dozens of guests with belly dancers and traditional Turkish drums. Ozil and Gulse are expected to set off on honeymoon, and finally enjoy some down-time following an arduous season. The German has endured mixed fortunes under Unai Emery this season, after finding himself in and out of the starting XI. Ozil was part of the Arsenal side who faced rivals in Chelsea in the Europa League final last month, but fell to a disappointing 4-1 defeat in Baku.    