Does former President Olusegun Obasanjo have any dog in the African Continental Free Trade Area (ACFTA) fight?  The manner he has been growling and  howling and bawling on the matter, far and near, home and abroad, has been rather worrisome. In his latest harangue, from far-away Moscow, following an earlier one in Addis Ababa, Obasanjo came to the table with quite some logic.  He was quoted as saying it did not make sense that Nigeria had not signed the ACFTA protocol, since countries like Eritrea, Niger and even Benin Republic had signed — really? So, the same dynamics, in every material particular, hold for Nigeria as they hold for Eritrea, Niger and Benin Republic? Benin Republic!  That transit dump, making hay with illicit foreign rice, bound for Nigeria, aimed at subverting Nigeria’s hard work in food security and self-sufficiency in local rice? Benin Republic, which Nigeria’s most prominent entrepreneur, Aliko Dangote, just all but declared hostile neighbour, because of how its economy thrives on smuggling, which badly undermines the Nigerian economy, and condemns millions of Nigerians to poverty? The Benin example, and how its riveting symbol of reckless dumping escaped Obasanjo, appears to underscore how shallow, beyond grandstanding and empty posturing, his take on ACFTA is. If local players in Nigeria’s real sector, the likes of the Chambers of Commerce, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and other crucial trade groups fear ACFTA might result in dumping that could kill many Nigerian jobs and sabotage the effort to, once and for all, build a real local economy, what makes Obasanjo think his haranguing, then in Addis Ababa, now in Moscow, would make any definitive difference, in Nigeria’s final decision in the matter? Without necessarily reacting to Obasanjo’s wayward diplomacy, the Presidency has said Nigeria’s final decision on ACFTA would be determined by the interest of Nigerians.    That was well said.  So, the Muhammadu Buhari presidency should ignore Obasanjo and his tantrums; and do what it thinks is best for Nigeria. Still, Obasanjo’s friends had better counsel him.  If he wants to serenade — and be serenaded by — his “international community” friends, particularly now that his voice is badly fading (no thanks to his own free but horrid choices), it certainly cannot be at the expense of a country that gave him everything; but which it continues to pay back with empty arrogance and crass insensitivity. Besides, what’s the use of a high-falutin free trade area, likely to plunge the so-called beneficiaries into poverty by killing their jobs, because of free dumping, which has made local industries, just being rebuilt, uncompetitive? Truth be told: Obasanjo is embarking on perhaps the crudest form of diplomacy(?) by any former president anywhere, throatily de-marketing his country because of nothing but gracelessness. His friends should tell him to stop forthwith.  Otherwise, he may well turn himself into the tortoise in the Yoruba folklore, who swore never to go back home from a trip until he was disgraced.