Thirty-two-year-old Adebo Ogundoyin, the lawmaker representing Ibarapa East Constituency, and Mohammed Fadeyi (Ona Ara Constituency) have been elected Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the ninth Oyo State House of Assembly. Ogundoyin and Fadeyi were elected unopposed by voice votes of the 32 members in the Assembly. The Speaker’s election followed the nomination by Adebayo Olajide (Ibadan North II) and seconded by Adeola Bamidele (Iseyin/Itesiwaju). Ogundoyin was elected via a by-election to fill the vacant seat of the late Speaker Michael Adeyemo in the eighth Assembly The new Speaker, a graduate of Babcock University, Ilisan-Remo in Ogun State, was favoured by a combination of factors, including party affiliation, zoning and experience: he is one of the four returning lawmakers to the ninth Assembly. Other principal officers of the Assembly, who were elected through a consensus vote, include Onaolapo Adedoyin (Majority Leader), Asimiyu Alarape (Minority Leader), Akeem Adedibu (Chief Whip) and Akeem Adebis (Deputy Chief Whip). Governor Seyi Makinde; his deputy, Mr Rauf Olaniyan; the governor’s Chief of Staff, Chief Bisi Ilaka; the Head of Services (HoS), Mrs Amidat Agboola; representative of the Chief Judge (CJ), traditional rulers, community leaders, religious leaders, former lawmakers, party leaders, friends and family members of new lawmakers and members of the public witnessed the proceedings. Accepting his election, Ogundoyin thanked his party for believing in youths and giving them a platform to come to the Assembly. The Speaker assured the people that the Legislature would work “in tandem with the Executive to facilitate the speedy actualisation of the dividends of democracy to the people of Oyo State”. He added: “The people of Oyo State spoke loudly with their votes. It is clear the people of Oyo State desire an Assembly that is result-oriented, opening up opportunities and lifting up their lives. “I promise to run an open-door policy where I will seek the contributions, support and cooperation of honourable members in the task of making laws for good governance.” Makinde assured the lawmakers of a cordial Legislative-Executive relationship. He noted that the state cannot progress without the two arms of government working together.