EKELEME: My name is Ekeleme. I am registered with First Guarantee Pension. My complaint is that I have not got updates on my account since 2013. Their website is nothing to write home about. Please, what do I do? Ekeleme, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). Thanks THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. JOEL: I am a former employee of a Federal Government agency. I want to know if it is possible to change my PFA. I have been out of employment since 2013. I have over N2million as my contributory pension. I want to change my PFA because I am not satisfied with my PFA. Is it possible to move my pension fund? Thanks. PENCOM: Section 13 of the PRA 2014 allows an RSA holder to change his/her PFA not more than once yearly without giving any reason. The Commission is opening a transfer window to enable contributors’ move. ONYAKA: Sir, does First Pension Limited still ex-ist as Pension Fund Manager? PENCOM: Yes. They are known as First Guarantee Pension. Their  details are: Irorun Plaza, No. 65, Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos,http://www.firstguaranteepension.com TAYO What are the modalities of payment for those who joined the civil service in 2003 according to the Pension Act? PENCOM: Any employee who is entitled to retirement benefits under any pension scheme existing before June 25, 2004, being the commencement of the Pension Reform Act, 2004 falls under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). You may liaise with your PFA who would advise you further on the modes of payment when you retire. LICY:  My name is Abdullahi. My PFA is Trustfund Pension. I retired since 2014 and I did my biodata last August. After that, I went to my PFA Trustfund to request for the 25 per cent of my total savings, but I was told that PenCom did not send it to the MDAs. I am seriously in need of money because my children school fees have become a problem. Please I need your quick respond. Thanks. PENCOM: The complainant  should send his PIN to us as soon as possible. ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff member of Yaba Local Governmnet Development Arrea (LCDA). I have been with Stanbic IBTC since its inception. But this month my pension fund was transferred to Leadway PFA without my authorisation. Please what can I do because I want Stanbic IBTC as my pension manager. PENCOM: Please tell Abdulsalam to send his PIN to expedite on his complaint. OLAYORI: Good day. My name is Olayori. I am a retiree of the National Assembly Commission, where worked as a legislative aide to a former senator. We left the National Assembly in 2011. Since then, I have been collecting pension of N7,872.87 monthly. However, last November, the payment stopped. My pension company is Iei-Anchor Pensions. It will be appreciated if you could assist to find out why the payment was stopped. PENCOM: We require your PIN  to assist you. please suppy it. ADIGUN: My name is Adigun. My PFA is First Guarantee.  I want to inform of the problems being faced by contributory pensioners in the Osun State Government employment who retired in 2016. None of them has received either gratuity or pension since they retired. The cause of the problem is not known as we were being fed with lies by various PFAs. Kindly advise us on the way out of this predicament. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant to assist them further. IBRAHIM: My name is Ibrahim. I work with Nigeria Immigration Service, a DSI. My RSA initially was domiciled with the acquired Amana Pension Limited that was at Gwagwalada Para-military Board in 2009. Having registered with the Amana before it folded up, my pin was not given to me and I was left in the unknown for many years until IPPIS made me to understand that Sigma Pension acquired Amana Pension. I complained to Sigma. They advised me  register. After  that, I given the new pin number. They later called me and informed me of an old pin that Amana never gave to me. Sigma advised me to use the old pin. My complaint is: when IPPIS  paid my salary, my pension deduction from Sigma was updated based only on the deduction from the commencement of IPPIS without the previous balance from my RSA domiciled with Amana. Please I need your help. PENCOM: Ibrahim should send his PIN to us quickly. This will enable us attend to him.