The tenure of Abubakar Malami (SAN) as the 22nd Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, which began on November 12, 2015, ended on May 28. ERIC IKHILAE highlights the activities of the Federal Ministry of Justice on law and justice sector reforms, under Malami. The immediate past Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) formally exited office on May 28, 2019 after about three and half years in office. Malami, who assumed office on November 12, 2015, handed the running of the Federal Ministry of Justice to the ministry’s Permanent Secretary and Solicitor General of the Federation (SGF), Dayo Apata, at an event held on May 28, 2019, where he (Malami) equally performed his last official function of constituting the boards of agencies and parastatals under the ministry. While addressing the audience, among who were his three predecessors – Bayo Ojo, Michael Aondoakaa and Adetokunbo Kayode –  Malami took a retrospective assessment of his time in office and hailed himself for a job well done. Malami insisted that he kept faith with his promise to only improve on his predecessors’ achievements, be creative and innovative in his approach, while encouraging/accommodating individuals and groups with great ideas. He however, confessed that the task of serving as the Chief Law Officer, in a nation very diverse and complex, was not only daunting, but that it was enormous in view of the administration’s key policies aimed at addressing the challenges of  corruption, economy and security. “It is without doubt that these policy areas are intricately intertwined with the law, without which they are dead,” Malami said, adding that the policy thrust of the administration put his ministry “on serious work mode from the first day he stepped into office. Malami was emphatic in asserting that the ministry, under his watch, made significant strides in many areas, which he proceeded to outline. His many contributions Initiation and provision of legal instruments In the area of initiation and creation of legal instruments, with which the administration functioned, Malami spoke about his contribution to the drafting of various Presidential Executive Orders, particularly numbers six and eight. Executive Order number Six relates to the Preservation of Assets Connected with Corruption, while Order Eight governs the Voluntary Offshore Assets Registration Scheme (VOARS). The VOARS, unveiled on April 2, 2019 is essentially, targeted at tracking and stopping illicit financial flows in and out of the country. Malami noted that the various legal instruments introduced while he was in office, uniquely revolutionised the government’s war against graft and impunity in the management of pulic resources. He said, as the coordinator of the implementation of Executive Order No. 6, he worked with other enforcement authorities –  the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS),among others – to ensure that assets connected to corruption, belonging to anyone linked to corruption related investigation or prosecution, are duly protected. Malami said the scheme is projected to yield to the country an estimated €800million within 12 months of its implementation. Contributions to justice sector reforms Malami worked to ensure the launch of the document called the National Judicial Policy (NJP), which points the nation’s direction in justice administration, particularly as it relates to criminal justice. He told audience at his hand-over ceremony that, beside  preparing and reviewing of court processes, and representing the Federal Government in litigation, the Federal Ministry of Justice, under him, designed a broad policy framework aimed at   improving the judicial process and enhanced citizens’ access to justice. Activities undertaken in that regard, he said, included the assessment of criminal cases that were being prosecuted by lay police prosecutors before the enactment of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015; the establishment of Justice Sector Reform Committees (JSRC) in about 26 states and the provision of sentencing guidelines for judges. He also noted his ministry’s contribution to the establishment of a Virtual Automated Case Management System (VACMS) by the Federal Government. The VACMS is intended to integrate prosecution data with the existing Prison Information Management System (PIMS) by incorporating an integrated biometrics prisoners information technology to fast track prison decongestion in Nigeria. Malami was optimistic that the VACMS project “will bring a holistic improvement in the efficiency of the entire justice sector through transparency in detentions, investigations, clarity in prison operations, proper arraignment and speedy discharge of justice. “In addition, it will bring about transparency in the prison population at a glance, prevent the incidence of “ghost prisoners” and help the government to accurately budget annually’’. Prison decongestion Malami spoke about his efforts in the the establishment of the Presidential Committee on Prisons Reform and Decongestion (PCPRD),  headed by the Chief Judge of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Justice Ishaq Bello. The ex-AGF said, since he inaugurated the committee on October 31, 2017, it has so far visited 32 prisons in 14 states, during which it facilitated the release of 3,740 prisoners. Malami is equally credited with aiding the success of the Federal Government’s initiative deployed to address the challenge of dealing with the army of arrested Boko Haram suspects, who were kept for years in various detention centres, unattended to by the previous government. Milestones in the recovery of looted public funds Malami spoke about the many milestones recorded in the areas of assets recovery and collaboration with foreign partners in that regard, which he attributed to the Asset Recovery and Management Unit (ARMU) of the Ministry of Justice. He also spoke about the ministry’s roles in facilitating international and national cooperation in the recovery of stolen assets, Open Government Partnership (OGP) Initiatives (which are directed at ensuring transparency in the management of government’s affairs) and reforms of anti-corruption policy and electoral law. As a fillip to the Federal Government’s anti-corruption drive, Malami said “the Federal Ministry of Justice, under my watch, released the National Anti-Corruption Strategy Framework (NACSF)for collaboration by all the relevant agencies.” He explained that the NACSF revolves around five pillars,to include – prevention of corruption, public enlightenment, campaign for ethical re-orientation,  enforcements and sanctions/recovery of proceeds of corruption. Malami added that the NACSF was designed to identify and close existing gaps in the anti-corruption initiatives inherited by the administration and emphasise the institutionalisation of result-based systems and structures as well as appropriate incentives for increasing and sustaining citizens-driven anti-corruption crusade. He said the NACSF was equally directed at ensuring the effective implementation of preventive anti-corruption policies such as the Treasury Single Account (TSA), the Bank Verification Number (BVN), enhanced application of the Code of Conduct legislation and the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), some of which the administration inherited. The ex-AGF said his office, in coordinating the implementation of the Asset Recovery Campaign of the Federal Government, worked with anti-corruption agencies, law enforcement and security agencies in the recovery of public funds stolen domestically and those transferred to offshore. He added that his effort led to increased international engagement with more than seven countries: United Kingdom, United States of America, Switzerland, France, Italy, Island of Jersey and United Arab Emirate (UAE). Malami also spoke about how he facilitated the repatriation of $321 million Abacha loot; the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between World Bank, Nigeria and Switzerland for the early return and transparent management of $322.5m stolen assets from Switzerland, which has since been repatriated back to Nigeria and is now being managed by the National Social Investment Office under the supervision of the World Bank. “I have also led the Nigerian team in the signing of MOU on the modalities for the return of stolen assets between Nigeria and the United Kingdom. “Negotiations are underway for the return of $500 million worth of assets located in the United States, Island of Jersey and France; the recovery to the Federal Government of Nigeria of over $73 million as ordered by the UK Commercial Court being part of the proceeds from the sale of OPL 245 by Malabu Oil and Gas Company to ENI/Shell,” he said. Malami, who gave other instances of recovery, said his office worked assiduously with other relevant agencies of government to raise the balance in the recovery account of the Federal Government from  N19,524,490,207b (19.5b) as at  May 29, 2015 to N279,047,318,400b (N279b) as at November 22, 2017. Law reform initiatives Malami also spoke about how he inaugurated a team to facilitate the review of existing laws, particularly those relating to anti-corruption, transparency and accountability in governance. According to him, the team came up with numerous Bills, among which are the Money Laundering Prevention and Prohibition Bill 2017; Anti-Terrorism Prevention and Prohibition Bill 2017; Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit Bill 2017; Proceeds of Crime Bill 2017; Public Interest Disclosure and Witness Protection Bill, 2017; and the Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Bill, 2017. The NFIU Bill has since been passed by the National Assembly  and was assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari in July, 2018. Malami added: “Our contributions in facilitating the prompt passage of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Agency Act prevented the expulsion of Nigeria from the EGMONT Group, which expulsion was embarrassingly imminent at the time. “In the same token, it is my sincere hope that the Proceeds of Crimes Bill will soon become law to further make the anti-corruption war more effective.” Staff welfare Malami equally spoke about his achievements in improving the welfare of staff of the Federal Ministry of Justice. He talked about how he facilitated that  ”harmonisation of salary for lawyers (in the ministry), which has brought them at par with their contemporaries in other justice sector agencies. “I am also elated to say that during my tenure, and for the first time ever, a lawyer in the ministry in the person of Mr. Chiesonu Okpoko, was conferred with the prestigious rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria. “As I speak, this Ministry is hopefully at the verge of making another SAN.” His shortcomings While Malami has continued to receive accolades for his many achievements, he has equally received knocks for the many failures recorded while his tenure lasted. Malami’s core failure, according to his critics, is the poor leadership he exhibited in the coordination of the operations of the various agencies and personnel under his ministry. This factor, they argued, resulted in the glaring lack of coordination, direction and strategic approach to the operations of the relevant government agencies involved in the fight against corruption. In this regard, critics are quick to point to the conflicting roles of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for Recovery of Public Property (SPIP). Malami has also been criticised for his controversial handling of the case involving Abdulrasheed Maina, who was accused of diverting huge Police Pension funds, declared wanted, but was later elevated and reinstated, allegedly upon the advice of the AGF. His name has also featured in the controversial handling of the alleged fraud cases involving the former Comproller-General of Customs, Abdullahi Inde Dikko. The disagreement between Malami and the EFCC in the handling of the cases involving Dikko became public during one of the proceedings in one of the cases before the Federal High Court, Abuja. Dikko’s lawyer, Mahmud Magaji (SAN) had, in the suit he filed, accused the EFCC of violating an agreement his client purportedly reached with Malami to excuse the ex-CGS from prosecution, an agreement the anti-graft agency denied knowledge of. Magaji told the court, presided over by Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, that: “Our client was to be prosecuted for financial crimes. When he was invited, he was confronted by information the EFCC said it has against him by virtue of its investigation activities. “He (Dikko) was confronted with options of either to enter a refund agreement or be prosecuted. He agreed to a refund. And made refund in several tranches. “At every payment, we ensured that we get evidence of payment from the bank,” Magaji said. He identified the evidence of payment as reflected in some court documents marked as Exhibit 1 to 20d, and said “these are the evidence of the refund we made” When asked by Justice Dimgba about the venue, where the said agreement was reached, Magaji said a meeting was held at the instance of the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF). Magaji added that after the agreement was reached by parties, an official of the EFCC, who he identified as Hajeed (who was the IPO in the case), provided an account number into which his client (Dikko) made all the refund he made. He added: “We have fulfilled our side of the agreement. It is for the EFCC to fulfil its own side of the agreement, by complying and allowing things to settle.” Replying, EFCC’s lawyer, Chile Okoroma said:  ”They said they made some payments by agreement and we said no, we are not aware of any payment. “They claimed Magu (EFCC’s Acting Chairman, Ibrahim Magu) was part of the agreement, but we said no. We do not know anything about the agreement they claimed to have with the AGF,” Okoroma said. There is also the confusing situation about the status of the SPIP as regards its powers to initiate prosecution, in view of the judgment by the Court of Appeal, in the Tumsah brothers’ case. Despite the Court of Appeal’s decision that the SPIP lacked the power to initiate prosecution or file charges against anyone, the panel has continued to obey the judgment in breach. It recently filed a charge against some senior members of the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) and some known political figures, without any intervention by the AGF. ‘Aversion for court appearance’ Critics also openly criticised Malami for leading the anti-corruption war from the rear, in view of his seeming aversion to participating in court proceedings in graft-related cases. According to Malami’s critics, as the AGF in a government, whose major policy is the war against corruption, he ought to be at the forefront of the prosecution of high profile suspects to show government’s seriousness in this regard. A former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Mahmud Mohammed once drew Malami’s attention to flaw in his approach and asked him to lead by example. Justice Mohammed had, while receiving Malami in his office on November 24, 2015, noted among others, that the lacklustre attitude of government towards the prosecution of criminal cases, “especially those involving politically exposed persons or political party family members,” was a major factor hindering success in the prosecution of such cases. Justice Mohammed particularly charged Malami to take the lead when he said: “I would likewise wish to encourage you (AGF) to display a greater resolve than your predecessors in tackling outstanding cases before the courts. “In times past, the Attorney-General of the Federation would often lead teams of legal counsel in high profile cases so as to demonstrate the resolve of the government to enshrine the rule of law. Sadly, recent Attorneys-General have become less inclined to do this. “I would certainly like to see you, as the Attorney-General, appear before us especially in cases of important national purport. There is the need for seasoned prosecutors to prepare and file charges before courts of competent jurisdiction so that criminal matters are timeously determined.” Critics have equally argued that, aside that Malami did not change his position on the issue despite the criticism, his lack of commitment to the prosecution of high profile corruption cases is reflective in his handling of the activities of the the National Prosecution Co-ordination Committee (NPCC). The NPCC was inaugurated by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on May 27, 2016 with the core responsibility of co-ordinating the prosecution of high profile cases. The NPCC was also required to scrutinise the proof of evidence and charges in high profile criminal cases in the country before arraignment. In addition, it will receive and analyse reports from the investigation and prosecution teams engaged to handle such cases. The committee was to guarantee prompt contact and synergy between investigators and the prosecutors of high profile criminal cases, manage information to the public on such cases as well as to ensure strict compliance to the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), 2015. The NPCC was equally saddled with the responsibility of advising the AGF on the exercise of his prosecutorial powers in Section 150 and 174 of the 1999 Constitution; prepare the policy strategy document for the co-ordination of investigation and prosecution of high profile criminal cases in Nigeria and to  collate the list of such cases as well as assigning them to prosecution teams. Unfortunately, little is known about NPCC’s activities. Many of its members are said to have stopped participating in its activities owing to poor funding. The NPCC exists today only in name. Malami has also stirred controversies with some of his decisions, actions and utterances. His support for the late 2016 invasion of the residences of serving judges by security agents drew criticism from those who argued that such a development amounted to the desecration of the Judiciary. He was quoted to have, while reacting to the arrest of the serving judges, argued that “no one is or should be above the law. Was there an allegation of crime? Was there relevant provision of criminal procedure responsible for investigation? “Is there an allegation of corruption? If there is, no body, no matter how highly placed will be spared. The right to investigate has not been taken away from the constitution. “The allegation borders on criminality and no one is or should be above the law. Neither the judiciary or the executive will be exempted from investigation.” Clash with EFCC In 2017, Malami openly disagreed with the Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu and accused Magu and the EFCC of frustrating the government’s anti-corruption war. In a statement issued on August 23, 2018, Malami alleged that Magu and the EFCC leadership have “manipulated and misused intelligence to the detriment of the fight against corruption and financial crimes in Nigeria.” He also accused them of working to prevent the lifting of the country’s suspension by the global financial intelligence gathering body – Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units (Egmont Group) and ensure the country’s formal expulsion. Sometime last year, a group, the Resource Centre for Human Rights and Civic Education (CHRICED) accused Malami of making a mess of the anti-graft fight over his alleged complicity in some shady payments to two lawyers on the recovery of Abacha loot. The group had queried the engagement of another set of Nigerian lawyers for a fee of $17 million (about N6 billion) for a job already completed by Enroci Monfrini, a Swiss lawyer hired by the Nigerian government since 1999 to work on recovering the loot. According to the group, Malami allegedly engaged the lawyers because Monfrini was asking for an additional 20 percent pay to “complete the job.” CHRICED, led by Ibrahim Zikirullahi, observed, in a statement, that: “It is a known fact that the AGF has consistently used his exalted office to embarrass the country and make serious mess of the anti-corruption fight. “From his involvement in the reinstatement of the fugitive pension task team boss, Mr. Abdulrasheed Maina, to his alleged incessant harassment of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), so as to pressure it to act in favour of corrupt interests, the AGF has been using his office for purposes that have since been discredited.”