The Lagos State Government said on Friday that it was investigating two Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) officers accused of extortion in the Ikoyi area of the state. The Deputy Governor of the state, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, made the disclosure while briefing newsmen at the Lagos House, Alausa. According to him, the unnamed officers have been handed over to the relevant authorities for investigation and possible conviction. Hamzat said that the government, in doing everything to make LASTMA and its staff comfortable, would not condone misbehavior of any kind from them. Hamzat said that the officers were entrusted with the responsibility to correct and help the people. He reiterated the warning to LASTMA officers to desist from harassing and extorting motorists. The deputy governor also advised residents not to pay into any government official’s personal account. “Part of the challenges that a megacity like Lagos faces are traffic management and transportation. “So, Lagos is not an exception, and that is why the government made it a priority that part of our challenge is to resolve traffic issues in the state. “Unfortunately, some of our officials, LASTMA, also do things outside of the law, and our administration has said very clearly that as long as we will support them to do their job, we will not allow anybody to terrorise the citizens. “We have heard a report of two of our LASTMA officers who allegedly harassed a motorist who, admitted, drove one way, but the essence is not to harass anybody, but to be firm and civil,” he said. Hamzat said that the essence of LASTMA and other government agencies was to make life comfortable for all. “Everyone should do their jobs and we should also obey traffic laws. No agency of government must harass any citizen. That is not the job. “This is also to advise Lagosians, you are not to pay into any government official’s personal account. “There is no situation that will warrant that. If that happens, LASTMA has official numbers, likewise other agencies that you can lodge complaints with,” he said. Also, the General Manager of LASTMA, Mr Olawale Musa, said a total of 34 LASTMA officers had been dismissed from the agency in the last one year. Musa said measures had been put in place to discipline erring officials. He asked members of the public, especially motorists, not to be apprehensive of the fines being circulated on social media platforms. Musa said that measures were in place to restore sanity to Lagos roads. (NAN)  