Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc has been recognized for its human resource practices, reaffirming its status as a leading employer brand at the HR People Magazine Awards 2019 Awards held recently in Lagos. Stanbic IBTC won the Best Training, Learning & Development Strategy 2018 and the Outstanding Employee Engagement Strategy 2018 Awards.  This makes it the third consecutive year the organisation will be adjudged best among peers for outstanding employee engagement strategy, having received the award back-to-back for 2016, 2017 and most recently 2018. These awards come on the back of winning an unprecedented five of a total of nine categories at the same awards last year. Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, Yinka Sanni, said that winning awards in Human Resources underlines Stanbic IBTC’s strategy of growing a responsible, disciplined, motivated and highly productive workforce. It also reinforces the company’s strong management, systems and its leadership in the Financial Services industry. According to Sanni, being selected for recognition is a constant reminder for us to always strive to epitomize one of our eight core values, which is to constantly raise the bar. He said that the organisation will continue to up-skill its people and provide them with the most conducive environment, the right tools and adequate incentives to win their commitment as well as grow its people which is a testament to Stanbic IBTC’s continuous investments in its human capital and the establishment of people-friendly procedures and practices. “We are indeed grateful to the organisers for these awards and are delighted to be recognised for our strong human capital strategies and deliberate and consistent investments in our people. For us, a highly motivated workforce, one that can deliver better services, is a function of the level of investment in our human capital for professional and personal development that helps to create a productive workforce whilst fulfilling individual career aspirations,” Sanni said.