THE Akarigbo of Remoland, His Royal Majesty, Oba Babatunde Adewale Ajayi,  Torungbuwa II, has paid a historic visit to the Ayangbure of Ikorodu, His Royal Majesty, Oba (Engr.) Kabiru Adewale Shotobi, at his palace in Ikorodu, Lagos State. The Ogun monarch’s visit marked the beginning of renewed cultural and economic ties between the two neighboring kingdoms. Speakers at the event explained that the visit is the most historic one since the 1933 creation of the old Remo division. The colourful visit, which had numerous other traditional rulers and prominent indigenes of the two kingdoms in attendance, according to Oba Ajayi, was meant to further cement a cordial relationship between the two sister-kingdoms. “Ikorodu is an important part of Remoland and it is very important that we do this so as to promote the things that unite us and explain away the things threatening to divide us. I am in Ikorodu on a family visit,” the Akarigbo said. The two monarchs endorsed Otunba Yinka Lawal Solarin as the Bashorun-Oga (traditional ambassador between the two towns). Oba Ajayi presented Solarin to the Ayangbure after the later made a request for the establishment of an ambassadorial position that would maintain the relationship between the two towns. Prominent traditional rulers who witnessed the historic renewal of ties included Oba Adewale Osiberu, Elepe of Epe, Shagamu, Oba Mukaila Olabinjo, Eleposo of Eposo-Ode Remo, Oba Basiru Sotonwa, Sekumade of Ipakodo, Ikorodu and many other monarchs from Lagos and Ogun states. Speaking at the event, Oba Shotobi said: “Irrespective of the geographical boundary and political space between us, we must not allow our relationship to suffer. We must maintain our connections. That is why this visit is historic. Now, we will begin to renew all our ties.”  Also present were Asiwaju S.K Onafowokan, Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya, Asoju Oba Kazeem Ogbara, Dr. (Chief) Mrs. Tokunbo Dosunmu-Awolowo, Agbaakin Ayodele Elesho, Otunba ‘Dare Odufowokan, Sen. Seye Ogunlewe, former Minister of Works, Otunba  David  Ekiyoyo, amongst others. 