The Deeper Life Bible Church is set to host its maiden edition of the “Mega Summit” for young professionals across various professions. It is part of plans to augment Federal Government’s nation-building efforts. The summit tagged: “Gaining the edge”, will run concurrently with the graduation ceremony of over 800 young Nigerians, who participated in the third edition of the church’s Skills Acquisition Programme (SAP 3.0) at the main bowl of its auditorium in Gbagada, Lagos on Saturday. The programme, which is being organised in conjunction with the Young Professionals Forum (YPF) of the ministry, is intended to bring together about 5,000 young adults to discuss salient issues relating to career growth and development, becoming an entrepreneur, growing individual businesses and remaining focused in the midst of the challenges facing the larger society. The overall goal of the programme is promoting integrity and hard work in their various fields of endeavour. The YPF Mega Summit is an annual leadership and capacity-building event for young professionals. It is a rounded programme for the development of the different dimensions of young adults on their way to greatness and becoming responsible leaders in the society. With this maiden edition, the organisers hope to expose participants to insights that will either help them land their dream job, grow on their current job or build their own business. “Seasoned speakers with hands-on experience will facilitate on contemporary professional expertise needed to excel in today’s workplace and businesses,” Daniel Bamigbayan, President of the YPF, said. Speaking ahead of the programme, Bamigbayan said preparations for the event have been in top gear. He also expressed optimism that the programme will reach the target audience in the society. “In YPF, integrity is our watchword and we intend to inculcate it in our colleagues in the larger society; this programme is the maiden edition and we have specifically invited various reputable speakers from all walks of life with the grand patron, Dr. William Folorunsho Kumuyi, as the chief host,” he said. On the sidelines of the summit is the graduation of over 800 young Nigerians, who were taught various skills as a way of empowering them to be gainfully employed and also to become employers of labour, thereby assisting government to reduce the spate of unemployment. The Skills Acquisition Programme (SAP), which started officially in 2018, with training in website design, digital marketing, Laptop & Phone repairs, pastry and mixology, event decoration among others, graduated 365 and 602 beneficiaries in the first and second edition of the programme. The high-point of the event will be the presentation of certificates of participation to over 800 successful participants of the third edition of the Skill Acquisition Programme.