The Bank of Industry (BoI) has disbursed $82million to some indigenous investors for the purchase of ships. The cash covers support for companies involved in ship repairs and allied investments. The money represents a part of the $200million fund under Nigeria Content Intervention Fund (NCIFUND). The Managing Director of BoI, Kayode Pitan, who spoke at the maiden edition of Nigeria Maritime Finance Fair in Lagos, said the funds provided have created 3,117 jobs across the country. The forum was organised by the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON), with: Banks/Private Sector Participation as a panacea for dearth of investment in the Maritime Industry as theme. Represented by a senior official of the Bank, Victor Agina, he explained to stakeholders that companies with about 51 per cent Nigerian equity, and which also sources at least 40 per cent of its raw materials locally, are eligible for the bank’s loans. He further explained that the NCIFUND is being managed in partnership with Nigerian Content Development and Monitoting Board (NCDMB), adding that the activities being financed must be connected to the oil & gas sector and that the beneficiaries must be contributors to the Nigerian Content Development Fund (NCDF). He added that borrowers under the NCDF scheme are entitled to facilities with a five-year tenor inclusive of one year moratorium. He, therefore, urged the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) to partner the bank in the management and disbursement of its Cabotage Vessels Finance Fund (CVFF) . Also speaking at the event, NIMASA Director-General, Dakuku Peterside, reiterated the agency’s commitment to  ending  waiver regime within its earlier stipulated timelines. Represented by Director in charge of Cabotage Services, Victor Egejuru, said efforts are ongoing to upgrade existing shipyards and  support new shipyard facilities. He added that the delay in disbursement of the CVFF, also has to do with ongoing amendment in the Cabotage Act. Although he regretted that the eighth National Assembly (NASS), was unable to complete the amendment to the Cabotage Act, Peterside nonetheless expressed optimism that the ninth National Assembly will expedite action on the legislation.