The All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Southsouth on Saturday announced the ceding of the position of Deputy Senate President to the zone by the national leadership of the party. The zonal APC immediately adopted Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (Delta Central) as its candidate for  the position. Former Abia State governor, Orji Uzor Kalu (South East), former Kano State governor, Kabiru Gaya (North West) and Senator Francis Alimikhena (Edo North) are also eyeing the position. The APC Chairman for the Southsouth, Mr. Hilliard Eta and the Zonal Secretary, David Okumagba said though both Alikikhena and Omo-Agege are qualified for the position, they settled for Omo-Agege because Edo State has already produced the National Chairman of the party. They said: “the Zonal Working Committee acting on behalf of the Zonal Executive Committee, Elders and Leaders of the South-South geopolitical zone of our great Party, the All Progressives Congress, (APC) wishes to state categorically that we align ourselves with the decision of the national leadership of our great party in respect of the zoning of the Principal offices of the 9th National Assembly. “We commend our respected leader, President Muhammadu Buhari for his sterling leadership of the affairs of our great country and our illustrious son, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for his sound administrative experience in piloting the affairs of our great Party. “The leadership of the South-South Zone is fully in support of Mr. President.  Our zone has been given the opportunity by our great Party to produce the Deputy Senate President for the 9th National Assembly and we are thankful. “It is important to state that our two illustrious sons, Distinguished Senators Francis Alimikhena from Edo State and Ovie Omo-Agege from Delta State had indicated interest to contest for the office of the Deputy Senate President.  Both of them are eminently qualified for that office as both are ranking Senators. “However, considering the current zoning of political offices in our zone whereby Edo State produced the current National Chairman of our great Party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and other considerations, it became imperative that our zone supports the candidature of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for the office of the Deputy Senate President. “The South South geo political zone had demonstrated uncommon faith, courage and vigour in the just concluded general elections by voting massively for candidates of our great Party at all levels. We implore all Distinguished Senators to please stand by us and support Senator Ovie Omo Agege for the position of Deputy Senate President.”