Technology has made things easier and faster for us that we could possible do everything business-related on the smartphones. With the help of some specially designed apps, you can easily transact and manage your business without conforming to the conventional means. As as entreprener, there are a whole lot of apps that could help make your business easier and enable you manage your business. Here are 5 apps that you need on your phone so that you can join the moving train: Dropbox is a useful app for sharing files with your PCs, your other devices and even other people.  This app is extremely handy for sharing files with people, which prevents back-and-forth emailing.  All you need do is share your files to the internet, with your Dropbox. You can readily access those saved content from any of your synced devices. Dropbox is available for both iOS and Android. 2. Ever Note Use Ever note to create digital notebooks for everything from managing your calendar and other plans. It does all the organisation of your business expenses for you. It allows you to write and store notes, files, screenshot, record audio notes and access them from anywhere. The app is compatible with iOS, Android and Windows. 3. Uber You need a way to get around when your car won’t start or you’re running too late to take the bus. That’s exactly where Uber comes in to play.  Book an Uber to quickly and comfortably to where you are going. 4. LinkedIn LinkedIn is a social networking site designed specifically for the business community. The app is for people who wish to network and meet business people.  It enables you to network and to build your professional portfolio, it serves as a virtual mixer in which you have the opportunity to rub elbows with the best in the business. To use the platform effectively, start with a well-built portfolio. Get on LinkedIn and use it to build your business and meet and connect with like-minded professionals. 5. Hoot Suite If you’re an entrepreneur in this our present age, You need an online presence and a brand. This is why you need to increase traffic on your website, social media platforms and publicize your business. Managing your social media accounts can be quite exhausting. Hoot suite helps make social media marketing more efficient. You can schedule posts among all sorts of platforms and then later check out their analytics reports to help you understand what engages your audience best. Planning social media in advance is a great way to ensure the content you want to have shared, gets shared and timely posts for holidays, specials, or events are always on time.