Musa Mohammed from Abuja and Omolayo Bamidele from Ekiti State have emerged champions of the second edition of the Zenith Bank Next – Gen Masters which ended at the National Stadium Surulere Tennis Centre Saturday. Several hundred spectators sat out a four-hour rain delay in anticipation of an upset victory by the unseeded Emmanuel Jebutu who had upset the No.1 seed and tournament favourite, Philip Abayomi, 3-6, 6-4, 10-6 in the semifinals. However, Jebutu who was without a doubt the revelation of the tournament fell short as 19-year-old Musa, the second seed, came from a set behind to win 2-6, 6-4, 10-6. The Abuja-based Musa who  was given a wild card to play in the ITF World Tour events in Abuja in March was totally overwhelmed  by his younger but roundly talented opponent and had to fall back on his experience to play a more consistent and patient game to win. Bamidele had no such challenge in the girls’ finals as she swept away Favour Moses 6-0, 6-4 to win her first Masters title. The girls’ final was a huge anti-climax as the two semifinals the previous day had been outstanding nerve-racking performances. Bamidele recovered from 3-9 down in the 10-point match tiebreak to beat Jumai Mohammed 14-12 in the finals set saving nine match points along the way, while Mohammed failed to convert 11. In the other semifinal, Moses who held two match points at 9-7, saw herself face a match point at 9-10 but rallied to win 12-10. “It was a hugely entertaining tournament,” said Godwin Kienka, director of the International Tennis Academy, organisers of the Masters’ event. “Every player in the tournament, boys and girls, thoroughly justified their selection and we hope they will take over the seniors in no distant future. The ITA Junior Circuit with our partners is offering a bonus sum of N500, 000 to any 2019 Masters player who wins the CBN Senior singles event.” Kienka said. Mr Lanre Oladimeji, head retail banking of the sponsors, Zenith Bank, said he was highly impressed with the very high standard displayed by the players. “As a tennis player myself I can say with some confidence that if a very young talent like Jebutu is nurtured along with the others we shall have Nigerian players in the Grand Slams in a few years.