Mr Segun Akani who is the immediate past personal assistant to the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland Otunba Gani Adams, has raised alarm over plans to eliminate him. Akanni also posted a video of how he was attacked at Mobil Filling Station at Gbagada on Wednesday by certain elements suspected to be members of the Oodua Peoples Congress, (OPC) a pan Yoruba ethnic/cultural organisation which was co-founded by the late Dr Fredrick Fasheun and Otunba Adams in the late 90s. His statement ‘My life is in danger!!!’ which he posted on his Facebook page at the wee hour of Thursday, is currently generating reactions from friends and loved ones especially those who knew his activities in OPC where he was initially a personal assistant to Adams’ who is OPC National Coordinator and later as aide, to the office of the Aare Ona Kakanfo, following Adams’ appointment as the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land by the Alaafin of Oyo in January last year. However, Adams absolved himself of the allegation, saying Akani is suffering from irrelevance after being sacked from the group. Speaking with The Nation early Thursday, Akani said he had gone to meet an old friend at the Mobil Filling Station in Gbagada when some hoodlums suddenly emerged from nowhere and attacked him. “I have a strong feeling some people are after my life. I do not know what I did to them,” Akanni told The Nation ”I have fixed an appointment with an old friend at Mobil Filling Station in Gbagada. Unfortunately, my car was not in good condition but I had to manage it there. ”On getting to the place, I met this old friend and after exchanging pleasantries, we were both examining the car I brought because I complained to my friend how the wheels of the car were unstable. Suddenly, a group of men emerged from nowhere. They started calling me ole! Ole!! (thief), ‘traitor’ They started chasing me all around. One of them brought out a tyre and wanted to set me ablaze. I had to run across the express to the police station in the opposite direction. It was the policemen on duty that eventually rescued me and led me back to the filling station to pick my car. “Ever since I left oga (referring to Adams), I have moved on with my life, so I do not know why I should be a target of elimination by certain elements.’ Akanni recalled how he relinquished his role in December following some allegations levelled against him; which he described as untrue. Nonetheless, he added that both he and his former boss parted ways in peace while he took his fate philosophically. Nonetheless, Adams challenged Akani to take his case to the police for investigation. He said: “Since he (Akani) knows those who attacked him, why can’t he inform the same police that rescued him to arrest and investigate those who attacked him?” “Why should I attack him? I’ve watched the video several times over. The attack took place in Gbagada, I live in Omole here. To get to Gbagada from here is no child’s play.” “We are a peace-loving people. I remember Some of our members left us in 2005, and 2007, did we victimise or attack them? Although I sacked him because he committed some misdemeanours, I have since moved on. I think he is suffering from irrelevance since he’s no longer with us. Therefore, he should not lump OPC to what we are not answerable to.”