Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has restated President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s commitment to securing the release of Leah Sharibu and remaining abducted Chibok schoolgirls. He spoke during a meeting with his United States (U.S) counterpart Mike Pence in the White House, U.S.). Both leaders affirmed the mutual benefits inherent in a deeper bilateral relationship between both countries. Osinbajo and Spence discussed economy and military assistance, among other issues, and affirmed the need for continuous observation of the rule of law. They also noted Nigeria’s pride of place in Africa and America’s reputed global leadership. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, said the leaders also discussed how to counter extremism and global terrorism. On security challenges and military assistance, Osinbajo thanked the Donald Trump administration for its support on the purchase order for Tucano aircraft, stressing that such military equipment will help the Federal Government in the battle against terrorism and insurgency. On the efforts being made to secure the release of Leah Sharibu, Prof. Osinbajo expressed the commitment of the Buhari administration to continuing to negotiations for her release and that of the remaining Chibok girls. “Over 100 of the Chibok girls that were abducted even before President Muhammadu Buhari came into government have been released under the Buhari administration,” Osinbajo said, adding that most of the Chibok girls (90 per cent of them) were also Christians. The statement quoted Spence as appreciating Nigeria’s efforts and offered U.S.’ support in ensuring the release of the girls still being held. ”I appreciate the perspective on Leah Sharibu. I am aware of the sensitive nature of her plight,” Pence was quoted as saying, admitting that the released girls are mainly Christians. Recalling how Buhari was himself attacked by Boko Haram terrorists in 2014, Osinbajo said the President believe that anyone who kills an innocent person and then says ‘God is great’ is either insane or simply does not understand what he is saying. Prof. Osinbajo described the U.S. as a natural ally of Nigeria. “Nigeria and U.S. have many things in common,”, he said, noting that with Nigeria being the largest economy in Africa, its market offers great opportunities to U.S. investors. Osinbajo said his visit to the White House would further deepen the relationship between the two nations and their citizens. On economic matters, Mr. Pence said: “Nigeria is a great country with a history of 200 million people, that’s a great nation. I want to see Nigeria prospering more.” “I am grateful that you reached out; the door is open for more dialogue.” He said Nigeria should continue to pursue reforms in the economy and encourage an independent judiciary, adding that the rule of law will contribute to Nigeria’s future. On economic diversification, Osinbajo said the Federal Governmentv was deepening manufacturing and trying to reform the power sector to allow for more investors. He appreciated the support of USAID through its Power Africa initiative that has been helping Nigeria to further open the space in the power sector.  