Idris Mamman Durkwah’s steady rise to the high echelon of the Nigerian highly competitive and bureaucratic Federal Civil Service Structure attests to a dint of hard work, knowledge, resilience and integrity. Durkwah, the Director Finance, Federal Ministry of Agriculture, is a Borno – home boy and bureaucrat who had traversed the private and public sectors with excellence and distinction. He is a Nigerian so passionate and grieved about the plight of his people, peeved at the height of devastation wrought by the insurgency in the North-East, which is unprecedented in Nigeria history. International agencies reported casualties of over 40, 000 people, and 177, 000 Nigerians refugees in the neighboring countries of Cameroon, Chad and Niger Republic, to date an estimated 14.8 Million people have been affected directly and indirectly by the insurgency In the North – east according to agencies reports. The tragic occurrence in the region is one of the most urgent humanitarian crises in the world today. The worrisome situation in his Borno home-stead made large number of people and opinion leaders to prevail upon Durkwah to gun for the topmost Borno Job; thus he ran in the primaries of All Progressives Congress that produced the newly sworn in Governor Professor Baba Gana Zulum. The election is now a subject of litigation. Durkwah and his followers claimed the process was manipulated, skewed to favour Professor Baba Gana Zulum and that there was no primary election at all. Dukwah strongly contested that he was the favourite candidate and there was no elections in Borno APC, for which he has approached the courts for adjudication. Durkwah ran a robust campaign based on issues that attracted large followership and received the blessing and support of major stakeholders and the foremost monarch the Shehu of Borno, who poured encomiums on him for being the candidate with the best credentials and who already had a blue print captioned “Road to a New Borno” that is comprehensive and proffering solutions to the myriad of problems plaguing the insurgency torn State. Expectedly, his foray into politics and dash back to his post in the public service generated lots of controversy as to the propriety of the action; unknown to many of the critics, the 1999 constitution and the Electoral Acts provides for a civil servant to vote and be voted for with a proviso; he resigns from his responsibilities abnitio 30 days before such elections and the right to resume having observed required formalities. Durkwah’ blue print for his home State Summarily amongst others posits that: North East and Borno in particular needs massive humanitarian intervention, and to forge a truly sustainable peace there must be a comprehensive programme of development to revitalize the economy. In spheres of agriculture, solid minerals, re-invigorate local entrepreneurs, facilitate the organs of the state’s natural resources and leverage on the geographical location of Borno State to reposition as an investment destination and regional hub. Idris Durkwah’ executive Summary for Borno in verbatim, States that: “the needs of Borno people are basic. I have reviewed our past and situated against it and against the present, so I can project into the future. Key in my discovery from my extensive consultations and investigations is that the people need peace, happiness, and prosperity. “They also believe that these should come through the regular provision of adequate health care, good and appropriate education, quality infrastructure and utility, including roads, water supply and power. “They also desire jobs, empowerment and good incentive and environment for commerce and business. Sectors like Agriculture, Justice and Fair play, housing, and greater concern for women and children are top amongst issues deserving consideration.
Continue on Page 2