After a disappointing outing at the China Open, Aruna Quadri has been considered one of the seeded players in the ITTF World Tour Hong Kong Open which serves off with the preliminary round. Also in the June 2019 ranking released by ITTF, Quadri remains 23rd rated player in the world, holding onto his status as Africa’s best. Thirty-two top players were seeded for the Hong Kong Open. Quadri is seeded number 15 and expected to start his campaign from the main draw tomorrow. Egypt’s Omar Assar has slid from the top 53 to 65 in the ranking but he remains the second best player in Africa. Also since being elevated to the highest of all in March 2018, for the 15th consecutive edition, China’s Fan Zhendong retains his no.1 position, on the men’s world rankings. As in the May listings, he remains ahead of colleagues Lin Gaoyuan and Xu Xin with Japan’s Tomokazu Harimoto once again in the no.4 spot. Notably, even though winning the men’s singles title on home soil at the recently concluded Seamaster 2019 ITTF World Tour Platinum China Open, Ma Long remains at no.5 ahead of Timo Boll of Germany, who changes places with China’s Liang Jingkun. Similarly, Brazil’s Hugo Calderano retains his no.8 spot ahead of Mattias Falck, previously at no.11, at the time the best of his career, the no.9 spot is yet another new high for the Swede. Korea’s Jang Woojin and Lee Sangsu each drop one place, being ahead of Germany’s Dimitrij Ovtcharov who completes the top 12 names; in the May list, he occupied the no.15 spot. New heights for Mattias Falck; it is the same for Tomislav Pucar, a semi-finalist on home turf at the Seamaster 2019 ITTF World Tour Croatia Open, he continues his policy of achieving new heights. Starting the year at no.70; in May he had climbed to no.43, now he stands at no.39. Progress; there is also a major progress for Poland’s Jakub Dyjas, England’s Paul Drinkhall and Puerto Rico’s Brian Afanador, all players who excelled on the Seamaster 2019 ITTF Challenge Series in May. 