The National President of National Association of Private Schools (NAPPS), Dr. Sally Adukwu Bolujoko has called the Federal Government to review the nations’ education curriculum to meet the standard of the 21st century. He also urged governments and relevant stakeholders to address the quantum of social vices presently confronting the lives of Nigerian children. Bolujoko who stated this in Minna, Niger state, said the current curriculum no longer meet the educational requirement of the Nigerian child. “The 21st century education is driven by technology. The education curriculum should be learner-centered rather than teacher-centered. It should be designed to address the future and survival needs of the children rather than examination and certificates needs.” He explained that Nigerian kids are facing unprecedented challenges such as insecurity, violence, deprivation, insurgency, abject poverty, poor access to quality education and health care, child trafficking as well as child abuse The president NAPPS who spoke through the Niger state vice President of the association, Mrs. Debby Kato decried the number of out of school children in the nation roaming the streets, despite claim of increase in school enrollment in the country. “The number of out of school children in Nigeria is quite alarming. About 10 million or more are currently out of school. Over two million are in various IDPs camps across the nation with no hope for any meaning full future. “The state of Nigerian education is quite pathetic. Littered all over the country are dysfunctional dilapidated school buildings with poorly motivated teachers. “Speaking, the Executive Director of Niger state Private Schools board, Alhaji Yakubu Garba commended the efforts of proprietors of NAPPS in the educational sector in the state. On the issue of out of school children in the state, Garba stated, “No child is supposed to be out of school in Niger because, we offer education free. Any child you see on the street is the fault of the parent. “Whether, they have no uniforms or books, we have told teachers to allow them to be in school. And because of the interest government has for education, the state is prepared to partner with private schools because, it cannot do it alone.” Earlier, the Chairman of Chanchaga Chapter of NAPPS in the state, Mr. Femi Olalade called on parents to sincerely evaluate relationships with their children and where they failed, make the necessary correction to ensure they turn out as responsible members of the society. “When parents are seriously busy, children can spend more time with unpredictable maids, instead media content, and their peers than parents. This often instils bad influence their lives and this is the cause of misconduct.” 