A youth leader in Kom-Kom, Oyigbo Local Government Area of Rivers State, who witnessed last Saturday’s pipeline explosion, has blamed the accident on policemen who “came to collect bribe from the vandals”. According to him, the policemen fired the shots that ignited the fire but immediately disappeared from the scene. The vandalised pipeline, which belongs to the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC), a subsidiary of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), supplies petrol and other refined petroleum products from the Port Harcourt refinery to Abia State and other parts of the Southeast. Police spokesman Nnamdi Omoni said the Commissioner of Police, Usman Belel, had ordered an investigation into the matter, particularly the alleged involvement of some policemen. Omoni insisted that the allegation was still at the realm of speculation, noting that the report of the investigation would rest the speculation. He, however, stressed that anyone found culpable would be dealt with in accordance with the law. Spokesman of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Akin Oguntuase, said: “Reports reaching me shows that our men have found some casualties. I may not be able to state the exact number now, for there may be other casualties from other parts.” It was gathered on Monday from that a couple, an expectant mother and two brothers were part of the victims. A community leader, who pleaded for anonymity, said: “Besides the couple, expectant mother and brothers, another family also lost three of their teenage sons and some children under 10. It was also learnt that some bereaved families had buried their dead. A community leader, who spoke in confidence, said: “Besides the couple, pregnant woman, two brothers of the same parents that lost their lives to the pipeline explosion, another family also lost three of their teenage sons and some children under 10. “The pipeline was actually leaking so the vandals connected hoses to it and built a barricade around it to stop the leakage. But the leakage overflowed the barricade last Saturday and this attracted more scoopers.” It was also gathered that the new surveillance contractor, UTM, who was engaged about three weeks ago, was about reporting the leakage to PPMC when the explosion happened.