Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, has mobilised support for a former Police Affairs Minister, Alaowei Broderick Bozimo to emerge as President of the Ijaw National Congress (INC) in the forthcoming convention of the body. The governor, in a statement by his Special Adviser, Media Relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, advocated for a rancour-free, fair INC convention on June 29. The governor spoke during a meeting with leaders of the Western Zone including INC Presidential hopeful, Bozimo, in Warri, Delta state. Dickson said it was important to have an arrowhead, with name, reputation, capacity and understanding of the issues and challenges facing the Ijaws of the Niger Delta, as INC President, especially with current realities in the nation. He called on the members in the Western Zone to support the former Police Affairs Minister to become INC’s next president especially at this critical moment when the country was faced with challenges. He said: “We are in unusual times in the Nigerian nation, most of you have seen my views, on issues affecting our people. The Ijaw nation is also at a turning point. There are many unusual things going on. “We are observing what is happening in the country, people have been holding meetings, , I have been briefed on so many meetings going on. “All those who are contesting are eminently qualified, but after consultations, we need to talk to people. We need to talk to people to join the team. Prevailing on somebody to run for a particular position should not be seen as disrespect to others. “The Ijaw nation needs an arrow head. The job requires concerted action. We need an arrowhead, with name, reputation, capacity, understanding of the issues. “We compelled Alaowei to come out to run as we compelled Sekibo. INC service is not a political party. I support the need to have somebody of the pedigree of Bozimo at the INC, at this point in our nation’s history”. Dickson expressed support for Alaowei Bozimo’s candidacy while thanking other contestants from the zone for offering themselves for service, saying they were eminently qualified to lead the INC. The governor assured the convention would be free and fair as there would be no imposition of candidates on the foremost Ijaw body. He appreciated stakeholders for their concerted effort in resolving all the contending issues in the INC, explaining that elections would have taken place last year but for the general election, his mother’s death amid other challenges. Bozimo, said despite his age, he was knowledgeable and well-experienced, having served in various capacities including, Minister of Police Affairs during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration and others. Bozimo said he has been fastidious about the development of the Ijaw Nation and would continue to champion the rights of the people. He thanked Dickson, who he noted has demonstrated humility, for his relentless effort in speaking for his people, and prayed God uplift him to the highest position of leadership of the country in the future. 