Sir: A sizable number of Nigerian political fathers don’t evoke envy of real sorts by their actions, they have sold embarrassment, and made shame look like Italian hand cut and sewn suits. Fatherhood in Nigeria isn’t easy, not when government thinks all you deserve is a paltry N1000 a day and governors themselves fathers who earn millions legitimately and billions illegitimately don’t think you deserve it or are even willing to pay it. When our fathers dishonour themselves on several floors of states assembly, or the National Assembly throwing chairs, what kind of future fathers are we raising? I often say fatherhood is great, because you can ruin someone from scratch. So how are you building a better Nigeria through the kids you are raising? It’s a vogue and fashionable that most homes today practically have maids, parents are working class, no pun intended. However, who leaves kids all under the age of 15 in the hands of another 15 year old and expects those kids to be raised any better? How much time do fathers spend with their kids? Besides the public show of affection by fathers for their wives which is akin to the hypocritical love and unity preached by our political fathers, don’t we see the rise domestic violence a reflection of the hatred and lack of tolerance evident in the Nigerian society? So, like our chief daddies in the APC, PDP, it’s really sad that they don’t realize that having children is like living in a frat house — nobody sleeps, everything’s broken, and there’s a lot of throwing up, and their responsibilities include but not limited to keeping that house in order, showing love, living by example. How could I forget that a lion begets a lion and most times the current crop of fathers are ominous signs of danger ahead, raison d’être for ‘Sniper’ drinking fragile minds or crazed entitlement seeking gullible youths. A former governor and his son are guests of the EFCC, another has been in public circle (note, public circle, not public service) for five decades, he eats that which belongs to him, and eats that which belongs to his children, and the children’s children; in another case steals that which is meant for children’s children’s-children with reckless abandon. Fathers have lost shame by their actions while other fathers live in shame by their inactions. The days where fathers raised the children of the community are behind us, as these days’ fathers are lazy while children are either left to fend for themselves and in some cases for their fathers. So are the likes of Olusegun Obasanjo, Ibrahim Babangida, Ernest Shonekan, Yakubu Gowon; are they proud fathers? Is this the Nigeria bequeathed to them? And do they at the council of states with small fathers called governors think about the future of their children, or they are only concerned about their interests?