Relief is finally available for small business owners in the capital city with the advent of an initiative called #myabjhustle. The event which recently held at River Plate Park, Wuse 2 on the 26th of May 2019, is the brain child of a young man, Ikenna Chidoka and was attended by manyvendors of various online businesses with good  customers turn out. According to Chidoka, the Small Business Owners Initiative events  is a concept to connect people with Products and services of Online based businesses through fairs. It is meant to create the physical environment for producers and customers to meet and mingle, he said. He said,: “We believe nothing still beats the face to face meetings as regards sales. It creates trust among parties. The fair has come free to both vendors and attendees. By this way we are creating immeasurable reach to our corporate sponsors.” The young entrepreneur said based on the success of the Abuja event, they have decided to make it national. ‘The Small Business Owners Initiative is organising The National Small Business Owners Expo Week, December 6 – 8, 2019 in Kano, Abuja, Owerri and Lagos. “The Expo is to promote the importance of small businesses in Nigerian Communities, hence the name #My9jaHustle, and is to be held in 4 locations simultaneously. Never been done before. “As part of giving back, our system is also designed for business owners to make some money through their social media handles when they share adverts from our platforms. The money can be used to pay utilities on our site or they can simply just withdraw the money. He said the idea “is to do fairs in every single state. So, we have a website that we’ve developed, whereby we have business community leaders in each state. So far now, we have four states which we are trying to do the second pilot programme. We’ve done the first pilot programme here in Abuja and it was very successful. “For now, were moving to four states. Our plan is to have be having 36 events at the same time, in 36 states. Every quarter we’ll have what you call National Small Business Owners Expo Week. Exhibition week. “So, they will come together, once a quarter to exhibit what they have in their state and invite people to buy at discounted rates and make connections.” Chidoka, who said he currently foots the bills of the event, hopes that in the future it will attract sponsors up to states or federal government level.