The Director-General of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, has said the corps will not deploy corps members to states with security challenges. He assured parents and Nigerians, especially parents that NYSC place a high premium on the safety of corps member. The NYSC chief also urged state governments to upgrade facilities at orientation camps across the country, as required by the law. Ibrahim spoke yesterday in Lagos at the opening of this year’s Batch ‘B’ pre-orientation two-day course workshop for senior NYSC officials in Abuja, state coordinators, camp directors and camp commandants. He said: “Permit me to use this forum to remind stakeholders that the NYSC Act puts the responsibility of provision and maintenance of orientation camps on the state governments.  This reminder has become necessary in view of the current dilapidated condition of many orientation camps and the inadequate facilities in others across the country. “Therefore, I wish to renew our appeal to state governments to rise to the occasion by providing permanent camps and upgrading facilities as necessary.” Ibrahim, who was appointed about one month ago, thanked the Lagos State government for supporting the scheme over the years. The NYSC chief especially hailed the government for the “comprehensive renovation of the orientation camp, augmentation of feeding of corps members during orientation course, support during winding-up/passing-out programmes, conferment of honours awards on deserving corps members and the provision of security”. He also thanked the government for allocating a land at Agbowa, Ikorodu, for the construction of a new orientation camp for the state. Ibrahim urged the government to begin work on the land. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat, said the NYSC could deepen its relationship with the government, especially in skills acquisition. The governor gave the example of how the government trained 700 welders for the construction of Lekki-Ikoyi suspended link bridge and how they got juicy offers from oil companies after the project. He said: “Lagos State has a lot of skills acquisition centres that you can actually partner with going forward. I think it is for us to liaise and see works for you and corps members. It is important that our corps members also understand that given the way the world is going, your hands can never deceive you. So, I will give you an example. “When Lagos State government was building the Lekki-Ikoyi link bridge – it is called a suspended bridge. What that means is that not all of the structure rests on pillars but is also suspended by cords; so, it shares that suspension. It is the first in West Africa, and I think the second in Africa. 