A group, the ‘Next Level Programme Coalition (NLPC), has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint the next Secretary to the Government  of  the Federation (SGF) from the Northcentral zone. The group said President Buhari, being a pan-Nigerian leader, must ensure equal distribution of positions among the six geo-political zones in his second term tenure. It added that allotting the sensitive position to the zone would help in clearing the doubt that President Buhari only believed in the Northwest and Northeast, which his critics had been deploying as a campaign weapon to smear the President’s personality and reduced his national status. In a statement by its National President, Dr. Ibrahim Sanni Doguwa, and National  Secretary,  Mr. Olufemi Akanbi, the group said with the confusion and cries of marginalisation in some zones, appointments must spread evenly across the zones to remove the vestiges of concentration of powers in certain areas. It added: “With the way positions have been shared by APC national leaders, the President and Vice President have gone to the Northwest and Southwest, the Northeast is to produce the Senate President, South south, the senate president and southwest the  Speaker. “For the purpose of political balancing, the north central  should produce the next SGF , which is regarded as another pivotal position in the country in the spirit of equity, justice and fair play”. The group reiterated its call for the appointment of former Benue State Governor, Senator George Akume into the position, describing him as a stabiliser and detrabilised Nigerian, who can bring the country together. “Ex-Governor Akume is a bridge between the old and young generation politicians in the country . “Apart from his vast experience in the public service, he is acceptable to all ethnic groups and religious bodies in the country as well as traditional institution. “Aside from the foregoing, he also musters respect and followership across all political parties, including those in the fold of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “Politician if this stuff will add value to governance and bring stability to the country if given a chance to head such a strategic position”, he stated. 