Mr Awe Adegoke, a  medical officer  from the Department of  Dermatology , Obafemi Awolowo University ( OAU) , Ile Ife, Osun, has advised youths  in particular and the general public to always  donate blood to save lives. Adegoke  said that blood donation was voluntary in a press statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria on Sunday. The medical personnel added,  “If you donate blood, you are giving life to someone in need of it. There is no substitute for human blood as scientists are yet to discover that.” The statement said that he spoke at a programme tagged  ” Walk for Life” organised by the Catholic Youth Organization of Nigeria ( CYON) from Ile- Ife. It was organised   to sensitise the public on the dangers inherent in  social vices  such as  committing suicide, abortion, drug abuse,and  premarital sex.    Adegoke said  ” Adults between the ages of 18years and  65 years  and anyone who weighs at least 50kg and is in good health can give blood. “The only exception to this are  pregnant and breastfeeding mothers.” He  said that  by donating blood, the donor would be reducing stress , improving their  emotional well-being and also helped them to  reduce heart diseases. “Donors may experience dizziness, nausea and pain after the exercise. Donors need to drink more water,   eat healthy foods and avoid strenuous activities.” NAN also  reports that the walk  by the youth  started from SS Peter & Paul Catholic Pro-cathedral,  Lagere , and ended at SS John & Paul Catholic Church,  Oranfe. They displayed cardboards with such inscriptions  as : “Life is Precious!”,  “We are Pro-lifers! “, “Say no to Suicide! Say No to Abortion!”, ” Stay Alive! Live! Say No to Drug Abuse!”, ” Say No to Premarital Sex!” while walking around the community. The Parish Priest of SS Peter & Paul Catholic Pro-cathedral, Rev Fr Paul Akinyode,  said that not everyone would take heed to their campaign but all that mattered was  the teachings and the stand of church. “When you walk for life, you truly stand for life. Things happening in our world today are disheartening, the use of drugs is rampant to the extent that when a person is taking soft drink, , you can’t really be sure that its an ordinary drink. “What we are saying with our mouths,  let us live with our lives. We can’t say we believe in life and keep working against life,” Akinyode said. He advised that young people should be brought back to God, and enlightened youths on the  need to use their mobile phones to always spread the truth. Also  the Parish Priest of SS John & Paul Catholic Church,  Oranfe and the Parish Pastoral Council chairman ,  Rev Fr David Olaniyi and Sir Sam Umukoro ,  who welcomed the youth to the parish. Fr Olaniyi  advised them not to do things that were against the purpose of God in their lives.. Olaniyi admonished the youth to always think about the spiritual aspect of everything they did and not just the physical.