A 25-year-old man, Kazeem Jinadu, has appeared before an Abeokuta Magistrate Court sitting  in Isabo for for stealing phones of students of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY) during examination. Jinadu, a resident of Orile-Iganmu, Lagos, is facing a five-count charge of stealing, conspiracy and fraudulent conversion, among others. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The prosecutor Sgt. Adejoke Adebari told the court that the defendant committed the offence on Sunday, March 3 at MAPOLY premises in Ojere, Abeokuta. Sgt Adebari said the complainant,  Oluwafunmilola Sopeju, a Higher National Diploma (HND) student of the polytechnic, kept her bag near the door of the hall  during the exam. After writing her paper, she discovered that her bag containing her phones and ATM cards had been stolen. She alleged that the defendant, who is not a student of the institution, stole the complainant’s ATM cards, Techno Y2 mobile phone worth N18,000, as well as as another Nokia phone valued at N5,000. She also said the defendant stole a Samsung Galaxy tab, and another Techno Y2 belonging to the complainant’s friend one Ayomikun Falegbe. She stated that the defendant was not a student of the polytechnic, but usually gangs up with other miscreants who usually come around during exams to steal students’valuables. Sgt Adebari said when the complainant rushed to the bank to block her GTBank’s ATM, she discovered that  N60,000 had been withdrawn from her account. “A banker’s order was issued and the close circuit of the ATM footage revealed the defendant as the perpetrator. Thereafter, a track was  placed on the complainant’s phone, Sgt Adebari said. He was later arrested at Orile- Iganmu, Lagos through the phone number of a friend. According to the prosecutor, the offence committed is contrary to and punishable under section 383,390 and 516 of the criminal Code Laws of Ogun State 2006. The Magistrate Mrs Sam Obaleye granted the defendant bail in the sum of N100,000 with two sureties. Mrs Obaleye said the sureties must reside within the court’s jurisdiction and must show evidence of tax payment to the state government. The case was adjourned for continuation of trial.