Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Hon. Jumoke Okoya-Thomas, has urged Nigerians to continue to defend democracy as the nation remembers June 12, 1993 Presidential Election won by the late Chief M.K.O Abiola but annulled by General Ibrahim Babangida. Okoya-Thomas also congratulated the newly elected President of the Nigerian Senate, Senator Ahmed Lawan and new Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila. These were contained in a statement released by Okoya-Thomas on Wednesday and signed by her media aide, Mr. Oladipupo Awojobi. Okoya-Thomas recalled that the June 12, 1993 Presidential Election that was annulled by the then military government of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida (rtd.) was a watershed in the political history of Nigeria. The one-time member of the Federal House of Representatives then commended President Muhammadu Buhari for honouring the family of the late Chief M.K.O Abiola last year and for recognising June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day. According to her: “These are best of times for the people of Nigeria. June 12, 1993 Presidential Election has been put in proper perspectives and we have just elected new Senate President and Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives. “The emergence of Senator Ahmed Lawan as the President of the Nigerian Senate and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives. both of the ruling APC is an indication that democracy has taken a right footing in Nigeria. “The fact that the elections of the National Assembly leaders coincided with the celebration of the June 12, 1993 Presidential Election won by the late Chief M.K.O Abiola is a good development and we have cause to celebrate as Nigerians.” The Women Leader used the opportunity to thank Nigerians for voting overwhelmingly for the APC in Lagos State in the 2019 General Elections and for electing President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term. She then promised that Nigerians should expect better performances in the next four years both in Lagos State and at the federal level as the APC is in-charge of both the legislative and executive arms of government in Abuja. “We will not disappoint our people and we all look forward to a robust development both in Lagos State and in Nigeria in the next four years. “The APC is a progressives party and we will not disappoint our people as they reposed their trust in us, which was why they gave us the mandate to be in power in Lagos State and in some other states in Nigeria and voted for President Muhammadu Buhari to rule the country for another four years,” the statement read.