ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff of Yaba LCDA. I have been with Stanbic IBTC Pension since its inception. But just this month, my pension fund was transferred to Leadway Pensure without my authorisation. Please what can I do because I want Stanbic as my pension manager. STANBIC IBTC PENSION: Please note that the policy of the National Pension Commission (PenCom) on multiple registration is the ‘First PIN’ rule which recognises the first RSA PIN generated for a client as the valid one to be maintained. Based on this, Mr Abdulsalam’s first PIN as confirmed by PenCom is the PIN registered with Leadway Pensure. Therefore, his RSA PIN with us was invalidated and the funds transferred to his valid Pension Fund Administrator in January 2019. Kindly note that Mr Abdulsalam was informed of his valid RSA PIN with Leadway via a letter dated October 10, 2018.  We advise that he provides his Leadway PIN to his employer to ensure his RSA is credited timely. However, he can choose to transfer back to us once the transfer window is opened by PenCom. Do note that we also called him today to provide further clarification but our calls were not picked. We would try again before close of business. OLAYORI:  Good day. My name is Olayori. I am a retiree of National Assembly Commission.  I worked as a Legislative Aide to a former Senator. We left National Assembly in 2011 and I have been collecting pension to the tune of N7,872.87 monthly. However, since November last year, the payment stopped. My PFA is IEI-ANCHOR Pension. I will appreciate if you can assist to find out why the payment was stopped. Thank you for your anticipated cooperation. IEI-ANCHOR Pension: We shall look into his case and revert. PENCOM: The relevant department would require the pin of the complainant in order to assist them further ADIGUN: My name is Adigun and my PFA is First Guarantee.  The issue I want to discuss affects all contributory pensioners who were Osun State Government employees that retired in 2016 to date. None of these sets have received either gratuity or pension since they retired. The real problem we are having is not known as we were being fed with lies by various concerned PFAs from time to time. Kindly look into this and advise us on the way out of this predicament. PENCOM: The relevant department would require the PIN of the complainant in order to assist them further. IBRAHIM: My name is              Ibrahim and I work with Nigeria Immigration Service, a DSI by rank. My RSA initially was domiciled with the acquired Amana Pension Limited that was at the time of my documentation at Gwagwalada Para-military Board in 2009. After having registered with Amana before it folded up, my pin was not given to me and I was left in the dark for quite a number of years until IPPIS made me to understand that Sigma Pension acquired Amana Pension. I contacted Sigma and complained. They advised me on new RSA registration and after doing the registration and given the new pin number, they later called me and informed me of an old pin that Amana never gave to me. Sigma later advised me to use the old pin of which I agreed. My complaint now is that, as IPPIS started paying my salary, my pension deduction from Sigma is updating me based on the deduction from the commencement of IPPIS without the previous balance from my RSA hitherto domiciled with Amana. Please I need your help. PENCOM: The relevant department would require the PIN of the complainant in order to assist them further. ABDULLAHI: My name is Abdullahi, my PFA is Trustfund. I retired since 2014 and I did my biodata in August  2018, and after that I went to my PFA Trustfund to request for 25% of my total savings but I was told that PenCom did not send money for MDA and I am now seriously in need of money because my children school fees is becoming a problem. Please I need your quick response. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant in order to assist them further.