The President, Okpekpe Clan Development Union (OCDU), Rotarian Abubakar Shaibu, has called on the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki to complete the Okpekpe Road that his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole couldn’t complete. Okpekpe Kingdom which is now known for the annual Okpekpe International 10 Kilometer Road Race is in Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State. In a chat with Niger Delta Report during the 7th Okpekpe International 10 Kilometer Road Race, Rotarian Shaibu praised the former governor, even as he urged the current governor to emulate him by constructing the remaining 12-kilometer Okpekpe Road which crisscrossed  communities such as Ebelle, Ukhomedokha to Ivioghe of Wanno Clan and Agenebode. A ride to the local government headquarter in Agenebode, which ordinarily should be 30 minutes, lasts for hours because the road that links Agenebode to Okpekpe is impassable. The agrarian community of the kingdom whose farm produce sustains the entire clan has been cut off from other communities due to the bad condition of the road. But for the magnanimity of Oshiomhole, Rotarian Shaibu said, the entire clan would have been difficult to access. The former governor constructed the road on which athletes now compete for honours. Rotarian Shaibu, said: “I call on the current Governor, Godwin Obaseki to use this event (road race) as a reminder that he needs to construct and tar the other part of the road that leads to other communities such as Ebelle and Ukhomedokha of the clan that Oshiomhole could not complete. “I want to use this medium to appeal to Governor Obaseki to come to our aid by linking the communities to the headquarters of the kingdom and that of the local government area.” He commended the Onwueweko of Okpekpe Kingdom, His Royal Highness Peter Abalumhe Osigbemeh. He added that his reign has brought many developments in the community. He commended the organisers of the road race and urged them to consider building a mini-stadium for the competition.