Kogi State Traditional Rulers Council has presented Governor Yahaya Bello to President Muhammadu Buhari for support towards his second term election in November. The monarchs were led to the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, by the Attah Igala, Dr. Michael Idakwo Ameh Oboni. They also pleaded with the President to appoint one of their subjects as a substantive minister in his cabinet and not a minister of state. Briefing State House correspondents after meeting with the President, spokesman of traditional rulers, the Obaru of Kabba, Solomon Dele Owoniyi, who is also the Chairman of Okun Council of Obas, said their meeting with the President was to seek his support for Bello’s second term. According to him, the governor had been endorsed by his people. The Obaru of Kabba said: “We came for three basic things – one to felicitate with and congratulate him for winning the last general elections. “We congratulated him because the election was so hectic and so many Nigerians were confused and they didn’t know what to do. “But to God be the glory at the end of the day; the president came back for the second term and his mandate was revalidated by most Nigerians, especially in Kogi State. “Secondly, we came to pray for him that this last lap is very critical in the checkered history of Nigeria and it is our wish and prayer that all the aspirations of Mr. President will come to fruition without much rancour. ”Since we voted for the president and as usual like Oliver Twist, we must demand our rights. We decided to upgrade the list of our demands from Kogi State. The monarch added: ”I am pleased to inform you, ladies and gentlemen that Mr. President has graciously alluded to most of our requests and has told us to come home and tell our people that he has us at the back of his mind and that he was going to approach most of these issues as they come. “Fourthly, we had to reintroduce our governor to the President. “Some people in social media are already saying we are playing politics. We are not playing politics; we are being realistic.”