Operatives of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team, IRT, have arrested two members of an alleged kidnap gang, for  abducting  two Americans and two Canadians  in Kaduna State in 2018. Sources said four other members of the gang, including its leader , identified simply as Dogo, were gunned down when the policemen  stormed the gang’s camp located in a forest in Kuiere near Kagarko Local Government area of Kaduna State. IThe gang was trailed by IRT operatives, led by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari, to Kagarko forest, and an exchange of  gunfire ensued, during which two members of the gang, Abdulmumini Adamu and Usman Abdulahi escaped bonly to be arrested  later in Kano and Kaduna States. It was gathered that the operatives trailed Adamu to Kano State through the aid of information they gathered from the his camp in Kuiere area of Kaduna State , while Abdulahi was caught in his farm, where he had gone to hide . Recalling their complicity in the kidnapping, Adamu, 20, a native of Igabi Local Government in Kaduna State, said he took active part in the kidnapping of the expatriates and police escorts, Abdulahi, said he was the person supplying food to the kidnappers. “ I am a farmer and a herder. My boss, Dogo, got me involved into kidnapping and in my first  operation we killed two policemen and  took away their rifles and they eventually kidnapped four white people, two of them were  American expatriates  but I don’t know the nationality of the  others two.  We attacked the expatriates along Jere Road at the Southern Kaduna area of the State and an informant gave us the job. ‘’Nine of us persons took part in the attack and five of us were armed with AK-47 rifles while four of us were holding sticks. I was holding a stick, while the people who had guns were in front and when the vehicle got to where we were, my bosses and those with guns started firing and they forced the vehicle conveying the expatriates to a stop. ‘We then killed the policemen providing escorts to the expatriates at the spot; we took them into the bush and we trekked all through the night until we got to the camp in Kuiere, Kaduna State. The expatriates spent three days with us in the camp and we fed them with rice and beans and they ate three times daily and we also gave them bottled- water to drink because they were white people. One of our gang members who  speaks English  contacted the people that paid the ransom. ‘’I don’t know the amount he demanded, but I suspected the amount was around N100 million, but I don’t know the exact amount that was paid.  I got N5million as my share after the ransom was paid. ‘’I bought some cows with my share of the ransom and they are presently with my brother in my village. I was arrested 10 days, after the police burst our camp and I fled Kano State. I was in Kano State to visit my friend and I didn’t know that the police were on my trail and I was shocked they caught me in my friend’s house.’’ Confessing, Abdulahi, 26 said: “ I am married two wives. I am from Kagaroko Local Government Area of Kaduna State, I am a farmer and herder. I am not a kidnapper but I supply food items and food cooking ingredients to feed the kidnappers. Even when they kidnapped the white men I supplied food items with which they were fed. The first time, they didn’t allow me to see the white people. They stopped me at a distance and took the food items from me. ‘’On the second day I took the food items to the kidnappers. When I got there they brought out two of them and took them to a section of the camp where they could make calls and contact their relatives for a ransom. ‘’It was Abdulmumu that contacted me to supply food for the kidnappers and he is the only member of the gang that knows me and he gave me the sum of N1million as my share after the ransom was paid,’’ he added.