Three of the six parties suspected to have been involved in disobeying an order stopping the May 23 National Association of Women Journalists’ (NAWOJ) (Lagos chapter) election, on Monday asked for forgiveness. Adeola Ekine, Abiola Beckley and Yemisi Adeniran apologised to Justice R. Gwandu of the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) when they were accused of contempt. Their counsel, Shakiru Omolaja, pleaded on their behalf after arguing that they did not deliberately disregard the ex parte order. Ekine, the Registered Trustees of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), as well as Ifeyinwa Omowole, Ladi Bala, Beckley and Adeniran are the first to sixth defendants in suit filed by the NAWOJ Lagos State Chapter Chairperson Mrs Sekinah Lawal. Lawal and Adeola were candidates in the chairperson category of the NAWOJ election, but the NICN granted Lawal an interim injunction restraining the defendants from going on with the poll. But Ekine – in unclear circumstances – purportedly won the election and was sworn in as chairperson, following which the judge, on May 30, summoned the defendants. At the commencement of proceedings on Monday, only Ekine, Beckley and Adeniran were available, and the judge expressed displeasure at the women’s conduct. He said: “I’m not happy with you. You held an election; you know that is contempt of court.” “We are sorry,” the three women answered. Judge: “You are mothers, you are wives. Give me one reason why you should go home today. I am really disappointed. You conducted an election against a court order?” “We are sorry,” they apologised again. Judge: “Do you know the meaning of that? The court is not a joking place. Even in that order, I stated that I would give the suit accelerated hearing; yet, you went ahead. If I say now that you are not going home today, who will pick up your children from school, serve food to your husbands?” Omolaja also apologised on their behalf. He said: “Very sincerely, my lord, we are tendering an unreserved apology. The defendants did not deliberately flout the order of court. They were not even aware that the order had been made. Nevertheless, we are tendering a very unreserved apology. We are committed to accelerated hearing of this case.” After ordering the defendants to file their defence, Justice Gwandu adjourned further proceedings till June 25. Besides the suit, some NAWOJ and NUJ officials, including Ifeyinwa Omowole, are also at the centre of an alleged N100 million housing scandal, which is currently before the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). In her May 22 affidavit in support of suit, Lawal averred that Ekine was ineligible to participate in the election, having been disqualified by a seven-man Electoral Committee, which screened candidates for the election. She averred that upon the constitution of the Electoral Committee under the Chairmanship of Grace Ekpoanwan Achum, the committee screened all the candidates for the offices and cleared only candidates that met the requirements of the NUJ Constitution.