Ripples over early agitation for zoning ahead of 2021 governorship election in Anambra State and the worsening party leadership tussle in Abia State are some of the sources of concern for the Victor Oye-led National leadership of All Progressives Grand Alliance, even as Oye struggles to re-establish his leadership of the party, reports Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu Although the 2021 Governorship Election in Anambra State is still more than a year away, the battle for the succession of Governor Willie Obiano has not only kicked off but it has, again, thrown up zoning agitation for the plum office. Insiders said within the ruling party, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), the early emergence of agitation for zoning ahead of the 2021 governorship election may have put the Obiano-led state government under unforeseen pressure. For example, some party stakeholders and other concerned observers raised eyebrows last week when Hon. Uche Okafor, a lawmaker from Obiono’s zone, emerged the new Speaker of Anambra State House of Assembly. His emergence rekindled agitation for equitable distribution of political offices among the component parts of the state. This sentiment, an insider said, was because Okafor, a two term lawmaker, represents Ayamelum State Constituency, in the Anambra North, the same senatorial zone that Governor Obiano comes from. Before the constitution of the current Anambra State’s Assembly, it was speculated that the new Speaker of the House would come from the South Senatorial Zone, since Governor Obiano is from the North while the Deputy Governor, Dr Nkem Okeke, is from the Central. So, Okafor’s emergence, The Nation learnt became a subject of disagreement outside the Assembly even as some top agitators for equitable distribution of offices re-echoed complaints over zoning. Uchenna Onyeoma, an APGA grassroots supporter this week expressed his disappointment over the development in a chat with The Nation. According to him, “We all took it for granted that the office of the Speaker should go to the South, since the North and the Central already have the First and Second citizens respectively. In fact, many APGA chieftains told us that Hon. Pachal Agbodike, who represents Ihiala II State Constituency, was coasting home to emerge the Speaker. Everything changed suddenly when Hon. Okafor emerged unopposed and Agbodike became the Deputy Speaker. We hear that some careful political permutations may have been responsible for this development, but I must be honest with you, in the grassroots, where I belong, this sharing arrangement has sent a wrong signal. We in the South Senatorial Zone are worried.” Perhaps to calm frayed nerves in Anambra State, the national leadership of APGA last week Thursday said it had zoned the position of Anambra State governor in the 2021 election to Anambra South Senatorial District. The party’s National Chairman, Dr Victor Oye, who made this declaration in a statement, also acknowledged that the state governor, Willie Obiano, is from Anambra North, while his predecessor, Peter Obi, is from Anambra Central but explained that the emergence of Okafor, now that the North and Central presently produce the governor and the deputy governor is aimed at ensuring that the South produces the next governor in 2021. According to Oye, “the party was conscious of the governorship zoning arrangement in the state, hence the reason the new Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Uche Okafor, who was picked from Anambra North where Obiano hails from. “The decision to zone the position to the Northern part of the state arose from the simple fact that our party had earlier zoned the governorship position in 2021 to the South Senatorial District,” the statement read in part. The Nation gathered during the week that the issue of zoning, which was reawakened by the emergence of the new Speaker is also causing ripples in the other political parties eying the governor’s seat in 2021. Since the emergence of the current governor, Willie Obiano, when the then outgoing governor of the state, Peter Obi, insisted that it would only be fair to zone the governorship seat to the Northern zone that had up till then never produced a governor in the state, zoning has remained a major issue in the state. But reacting to allegation that Obi was the architect of the politics of zoning in Anambra State, Val Obienyem, media aide to the former state governor, said in a press statement in April that the former governor did not introduce zoning of the governorship position in Anambra State. According to him, “Obi only intervened in 2013 when equity demanded that the Anambra North Senatorial District should produce the next governor of the state because the area had not produced a governor since 1991 when the state was created. He explained that it was necessary “to distinguish between Obi supporting a zone to produce a governor of the state because of equity and creating a zoning arrangement for the governorship of the state. “The former Governor of Anambra State and the PDP vice presidential candidate in the last election, Mr Peter Obi, did not introduce nor contemplate introducing zoning in the governorship elections in Anambra State,” Obienyem said. According to him, what happened in 2013 was more “in the spirit of justice and equity. “It was more of Obi trying to achieve balance of representation to avoid what was clearly unjust and capable of snowballing into a crisis for the state,” he added even as he condemned what he described as reference to Obi by some elements whenever divisive issues came up. We learnt that other leading political parties in the state are studying the recent pronouncement of Oye-led APGA, even as some stakeholders in the state are pushing for the political parties to jettison zoning in their search for the governorship candidate in the forthcoming election. It is on record that many PDP chieftains have continued to push that merit should be counted above zoning in the forthcoming election. For example, Chief Obiora Okonkwo, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Anambra State told The Nation in a recent interview that he is amused by calls by some politicians to zone the office of governor in Anambra State. “Indeed, I do feel amused by that because it is only selfish politicians in Anambra State that will be canvassing for zoning for the position of governor, especially with the state of fatal paralysis we now have. Don’t get me wrong, zoning for me is okay where it is to create a balance and equity. But, that can be done only in non-consequential positions, not for governor. And by the way, what are you zoning in Anambra State? We should be talking about one state, one people, one development. Anambra is a homogenous state. We speak the same dialect. We have the same faith – Christianity hundred percent. The territorial mass of Anambra State is just like a ranch in Texas. There is not much that divides people in that state. We like the same food; we wear the same type of cloth. But, it’s not only politicians that are canvassing for zoning; the Anglican Bishops are also canvassing for zoning. They want the governorship zoned to Anglicans.” Most of the young advocates of an end to zoning in the state say even the Southern Senatorial District had been represented by former Governor Chinwoke Mbadinuju, who was the second executive governor of the state after Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife who hails from Igbo Ukwu. According Okechukwu Madu, “It is wrong to argue that the South has not produced a governor. The truth is that we should by now talk about competence, not zoning, since all the zones; the North, South and Central have produced governors in the state.” In Abia State, APGA, which did very well in the last two governorship elections, is also currently troubled. For some time now, there have been disagreement between two factions over the authentic State Executive Committee (SEC). The crisis deepened last week when the Nkem Okoro-led State Working Committee (SWC), of the party, backed by its governorship candidate in the last election, Alex Otti, reportedly reclaimed the state party’s secretariat in Umuahia. The dramatic action took place barely four days after the party leadership, led by Hon. Nkem Okoro, was announced in the state. The reclaiming exercise by the Otti-led executive commenced with a formal notification and application requesting for security protection officially addressed to CP Etim Ene Okon, the Commissioner of Police, Abia State. The letter dated 7th June, 2019, was signed by the new APGA chairman, Hon. Nkem Okoro. It reads in part: “We write to seek your protection against some impostors masquerading as APGA chieftains from taking over our property/secretariat paid and retained by our party through our Leader, Dr Alex Otti, OFR. “The said property/building, as well as office equipment as provided by Dr Alex Otti, OFR are located at No. 74 School Road, off Ikot-Ekpene Road, Umuahia”. Okoro, who also addressed newsmen at the party’s secretariat after taking over the facility, described the present State Working Committee (SWC) and members of APGA in the state as law-abiding and responsible citizens, adding that his leadership diligently followed due process and legitimate procedure in reclaiming the office without breaching any law and order. In a maiden meeting with members of the SWC and 17 LGA chairmen of the party in the state, Okoro also urged them to “remain steadfast and committed even in the face of provocation from the ‘impostors and political merchants’ who earlier attempted to hijack the party.” The crisis peaked earlier in the month when APGA House of Representatives aspirant for Ukwa East/Ukwa West Federal Constituency in the 2018 primaries, Ejikeme Alozie-Nwagboso, announced his resignation from the party. In a letter addressed to his party’s Ozza Ukwa ward chairman and issued to reporters in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, Nwagboso said he left APGA over what he described as “lack of direction by the Victor Oye-led National Working Committee (NWC) of APGA.” The letter reads in part, “I, via this letter, and in exercise of my constitution and legal rights to belong to a political party of choice, hereby tender my resignation of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, with immediate effect. “I had earlier submitted that the State chairman, Reverend Augustine Ehiemere and the National chairman of APGA, Chief Victor Oye, should step aside, due to their lack of appropriate direction of the party. “It is ethical, as a result, that, I resign the membership of the party at this time. I thank you and every member of APGA for the roles you all have played while as a member”. Following the kind of sentiment expressed by Nwagboso, insiders told The Nation that Oye and his team are now under pressure to wake up and save the party. “Many members are disillusioned. We have made our positions known. It is now left for the national leadership of the party to rise up to the challenges because they need not be told that APGA, a once promising party is dwindling,” said Patrick Ukoma, an APGA supporter in Item, Abia State.