Mr. Afolabi Adedeji, an engineer by training had a stint at the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. Adedeji who  currently sits atop as Chief Executive Officer, Ethical Business & Management Associates [EBAM], in this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf speaks on the merit and demerit of the Road Infrastructure Tax Credit. Excerpts: President Muhammadu Buhari recently signed into law, Executive Order No. 007 of 2019 to be cited as the Companies Income Tax (Road Infrastructure Development and Refurbishment Investment Tax Credit Scheme) Order, 2019 (“EO7 of 2019” or “the Scheme”). In connection with that, last year the federal government approved the sum of over N72billion for the reconstruction of the Apapa corridor up to the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway to the Dangote Group. Do you think there was any justification for the contract? The road you mentioned is very vital. I think it can be classified as an arterial road because it links some many other locations. Apapa in some sense is an arterial road and it’s so important because it leads to the ports and if you continue along that line, it leads to Seme. The Lome Port in Togo for instance, is competing with us for the berthing of ships likewise the Accra Port in Ghana. So if you have a situation where the Tincan Island port and the Apapa Pots that have been there in decades, and there is continuous  gridlock and lockdown as we have been experiencing and the containers can’t leave there, it becomes a challenge and an embarrassment. We are going to lose income from customs and excise duty to the federation accounts as well as the businesses, the tank farms and several others. It’s a dicey situation. The decision to have a road tax is not a new idea. I was a civil servant for a brief period at the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. I’m no more in active service but I’m in touch with my colleagues who are still there. In the field of marketing, there was is what marketers call a hard sell, something that may not be easy to convince buyers to buy. If you go to somebody who is hard pressed and you start saying please open a children’s’ savings account or take an educational endowment policy, you will say look I’m even having difficulty taking up a private annuity policy for my pension in old age. It may be good but how do you convince buyers. Many Nigerians already feel that they are entitled to a paycheck from our oil revenue. So you are now trying to say they should pay an extra charge even if it’s 50kobo, they won’t readily accept. Even the idea of paying tools, you can see how people in Lekki had responded to the Lekki Concession Company. It’s not as if they are poor, even those who work or commute to Lekki are not poor but they feel that it is awkward. They find it unappetizing or unpalatable to pay tolls on the Lekki expressway thus giving some challenges to the LCC. If you start talking of road tax, any government that tries it, they will visit their displeasure on the government at the next election. It is like a conundrum or a dilemma. And it is even an open secret that Nigeria has suddenly become poor. We are borrowing for consumption to pay salaries and wages. I recalled that some reporters did approach me some months ago to comment on the road contract given to the Dangote Group on a 10 years tax waiver basis. People are going to ask you how did you arrive at Dangote. What I said is that why don’t you contact the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) to determine what has been the average annual tax liability of the Dangote Group for the last four to five years then project. If they have been paying say may be N2billion per year as tax plus or minus for the last four or five years, you can now project what is likely tax liability will be for the next 10 years then compare that side-by-side with the cost of rehabilitating Apapa-Oshodi expressway with his company’s resources, so if there is a balance and then some compensation for the risk because some political risk is involved because some other government may come and say see I didn’t discuss this with you let’s get back to the negotiation table, so allow for risk factor. Then you can now have an objective basis of saying he is doing a social service and we have allowed him a tax waiver for 10 years to make it work it worth his while after all he is also a stakeholder in Nigeria. Government cannot do it alone. It may be recalled that Dr. Wale Babalakin, of Bi-Courtney, who got his fingers burnt with the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway project which was cancelled by a new government. Don’t you think such developments would discourage private investors from venturing into such projects? You know I mentioned one point: I said to make it worth the while of private investors; you make an allowance, bearing in mind that it could be a political risk. A new government might come and say we are going back to the negotiation table. Sharing the point of view of those private sector players who have tried to go into partnership with their counterparts at the public sector, they say that government agencies in general see them as inferior partners. That you this private sector people what do you even know about government projects and all that? In the Aviation Ministry for instance, where Bi-Courtney Construction have at least managed for some years, to handle one or two terminal at the Murtala Mohammed Airport, Ikeja, they say they are seen as inferior partners., also tie it in with the Second Niger Bridge at Onitsha, it didn’t exactly work out. Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, in the highway and transportation sector too, was withdrawn one way or another from the Bi-Courtney Group, whose chairman is Dr. Wale Babalakin. Is there any best practice with regards to the PPP project? In Britain the Virgin Atlantic Group, whose head is Sir Richard Branson, has had some successes in the British rail. They gave them some concessions on some railway lines I think in London metropolis and some other intercity lines.  It was a long concession of about 25 or 30 years and one of those concessions would soon end and I hear that there is an exit profit of some tens of millions or hundreds of millions of pounds for the Virgin Atlantic Group. So the experience is a big difference in Britain. When you enter into an agreement with a private sector player as far as possible, let it be sacrosanct and you should try and cushion it or isolate it from political influences even if a new administration comes in, it should respect agreement that has been signed otherwise you are sending the wrong signal that if you partner with government in Nigeria when the administration changes, they would just say they are not doing again. It’s just like two people in a romantic relationship after some time the man now says he is not doing again but the girl has been waiting for him and living with him and she has been waiting to enjoy what a wife should enjoy and you say you are not doing again. Is it good like that? So no serious investor would want to partner with the government again. And there are many Nigerians with loads of money stored in banks abroad at two per cent interest. If they bring such funds into Nigeria and put into our facilities, not just roads and transportation, you can put in water supply, even our electricity, etc. so people with loads of money for which they are collecting two per cent per annum, some of them their wives and children don’t even know about these monies because they are coded secret accounts. Once they die these monies just stay there. If we make it attractive for them, they do so.