Senatorial Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Kaduna Central in the 2019 elections, Lawal Adamu Usman (Mr LA) narrowly escaped lynching by thugs suspected to have been sent by his opponents on Saturday. This is even as the Lead Counsel to Candidate, Yunus Ustaz Usman SAN, said he has also received calls threatening his life, if he dares come to the court. The Nation also recall that, at the last sitting of the Kaduna State Senatorial Elections Petitions Tribunal, the learned Senior Advocate, alerted the judges that he was questioned by security agents who claimed to have been petitioned by the state government on how he obtained certain documentary evidence. The Senior Advocate asserted that he had been invited by the security and later granted bail but had been trailed ever since by security operatives. The Tribunal cautioned the security against further attempts at harassing the petitioner, Lawal Adamu Usman or any of his counsels pending the determination of a subsisting motion. At the resumed hearing on Saturday, June 29, at which the Petitioner Lawal Adamu Usman was personally present, suspicious faces were noticed within the premises of the Kaduna State High Court venue of the Tribunal. This was brought to the notice of the open court by the petitioner’s lawyer and the alarmed Tribunal Chairman after getting confirmation acted swiftly by calling the attention of the Directorate of State Security. The DSS operatives drafted to the Tribunal also confirmed the suspicious presence of unfriendly persons around the premises and said they were in control of the situation. At the close of the hearing, the thugs who turned out to be dangerously armed, pounced on the petitioner as he was leaving the courtroom. It took the concerted effort of the security and the petitioner’s supporters to save him from imminent lynching. Speaking on the incident after he was saved, the PDP Candidate, Lawal Adamu Usman said his life is currently under threat but said he will not be intimidated to dump his struggle to reclaim the people’s mandate through legal means. Also Usman SAN recounted that he received an anonymous phone call at 5am on Saturday warning him not to attend the Tribunal unless he would rather be dead. According to him, “I replied that by reminding the caller that my life is in God’s hands and that I was not afraid to die in the discharge of my lawful duty, and I will not succumb to any form of intimidation.” 