The Coalition of All Progressives People’s Congress Stakeholders Forum has called on the national chairman Adams Oshiomhole to change his leadership style. It alleged that Oshiomhole’s behaviour was affecting the party negatively. The group also accused Oshiomhole of “harassing party supporters,” adding that his poor management of the party during the primaries affected the party’s successes at the general election. The National chairman of the Coalition Rimamnde Bitrus Nuhu, State chairman, Lawan Mohammed, and other officials, in a conference in Jalingo -the Taraba state capital, asked the APC national chairman to “modify his system of party management.” The group, however, explained that the call was not for Oshiomhole to resign his post, but to change his chairmanship style, in the interest of the party and all party members. The Coalition also wants the party to mend the divisions in the party and reunite members. “It is cardinal and essential to mend the cracks within the APC at all levels, as issues bordering on the experiences and conduct of the 2019 primary elections of the party cannot be forgotten in a hurry,” the group said. Nuhu said, besides reconciliation, there were other key fundamental issues to address, in order to heal the wounds of members who had been aggrieved. It urged the party to set up a committee to reconcile aggrieved members, as it requested all aggrieved persons, who are in court against their fellow members, to withdraw their litigations. Among the other issues, the forum wants the National secretariat of the APC to refund all the monies paid for the nomination forms, alleging that “the primaries were either not conducted or conducted in line with the regulations of APC, electoral Act and the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria.” The Coalition amen up with a 19-point communique for the urgent attention of the party’s top leadership and the president. The group called on all APC members to support “all the programmes of the Muhammadu Buhari administration.” “We are in total support of the president’s three-point agenda, which are: security, economy and fight against corruption. These agenda will return the country on the path of development, if fully supported,” Nuhu said. He urged the APC government to introduce a law against indiscipline, and enforce all existing laws of the country in order to restore sanity into the Nigerian system. It urged the party and President Buhari to “reward the steadfastness of the party faithful at all levels with appointments.” The group hailed the courage and efforts of the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu which, which it said, paved the way for the victory of the president and other National Assembly members. 