To love and to hold from this day, forsaking all other women, in sickness and in health for richer, for poorer, until death do you part?’ The usual response from the couple is usually “yes”. If not, what do you think is missing? Have you searched where or when you got it wrong? What are you doing to make it work? Or on the hand are you living each day feeling terrible and wishing you were somewhere else? Do you feel the marriage is no longer worth it? Do you occasionally feel like packing it up and dumping him, with or without the kids? Well if you have not reached that wondering and I wish things were different’ stage in your marriage, you probably will sooner or later. These are the times you look back and wonder if this is the same man you married. The times you ask yourself if you were right to have married him in the first place. The days you remember the ceaseless phone calls, the roses, cards and intimate notes he used to send to you then during the courtship days and compare him to the unromantic person he had become. So, what do you think is missing? What do you think can be done to rekindle the flame? Let us try and explore what you probably have done wrong? When you married him, he meant the world to you. Your career was perhaps just getting off the ground. You had set some goals for yourself, aside from being his wife and the mother of his children. Okay, you wanted marriage alongside the love and security it offers, but somewhere along the line the marriage gradually began to take the back seat. You keep on working and pursuing your career while you only fit in your marital obligations into you spare time. Whether you like it or not he notices such lapses and if you are married to a man that does not know how to ‘express’ himself, your marriage may well be courting doom before you realise it. For our men out there, when was the last time you said: “I love you” to your wife? If you can’t remember the last time, then something is terribly wrong somewhere. When was the last time you commended or even noticed her hair do? Especially these days that women spend fortunes on their hair dos? Imagine how disappointed she would feel if her efforts to look good goes unnoticed? Remember how it was with both of you during the courtship days,? Do you recall how often you used to profess your undying love for her so often, that everyone thought she had given you a love portion? What about now? These days, you even consider making love to her as a favour, no more “welcome” or good morning kiss. Madam? Have you completely shifted your love and devotion for your husband towards your children? When was the last time you checked if his tie is well knotted? When was the last time you prepared him a special meal? When was the last time you visited his mother? Romance should not stop on the day or eve of the wedding. When romance is removed from a marriage, it is automatically heading for the rocks. The romance should be evergreen. Kids or no kids! It is important that both couple continue to find each other irresistible. Do not give each other room for intruders to come in? Dear Mr. Cold and always busy, do not give your wife room to cheat on you. Don’t give her reason to seek love or attention elsewhere. If you stop appreciating her, others might start to notice and appreciate her. Have you not noticed that she is lonely and needs her man to make her feel like a complete woman? If you are still wondering why your wife is moody or takes certain decisions on her own, it is most likely that you have stopped listening to her or taking an interest in what she does. She can’t please you and you don’t bother to impress her anymore. You sleep on the same bed for a whole month, yet you make or even attempt to make love to her and we all know you have not been diagnosed as impotent! Your relationship certainly needs an overhaul. Have you noticed that there is a particular score you have not been able to settle over the years? For instance, if she hates making love in the morning that is when you are at best? Now, the truth is that you are both right and that is the scary part. But, you see, all you need is compromise, find a middle road. Instead of looking for her faults and comparing her with your friend’s wife or neighbour, appreciate those good things that made you fall in love with her when you first met. Continue to see her as the trim, intelligent, attractive good mother of your children. The person you are comparing her with can’t sustain a two minutes conversation with you unless it is about food stuff and aso-ebi. Relationships don’t work out in isolation. All hands need to be on deck. You need to work on yours. A marriage is full of compromise, perseverance and laughter. If you ignore the tell tale signs that your marriage is wearing at the edges, your union may just fizzle out. Don’t become the dishwasher, the elevated nanny or the occasional bedmate who is not appreciated. You are licensed owners of each other’s body and you should take advantage and make the best of that license. Find time to go down memory fondle in the bath. Don’t ignore the initial affection you both felt for each other. Don’t forget that when your boss complains about your job, you will buckle up and work harder. You can do same for your marriage. Marry your spouse with all his/her spots and blemishes. Discuss and resolve problems. Don’t bottle up your hurt and wait till it bursts. Work on what you have and look ahead to better days ahead. Don’t give up on your marriage or spouse, he or she could be better.