Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki is under pressure to re-open colleges of education and agriculture that were shut about three years ago. To the governor, they are being reformed for better performance; but many disagree, reports OSAGIE OTABOR (Benin). IT has been about three years since academic activities took place at the College of Agriculture, Iguorhiakhi, College of Education, Ekiadolor and Tayo Akpata University, Ekiadolor, all in Edo State. While the College of Agriculture was shut for restructuring, the College of Education gave way to the Tayo Akpata University of Education established by the Adams Oshiomhole administration in 2015, which was billed to take off in January 2016. The plan did not materialise until he handed over to Godwin Obaseki on November 12, 2016.  However, in July 2016, workers of the College of Education protested the lack of progress in the upgrade of the college to a university demanding to know whether they belonged to the college or the university. When Obaseki took over, he promised to relocate the College of Education and start the University of Education in its place. In 2017, Obaseki shut the College of Agriculture to enable him revamp the institution to achieve  its objectives. It was gathered that a probe panel uncovered deep corruption in the institution. For example, the Governing Council that was supposed to meet thrice yearly met 22 times in one year. A committee set up to review its operations implicated its management for fraud and mismanagement. Other allegations included mismanagement of funds, abuse of office, non-accreditation of programmes, over-bloated workforce. As part of efforts to reform the college, Obaseki assembled a team of professors from tertiary institutions across the country to review and develop a new curriculum for the institution. One of them, Prof Oluwafemi Balogun, a former Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNNAB), said they were able to produce an international standard curriculum for the college in compliance with the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) requirements. “The new curriculum we have developed is appropriate, relevant and unique for the fresh programmes that will be offered in the college. With the completion of the assignment in due course, other colleges of agriculture will visit Edo State to borrow the template used for the development of this curriculum, which is of international standard,” he said. While the reforms went on, all students of the College of Agriculture were sent on industrial attachment and paid N20,000 stipend for  three months (the period of time they were promised the restructuring would last). In May 2017, all workers of the institution were sacked.  A government source told The Nation, that the students could not continue their studies in other institutions they were transferred to because their transcripts could not be found. They became stranded. Many times since 2016, workers of the College of Education, Ekiadolor and their sacked counterparts from the College of Agriculture, Iguorhiakhi, as well as the affected students, protested the institutions’closure without relocation, mounting salary arrears, and stagnancy. They have not been alone in calling on the government to re-open the institutions.  In 2017, members of the College of Education’s host community, Ekiadolor, and others in the Edo North Senatorial District (Iguedaiken, Isiukhukhu, Evboneka, Iyowa, Iguikhinmwin, Iguoevenmwen, Iguodia, Eko Abetu, Ovbiogie and Iwu) wrote a petition to Obaseki to lament the lack of progress on the institutions, which they said worsened the area’s underdevelopment. This year, civil society groups, students’ union bodies, political opponents and members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) opposed to Obaseki’s second term bid have mounted more pressure. Last week, the Edo Peoples Movement in its communique, demanded the immediate resuscitation/opening of the Tayo Akpata University, Ekiadolor and College of Agriculture, Iguorhiakhi for the use and benefit of Edo citizens. But the Commissioner for Education, Emmanuel Agbale, and the Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said the new university of education, and the colleges being restructured needed time to take off. Defending the governor, Agbale said the University of Education could not take off if the College of Education does not leave the Ekiadolor campus. He said plans were in the pipeline for the college to start in Abudu by September. “The school has been moved to the premises of the former Provincial Teachers Training College, Abudu in Orhionmwon Local Government Area. The place used to serve as the Orientation Camp of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). “The relocation of the college to Abudu is part of plans to restructure the state’s teacher training education. The government amended the law setting up three Colleges of Education in the state to make it one college with three schools, with each specialising in training teachers for various disciplines. The multi-campus College of Education would be in Igueben, Abudu and Afuze.”  Speaking of his plans for the college when he visited Abudu to assess ongoing renovation, Obaseki said: “After revamping the College, it will serve as a centre for training and certification of new sets of teachers for the basic level of education. This will prepare the teachers to adopt modern teaching methods at that level of education. “Each school is specialising on specific aspect of teacher education. The one in Abudu will have a digital training centre for primary school teachers; the school at Igueben will focus on secondary school and science teachers, while the one in Afuze will specialise in training teachers in Technical Education, Physical Education and Special Education,” he said. A visit to the Abudu campus showed that renovation work hasdreached advanced stages in the various departments, hostels and staff quarters, while an equipped computer laboratory powered with solar energy had been completed. However, Chairman of the College of Education Association Staff Union (COEASU) in Ekiadolor, Mr Fred Omonuwa, said the government was not sincere about reopening the Colleges of Education in September. He said the Abudu campus was not big enough for any of the departments in the Ekiadolor campus. Omonuwa said the unions would begin another struggle for the college to remain in Ekiadolor. He said: “The buildings at Abudu are not big. There are no structures that can house 200 people. The talk that the Abudu campus will open in September is a big lie. Many workers will be standing under the tree in Abudu. “When we had computer training at the computer centre in Abudu, the place could not accommodate us. We went back to Ekiadolor. “Afuze campus is a write off. The College of Education in present day Nigeria is beyond the level of Abudu.” On why the College of Agriculture was shut, Osagie said the institution was in such state of disrepair that it posed a danger to the students. He said the paperwork for the redesign of the college had been completed and work on the buildings and other physical infrastructure would start soon. He said: “The school had to be shut down because the buildings were falling apart. The students were endangered and left to the elements. Hut-like buildings were tucked close to thick bushes, and the students were exposed to possible attacks by animals in the surrounding forests. There were no standard medical centres and other trappings of a standard tertiary institution. To avoid crisis, the school had to be shut.” Osagie added that like the College of Education, the College of Agriculture would also have three campuses. “The state government has completed the paperwork and design for a tri-campus college system for the college of agriculture, which will now be renamed as College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, with campuses in the state’s three senatorial districts. “Iguoriakhi will host the School of Agricultural Technology and Engineering; the School of Aquaculture and Marine Technology will replace the former College of Agriculture Technology in Agenebode and a new School of Forestry and Environmental Technology, will be at Uromi,” he said.