The commercial division of Stallion Motors Nigeria has unveiled the KY5 and KY10 Light Commercial Vehicles for the local market. The vehicles, better known as mini-trucks in the Nigerian parlance, are designed to cater for the growing demand for functional One-ton and Two-ton payload vehicles. The introduction is in fulfillment of the local auto company’s commitment to making cargo vehicles affordable to the emerging small and medium enterprise sector. According to the company’s Head of Sales and Marketing, Anjan Aditya, “the introduction of Stallion Motors low-priced KY5 MINI and KY10 branded cargo trucks is expected to stem the tide of incessant downtime, profit losses and accidents, resulting from the application of decrepit and unserviceable vehicles by emerging commercial ventures in the country.” Designed and manufactured in China by Chongqing Changan Kuayue Automobile Co. Limited popularly known as KYC, the vehicles are being assembled locally at the Stallion franchise facility in Lagos. The KY5 Mini is powered by 1.05L/47kw AfII – 05(Euro V) Petrol Engine. The single cabin is capable of producing 64bhp of power and maximum torque of 91Nm/rpm. It is also mated with a six-speed manual transmission gear system, delivering maximum efficiency and optimum performance. It is designed tough and robust to transcend difficult terrains, with specially mounted independent front MacPherson suspension and rear Leaf Spring suspensions. This is in addition to its Pinion and Rack electric power steering, which makes turning and navigation easy. The cargo dimension (length 2600mm, width 145mm and height 360mm) is designed to enable seamless loading from either sides of the vehicle, with a palpable wheel base of 2700mm. To guarantee safety, it has a needful 165/70R14 (single rear tyre) tyre structure, efficient front disc brakes and rear drum brakes that responds practically to any road condition. The clutch engages the Diaphragm Spring type – one of the best in the light commercial vehicle segment, with unprecedented 150mm minimum ground clearance. Also a single cabin, the KY10 is designed bigger and sturdier, but fitted with larger internal cargo dimension of 3400mm, 1680mm width and 380mm height. Its wheel base of 3400mm and gross weight is comparable to some renowned brands of 2.7L freighters, which explains why both the front and rear suspensions are fortified with Leaf Springs alignment. It is powered by a tougher 1.5L/82kw DK15-10 (Euro V) engine, capable of churning out 112bph and maximum torque of 143Nm/rpm. The powerful engine is supported by a six-speed manual transmission gear system and have a differential gear ration of 5.375. Unlike the KY5, the KY10 is fitted with 185R14LT (double rear tyres), with 175mm minimum ground clearance; robust front disk and rear drum brake outline and fuel consumption efficiency of d” 8.9 L/ 100km (@ speed 50km/h).