President Candidate of ‘We The People Nigeria’ (WTPN), Prof. Peter Nwangwu has said that Buhari  administration has offered nothing but induced poverty among Nigerians within the last four years. Professor Nwangwu in a statement he made available to newsmen in Kaduna said, the current poverty status has reduced Nigerian to the Poverty Capital of the World. He said, the level of object poverty in the country was responsible for a situation where Nigerians at grassroots to collect money and rice to vote for unscrupulous candidates during elections. According to him, “Some Nigerians sold their votes as little as N500 in the 2019, general elections. Although it is difficult to stop a desperate hungry poor man from selling his votes, yet an alternative way to clean up the system became imperative. “That is why we formed WTPN to set a new standard to clean up Nigerians and adopt a responsible Political process that will be driven by selfless service to grassroot’’  Nwagwu said. Nwangwu who doubles as the party’s National Chairman lamented that, nearly 98 per cent of Nigerians in and outside the Country are dissatisfied with the state of affairs in Nigeria following the dysfunctional system and infrastructure, including lack of steady electricity power supply, insecurity, corruption, high rate of unemployment, lawlessness, destruction and national morale. “There is nothing wrong with the geographical space called Nigeria, but the country is just a victim of years of bad leadership’’. He said. Prof. Nwangwu said, the consequence of the current trend of bad leadership has produced a  generation of Nigerian Grassroot  who have accepted corruption, lawlessness and bad behavior as part of national culture. Nwangwu said, as an alternative to all political parties that have failed Nigerians, his party has mounted a project to offer Nigerians a platform to unite and take their country back to them after mutilated by inept corrupt politicians. “Unlike these political parties , We are focused and have a solid foundation that will carry our Work eminently permanently’’. The Presidential Candidate said that in order to redeem Nigerians from the current mess, his party has established a non Governmental Organization called People Grassroot Association for corruption-free Nigeria. He urged Nigerians to sit up to the challenges of bad governance and criticize policies that is inimical to betterment of grassroots populace.