A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Hon. John Halims Agoda, on Saturday, lashed PDP stalwart, Mr. Latimore Oghenesivwe, for attacking the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege’s choices of media aides, describing his attack as myopic, lacking in knowledge and exposure. Agoda who is the 2019, House of Representative candidate, Ethiope Federal Constituency under APC, made this statement while reacting to publications in national dailies, credited to Mr. Fred Latimore Oghenesivwe, saying that it is the sole prerogative of the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Omo-Agege to appoint who should be his media aides. Speaking further, Agoda said, “The Urhobo nation are profoundly grateful to all the senators who elected him as deputy senate president and we as Urhobo people have been conferred with participatory inclusiveness in the art of national parliamentary democracy. “It may interest Mr. Latimore Oghenesivwe to know that former President Goodluck Jonathan and the former governor of Rivers and Minister of Transport, Amaechi had in the past appointed their media aides from Delta State, (Ughelli North and South) and it was never read in pages of newspapers, so, l dont know what is the business of Latimore Oghenesivwe over who Omo-Agege appoints as his media aides. “When fate throws up new player of significance in the political realm at the national level, dysfunctional discordant sentiments are spewed by persons in the opposition camps, considering the recent effusive diatribe dripping with hate-tears by persons who believe Omo-Agege should have called a town-hall meeting to deliberate on who to be appointed as media aides. “This is a misconception and a poverty of knowledge of the fundamentals of national political engagements, as the deputy senate president was elected from among senators and by senators of equal mandate across the nation, so the realms of the functions and authority of Omo-Agege preclude exclusionism as such new roles transcend catering only to his home constituency.” 