In 2009, a Moroccan education economist, Dr. Jamil Samli listed what constitutes a “World Class University” in a publication for the World Bank: “The challenges of Establishing World Class Universities.” According to Samli, a former coordinator of the Bank’s tertiary education program, a world-class university has three distinguishing outcomes: first, highly sought graduates; second, leading-edge research; and third, dynamic knowledge and technology transfer. Samli attributed these outcomes to three complementary sets of factors at play in these universities. The first factor is a high concentration of talent, consisting of faculty, students, researchers and internationalisation. The second factor requires favourable governance features that encourage leadership, strategic vision, innovation, and flexibility and that enable institutions to make decisions and manage resources without being encumbered by bureaucracy. The third factor consists of abundant resources to offer a rich learning environment and to conduct advanced research. It is therefore the dynamic interaction among these three factors that defines world-class universities. As an advocate of a solid university system in Nigeria, I’ll be addressing an important issue raised recently by the Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) Prof. Is-haq Oloyede. While delivering the 4th convocation lecture of the Federal University, Dutse, Jigawa State, Prof. Oloyede called for an embargo to be placed on the creation of new public and private universities in the country. He said there was the need to place the embargo so that the country’s existing institutions could be adequately catered for. “A situation where universities are only established to massage the ego of rich individuals and politicians is not healthy for educational development of the country as tertiary education is too crucial to be reduced to a commercial outfit for an ego-tripping venture…since education is everybody’s business, all Nigerians should support the effort towards educational development,” he said. Oloyede, who took a critical look at the recommendations of the 2017 Presidential Retreat on Education which recommended a declaration of a state of emergency in the education sector, advocated increased funding of education in the country by committing nothing less than 15% of the national budget to the sector. I agree with Prof Oloyede’s caution about the dangers of reducing varsities to “commercial outfit for an ego-tripping venture.” Government need to pull the breaks, take an honest look at existing varsities and see how they can be revamped rather than establishing more. If we want to be honest, some of the varsities established recently fall within this category. I have visited some of them and they fall within what a writer described as “glorified secondary schools.” I belong to the school of thought that believes very much in the relentless pursuit of world class ambitions, goals and purposes. This is because the pursuit of globally recognised excellence in any endeavour is absolutely necessary to guarantee the attainment of feats and heights that are uncommon, from a global standpoint, and which deserve to be proudly celebrated on the world stage. I believe also that with the right sets of people and policies some of our varsities have potentials of being world class. It is no longer unusual or implausible for a citizen of any country outside the UK, for instance, to choose a world class and well renowned institution like Cambridge University, over and above every other University in his home country, for his tertiary education. Indeed, if the challenge of meeting the admission criteria does not constitute an insurmountable barrier, it will be unlikely for this student, to jettison the opportunity to go to Cambridge in favour of a local and less highly regarded university alternative. The situation will be the same for universities in any country, where available universities therein are not seen to be capable of offering the “world class” benefits/values that are widely associated with highly regarded tertiary institutions. If this tendency is not challenged, the result will be that these not – highly – regarded Universities anywhere in the world would not be able to attract the top echelon of very good students, faculty, and/or research grants, either from within the local environment or anywhere else in the world. It is not difficult to predict the ‘future’ that awaits such institutions. I am of the view that with good management, a university in Nigeria can still aspire to be in the league of ‘world class’ institutions despite the current challenges faced by most of them. All it requires is ‘out-of-the-box thinking.” This comes by being innovative in bridging the funding and other gaps – for public varsities. In doing this, strategic brand management has a critical role to play – from faculty, grants, students, environment, positioning etc. If properly understood and implemented, it has the potentials of firmly establishing clear preference for the university in the minds of a sufficiently large number of topflight faculty and students from different parts of the world within a set timeframe. However, the varsity must be essentially driven by the need to gain recognition, first as an aspiring “world class” institution, and, ultimately, as a “proud member of this elite group” within a realistic timeframe. The mandatory steps in the process of adoption and application of the strategic management principles inherent in this approach include professional understanding of the meaning and significance of the “Brand,” both as a concept and a strategic tool for business growth. A clear understanding of the process of leveraging the “Brand” for a full establishment of its customer connection potential is a fundamental prerequisite. Also important is the acquisition of strong insights into the drivers of choice amongst topflight students, world class faculty members, donour agencies and discerning and top rated employers of university graduates. Systematic application of insights for the injection of appropriate and superior benefits values into the university Brand Essence, and for the subsequent development of a winning value proposition for the university should also be desired. Strategic leveraging of the value proposition for consistency with the evocations of the “Brand Pillars” and systematic “Brand Building Structures and Action” will further drive the aspiring varsity toward world standard. Another key essential is the “Product” or “Physical Manifestation Pillar:” This refers to both the “intrinsic” and “extrinsic” values of the physical manifestation of the Brand. It speaks to the “Functional Benefits” of the Brand (i.e. the potential to give the target customer a veritable reward for the adoption of the offering). In particular, emphasis should be focused on unique facilities and environmental features that set the brand apart, first as one of the best amongst its peers, and as a potential world class institution. As a rule, these reward elements or components must be visible and, must come across as tangible benefits. Next is “The Personality or Social Standing Pillar:” This is an expression of what the institution would look like if it were a person or a physical entity. This usually comes in various descriptions as follows: masculine/feminine; elegant/ordinary; smart/reticent; handsome- beautiful/ugly; accessible/clumsy; international/local; world class/ordinary, etc. Each one of these associations comes with perceptions that can shape the opinion of target customers concerning the suitability or otherwise of the institution for their purposes. It is therefore important to ensure that knowledge of customer insights on drivers of choice are excellently leveraged to guarantee the projection of the right image/personality for the institution. “The Symbols and Symbolisms Pillar” is also part of the mix. It is the combinations of design elements, logos and colours that have been adopted for the brand. By definition, these must be very pleasing to eyes and mind, and must also convey the images of international quality, class and style for the institution. The uniqueness and attractiveness must be so striking and unique to the extent that the brand will readily come to mind, even if the symbols are made to feature as “stand alone” images. It is absolutely essential that the process of evolving the character and value associations for each of the brand pillars must end up with a consistent message that will define the brand as envisioned. In other words, if the adopted “Heritage” values are presenting the brand as “international,” the defined value associations with the physical manifestation pillar should not be evocative of anything else but international values.