Rotimax Integrated Services Ltd has organized a practical intensive training programme in professional pest control and fumigation, we offer comprehensive pest control training over the years with one-year free mentor-ship bonus; we have established a solid reputation for effective and quality training with practical sessions and informing prospective participants of necessary details required to establish a successful pest control company in Nigeria. , this is the sixth concurrent edition since year 2014. Participants will learn how to start a professional pest control company in Nigeria, required license, permits and application process, usage and maintenance of  fumigation/pest control equipment’s , spraying techniques such as: Residual spraying, Space spraying and Aerial spraying techniques, Pesticide formulation, Mixing and application, Health  and Safety requirements, choice of pesticide i.e public health ,food grade, agro allied class, how to draft a proposal, pest control marketing techniques, quotation   drafting and facility assessment process. Online learning offers you a flexible approach to pest control training, through this medium we send soft copies, audio and Video CDs of our previous training programmes to interested participants who cannot be physically present at the training programme  at an affordable fee. Pest control business is a lucrative business in Nigeria with relatively low start-up cost, but professional skills and adequate training is necessary to qualify for a state or federal license. Rotimax Integrated Services Ltd, a licensed and insured pest control training and service provider offers comprehensive Pest Control and fumigation training throughout Nigeria. Over the years, we have established a solid reputation for effective and quality training. Our pest control and fumigation training solutions are tailored to allow you to become proficient with the latest methods in pest control and pest management, providing you with detailed manuals and practical training. This upcoming fumigation and pest control training has been endorsed by Environmental Health Association of Nigeria (E.H.O.A.N) and Pest Control Association of Nigeria (P.E.C.A.N), proudly supported by Alcochem Hygiene Netherlands. We previously collaborated with Lagos state ministry of Environment, Cleaning practitioners of Nigeria (CPAN) in conjunction with Alcochem Hygiene, Netherlands regards professional trainings on how to legally and safely control rats, mosquitoes, bedbugs, snakes, cockroaches etc. We offer Corporate Training and also One-on-One (Private) Training for organizations and individuals. Course content for this programme is available on request: WHY DO I NEED THIS TRAINING? To administer professional pest control services, you’re required to be professionally trained, and if you’re using pesticides, you have a legal obligation, under the Control of environmental laws, to be adequately trained and competent. You also have a safety obligation to the environment, other people and non-target species, as well as yourself. By attending our courses, participants will learn how to control pests and rodents safely, legally and effectively, safety precautions and relevant license to operate in Nigeria. WHO SHOULD ATTEND? Health Officers Representatives of Organizations and more. For participants that meets up with the early bird registration, free personal protective equipment like Safety jacket, hand glove, safety goggle will be given free of charge while those who register late will have to buy at the venue. Access to the practical session is only guaranteed with full complaint to PPE`s. This is important as we want participants to operate various equipment on the field by themselves instead of seeing how it’s been operated. Early bird registration with free starter pack (Before June 15th, 2019).