The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) Dispute Resolution Committee (DRC) has resolved over 140 duty paid Duty Paid Value (DPV) issues at the Tin Can Island Port. The panel settled cases between January and last month, Tin Can Island Customs Command spokesman Uche Ejesieme said in a statement. Ejesieme urged importers and their clearing agents with issues with documentation to take their cases to the panel. He said: “This year alone, we have resolved over 140 cases in the DRC either for or against, all we want is for you to come up with empirical evidence “The committee is made up of almost all the egg heads of the command; we have the APM (Asycuda Project Manager) as a member, Deputy Comptroller Revenue, Deputy Comptroller Valuation, Officer in charge of Customs Intelligence Unit (CIU) is a member, two other senior officers who are actually good in classification and valuation are members. It is an unbiased committee headed by DC Valuation.” Ejesieme denied that the command has introduced “duty benchmark” for containers, saying, the NCS was still having challenges with clearing agents who refused to make genuine declarations. According to him, the core factor that can make for easy facilitation of trade is compliance with laid down rules and procedures. Freight, he said, varied from country to country, noting that Customs expects importers and their agents not to pay anything lesser than what is due. Once an agent or importer collects his Pre-Arrival Assessment Report (PAAR), he can easily calculate the duty if he made a true declaration in the first place, Ejesieme said. “Some people would also come and ignorantly demand that every 20-foot container pays N800,000, but do you know that some 20-foot containers can actually pay N30 million. So we don’t operate a benchmark in Tin Can, it is actually a risk profiling process that we are operating, to ensure that areas of leakages are not created anywhere. It is the minimum duty we expect you to pay, having checked all the variables in terms of the cost insurance and freight,” he explained.