West Africa’s leading connectivity and data centre solutions provider, MainOne, on the heels of the expansion of its network into Edo State has assured the University of Benin (UNIBEN) of its support towards continued information communication technology (ICT) development at the university. The firm reiterated its commitment towards improving access to ICT on campus with the investment in fiber connectivity to campus, as well as by pledging financial support and internship opportunities for the top performing ICT students at the university. The pledge was made at a private meeting hosted by the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Faraday Orumwense, before the start of the fourth edition of University’s ICT Day event with the theme: Building Sustainable Future with ICT Tools and Apps. The VC was represented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Ekehuan Campus, Prof. Joel Agbolagba.  The  event was focused on enlightening the students, faculty, secondary school pupils, and general public on the importance of ICT tools in the sustainable economic development of the country. MainOne CEO, Funke Opeke, who was the keynote speaker at the event, stressed the importance of students taking advantage of the opportunities available to them in ICT. She highlighted how advances in technology and access to infrastructure, have lowered the barrier to entry for potential entrepreneurs like never before regardless of age, gender, social or educational status. She also said there are more opportunities for financing from local incubators alongside international initiatives to support the growing network of technology startups. Opeke said: “21st Century success as entrepreneurs or in paid employment will come from adding value with ICT tools and apps. I urge you all to go disrupt the world with an app.” MainOne’s ICT support of the university is underscored through the completion of the terrestrial fibre infrastructure programme it started nine months ago in partnership with the Edo State government and global social media giant, Facebook. The infrastructure which will provide connectivity for mobile operators’ base stations, Internet Service Providers (ISPs), Points of Presence (PoP), and public locations, including schools and hospitals, is now ready to be turned on across the city of Benin.