Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has appealed to unemployed Nigerian youth to harness technical and vocational education in order to reduce the high rate of unemployment. Fayemi who lamented the level of unemployment and the consequent spate of social vices in the country, said acquisition of employable skills will take many unemployed graduate from the unemployment pool. The governor who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi spoke at the opening ceremony of the Innovative and Change of Perception lecture organised for the students and staff of Government Technical Colleges held at GTC, Ado Ekiti on Tuesday. Fayemi who stressed the need for a paradigm shift from the erroneous perception that skill acquisition is meant for the academically weak people, noted that technical education remain a potent weapon of improving socio-economic development. He disclosed that his administration is committed towards repositioning and restoring the lost glory of technical and vocational education in the Ekiti State. The governor added that efforts are in the top gear to commence the second phase of the project that will face-lift other four Technical Colleges in the State. “As a government who has value for education, it is our vision and mission to have Ekiti State where our people can thrive and live in dignity. “We don’t want our youths to be roaming the street looking for white collar jobs. Graduate unemployment has increased just because most of them do not have any employable skills that can make them self-sustained. “It is imperative for unemployed youth to appropriately harness and embrace this form of education to curb high rate of unemployment and the consequent societal ills. “There is no doubt that Technical and Vocational Education has the potential of improving the socio-economic sector of the State and the country”, he said. Prof. Sam Adejuyigbe while delivering a lecture entitled: Education: “Innovation and Change of Perception” advocated for the acquisition of technical education as a way of bridging the unemployment gap as well as addressing skills deficit in the country. Adejuyigbe said the era when vocational education was believed to be undertaken by school drop-outs and pushovers was over with the level of global technological advancements. He identified skills acquisition as a panacea to youth restiveness and all forms of social vices, urging them to explore the opportunities to create wealth and become employer of labour. Speaking earlier, the Chairman, Ekiti State Board for Technical and Vocational Education, Hon. Kayode Babade commended Governor Fayemi led-administration for transforming the moribund fortune of technical education in the state. Babade said the students of the college will now be able to compete with their counterparts globally with the state-of-the-art equipment in the college. He, however, implored parents, guardians and traditional rulers to partner with the government in mobilizing unemployed youth in the Ekiti State to imbibe skill acquisition by attending technical school and vocational centre.  