David Silva will leave Manchester City at the end of the season after deciding to call time on a glittering 10-year career at the Etihad. The midfielder is heading into his 10th season with the Premier League giants, having signed with the club from Valencia in 2010. The Spaniard, who has played a massive part in turning the club into one of the best in Europe, has now made it clear that his time at the Etihad is drawing to a close having already won four league titles, two FA Cups and four League Cups. “This is the last one,” he told the Daily Mail. “Ten years for me is enough. It’s the perfect time. “Initially the club were talking about two years, but I decided to sign another one so I finished at 10 years. “It completes the cycle. It’s a nice round figure. I can never see myself playing against City for another team. So 10 years — that’s it!” Silva says that a shift in his personal priorities are leading him to make a move after next season, with spending more time with his family growing more important for the 33-year-old. “I’ve got a family now and it’s about priorities,” he added. “I want to spend more time with the family. I’ve got another year at Manchester City so we will see what happens after that.” While his time at City in drawing to a close, Silva doesn’t plan on stopping playing, though he has ruled out a move to China or to any team that would have to face his current club. “Not China,” said Silva yesterday in his role as a spokesman for Anfi Group close to his hometown of Arguineguin. “I don’t know. My girlfriend decides for me! “I would love to finish my career here in Las Palmas but football changes. Who knows? It depends on the team and the players. I cannot come here to play in the Second Division with this team.” The Spanish star also isn’t worried about the club missing out on his productivity, as he believes the growth of England’s Phil Foden will make filling his shoes rather easy for the club. “I’m sure that he’s going to be a fantastic player and a very good successor to me in the team,” said Silva. “I’ve given him lots of advice. He’s taken the information in and he’s getting better day by day. “He reminds me of myself when I was young, especially how he is as a person. He’s very quiet but always there competing. He hates losing and that makes a good footballer.