THE Architects’Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON) has urged the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife to boost the study of Architecture. Its President,  Oladipo Ajayi,  spoke during a meeting with the management of the OAU. Ajayi, who led council members of ARCON, including, immediate past president, Umaru Aliu; registrar, Umar Murnai, observed that the profession was at its low ebb and, therefore, there was the need for urgent intervention. The ARCON chief, who assured the OAU management of its support on the development of enterpreneurship studies, asked that the university authorities should include the council in its budget. He said OAU should upgrade the department of architecture to faculty status. “We are eager to have the faculty as soon as possible, as this would further enhance both the university and the profession at large,” he said. According to Ajayi, ARCON, among other things, which was established to raise the educational standard and the practice as well as registering and deregistering, urged OAU Vice Chancellor, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, to look into the issues of shortfall of lecturers in the department. Ajayi said there was the need for OAU to adopt Architects Projects Registrations Number (APRN), which would help to monitor all building projects, thereby preventing collapsed building. The ARCON president also tasked the university on the issue of jury,  noting that it has been misunderstood by many. He urged  Ogunbodede to facilitate the process of ensuring this initiative. The VC, who pledged support for ARCON council, said the issue of upgrading the departure of architecture to faculty was actually dependent on the regulatory body, the lecturers within the department and the National Universities Commission (NUC). Ogunbodede urged ARCON to assist as the university was  overhauling its curriculum.  He charged ARCON to help the university to develop enterpreneural studies. Prof. Olubola Babalola, Dean, Faculty of Environmental Design and Management, promised to look into all issues raised by ARCON. Babalola, the first woman professor of Quantity Surveying in Africa, expressed satisfaction with the proposal to raise the department of architecture to a faculty. Meanwhile, ARCON is set to induct over 400 newly registered architects in Abuja.