The Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, has urged the Federal Government to return properties it forcefully took from Lagos State. The monarch urged House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila to use his position as the fourth citizen in the national leadership hierarchy to help Lagos retrieve the properties. Oba Akiolu made the plea when Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led the Speaker and his deputy, Idris Wase, on a visit to the palace at the weekend. The monarch said he had “valid documents” to lay claims to the properties, which he said were taken during the military era. He said some of the properties dated back to the 19th century. He said: “We have a catalogue of requests from the Federal Government, from special status for the state to the return of all properties belonging to Lagos State Government, which were taken away by military fiat. We want the properties returned to us.” The monarch said the state must fight for the retrieval of the properties, which include CMS Grammar School and First Bank building on Lagos Island. According to him, they must be harnessed for improved service delivery to the people. “I have documents in my possession, which date back as far as 1800s, showing the ownership of all the properties from CMS Grammar School to the First Bank building in Lagos. These properties are needed back for the improvement of our people,” Oba Akiolu said. Receiving the Speaker at the Lagos House, Ikeja, Sanwo-Olu described Gbajabiamila’s election as a great feat for the state. Sanwo-Olu also expressed joy that a Lagosian has been entrusted with the speakership of the Lower Chamber of the National Assembly. “We’re happy that as a Lagosian, you are the Speaker of the House of Representatives. This means a lot to us in the state. But beyond being a Lagosian, we’re happy that Nigeria is blessed with a great personality as her Speaker. We know that you will work for the good of the country,” he said. The governor informed the Speaker that Lagos deserved more from the Federal Government and said he hoped that Gbajabiamila would use his office to better the lot the state. Gbajabiamila described his “home-coming” as very emotional, noting: “It feels really great to be welcomed home by your people.” The Speaker noted that Lagos is his home, but Nigeria is his seat. He promised to be fair to every Nigerian while administering the House of Representatives. The Speaker promised better collaboration between the Federal and Lagos State government, saying so much is expected of Sanwo-Olu to deliver the dividend of democracy. 