Fifty-eight years after its establishment, an  alumnus of the University of Nigeria (UNN) Prof Charles Arizechukwu Igwe has become its Vice-Chancellor (VC). Of the 15 VCs the premier university has produced, Igwe is the first ‘made-in-UNN’ product, having obtained his Bachelor’s, Master’s and doctorate degrees from the university. Igwe, a professor of Soil Science, was selected as VC by the  Chief Mike Olorunfemi-led governing council, after the  screening of about 70  contenders. Last Friday, Igwe delivered his inaugural address to workers and students, vowing to turn his alma mater into a tech-driven institution. Igwe said he had spent about four decades in the university, having joined its workforce from the lowest rung of the ladder. “I have witnessed some of the finest eras in the history of this citadel of learning. I have also witnessed its difficult times,” Igwe said. He said the UNN would be technologically-driven, academically robust and would promote enterprise and entrepreneurship. His strategy, according to him, would be an integrated development model, anchored on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). He said his administration would develop a database of the university’s alumni with the aim of harnessing their goodwill and partnerships to improve funding. “We shall ensure sustained infrastructural development and supply through public-private partnership, attend to ongoing and abandoned projects, and enthrone maintenance culture  and environmental cleanliness,” he added Igwe, who is from the Faculty of Agriculture, also promised to refocus the university, make it self-sustaining as well as a model for survival to other institutions nationwide. Appreciating the research effort of the university, which led to the generation of electricity using organic waste products, Igwe said his administration would harness the potential of the Department of Physics and Astronomy, Faculty of Engineering and the Centre for Energy and Research Development to break new grounds in electricity supply. In his goodwill message, the first National President of the University of Nigeria Alumni Association, Prof B. I. C. Ijomah, described Igwe’s emergence as a new dawn for the university and its alumni who had endured years of being ruled by alumni of other universities. He expressed confidence that Igwe would restore sanity to the university’s alumni association.