Four years to its liquidation, the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) is still battling to recover over N5.4 trillion  debts. In eight years of its operation, AMCON has not made a headway in recovering these debts. Can it do so before it winds down in 2023? COLLINS NWEZE examines the intricacies of the exercise as billionaire debtors  continue to dodge payment. Michael Stephens, a graduate of Accounting from the University of Lagos, was employed as Credit Officer by a Tier-1 commercial bank at the age of 21. One of the basic courses he attended within his first four years on the job was Basic Credit, facilitated by Financial Institutions Training Centre (FITC) in Lagos. Banks use such courses to get credit officers and other market-facing staff acquainted with the tenets of lending, teaching them what to look out for in every loan request, including the red flags. “As a Credit Officer, I have come to realise that many borrowers have no intention of paying back the loans. Many of them with the ability to payback, lack the willingness to do so. They are always waiting and hoping that one day,  the creditor would write off the debt. So, the first thing I look out for when analysing a credit is the borrower’s willingness and ability to repay the loans and only a few customers meet these criteria,” Stephens told The Nation. Banks’ loan books are filled with millions of borrowers that have outrightly refused to pay back their debts. The Non-Performing Loan (NPL) ratio in the Nigerian banking industry is currently around 25 per cent average, as against five per cent regulatory benchmark set by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). A particular development finance institution, NEXIM Bank, was said to even have about 91 per cent of its total loan as bad debts. CBN report showed that the NPLs of the bank before 2018 stood at N48.9 billion against the total loan portfolio of N53 billion. In many other commercial banks, NPLs’ rise was due to insider loan abuses, poor corporate governance, poor board oversight and outright disregard for basic guidelines in credit approvals. It was the rising NPLs, and need to save the industry from the imminent collapse that prompted the Federal Government to set up the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) in 2010 with a 10-year mandate. AMCON was established on July 19, 2010 when the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria signed the AMCON Act into Law. It duly acquired the initial NPLs from banks valued at over N1.2 trillion and injected some N1.6 trillion to further absorb other toxic loans from the banks. AMCON’s total bad loans purchased from banks were worth around N5.4 trillion in 2012 and the corporation moved quickly to recover the debts. Also, AMCON Bonds (debts) worth N3.8 trillion were issued in December 2014 at six per cent interest rate  and have remained outstanding at end-December 2018, same as in 2017. The bonds which were taken up solely by the CBN, were issued in a restructuring exercise, and will mature in 2023. More revealing is that the national treasury did not fund the exercise. Under the auspices of the Bankers´ Committee, AMCON´s operations are financed by 0.5 per cent of banks´ annual profits through the sinking fund and CBN´s N50 billion funding plans spread over 10 years. AMCON was created to be a key stabilizing and re-vitalizing tool aimed at reviving the financial system by efficiently resolving the NPLs ratio of more than 40 per cent at that time. The poor corporate governance practice in the banking sector, poor risk management, low liquidity as well as insufficient capital adequacy ratio just to mention a few also had severe adverse effect on the banking system, promoting the creation of the corporation.  Progress report on debt recovery  Unfortunately, after eight years into its operation, and ahead of 2023 sunset period, AMCON has only recovered N1 trillion through through assets seizure, forfeiture or outright cash payment. Data from AMCON showed that of the recovered funds, cash assets account for 60 per cent and non-cash assets, such as properties and equity securities, account for the balance of 40 per cent. The recovered sum represents 18.51 per cent of the total sum. Financial pundits have therefore expressed doubts on the possibility of the corporation recovering substantial  part of the debts in the next three years even as the interest accrued to the existing debts has continued to rise, bringing the total obligation back to N5.4 trillion despite the N1 trillion recovered. The big question is what happens to the outstanding debts owed the corporation and who inherits them after the sunset period? It was such a question that made many debtors adopt a wait-and-see plan, hoping that their debts will be forgiven when the corporation’s 10-year timeline ends. AMCON Managing Director/CEO, Ahmed Kuru, said the corporation had taken strategic steps to ensure more debts are recovered through negotiations and resolutions, using cash recoveries, asset forfeitures and capital restructuring for short to mid-term exits, including deploying Joint Venture arrangements for asset operations and land development. He said AMCON has done enough of negotiations with its obligors who have remained not just difficult but recalcitrant in the last eight years. “From all indications and with what we now know about them, we have realised that most of them are just unwilling to pay. As an organisation with a clear mandate, we cannot continue to sit in our offices and listen to these ever winding stories from our obligors because it is no longer helping us. We are now in a hurry to meet our mandate. As a dynamic corporation, we must continually evaluate our processes and seek improved ways of delivering better results. We have critically reviewed the old strategy and have come to the realisation that it will not take us far,” Kuru said. “But in a deeper sense of the change in our strategy, which we recently adopted, do not forget the fact that AMCON has a time period when it is expected to wind down; so there is a need for speed; there is a need for us to move faster as we get closer to sunset. The assumption when the AMCON was established was that within a period of 10 years, it would have liquidated and wound up its operations. This is the eighth year and we still have a huge outstanding meaning we cannot be doing the same thing repeatedly and then be expected to arrive at a different result”. He said the Act that established AMCON recognised the fact that, if obligors are not in a position to pay, AMCON should at the least have recourse to the collaterals. The Act also recognises that if AMCON is going to have recourse to the collaterals, there must be a process where AMCON must first of all go to court, and get an order to take over the property. The AMCON boss said the corporation cannot continue with the old practice where obligors come to tell stories that do not add up. “Interestingly too, the Act anticipated that when the corporation gets closer to sunset and things are the way they are now, then the corporation is under obligation to call up the collaterals through the court process. So we are now going through the court process,” Kuru added. AMCON statistics showed that 350 obligors owe 80 per cent, amounting to N3 trillion, of its total debt profile. Further data showed that 62 debtors representing 40 per  cent of the obligors, owe the corporation over N10 billion; 431 debtors representing 37 per cent of the debtors owe between N1 billion and N10 billion;  1,998 debtors constituting 16 per cent of the total obligors owe between N100 million and N1 billion while 10,046 debtors representing seven per cent of the total obligors owe between N100 million and below bringing the total number of bad loans under AMCON management to 12,537. Also, companies under AMCON receivership include Rockson Engineering Limited, Suru Worldwide Limited, Knight Rook Limited, Seawolf Oilfields Limited, Arik Air,  Sigma Engineering & Construction Limited, Micmerah International Agencies Limited, Premier Timber Limited and Bao Yao Limited. Others are Osigwe Foods Limited, Ekha Agro Limited, Multitrex Limited, Hotel Excel Limited, Bulk pack Services Limited, Dansa Foods Limited, Global Formwork Limited, NEGRIS / OKIPP Limited, Nigerian Braiding Manufacturing Company, Nabegu Nigeria Limited, Fiogret Limited, Amakpe Refineries Limited, Wokson Engineering Limited, among others. These companies are currently run by AMCON-appointed management after taking over the firms from their owners over unpaid debts. Kuru said the corporation is doing everything within the powers of its mandate (the AMCON Act) and within the powers of the laws of the land to recover the debts. “The people are the same so-called big men and women that are known to all Nigerians- people in politics, top businessmen and women as well as private individuals. The debt is huge and if we do not recover the outstanding, which is about N5.4 trillion, you will agree with me that the negative impact of that on the economy and on taxpayers would be unimaginable. The huge debt profile is not a healthy development for the economy of this country,” he said. Kuru said the debtors are the real enemies of Nigeria. AMCON   recently published 105 names of top delinquent debtors of AMCON that owe the corporation a total of N906, 109, 840, 662.99.  Debtors to face sanctions  Institutions and individuals on AMCON’s debtors’ list are to be blacklisted. They will no longer be allowed to do business with the government henceforth. According to a plan by the Federal Government, an inter-agency collaboration framework that comprises Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and supervised by the office of the Vice President, will block the indebted entities from dealing with the government, which is the biggest player in the economy. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who doubles as the Chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC), dropped the hint, when he hosted some members of the AMCON Board at the State House, Abuja. The Board was led by its Chairman, Muiz Banire. Prof. Osinbajo said the debtors made it impossible for the corporation to resolve its outstanding N5.4 trillion debts, thereby holding the entire nation to ransom with their “bad behaviour”. There are 105 debtors on the AMCON list that include key players in aviation, power, real estate, oil and gas, as well as other sectors of the economy. The vice president plans to invite the AMCON team alongside other MDAs to fine-tune how to ensure that anybody or agency that is a debtor to AMCON faces the wrath of the Federal Government as those who are indebted to the government are direct enemies of both the government and the people. He said the Federal Government will no longer allow a few individuals who owe AMCON huge sums of money walk freely on the streets. Osinbajo said: “I think the time has come for us (Federal Government) to set some examples with some of these top debtors of AMCON, which I believe will set a good example and serve as a deterrent to others.” Osinbajo said that AMCON would be empowered with the tools to go after the obligors who have remained recalcitrant despite the olive branch extended to them over the years by the debt recovery agency. He said: “I congratulate AMCON for the work done so far has recovered over N1 trillion and counting both in cash and in assets. The work you do as a recovery agency is not something that is particularly easy or encouraging because we all know how Nigeria works. But we are committed to working more closely with your administration to ensure that these monies are recovered from AMCON obligors because it will help our economy and provide the government with more money to continue to improve on the development of infrastructure across the nation.” Banire highlighted some of the challenges faced by AMCON as a result of the attitudes of some debtors who behave as if they are above the law. Banire said: “As at the end of December 2018, AMCON’s Assets Under Management (AUM) amounted to about N172.5 billion. “It is noteworthy to state that out of the total real estate properties, assets available for sale are valued at N62 billion. Of this N62 billion, about 83 per cent comprises bare land and other assets, which may need considerable improvement to convert into income generating assets.  AMCON’s interventions  In September 2018, following the takeover of defunct Skye Bank Plc by the CBN and the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), AMCON was invited to inject a total sum of N898.45 billion as capital, thereby leading to the emergence of another bridged bank named Polaris Bank Limited. The intervention in Skye Bank was caused majorly by internal abuse by the operators. As a result of that development, AMCON’s total debt obligation to the CBN is currently in excess of N6 trillion. AMCON had also intervened in the takeover of three bridged banks- Mainstreet Bank, Keystone Bank and Enterprise Bank. The three lenders have all been sold to new owners. While some of the AMCON debtors are still enjoying government patronage, others are using the judiciary and adopting legal technicalities to stall recovery, which is why we need a new strategy to enable AMCON to meet its mandate before sunset. Kuru said he could not wait for the take-off of the inter-agency collaboration promised by Osinbajo as, according to him, such a move would compel all sister agencies to be on the same page in the interest of the country. The AMCON boss also reminded the vice president that AMCON’s debts sit on the government’s balance sheet with CBN, and failure to recover them may result in serious consequences including recourse to taxpayers’ money, which must be avoided. Kuru said that for an organisation like AMCON with sunset date, all hands must be on deck to provide the support required. According to him, considering the huge portfolio of debt, no obligor must be allowed to go scot-free – no matter how highly placed in society.  •To be continued tomorrow