For Nigeria and other African countries to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), there is need to address major issues, such as inadequate data, poor inclusiveness and slow growth. A United Nations summit had in 2015 adopted an agenda that comprises 17 SDGs, including ending extreme poverty, preserving the environment and promoting economic growth. However, a report by Kigali-based Sustainable Development Goals Centre for Africa said large data gaps continue to predominate, and only 40 per cent of the indicators in the global SDG data framework are accompanied by data in Nigeria and other African countries. The report titled: “Africa 2030: SDGs Three-Year Reality Check” monitors Africa’s progress towards the SDGs and explores the structural challenges Africa faces. It was launched by Rwandan President Paul Kagame at an international conference on SDGs’ implementation in Africa. The report, which was accessed by The Nation, said even where data exists, much is outdated or incomparable across African countries. It added that economic growth in Africa remains subdued, as it does on social economic inclusion, which is the second main issue. According to the report, Africa’s economic growth has failed to achieve its potential in recent years and many believed it has not been inclusive or consistent with the people and prosperity pillars of the SDGs. The report said growth remains slower than the SDG 8 target of at least seven per cent for a year. It further added that social inclusion is in part constrained by rapid population growth, which outstrips most of the SDG progress in key areas. Two-thirds of African countries are in the “low human development’’ category of United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Index and they continued to struggle with education and healthcare, the report said. Another issue, the report noted, is that the global SDG framework, though already in place, lacks fully fledged implementation and accountability mechanisms.  