Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun yesterday said he will set up a cabinet based on the constitution of his cabinet on merit. According to him, inclusion of qualified professionals is crucial to the execution of his plans. Abiodun spoke with State House correspondents after meeting with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa on Tuesday. His experience in the private sector, he said, would guide him in appointing competent persons to work with him. He said: “You know my background is the private sector and in the private sector we believe in what is called merit before anything else. “So, everything we are going to be doing in Ogun henceforth would be based on merit.  Our cabinet will reflect people who deserve to be in office.  They will show competence.” he added He said the composition of his transmission team, which “comprised the best brains in Ogun from the private sector”, was an indication to the direction his administration is headed to. “If you look at what we have done so far, the choice of my CPS; I’m sure you know who my CPS is, Kunle Solarin, one of the best minds in the media industry in Ogun; my Chief of Staff is also a very brilliant Ogun man; my SSG is a very successful entrepreneur from Ogun as well. “So, this is how we are going to be defined to achieve our potentials, which we have earmarked and called our pillars. “We must ensure that things are gotten right, which we call our enablers.  The first of our enablers is good governance. “We cannot talk about good governance when the team itself that wants to execute good governance is faulty.” Abiodun said he would pick those that would prosecute the pillars of his administration “from the lenses of good governance.” He added: “Good governance starts with as simple as ensuring that workers’ salaries are paid on time.  I assumed office on the 30th May, having been sworn on 29th of May.  31st of May, my second day in office, was the day salaries were due for payment. “My pact with Ogun people was that salaries would be paid as at when due and to the glory of God, that day, 31st of May, Ogun civil servants began to receive their alerts of payment of their salaries.  That exemplifies good governance.  So people can begin to take you seriously.” He promised to provide for the right environment businesses to thrive. According to him, the proximity of Ogun State to Lagos, has necessitated that deliberate policies designed by competent person be executed to provide ease of doing business environment in the state. He stressed: “Ogun today is like New Jersey to New York.  We benefitted from what you call the push factor from Lagos. “We want to turn that to a pull factor, but you cannot bring and endear people to you state if you don’t begin to think about how to increase the ranking of your state in the global ease of doing business index. “So, if people see that you are serious about paying salaries on time, if they see you that are serious about empowering local government chairmen to ensure that they perform their duties as enshrined in the constitution, if they see you as paying pensions, clearing pensions and sending to PFAs, if they see you as paying gratuities and clearing arrears, then people would be endeared. “They will say this government is a serious government.  Ogun is geared for greater heights and we do that by ensuring that good governance is in accordance with our vision.