The Sunday live message (9/6/2019) of The Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Movement held at the church’s corporate headquarters at Ijesha, delivered by the General Overseer of the ministry Pastor Lazarus Muoka, can best be described as heavenly. This is in view of the fact that the message has reactivated the faith of believers in Christ with regard to honouring the Lord’s commandment to love one another and eschew hatred. In the sermon, Pastor Lazarus Muoka urged believers in Christ to pray for servants of God all over the world, whom he dubbed, “Generals in the Lord’s army.” This tag of God’s generals is obviously in recognition of their contributions towards the growth of the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ at different times all over the world. He noted that these men of God have labored all through their entire lives to ensure the growth of the gospel and as such deserve our prayers. He specifically requested believers to pray for servants of God like Enoch Adeboye, W. F. Kumuyi, Ohanebo, David Oyedepo, D. K. Olukoya among many others. He drew his message from the book of 2 Timothy 3:1-6 as he preached on the topic, “The Time is fulfilled,” through which he drew attention to the heavenly time table. Through the message, he admonished believers in Christ to engage in massive evangelism to herald the second coming of Christ instead of engaging in trivialities such as in-fighting in the house of God and use of words capable of destroying one another. He cited such instances as general overseers fighting among themselves and workers and leaders doing the same thing. He advised believers to shun greed, avarice and vain glory, pride, boasting, arrogance, love of money and so on. He admonished them to obey the Master’s injunction bearing in mind that the time is already fulfilled. In the message, Pastor Lazarus Muoka emphasized on the need to preach the truth since that is the only chance of every converted and professed believer to make heaven at the end of this life. He assured that believers who call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved as long as they are genuinely repented. (Romans 10:13) In his exact words, he said, “As believers in Christ, we must preach the word of God not minding the season at hand.” (Romans 5:17) Pastor Lazarus Muoka who is the founder and general overseer of The Lord’s Chosen whose unwavering message of righteousness has culminated into rapid growth for the ministry, urged all pastors to always preach Jesus Christ and pointing on the cross where the Messiah died for our sins and resurrected for the atonement of our sins. He divided his message into two sub-headings which he discussed as follows:
1. Evidence and warning there is no more time
2. Believers’ end-time responsibility and the dangers of neglect. Referring to available evidences, he cited the examples of nations rising against nations, churches against churches, preachers against preachers, workers against workers, and so on, according to Biblical prophecies. These unarguably, are happening right before our very eyes. Furthermore, the world is going through unprecedented economic recession coupled with the emergence of dangerous sicknesses and diseases such as Ebola, HIV/Aids, and Cancer in addition to pestilences and natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, cyclones, volcanoes, etc. Pastor Muoka proffered the reason that all these calamities are happening because the time is fulfilled and the signs are everywhere as prophesied in the word of God. Under these prevailing circumstances, he counseled on the need to love one another, pray for one another and generally encourage one another in line with the teachings of Christ. He said, “We should be encouragement to all the general overseers noting that no general overseer is better than those of other ministries. He therefore warned believers in Christ to refrain from speaking against pastors, brethren, workers, leaders and even members of the congregation. The crux of Pastor Muoka’s message is that now is a dangerous time for believers and whoever wants to make heaven at last apart from living holy and righteous, must, as a matter of fact, pray and encourage one another. Today, iniquities abound, unrighteousness abounds, compromisers of the gospel abound, and men have become lovers of themselves and of a particular church instead of lovers of God. He laid emphasis on the bible scripture which says that many shall be hated for God’s name, while terrible persecution shall befall many because of God and then shall the end come. He urged Christians to go to every nook and cranny preaching the gospel no matter the persecution because very shortly, the trumpet will sound since the rapture of the saints is at hand. (Mark 1:15) He cited that only those who are washed in the blood of the Lamb shall ascend into heaven with the Lord, while others will try to plead for mercy. But then, salvation and mercy will be far from them. (Matthew 24:7-8).
Continue on Page 2