Victims of the last general elections from Nembe Bassambiri, Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, received some succour recently. A philanthropist, Reuben Okoya, an Architect brightened their world. Okoya, one of the leading governorship aspirants on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) visited them and made cash donations in order to alleviate their suffering. The people of Bassambiri, mainly members of the PDP, were chased out of their ancestral homes during the last Presidential and National Assembly and state Houses of Assembly elections. They were reportedly sent packing by their brothers and sisters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) following unresolved political disagreements. Since the incident, some of them have been living as displaced persons at King Koko Centre in Ogbolomabiri, Nembe. But Okoya, out of sympathy, paid them a visit. Okoya has been at the forefront of donating to people in need. During the last flood that ravages most communities, he visited some of the Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDP) camps and donated relief materials. His visit to the victims of political struggle was special. It restored hope to the hopeless and made them believe in their party. Okoya gave them N2 million and promised to engage his friends and other interventionist agencies to facilitate their resettlement at home. Okoya was accompanied to the event by the Director-General of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Dr. Zedekiah Isu. He told them that his efforts to help the downtrodden were borne out of his antecedent as a manager of resources, cities and people. Addressing the displaced persons, he said: “Last year, we had a very big flood in Bayelsa. During that period of the flood, I went out with my team supported by SEMA. We went round the state helping those victims by providing them with food, money and equipment for them to survive the period. I was a commissioner of Bayelsa State during Alaemieseigha time, in Jonathan’s time I went to Abuja to work as a City Manager. So, I manage cities, I manage people and I manage resources. “A few months ago, I heard that there were some displaced people in Nembe because of political reasons. The truth is that you are all our brothers, our children, our sisters, our fathers and mothers. In this day and age, nobody from Nembe should be displaced. The United Nations recognises that displacement can come from war, famine or factors beyond human control but you are displaced for reasons that can be controlled by humankind. “They pushed you out of your homes and your comfort, but I can help you. I can identify with you and help you provide funding to be able to help you out for at least this short period. Your kids have to go to school. You still have to cure malaria and typhoid.” While observing that Boko Haram victims were catered for by the Federal Government, Okoya wondered: “Who is taking care of you?” He, however, thanked the administration of Governor Seriake Dickson for giving monthly stipends to the victims for their upkeep. But he said: “Those of us who are fortunate should also help. I am fortunate and I must give back to those who are less fortunate. I have come to help. I want to ask all Bayelsans who are out there, who consider you their brothers and sisters to also help, no matter how little. “We want to appeal to all Bayelsans to be our brothers’ keeper because you are displaced now, it might be us tomorrow. We need you to be with us at all times. I also appeal to businesses and companies that are doing well in Bayelsa State to bring something to the table to help you. “I am sure the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has a fund for helping less privileged people. They can provide because the money is not much. So, they can help you to go back home. Our prayer is that in some weeks from now you will go back to your homes but in the meantime how do you survive? “I appeal to the NDDC and other federal agencies to come to your rescue. We know you were displaced for some political reasons. We want to appeal to the Federal Government to come and make your area safe, so that you can go back home and live.” Okoya described displacement as a terrible experience, adding that it causes anger, especially when one realises that the people involved were from oil-producing communities. He said the people would be indignant that the Federal Government had done nothing to them despite taking their resources. He urged them to remain calm and peaceful and avoid the temptation of resorting to violence. He said: “I want to appeal to everyone to come to your rescue and restore your dignity. When you take someone’s dignity from him, you take everything from him. I see young men who have families but they can’t cater for their families. “I want to encourage you to be steadfast, no matter how painful you get, no matter how depressed you get, no matter how frustrated you get, don’t take to violence. “But I want to appeal to you to co-operate with your chiefs and leaders. They are also doing their best. It is not an easy job, but when Nembe people come as one, when we unite as one, then we become stronger.” The philanthropist urged people to avoid violent conflict that could lead to displacement. He advised that even when people disagree, they should not resort to violence to avoid humanitarian consequences. 