Students have set a second term agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari. According to them, he should consolidate on the gains of education reform. ABDULSAMAD MAHMUD (UDUS), ABIODUN JAMIU 200-Level Political Science (UDUS), OKUKU FEMI, 400-L Mass Communication (AAUA), and RODIYAH OMOTOYOSI MIKAIL 200-Level Law (UDUS)report. ONE week after he began his second term, students are urging President Muhammadu Buhari to perfect his education reform agenda. The twilight of his first term was riddled with industrial crises, chief of which was the faceoff with teachers in tertiary institutions. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU); Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP);  and Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COESU) shut down their schools for nearly three months. ASUU resumed its strike last November and suspended the action in January following negotiations with the Federal Government. It was the same thing with the other unions. Their grievances stemmed from government’s alleged inability to honour some of its agreements with them border on pervasive underfunding of tertiary Institutions, dearth of adequate manpower, poor infrastructure, welfare package, and payment of teachers earned academic allowances (EAA), among others. The unions’ actions sparked  renegotiations with the government and was followed by another Memorandum of Action (MoA) with timeframe attached. Last week, ASUU urged the President to honour the memorandum of action to avoid another strike. Students who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE insist government must prioritise education, which is key to empowering the people. Ahmed Alhaji, a 200-Level student of English and Linguistic, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University Lapai (IBBUL), hopes the President will proffer a lasting solution to the persistent industrial actions by workers in tertiary institutions. Alhaji said was time a state of emergency was declared on the sector, adding that a national summit should be convoked to chart a way forward. He appealed to the National Assembly to enact a law that will bar public office holders from sending their children for studies overseas while the nation’s education sector rots. Habeeb also pitched his tent with Alhaji on a national summit. He is upbeat that initiatives from such undertaking would set the country’s education system on the right path. “There is an urgent need for the government to developed and implement new strategies aimed at regaining the lost glory of our education in Nigeria. Equally, much attention should be paid to the issue of the striking lecturers by ensuring their demands are met. Recourse should also be made to the need and necessity of the students at both the secondary and higher institution cadres,”he submitted. Khadija Abdulsalam, 300-Level Food Science student at the Federal University of Technology Minna (FUTMINNA), is strongly of the opinion that the education sector is yet to witness any transformation since President Buhari assumed power in 2015. She bemoaned the deplorable conditions of public schools in the country, worsened by incompetent teachers and persistent strikes. She nevertheless, believes government is being given a second chance to right the wrongs. “In this ‘Next Level’, I desire to witness improved funding (of the education sector). I desire to see aggressive construction of critical infrastructure and rehabilitation of dilapidated buildings in our campuses and schools. I desire to see an end to the indiscriminate issuance of operational licence to mushroom private universities by the National Universities Commission (NUC).” She continued: “I desire to see necessary measures being put in place to sanitise our tertiary education sub-sector, to stem the tide of churning out half-baked graduates. Above all, this should be the era when our universities will become centres of ground-breaking research, and academic excellence.” Olufemi Damilola, 400 Level-student of Public Administration, Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba (AAUA), wants the government to increase budgetary provisions for the education sector. Damilola believes a raise would help foster rapid growth in the country. “I expect the sector to be given more priority in this ‘next level’ as propunded by Buhar’s administration. You don’t expect a child to grow up when such child is lacking in nutrition. The same is applicable to Nigeria’s educational system.” He continued: “Why can’t the (budgetary) allocation to education be jerked up to between 20 and 30 per cent? And yet, we want to compete with other institutions in Africa and even across the globe.” “Singapore is a former Third World country like Nigeria, for that matter; but she was able to strengthen her education. Today, the standard of education in that country enjoys global acceptance.” Complementing Femi’s expectations, Imole Olusegun Adeola, 500-Level-undegraduate of Mechanical Engineering, Federal University of Oye, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), believes that a monitoring committee should be constituted to superintend the funds disbursed to universities to ensure effectiveness. This is in addition to aggressive funding of research. “Research keeps the world evolving. South Africa for example, makes more commitment into research which is helping the country to develop its technology. Nigeria can do better,” Imole argued. Gobir Habeeb, 300-Law student of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), bewailed the utter disregard for education by the government. According to him, the negligence oftentimes warranted the recurring industrial actions embarked upon by lecturers. This, he said, has left the sector in its dilapidated state. “To be sincere, the level of education in Nigeria is nothing to write about. It is a menace escalating by the day without any hope of change. Our higher institutions still fall short when placed side by side their counterparts elsewhere. Constant strike by lecturers in universities has also had its adverse effects. Olaniyi Mubarak, an ND2 Marketing undergraduate of Kwara State Polytechnic (Kwara Poly), challenges government to financially empower institutions so they can up their IGR. He said government owes it a duty to financially empower institutions and make them autonomous, adding that projects with respect to education, must be handled with fairness and allocated to best hands. Mubarak put poor funding as central to decay infrastructures, dearth of research materials in libraries, and inadequate laboratory equipment across tertiary institutions nationwide. “To effect changes in the education system, each institution must be empowered to venture into businesses so as to improve their internal-generated revenue. Also, government must ensure the project assigned should be given to the best hands, while effective monitoring should be executed to ensure the said projects are undertaken according to specification. Equally, Adenuga Oluwatosin, a final year undergraduate of Food Science and Technology, Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) is also taking government’s promises with a pinch of salt. “I am not expecting anything other than disappointment (from government),” Adenuga submitted. “In his (Buhari’s) previous tenure, what was the fate of the education sector? Excruciating!” she added. Ayobami Okerinde, 400-Level student of the School of Communication, Lagos State University (LASU), believes a review of the education curriculum would help revamp the ailing sector. “I do hope the president would keep to his promises on taking Nigeria to the next level. The Nigerian educational system has been bedeviled with lots of crises since the first republic and I think it’s time to put an end to all of them because they have crippled our system. “A total revamp of our curriculum is needed. A critical look at our curriculum shows they are outdated and its contents not in par with what obtains in the 21st century. A committee should be created to look into this issue. Certain programmes not in sync with reality need to be scrapped outright and new ones introduced.”