Gentle reminder, please: we are still considering English words, phrases and expressions commonly misused, which misusages often tend to misinform, mislead, confuse and fail to communicate effectively, especially when they come from on high – dizzying academic heights to which all should bow and learn from. We are afraid such misusages are so rampant that we may highlight many more in several editions to come. Trust, you cannot be bored, because what concerns all should interest all. Consider the following: Ensue: You can rest assured that in many instances of the verb ensue that you encounter, it is invariably misused – usually to mean ongoing, apparently. See the misuse in the sentence below: The major distinguishing characteristic is that refugees cross the border of the country from other countries where violent conflict ensues . . . . The word ensues in this statement ‘is incorrect usage, because to ensue is to “happen or occur afterwards or as a result” (Oxford Dictionary of English/AmazonKindle). And the common experience is that people flee a raging conflict in their own country to become refugees in another country.’ To correctly convey this message, therefore, we re-construct, thus: The major distinguishing characteristic is that refugees cross the border of the country from other countries where violent conflict is ongoing or about to break out . . . . Equipment: The usual problem writers have with this usage is that many tend to pluralize equipment by adding s, as done in the specimen error below: Millions of naira has been expended on equipments to assist farmers. Being a mass noun, the word equipment is normally not pluralized with an s. Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary instructs further that “Equipment does not have a plural form and cannot be used with a or an. To talk about an amount of equipment, do not say equipmenys, say equipment, some equipment or a lot of equipment.” And “Pop” Errors in English: Writers Beware, our writers’ companion, advises that “you can safely refer to a large number, different kinds, a consignment, or a list of equipment, where it is important to reflect such plurality.” So, correct usage regarding the example at issue is: Millions of naira has been expended on equipment to assist farmers. Every: Hear our writers’ companion’s alarm on the reckless misuse of the word every: “Before we know it, the determiner every is rapidly assuming a new, but incorrect, meaning.” It is concerned about statements such as the one below: In every armed forces of the world, disobedience to constituted authority is a grave offence. . . . It is incorrect usage to put every before the plural noun armed forces. ‘Correct usage is to put it “before a singular noun to refer to all the individual members of a set without exception. By definition, therefore, it does not connote all and should not be so used. It is thus an egregious grammatical gaffe to write every armed forces instead of every armed force, or all the armed forces. The lesson: never use every as a determiner before plural nouns. Armed forces is a plural noun and should not be preceded by the determiner every” (“Pop” Errors in English: Writers Beware). For clarity, we suggest the following alternative corrections: In every armed force of the world, disobedience to constituted authority is a grave offence; or In all the armed forces of the world, disobedience to constituted authority is a grave offence. Evidence: This is also a mass noun commonly misused, as below: The evidences include the theft of about N1.7 trillion. It is incorrect usage to write evidences because ‘evidence is a mass noun meaning the “available body of facts or information” or “signs or indications of something”. It is redundant to ordinarily pluralize a mass noun. In the sense of the first meaning, correct usage is:  The evidence includes the theft of about N1.7 trillion. It is also correct in the sense of the second meaning to say: The evidence include the theft of about N1.7 trillion. ‘You would observe that the word evidence takes the singular verb includes in the first correction, but the plural verb include in the second, according to the laws of subject-verb agreement and the meanings ascribed respectively. For similar reasons, you can correctly say: England (a country) is featuring in the World Cup, and England (the individual players representing the country on the pitch) are leading by two goals to nil’ (“Pop” Errors.). The faithful: At issue here is, again, the wrong pluralization of an expression that should not be so treated. A good example is the specimen misusage of the expression “the faithful” below: In forming his cabinet, the president must reward the party faithfuls. . . . Usages of the faithful like the above is unacceptable because ‘the dictionary entry of the faithful indicates it as a plural noun meaning “people who believe in a religion; the loyal supporters of a political party.” The dictionary illustrates its usage thus: “The president will keep the support of the party faithful”’ (Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary, cited in “Pop” Errors). Correct usage is therefore to talk of the party faithful, the Christian faithful and the like. In this edition, we are bringing back the light exercises. So, kindly use the following in sentences in ways that demonstrate correct usage: fallout, far-fetched, fatal, fast-track and few/a few.