THE governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has said technical education remains one of the key determinants of national development and economic prosperity. Fayemi disclosed that any developing nation which despises technical education will witness economy somersault in these modern days driven by technological advancements. Speaking through the chairman, Ekiti State Board for Technical and vocational Education, Hon. Kayode  Babade, in Ado Ekiti on Saturday,  Fayemi advised the state governors  to key into the agenda of technical and vocational education for citizens to have skills that can take them to economic growth. Fayemi said the state, upon realising the values of technological innovations, had invested heavily on  the Technical College in Ado-Ekiti, where students were being trained in technical programmes like ceramics, carpentry and joinery, electrical installation, motor building, ICT, garment making, shoe making, among others. He said: “Such nation that fails to invest in this sector can’t be referred to as a developing nation let alone a developed one, so that is why every nation of the world is now investing heavily on technical and technological education. “Countries like China, South Korea, Singapore, France, USA, UK and Germany are all investing heavily on technical and technological education because without it, how do you generate power, manufacture automobile, how do you do electrical installation, transmit information via satelite, television and radio? “These are works of technology. Even the phones we are using today are products of technical education, and so without technical education, the world is nothing.” The governor, however, lamented that  policy somersault has been the major impediment knowing down the development of Nigeria’s educational system. “We always have policy somersault. The government that brought in the 6-3-3-4 policy really meant well for this country. Six years in the primary school, the first three years, which is the JSS1-JSS3, and then the SS1-SS3. “When this policy was introduced, you will discover that lots of the secondary schools were equipped with various kinds of workshops and tools, but today none of them are in the schools.”