Chairmen of the 33 local government and 35 local council development areas under the aegis of Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo state chapter have accused Governor Seyi Makinde- led Peoples Democratic Party government of planning to institute caretaker committees in all the council areas in the state. The group made the allegation in a statement entitled “Alert : Constitutional breach as Oyo state government plans to inaugurate local government caretaker committee” by Prince Ayodele Abass-Aleshinloye and Niyi Adeagbo, ALGON Chairman and PRO respectively. But Makinde described the insinuation as the height of jest, saying it is unfortunate that ALGON is already condescending to the level of mind readers and a group of people who just wake up on the side of their beds and begin to make funny but fake conjectures. The ALGON statement reads: “In a panicky step to preempt the possibility of losing its appeal against the high court judgement perpetually restraining it from dissolving the local government, Oyo state government has concluded plans to constitute caretaker committees in all the 33 local government councils and 35 development areas in Oyo state. “This is another step in illegality and we consider it as executive rascality, an affront on the Judiciary and the rule of law by the new administration that is desperate to return Oyo state to the old way of lawlessness and ‘pankere’ politics of settling constitutional matters by political thuggery. “This is impunity and a resort to self-help which would not be tolerated. It will be recalled that our case of contempt of court against the government was adjourned to July 30th, 2019 by Justice Ladiran Akintola of High Court 9, Ibadan with his Lordship’s order that the parties to maintain the status quo ante. “It is a grave development to find that while other states are moving on to developmental politics and agenda for their people, our own state government in Oyo continue to retrogress into illegality, recklessness and lawlessness, yet it is a government that was sworn in to defend the constitution it now tramples upon with impunity.” They added: “As a result of this, we are drawing the attention of Federal Government and Oyo State government to the NFIU directive, which restricts the beneficiary of the monthly allocation to only the democratically elected chairmen and not the caretaker arrangement already declared by the Supreme Court and the Oyo state high court as illegal and which is not constitutionally recognised. “Any attempt to constitute caretaker committee, interim chairmen, sole administrators/ managers or any such illegal contraption will be tantamount to a breach of the constitution, the rule of law and an illegality. “Any such step in impunity is equally an impeachable offence against the Governor under our constitution. “ALGON appeals to traditional rulers, eminent Oyo State indigenes and all people of good conscience to prevail on the government to allow peace to reign by following the path of the rule of law on which democratic government is based. “If the government claims to have appealed the judgment it is disobeying recklessly, should it not await the outcome of such an appeal? “We will continue to uphold the law and defend the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and we will not allow our state to be returned to a state of brigandage and lawlessness.” Makinde’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa said the Governor did not know ALGON as a group of mind readers who can predict or preempt what the he has on mind. He said: “We do not know ALGON to be mind readers or a sort of conjuring agents. “It is unfortunate that they have turned themselves to mind readers and a group of people who would go to whatever level to know the mind of the governor. “We can only appeal to them not to reduce the body to the level of jesters where anybody will just wake up on the sides of their bed and begin to make any funny conjectures. “Has the governor discussed any such thing with them or with anyone else? It’s funny they are trying to raise false alarm where no exist.”  