The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) data has shown that Nigeria’s trade balance remained in a surplus but moderated 4.8 per cent to N831.6 billion in the first quarter of the year as imports expanded faster than exports. Imports continued to accelerate, increasing 25.8 per cent and 3.4 per cent on a Year-on-Year and Quarter-on-Quarter basis respectively. This was mainly driven by an expansion in the importation of capital goods and industrial supplies as there was a surprising contraction in fuels and lubricants import. Analysts from Afrinvest noted that imports growth moderated in first quarter of the year, compared to the average of 69.5 per cent in the previous quarters which was partly due to import of a large-sized one-off capital equipment. The analysts expect sustained growth in imports driven by industrial and household demand, and also expect the pace to moderate in subsequent quarters. “Exports contracted 3.9 per cent on a Year-on-Year basis to N4.5 trillion in first quarter 2019, due to a 5.7 per cent Year-on-Year moderation in crude oil exports to N3.4 trillion. We attribute this to a reduction in oil production which contracted one per cent Year-on-Year to an estimated 1.96mb/d in first quarter2019 and oil price which was 5.8 per cent lower at US$63.3/bbl,” the analysts said in emailed reports to investors. However, exports rose 1.8 per cent Quarter-on-Quarter, supported by improved oil production even as oil prices moderated. “Notably, the NBS revised downwards the crude oil exports data for fourth quarter of 2018 to N3.6 trillion from N4.2 trillion, and in turn total trade data to N18.5 trillion in fourth quarter of 2018 from N19.1 trillion. For non-oil exports, there was a moderate 4.6 per cent increase Year-on-Year to N604.4 billion, although this was faster at 159.9 per cent on a Quarter-on-Quarter basis. We expect exports growth to remain weak in subsequent quarters mainly due to weak oil prices,” they said. In Afrinvest coverage of the ratification of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCTA) last week, analysts at Afrinvest looked at the implications of Nigeria’s absence in the trade bloc. “We noted that trade with Africa, in particular West Africa, could suffer. This week, in light of the recently released trade data, we look at Nigeria’s trade pattern with Africa.