Ahead of the inauguration of the 9th Bauchi State House of Assembly on Monday, three members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are eyeing the coveted speaker’s seat, The Nation has learnt. We also gathered that there is conflict of interest over which senatorial zone should produce the Speaker. Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) – led government might play a key role in determining who would become the next Speaker. The Nation gathered that PDP however doesn’t have the numerical strength to produce the Speaker in the state. It has just eight members in the Assembly while the APC has the majority of 22, leaving the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) with just a member. The PDP is however throwing its weight behind one of the top contenders, Abubakar Suleiman, a new member representing Ningi Constituency in Bauchi Central Zone. The other two contenders are former Speaker Kawuwa Shehu Damina, representing Darazzo Constituency. He is said to be optimistic of being returned. But there is also the Majority Leader, Hon. Tijanni Muhammad Aliyu, representing Azare / Mangala Constituency. A source familiar with the power- sharing formula for the emergence of a Speaker said the PDP is not comfortable with the former Speaker returning due to his antecedents in the immediate past administration of Mohammed Abubakar. The source who spoke in confidence said: “Since the Governor Bala Mohammed is from Bauchi South, his Deputy Sule Audu Katagum is from Bauchi North, the Speaker’s seat has been zoned to Bauchi Central Senatorial Zone. “The outgoing Speaker is from Darazo Local Government Area in Bauchi Central, the Majority Leader, Hon. Tijjani Muhammad Aliyu, is from Bauchi North, and Abubakar Suleiman is from Ningi Constituency. “Though the former Speaker is from Bauchi Central, the governor is not comfortable with him due to his antecedents in the immediate past administration of Mohammed Abubakar, so the governor is throwing is full weight behind the man from Ningi.” The source however clarified with the power- sharing formula; someone from Bauchi Emirate will not emerge as Speaker since the Secretary to the State Government, Alh. Muhammad Sabiu Baba and the Governor are both from Bauchi Emirate in Bauchi Central. He said further with the power- sharing formula, the choice of speaker remains in Bauchi Central but must definitely be from another local government, which is not part of Bauchi Emirate. “The outgoing speaker is from Darazzo local government in Bauchi Central and Darazzo is also part of Bauchi Emirate.That is why PDP don’t want him. The Nation gathered that the former Speaker, who is from Darazzo, may capitalise on his incumbency power because majority of the members are returning to the House. Speaking in an interview with The Nation reporter after a valedictory session of the 8th Assembly on Friday, he expressed optimism of being returned unopposed.