Foremost background screening company, Background Check International (BCI) has enjoined corporate organisations to support the ambition of young Nigerians through corporate sponsorship. Its Managing Director Mr. Kola Olugbodi called for adequate funding to actualise the aspirations of talented Nigerians in sporting activities. Olugbodi stated this during a reception in honour of Dorcas Adeshokan, the number one Badmington Champion in Nigeria and Africa. Olugbodi said corporate organisations must identify talents and provide desired support for them to excel in their chosen field of human endeavor. Olugbodi said BCI would support Adeshokan’s sporting ambition through a fund me campaign to mobilise for her participation at the Olympics 2020 Badminton tournament. He commended Adeshokan for her dedication, commitment and focus which has assisted her thus far. He added BCI would also spearhead a campaign to further showcase the potentials and skills of Adeshokan as well as promote her sporting ambition. Vice-Chairman Ogun State Badmington Association, Mrs. Onikepo Adebayo, who accompanied Adeshokan said the she sporting prodigy needs huge support to actualise her aim of attending the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo Japan. She said she had volunteered to help the award winning champion for her to remain focused in her sporting ambition. She said Adeshokan has made Nigeria proud by occupying the first place in Badminton in Nigeria and Africa. She said Adeshokan recently won the All Africa Individual Championship women single 2019 and All African women championship double 2019. This feat made her remain the number one badminton player in Africa. She added that Adeshokan is set to represent Africa in the forthcoming Tokyo Olympics 2020. Adeshokan thanked the BCI management for the support and encouragement she has received from the organisation. She expressed her determination to soar and bring more honour to Nigeria through Badminton. She appreciated her coaches who have remained steadfast in ensuring that she performed excellently in all her tournaments. Adeshokan declared her preparedness to participate at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and called for sponsorship to enable her actualise her dream.   