Candidates who contested the state Houses of Assembly election during the last general election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South East have accused leaders of the party in the zone of betraying them and entering a deal with governors of the zone to give President Muhammadu Buhari 25 percent votes from the area. They also accused the governors of going into negotiations with PDP governors of the zone against all APC candidates alluding to the fact that rather than campaign for them, the APC leaders mobilise votes for the opposition, describing such action as anti-party. In a communiqué issued at the end of their meeting in Abuja, the candidates on the platform of APC) House of Assembly South East candidates under the platform of Conference of 2019 Southeast APC House of Assembly Candidates, have hinged the failure of the party in the zone to the negative activities of the party leaders in the zone. The also accused the party leaders of anti-party activities, alleging that most of them did not only campaign for the opposition parties but also negotiated with the State governors to give 25 per cent votes to the party’s presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari. In a communique signed by the duo of Toochukwu Onyedibe and Confidence Chukwuedozie, Coordinator and Secretary, respectively, the Conference also noted with dissatisfaction the outcome of the National Assembly leadership election, raising concern over the imbalance on the composition of the National Assembly new leadership. The communique read: “The Conference noted with dismay the negative activities of some leaders of the party in the zone which contributed to the unimpressive performance of the party in the South-east. Most of them are guilty of anti-party activities. “They neglected the candidates of the party, campaigned for the opposition party candidates and even went into unholy alliances with the state governors to give our presidential candidate 25 per cent, forgetting that we have all it takes to win the election. “We noted with dissatisfaction the outcome of the National Assembly leadership election and raised concern of the imbalance on the composition of the new leadership. That the conference expresses optimism in the growth and improved performance of the party in the zone and urges all organs of the party on the need for proactive programmes and early preparation towards the next elections. “For equity, fairness and growth of the party in the South-east, the conference is appealing to our dear President Buhari and the National leadership of the APC to urgently address the concern of the people of South-east on inclusive governance so as to promote national cohesion. “We commend the party for setting up Committee on the Review of Anti party activities during the last general election and urge the Party leadership to implement fully the report of the committee especially as it concerns the South-east zone. With the belief that the committee will be unbiased in the discharge of their duties in order to restore party discipline and loyalty with a view to repositioning the party in the zone,” the communique read.