State police agitators seem to be winning their age-long battle. Governors, faced with mounting security challenges – banditry, kidnapping and terrorism, among others – have agreed to push for a law to facilitate a state police system, The Nation learnt on Thursday. But, not all governors at a meeting in Abuja on Wednesday agreed to join the state police train. Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai declined. He feels Nigeria is not yet ripe for the idea. To accommodate all, the governors resolved that once the law is in place, every state will be free to fix the timeline it will put its State Police Force in place based on availability of resources. The Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) will soon present a memo to the National Assembly Constitution Review Committee, which will be headed by Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege. Governors have decided to secure President Muhammadu Buhari’s support for their plan. He had inaugurated a committee to review similar recommendations on State Police. The Nation learnt that the governors arrived at their position on State Police at a session in Abuja on Wednesday. Their position was later taken to the National Economic Council (NEC) yesterday in Abuja. A source at the session said: “At our pre-NEC meeting, we weighed all options on the security challenges in the country and we reached an agreement that State Police System is likely to be one of the solutions to the problems at hand. “We took stock of the fact that Nigeria is one of the countries with federalism without state police. In other federal jurisdictions like the United States (U.S.), India and others, there are federal, state, municipal and county police systems. “We discussed the implications of State Police and came into the conclusion that it will not affect our unity, diversity and cohesion as a nation. Rather, good security apparatchik will give a sense of belonging to all and promote economic integration. “We will seek the understanding of President Muhammadu Buhari. We want his buy-in since we can longer leave the security problems to the Federal Government. “We need to devolve our police system for efficiency and better results. We have had enough of a Unitary Police Structure. This is why we are having many security challenges. “What we are proposing will not in any way affect the federal police structure that we have in place now. State police will work in synergy with the federal police.” El-Rufai is said to have felt strongly that Nigeria is not yet ripe for state police, considering our ethnic, religious and political colourations. “He suspected that the system is capable of being abused in a partisan political environment like Nigeria,” the source said. Another governor spoke on some factors which may impede the implementation of State Police, especially funding and how to go about the implementation of the state police. He said: “The only hurdle we anticipated at our meeting was how to fund state police in view of the scarce resources in a receding economy. “We, therefore, opted to allow each state to choose the timeline it prefers to start the State Police System based on exigencies and the resources available to it. For instance, while Lagos, Rivers, Ogun, Oyo, and Kano states can easily bankroll State Police, insolvent states like Kogi, Zamfara, and many others may take some years to join it.” A governor from the North-Central, who also confided in our correspondent, said: “Some work has been done by the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) in the past. We will just activate what we have done, fine-tune our proposals in line with new trends and unveil our blueprint.” After securing the support of the President, the NGF will send a memo to the National Assembly Constitution Review Committee which will be headed by the Deputy President of the Senate, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege. “We will then embark on the lobbying of the lawmakers to effect amendments to the 1999 Constitution to place Police on Concurrent List which will allow the establishment of State Police,” the source said, requesting not to be named. The governors will also lean on a bill on State Police, which was sponsored by Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila when he was the House Majority Leader. The 8th House of Representatives on July 4, 2018 received from Gbajabiamila a bill to amend the 1999 Constitution to allow State Police. The bill sought to amend Section 214 (1) of the 1999 Constitution by deleting the phrase “and subject to the provisions of this section no other police force shall be established for the Federation or any part thereof” immediately after the word “force”. New sections 215 and 216 were also to be created by amending the existing sections 217 and 218 to spell out the structure and operations of the proposed state police. The details of the bill are as follows: “217. (1)  “There shall be a police force in each state of the Federation. (2) Subject to the provisions of this constitution – (a) a state Police Force shall be organized and administered in accordance with such provisions as may be prescribed by an act of the State House of Assembly; (b) members of state Police shall have such powers and duties as may be conferred upon them by law.” “218. (1) “There shall be – (a) a Commissioner of Police who shall be appointed by the governor on the advice of the State Police Council from among serving members of the State Police Force; “(2) The State Police Force shall be under the command of the State Commissioner of Police. “(3) The governor or such other commissioner of the government of the state as he may authorise in that behalf may give to the Commissioner of Police such lawful directions with respect to the maintenance and securing of public safety and public order as he may consider necessary, and the Commissioner of Police shall comply with those directions or cause them to be compiled with. “219. (1) Subject to the provisions of this constitution, the State House of Assembly may make laws for the further regulation and control of the State Police. “The Principal Act is hereby amended by rearranging the existing sections 217 to 320 as sections 220 to 323. “The Principal Act is hereby amended by deleting item 45 from the exclusive legislative list in part 1 of the second schedule of the constitution. “That the entire items on the Exclusive Legislative List in part 1 of the second schedule of the constitution is hereby rearranged and renumbered as items 1 to 67 with the exclusion of the deleted item under this Bill.” The bill also proposed to amend the constitution by creating a new Section 21 in part 2 of the Second Schedule to give powers to state Houses of Assembly to create state police commands. Section 21 reads, “(1) The National Assembly may make laws for the Federation or any part thereof with respect to- (a) Police force and other government security services in respect of anything pertaining to internal security and the maintenance of law and order in Nigeria; and (b) Regulation of ownership and control of Federal Police and other government security services. “(2)   A House of Assembly of a state may make laws with respect to: a. The creation, formation or/and establishment of Police Force and other security services in respect of any matter pertaining to internal security and the maintenance of law and order within that state and with regard to the enforcement of any law validly made by the House of Assembly of that state. “b. Regulation of ownership and control of State Police and other state government’s security services. “The Principal Act is hereby amended by renumbering the existing section 21 to 30 of part 2 of the second schedule of the constitution as numbers 22 to 31.” 