Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has revoked the Airline Transport Pilot’s Licence ATPL of a Pilot for serious violation of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs). Spokesman of the authority , Sam Adurogboye has disclosed. He said the  revocation was a consequence of the Pilot operating flights on non-schedule operations while his medical certificate has expired. The NCAA spokesman said investigation  revealed that instead of the Pilot revalidating his Medical Certificate he conducted flight operations as the Pilot-in-Command (PIC) in flagrant disregard of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs). During these flight operations,  the NCAA said the Pilot repeatedly exercised the privileges of his License ATPL (A) when he was not qualified to exercise such privileges. He said :” Specifically, the Pilot’s Medical Certificate commenced validity from 17th July, 2017 and expired on the 16th January, 2018. Another one was processed on 11thMay, 2018 which expired on the 10th November, 2018. “According to Part 2.11.1.2-(b) A flight crew member or air traffic controller shall not exercise the privileges of his/her licence unless he/she holds a current medical certificate appropriate to the licence. “Consequent upon this, the Authority has determined that pursuant to Part 2.11.1.2(b) of the Nig.CARs, the Pilot has lost the privileges of his Licence. He does not hold a current medical certificate appropriate to the Licence. Resultantly, in Part 2.2.9.3 (a) A licence, rating, authorisation or certificate shall be revoked if the holder has lost the skills for exercising the privileges mentioned in the document or fails to meet appropriate medical standards as shown by the result of a medical examination or a test. “Therefore, in line with Part 1.3.3.3(a)(1) of the Nig.CARs, the Pilot’s Licence ATPL (A] [ A- Aircraft] is hereby revoked with immediate effect, and it ceases to be effective.” The Pilot has been directed to return the invalidated licence to the Authority’s Director of Licensing (DOL) within seven days of receipt of the Letter of Sanction. The letter has  been despatched to the pilot. He further said :” The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) wishes to reiterate very strongly that violation of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) will continue to view very seriously any infraction of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs).” 