It was an unusual development at the Federal High Court, Abuja on Friday as a lawyer abandoned his client and informed the court that he was no longer interested in representing him. Akeem Olasupo had always represented Philip Undie, the plaintiff in a suit that seeks to sack Femi Gbajabiamila from the House of Representatives and to also prevent him from contesting the position of Speaker until on Friday when he threw in the towel. Olasupo was absent in court on Friday when the suit, marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/539/2019 was called. But Michael Ayan, who stood in for Olasupo, conveyed his unusual message to the court, but gave no reasons for his action. Ayan said although the case was slated for further mention yesterday, “I want to inform the court that the plaintiff’s lawyer said he no longer wants to appear in the case again. “Olasupo Akeem, who is representing the applicant, is no longer interested in representing the plaintiff in this matter,” Ayan said. Lawyer to Gbajabiamila, Femi Adedeji, queried Olasupo’s decision to withdraw his appearance without withdrawing the case. Lawyers to the other defendants did not oppose Oladipo’s withdrawal as plaintiff’s lawyer, but noted that he ought to have withdrawn the case too. Ruling, Justice Inyang Ekwo granted Olasupo’s request to withdraw from the case. “The plaintiff’s counsel withdrew from the case, but he did not withdraw the case, meaning the case is still before this court,” the judge said. Justice Ekwo noted that the lawyer’s withdrawal has made it impossible for the court to proceed with the hearing of the case at this stage. “This court will grant a short adjournment to enable the plaintiff get a new lawyer or conduct his case himself,” he said. The judge said he will, on the next adjourned date, hear the preliminary objections filed by the defendants along with the substantive suit. He also said the court will deem adopted, all processes filed by a party that is absent on that day. He adjourned to June 17, 2019 for hearing. Defendants in the suit are Femi Gbajabiamila, House of Representatives, Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and All Progressives Congress (APC). It is Undie’s contention that, in view of a decision by the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia, Atlanta, USA “in suit no. 506Y0829, in the matter of Femi Gbaja, the 1st defendant (Gbajabiamila) is not fit and proper person to be elected to the House of Representatives and/or to the office of the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The plaintiff wants the court to declare that the 1st defendant is not a fit and proper person to be elected as a member of the House of Representatives and/or as the Speaker of the House of Representatives.