Two teachers from Chrisland School, Lekki on Tuesday defended their supervisor, Adegboyega Adenekan, accused of defiling a two-year-old pupil two years ago. Adenekan, 47, was charged before an Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court for allegedly inserting his manhood into the child’s private parts. The incident happened in December 2017 on the school premises when the child was two years and eleven months old. In her testimony, the victim said the supervisor defiled her in his office and in the toilet. Adenekan pleaded not guilty. When the case came up on Tuesday before Justice Sybil Nwaka, the Assistant Head Teacher, Mrs Tolulope Adebola, said there was no way the defendant could have defiled the child on the school premises. Led in evidence by the defence counsel, Olatunde Adejuyigbe, SAN, Adebola, who said she had worked for the school for 19 years, said the victim gave conflicting accounts of where the incident happened. “When the matter was reported to the school, the victim’s mother was invited. She came along with her friend whom she described as a lawyer and church member. “She told us that she is the only one that bathes her daughter. But when the child was brought from her class for questioning, she said, ‘Aanu use to bath me and hurt my bum bum .’ ‘The child’s mother was visibly disturbed on hearing that. She then opened up and said Aanu is her husband’s niece. The witness said when the child was asked to show where Adenekan defiled her, she took them to the Assembly Ground, which is an open space. She said her mother shouted at her and told her to show them the other place she was defiled and the child took them to the canteen. “I was shocked because the canteen is a very busy place where we have the maintenance office, the driver’s lounge and the kitchen. There was no way she could have been defiled there. “This child was in Kindergarten II at that time and Adenekan was a Supervisor of the primary school section. His office was on the last floor. There was no way he could have taken the child out of the class without the teacher or assistant teacher being aware,” the witness said. The victim’s class teacher, Ruth Ujunwa, children in her class were always escorted to and fro the restroom. “The child is intelligent I agree, but there is no way a two-year-old child can draw manhood. We don’t teach pre-school children how to draw. We treat these children like babies because of their age, so we accompany them everywhere within the school premises. “The school is well structured. My Lord, so such a thing could never have happened,” Ujunwa maintained. Justice Nwaka adjourned till June 25.