DREADLOCKS are very much African. It is one of the natural and, maybe not so natural, hairstyles that only Africans and a few other races can solidly lay claim to. Whether grown naturally or with a bit of help, dreadlocks always add something special to their wearers and make their heads stand out in a crowd. For many years in Nigeria, dreadlocks were mostly associated with Reggae stars and Rastafarians. But some of the biggest promoters were also found outside the music scene. For example, the late Nigerian internationally footballer, Samuel Okwaraji, who died during a football match between Nigeria and Angola, in 1989, was one of the most famous dreadlock-wearing Nigerians. Nowadays, dreadlocks are the rave. Also known as faux locs, the style has become incredibly popular in today’s society with men and women of all ages and races sporting it. Whether you want to add sass to a short do or are striving for that Rapunzel look, dreadlocks have become a symbol of beauty and status. However, it’s important to understand that dreadlocks care takes time and money and they are not cheap to properly maintain. It’s the big hair fashion statement this season and it’s everywhere and vibrant in different hues! This hair style has become so popular that it has enticed many A-list stars –Activists, artistes, footballers, actresses, actors, comedians, OAPs, even some academicians, to mention but a few. Faux locs are a great way to add fun an extra touch to the hairstyle, and you can make your hair be more eye-catching by packing your locs in a special way. Dreadlocks hairstyle can be styled for any formal event as it is fresh and appealing. Below are some of our favourite dreadlocks celebs who caught the faux locs bug and are looking fabulous with it: Ekiti State First Lady Erelu Bisi Fayemi; Burnaboy, Ahmed Musa, Clarence Peters, Victor Moses, Ycee, Nse Ikpe Etim, Folu Storms, Obafemi Martins, Mikel Obi, Uti Nwachukwu,Flavour, Asa, Ehiz, Basket Mouth, Reekado Banks to Weird MC and Wande Coal.