Scores of protesters from Ijaiye-Ojokoro Local Council Development Authority (LCDA) Lagos on Thursday stormed the seat of power in Alausa, Ikeja to draw attention of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to deplorable state of roads in their communities. The protesters were made up of six Community Development Associations (CDAs) in the LCDA, including: Majeobaje, Progressive, Millenium Housing Estate, Hope Garden 1&2 Estate and Alayo. They carried placards with various inscriptions in English and Venarcular such: “Governor Sanwo-Olu, have mercy,” “Ikereku/Adetola Temple Road, Oba Lambe, Ipetu also needs attention,” “Sanwo-Olu a ti gbiyanju, apa ti kun wa o,” among others. In a letter addressed to the Governor, they urged him to effect repair of those roads to ease their pains and aid security within and around them. Chairman of Progressive CDA and joint chairman of the CDAs, Chief Razaq Shodiya, said Ikereku/Adetola street by Ojokoro LCDA “which is a major link and access road to Millenium Housing Estate, Agbado station, Fagba, Olaniyi and Powerline communities within and outside the LCDA has become impassable to residents and has affected their economic, social and other life activities. “Apart from that it has become a security issue because anytime armed robbers come to operate there and you call the police they will tell you there is no road to get into the area, leaving us at the mercy of robbers.” According to him, the road is one of the 181 inner roads approved for rehabilitation/reconstruction by the past administration but nothing had been done on it ever since. Treasurer, Progressive CDA and executive of the joint CDA, Dr Folorunsho Omitiran, said the road network is very bad and has been in a state of disrepair for so many years. “We have written so many letters to the government to ask for assistance on the road also to let the government know that though the road was listed among the 181 roads to be constructed by the past administration nothing had been done. “We want to draw the attention of the present government to the state of roads in that particular area, especially Adetola-Ikereku road believing that if we do this early, government will listen and put us in mind and attend to us. “We believe the new governor is a listening person and that he would attend to us when they want to start work on roads, we voted massively for him during the election.” The joint coordinator of the CDAs, Mr. Yemi Adebisi, said he has been attacked twice in his house by armed robbers “but when I complained to the police they say the road is terrible that they don’t have access to the place.” Director (Political), Office of Civic Engagement, Mr. Kolawole Hundeyin, urged them to exercise some little patience, even as he assured the affected roads would be attended to very soon like others around it. Hundeyin, while maintaining that government is a continuum, added: “By the time we have new excos in place, action would be in full force.” He appealed to them to let the governor settle down, “be patient the road will be done, once there is an exco in place all the problems will be taken care of,” Hundeyin assured.