The All Progressives Congress (APC) Vice-Chairman (Lagos Central) Hakeem Bamgbola has said the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila is the most qualified lawmaker to lead the lower chamber. Describing Gbajabiamila as the most experienced lawmaker in the House, Bamgbola said there was hardly any other candidate that can match Gbajabiamila’s qualities. “One of the things he is noted for is his ability to engage the floor of the House. He is a lawmaker, who really understands how to press down his cases articulately. He has exhibited a lot of strengths. His assemblage of personal principles is unparalleled,” he said. According to him, Gbajabiamila performed excellently as a member of the House of Representatives with great doggedness and patriotism. He described him as a brilliant, hardworking, committed lawmaker and party man to the core. “Gbajabiamila is more humble and accords everyone with due respect and a high level of courtesy. His personality is most befitting to lead the House of Reps. My understanding of him is that he knows how to manage people and situations of any nature. He is very loyal to the party and the people of his constituency. “One of the problems that lawmakers have with some past Speakers of the House is high handedness and personal ego. Gbajabiamila is a far cry from all these attitudes. He knows his colleagues well and understands how to relate with them,” he said. Bamgbola, the former Chairman of Itire-Ikate Local Council Development Area (LDCA), added that Gbajabiamila is a core nationalist, who never allows tribalism or ethnocentrism to take preference over national development. “He is very eloquent and has the mastery of debate of issues on the floor of the House. The art of debating House issues has almost become a craft for Gbajabiamila. We can’t compare him to second comers or first-timers. He’s intellectually sound. That’s most obvious anytime he speaks on issues at the Chambers,” he said. He noted that Gbajabiamila has the ability to reach across to members of both the ruling and opposition parties during debates on matters of national importance without stepping on the toes of any sides.