Nigeria’s plastic manufacturing company Sarsoli Industries plans to unveil its products at K Plast Print Pack Trade Show scheduled to hold in Germany, October this year. The show is considered as one of the largest plastic industry fairs across the globe. The Lagos based plastic company, which started operations in 2011, was the first company from West Africa to exhibit at the K Fair in 2013. The company also exhibited its products at the trade fair in 2016 while preparations are in top gear for the forthcoming event. Earlier, Sarsoli had had also exhibited at the K Plast event during the Fifth Plast Print Pack Trade Show 2019, which held in Lagos, Nigeria. Managing Director of the company, Jai Changrani, said the exhibition at the show would bring in more innovations to the company, adding that the company’s management was conscious of producing quality products. He said the company’s quality products were at par with some of the leaders in the plastics industry globally. Changrani said the company supplies products to Forte Oil, PZ, BAGCO, Dangote, KGM, Celplas industries, Leoplast, Shonghai, Lotus Plastics, Mammuda Industries, Ammasco and many more with different coloured master-batches. Speaking with The Nation in Lagos, ahead of the show, the Sarsoli boss said the company’s continuous improvement in technology and capacity, as well as regular training of members of staff had kept it at the cutting edge of the business. Changrani stated that being at the K fair would give the company the first-hand information on new technologies in the plastic and allied industries, noting that it was after Sarsoli exhibited at the K Fair in 2013 that it started gaining increased momentum. He said since then, the company started exporting master-batches to neighbouring countries in West Africa including Ghana, where it now has an office. “The K Trade Fair has been instrumental in helping us expand to our target market across West Africa sub-region and such focus on the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) countries provides zero import duty. “This has made our products cheaper, compared to importing from somewhere. In addition, operating within ECOWAS makes supply time faster and foreign exchange income is generated by exports,” Changrani stated. He said the company services the plastic industry, which is one of the largest industries in Nigeria, producing items, such as jerry cans, shopping bags, chairs, tables, buckets, sacks, and mats.