The Executive Director, Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited (NDPHC), Engr Ife Oyedele on Tuesday said respite is on the way for residents of Ondo South District who have been in darkness for the past 11 years. According to him, power will be restored totally within the next 60 days to the affected six local government in Akure, the Ondo State capital while reeling out the efforts of government towards reconnecting the affected towns and communities to the national grid. Oyedele said electricity will be restored to the district within the next 60 days following the total overhauling of the damaged facilities and equipment which has not been in use for the past 11 years. Towns and communities within the senatorial district have for over ten years been in total darkness due to the alleged non-payment of outstanding electricity bills owed from the days of Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). Following the takeover of PHCN by the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC), the entire axis of the district was subsequently disconnected from the national grid. While stating that President Muhammadu Buhari led administration has been concerned with the situation, the NDPHC boss emphasized that all is being done at ensuring that the timeframe is actualized. Within the next 60 days, I can assure you that electricity will be fully restored to the Ondo South Senatorial District. “The federal government took a decision and I recall when the Vice President (Prof. Yemi Osinbajo) came to campaign in the state, he kept hammering on the fact that government will not allow a section of the country to be in total darkness and that was why the Niger Delta Power Holding Company was encouraged, instructed and directed to intervene. And that is exactly what we have done. ” What we were supposed to do was to just help the BEDC to resuscitate or repair the network from Ore to Okitipupa to Igbokoda and to Ese-Odo Local Government. You don’t need to be an engineer to understand that if a network had been abandoned for 11 years in the rain and in the sun almost everything would have broken down. Poles had fallen. Cables had been stolen away. Transformers oil had dried up. “And so, when we had done the bit we are supposed to do, We discovered that the transformers were in very horrible conditions. We discover the internal network within the various channels were very bad. ” The Vice President instructed us to continue to work and then we discovered that there is only one line that comes from Osogbo to Ondo and feeds 260 MVA transformers in Ondo. And it was from one of those transformers that the 33 KVA line was taken to Ore and from Ore to Okitipupa then to Igbokoda. And unfortunately, one of those transformers had gone bad. “Having done all the reticulation in Irele, Okitipupa, Ilaje and Ese-Odo and Odigbo Local Governments. There was nowhere that the whole of Ondo town, the whole of Ore, Okitipupa, Irele, Igbokoda which can be called cities can be fed from one single transformer that is coming all the way from Ondo. “What we are doing presently is to repair second line that goes from Ore to Ondo and to ensure that the second transformer is brought back into the network. He maintained that the ruling APC government will continue to put the people at the front burner of its policies and programs irrespective of political affiliation. Oyedele said no sector of the country will be left out, stressing that all are critical in progress of the country which he said the government cannot afford to neglect for the other.