Now, to consider Kayode Fayemi in terms of political personae; Ekiti’s cerebral governor recently emerged as Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) thus heading a deified circuit, ritual precinct of tin gods. He may not control it but he endows it with a face and voice, synthesising glassy intellect with the forum’s coarse flux. Under his leadership, will the NGF remain state and skull, riding the serpent desires of bowel and belly? Knowing Fayemi, he would most likely appropriate the title of progressive hero and modern idealist in his prefectship of the NGF. But as chairman of the forum, can he truly wield his girth and repute to patch his colleagues’ shortcomings? Can he tame their vulgar inclinations? Consider for instance, the NGF’s curious agitation for increased ‘security vote’ and state police; there is no gainsaying that the governors’ agitation rankles an ominous note. Do the 36 state governors, possess the emotional maturity, intelligence and character necessary to wield such enormous powers? Despite their shrill outcry, oft touted in defence of citizenry imperilled by terrorism, gang violence and banditry in their respective domains, their antecedents reveal disconcerting truths about their capacity to wield such powers. Many governors would undoubtedly, pervert the provisions for state police, and promptly turn the paramilitary force into attack dogs, using them to hound the press, critics and perceived ‘political detractors.’ The state police would also become powerful tools by which a governor may tame, harass and hound his ‘political godfather.’ In fact, the joke resounds in governors’ circuits, that, if they could achieve their dreams of establishing a state police, they would decisively silence their oft ‘overbearing godfathers.’ Well, as far as juvenile fantasies go, that may be achievable in only the realms of their wild imaginations – as most of their handlers or perceived ‘godfathers’ are equally re-strategising to establish formidable stakes in the state police, in preparation for ‘betrayal’ by the governors, or any such eventuality. A likely consequence of the brewing storm is that the state police would comprise hostile factions loyal to the incumbent governor and his political godfather; eventually, each state would be cast in turmoil as warring factions seize the proposed security outfit to the detriment of the citizenry. Nonetheless, the Head, Media and Public Affairs of the NGF, Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, feverishly argued, that, the establishment of state police would resolve the states’ security woes, Despite the governors’ massive investments to boost their states’ security infrastructure, the state police commissioners aren’t answerable to them, he lamented, recently, on Channels TV Sunrise Daily. Bello-Barkindo urged people to reduce the criticisms lashed out at governors over accountability. Of course his argument is wholly untenable in the face of truth. Bello-Barkindo conveniently failed to acknowledge that many, if not all of Nigeria’s 36 state governors, get power drunk soon after they assume office and a power-drunk governor is likable to a drunkard cop with an uncorked rifle; the consequences are better imagined. Just recently, Premium Times reported that ex-governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun, surrendered about four million rounds of ammunition, 1,000 units of AK47 assault rifles, 1,000 units of bulletproof vests and an armoured personnel carrier (APC) to the state’s Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, from a secret armoury in the Government House. “Amosun’s anointed candidate for the March 9 governorship election, Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), had been roundly defeated by Dapo Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the governor was now desperate to clear the Government House of any incriminating material as Mr Abiodun moved in to take charge,” the online publication wrote. Amosun said he procured the arms and ammunition to check the widespread insecurity in his state of 3,751,140 residents, according to the 2006 census. This is no doubt instructive about the depths a governor like Amosun could descend, for ‘security’ reasons. Lest we forget the NGF’s troubling clamour for increased security votes; security votes are opaque security funding, drawn monthly from the federal purse in hundreds of millions of naira, to fund often fictive security expenses. A significant percentage of the country’s overall security spending, these secretive, unaccounted-for outlays add up to an estimated $670 million (N241.2 billion) annually, and are never subject to audit or legislative oversight, according to the Transparency International’s Africa Director for Defence and Security Programme, Christina Hildrew. At the backdrop of TI’s claims, Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, has alleged that some state governors covertly promote insecurity as justification to inflate their security vote. Magu said this at the induction of new and returning governors at the Old Banquet Hall, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Transacted mostly in cash, the security vote is not subject to legislative oversight or independent audit and the veil of secrecy, predictably, protects state governors, who embezzle the money and divert it to fund their political interests. Recent estimates reveal that the sum total of Nigeria’s security votes dwarf the international security assistance it receives. In just one year, notes TI, these off-budget expenditures add up to over nine times the amount of US security assistance to Nigeria and the total amount of counterterrorism support the UK has promised to give the country by 2020. Nigeria arguably would not need such assistance if it curtailed the use of security votes and reprogrammed them into the country’s formal defence and security budget, according to pundits. A constructive first step would be for state governors to ditch their obsession with security votes for a security trust fund model akin to the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF). A more substantive fix for the states’ security problems would be for the governors to midwife more realistic models to empower the youth and minors often deployed as agents of mayhem by criminal masterminds. While the use of security votes has expanded in both scope and scale under President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership, Fayemi’s emergence as NGF chairman provides him an opportunity to espouse his “progressive ideals,” and work with the President and fellow governors to reverse the trend. So doing, he may burnish his democratic credentials for more purposeful public service. To the governors who may object, Fayemi may remind them of the epic ruling by the Court of Appeal in Abuja, which affirmed that failure of public officers to give an account of security votes entrusted to them amounted to stealing and criminal misappropriation akin to genocide. This formed part of the reasons the court affirmed the conviction of a former governor of Taraba State, Jolly Nyame, who had earlier been convicted and sentenced to 14 years’ imprisonment on June 30, 2018 by a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory. It’s a good thing that Fayemi emerged as the NGF’s chairman, perhaps. Some would call him the voice of the virile statesman. But he flaunts no virility yet. Right now, amid the ranks of the NGF, he is a product of perception. Let’s hope he doesn’t end up a sacrificial mascot tied to a stake. 