Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp) has called on contributors under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) to go to their respective Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) for data capturing. PenOp President, Mrs Ronke Adedeji, made this call during a press briefing with journalists in Lagos. Mrs. Adedeji, who is also the Managing Director of Leadway Pensure Limited, said the PFAs have intensified their efforts towards data recapturing with a view to achieving harmonised information of all Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders. She said the ongoing data recapturing exercise is compulsory for all RSA holders. urging contributors not to wait for their PFAs to notify them, but should willingly approach their pension administrators for the recapturing exercise. She said the exercise will enable PFAs reconcile the previous information they have about their contributors to enhance credibility of the system. Mrs. Adedeji said the PFAs are reaching out to individual contributors to update their records, while they are falling back on Bank Verification Numbers (BVN) for those who already have data with banks. According to her, one of the benefits of data recapturing is to reconcile information of some pension contributors, who may have inadvertently registered with more than one PFA, thereby, having more than one PIN. The PFAs action, she noted, falls in line with the National Pension Commission (PenCom) directive that contributors and retirees under their management should be aligned with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) data base. She said: “People should go and update their data and should not wait for PFAs to come to them before they subject themselves to this exercise. The process has started. PFAs have invested so much into the project and operators are progressively approaching their customers to recapture their data. “In the meantime, because of the difficulty in rescheduling people, the time involved and the resources needed to do all that, PFAs are falling back on BVN available with the banks, while those without bank accounts will be reached individually. “The RSAs can go for the recapture anytime. For now, there is no deadline, since the exercise is just starting, but this may change in the future. There could be a deadline, depending on the response of pension contributors toward this exercise. The data recapturing exercise is in the interest of contributors as well as the pension industry and operators are eager to capture pension account holders as much as possible. “It is going to be a long and pain staking exercise. It is a very huge project and it has started and so people should not wait for their PFAs to come to them, but should walk into their PFAs to update their records,” she said.