Oyo State House of Assembly has approved the appointment of 12 Special Advisers as requested by Governor Seyi Makinde. The approval is the first requests sent to the lawmakers at the first plenary since the inauguration on June 10. The lawmakers reacting to a request sent to the House during Tuesday plenary, presided over by the Speaker Debo Ogundoyin reasoned that approving the appointment of the twelve Special Advisers will go a long way in helping the governor in his effort at moving the state forward. This is as the lawmakers also mandate set up an adhoc committee to look into the recurring issue of gang violence in Popoyemoja, Isale Osi, Born Photo, Foko, Isale Asaka and Odenla, all within the Ibadan Southwest area of the state. Deliberating on a letter sent to the House by Governor Makinde seeking approval for the 12 political appointees, the lawmaker representing Iseyin state constituency, Mr Adeola Bamidele while moving the motion that the request be speedily granted stated that the new appointees will help the governor in performing his responsibilities to the state. Speaking under matter of urgent public importance, entitled “Urgent need to find lasting solution to the perennial problems of gang violence in some neighbourhood around Ibadan Southwest 1”, Mr Yussuf Adebisi (Ibadan Southwest 1) called the attention of the house to the recurring gang violence in the axis which had often led to wanton killing and destruction of property despite the motions passed by the Eight Assembly on the issue. In the ensuing discussions, the House urged the office of the Special Adviser to the Governor on security to deploy police patrol vehicles to Idi Arere and other flashpoints in the state while also urging the Nigeria Police Force to see to the possibility of erecting a police station in the area to curb the menace and activities of hoodlums and touts. In a related development, the House also appealed to the Governor to ensure resumption and continuation of work on all ongoing road rehabilitation projects across the state to ensure their speedy completion. Deliberating on a motion entitled “Need for government agencies and other stakeholders to put measures in place to curb students from roaming the streets during school hours”, sponsored by the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker Mr Abiodun Fadeyi (Ona Ara), the Majority Leader, Mr Sanjo Adedoyin (Ogbomosho South)and Chairman Parliamentary Council, Mr Ayotunde Fatokun (Akinyele 1), the House noted that anti-social behavior are rampant and prevalent among pupils in primary and secondary schools in the state and must be stopped. In its resolution, the House urged the executive arm through the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, the Teaching Service Commission and Universal Basic Education to put measures in place to curb the act of roaming around of students during school hours. It urged the ministry of Information and culture to collaborate with the Ministry of Education and embark on urgent awareness campaign to educate parents and students on the dangers inherent in the roaming of street by students during school hours.  