TEENAGE actress,  Esther Bassey Nsemo, who is popularly known in the entertainment industry as Esther Whyte is set to birth her television show. The TV show titled ‘Esther Whyte Teens Show’ is to be produced and anchored by the teen actor herself and expected to feature known figures in the Africa entertainment industry with love for teen growth. Esther Whyte disclosed recently that the show comprises  two major segments; teen summit, the spotlight and game segment. The teen summit, according to the teen producer cum actor, is a segment where teenagers on the show sit to discuss societal issues and as it affects them. “Basically, the programme is to discover, display and empower talented teenagers in Africa,” said Esther. The first five episodes of the show is expected to be shot in the ancient city of Calabar as homage paying to the home city where she was born, grew and began honing her movie career. Talks are ongoing with Multichoice to air the show on Africa Magic. After beginning her acting career in 2011 at 10 when she featured in blockbuster film, ‘Behind The Melody’ produced by Elizabeth Daniels and Directed by Moses Inwang; since then the teen actor has continued to grace several movie screens including internationally acclaimed ‘Half of a Yellow Sun’. Esther Whyte added a new leaf in her professional career as producer when at age 16 she produced her first film titled ‘Era of Errors,’ a movie she took a day job at an art gallery to fund  just barely few days after concluding her secondary school; since then, the teen actor has kept her game. In 2017, Whyte was awarded Most Outstanding Teen in Cross River and later in the same year converted the Nigerian Teens Choice Upcoming Actress for the year 2017. In 2018, she was featured amongst the Most Influential Teenagers in Nigeria on Africa Teen Vogue; and in 2019 Whyte topped the chart again of two prestigious awards Nigeria’s Choice Entertainer of the Year at the Nigerian Teens Choice Awards in Lagos and Teen Actor of the Year at the South South Achievers Award held in Calabar.