Comrade Oluwafunmilayo Sesi-Akinsanmi is the newly elected chairperson, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Lagos State and former chairperson, Senior Staff Association of Nigeria University (SSANU), Lagos State University (LASU) Chapter for about eight years. In this interview with Omolara Akintoye, she speaks about the challenges encountered before she was elected, her plans for Lagos State workers, and why the minimum wage is not negotiable, among others. What has this position cost you? I was involved in activism right from my Nursing School days and I would say that I imbibed the spirit of activism from my mom. She was a great politician of her time. I also have some traits that I took from my father which is the fact that justice must prevail at all times, even if you are killing him. Just before I assumed this position, I was the chairperson, Senior Staff Association of Nigeria University (SSANU), Lagos State University (LASU) Chapter for almost eight years where I served my people from 2006-2013. Within the period, I was the treasurer for the western zone which comprises 16 universities. Also, within the SSANU national body, I was elected to be among different committees set up at the national level to fashion out many things on behalf of the union and also for the selfless service of the people. In a way, God has prepared me for this position through the position of chairperson of SSANU, LASU, to equip me for the task ahead. What were the challenges you encountered as a woman before getting to this position? There are so many obstacles ahead of ladies who want to ascend this position. In year 2006 when I became the chairperson of SSANU, I was with my first husband then, not to my present husband in the person of Chief Akinsanmi. I lost my first marriage because of my position then as the chairperson of SSANU, LASU, because then, the man was not supportive; he always opposed my vying for such positions. His reasons were because some of his friends were my contemporaries that we contested together; they were able to convince him not to allow me to contest for the position then. Of course, he told me and (I thought he was using it to frighten me) warned me that if I should go ahead with the election I should forget about the marriage. The marriage was not even interesting, so I was trying to find a way out of the problems I was facing in my marriage then. That was why I contested for the position and because I also felt I could make a difference in the gaps that I saw because the past presidents were not giving their best. Since my marriage then was not interesting, I decided to give my time to unionism, so I went for the election and I won against five men and I lost my home. He told me that since I have satisfied myself, two captains cannot be in a ship and that was the end of my first marriage. To God be the glory, I was able to give in my best. I was able to nurture the union very well. The union now became a beautiful bride to everybody, that even now for you to contest and get into that position it’s like vying for state election. I made unionism very popular in LASU. During my tenure, the union was able to record so many success stories for LASU workers. It was that period that the new salary scale was introduced; the 36 months arrears that we were owed were paid. Part of my vision then was to get a home ownership scheme for LASU staff which was made possible. We brought in banks, got loans and people used it to build their homes. Also, we were able to purchase large expanse of land which was shared among staff. So many of our members now live in their own homes. As I speak, we now have SSANU LASU Estate Phase 1-3, while we are working on Phase 4. Also during my tenure, we put up a befitting secretariat for SSANU. Where I stopped, those that took over from me continued and completed the secretariat. Also every year then, we instituted a day to reward and celebrate ourselves; we call it SSANU/LASU Day. I would say I have been opportune to know how to manage a union, manage people, as well as know how to relate with employers of labour after having undergone several courses on conflict resolution and negotiation. In a way, God prepared me through the activism experiences I have had over the years. Thank God for my husband now, Chief Oladiran Akinsanmi who resides in London and the CEO, Surprise Radio London, who has been very supportive. He even encouraged me to vie for this present position. I was the only woman who contested with six men and they took the election as a do-or-die affair. But thank God for his encouragement and those who ensured that fairness was in all that we did. Tell us about early life I was born in November 1969, to the family of the late Pa Alexander Adeyemo Sesi and the late Mrs. Juliana Adebiyi Sesi. My childhood was an interesting one because I was born into a family where integrity is the watchword and the love of God reigns supreme. My dad is from Gawu Quarters in Badagry and my mom is a princess from Ishaga Orile, from the family of the late Oba Adebiyi from Ishaga Orile. My primary school education was at L.A Primary School, Ilaro, Ogun State but I finished my primary education at Nawar-ud-deen Primary School, Ilaro. My father was working as an Environmental Health Officer at Ilaro and he retired as Assistant Chief Environmental Health Officer. My mom was a teacher and she died while in active service as Head Teacher at Ilaro, Ogun State. My secondary education was also at Egbado College, Ilaro, and from there, I went to the Sacred Heart School of Midwifery, Lantoro, Abeokuta. After which I proceeded to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan for my post basic nursing course. Then I became a registered nurse/midwife and a family planner. I joined the Lagos State University as a staff nurse/midwife and I rose through the rank. Along the line, I went on to further my studies. I had my post graduate diploma in hospital administration and management at the College of Medicine, University of Lagos. I later got admission into the Lagos State University School and obtained a degree in health education. Having completed that, I also went to the University of Lagos to obtain my master’s degree in health education. What are your plans as the newly elected chairperson of NLC Lagos State? Well, I am not new within the fold because in the year 2010, I was an ex-officio member of State Administrative Council of NLC, Lagos State, and from there I was also given the position of chairman, Political Committee, NLC, Lagos State. It was from there that I became chairperson NLC, Lagos State Council. Well, there are so many challenges ahead of us; our affiliate comprises the private and public sector. Those in private sectors include those working in private companies with over 50 staff strength. Those in the private sector are facing myriads of challenges ranging from casualisation, enslaving and shortchanging the workforce, poor remuneration, among others. Lagos being the business hub of the nation because of the concentration of the companies and because of the government presence, so the challenges are enormous, and we are up to the task. People are still in doubt as to whether we still have a virile NLC in the state that speaks for the masses and ensures justice for the masses. When government brings about negative policies against the wishes of the masses, most times it is NLC that rises up to fight for them because we are the organised sector. Injury to one is an injury to all, so we all come together to fight against any form of injustice not only for the workforce but also for the oppressed. By doing that, the people we are coming on board for must also be ready; we are going to do it together. Sometimes it might not be a win-win affair but at least we get to a comfortable agreement; where we don’t win, we leave to get back again and resolve such issues. We won’t give up until our voices will be heard; it’s going to be a government of inclusiveness, for the masses, youth and even the children. It is high time that government should stop implementing white elephant projects that will not benefit the populace. Nigeria should shift away from being a consuming country to a producing country, likewise the states. Each state should be known for at least a particular development. Unfortunately, we are busy wasting our resources while other countries are coming in to tap from our resources. One of my plans also is to provide jobs for the unemployed. As the lives of the management in a company matter so also the lives of even the least in that company – their welfare should be looked into. NLC is going to look into that. Casualisation should be a thing of the past, and we are going to stop that. Human resources managers should be ready to do the needful; it’s not going to be business as usual for private companies. For the public sector, whatever is sauce for the goose is also sauce for the gander. The new minimum wage is not negotiable.  It is even a shame for governors to say they couldn’t afford it, even the N30,000 is not up to 100$; it is not a living wage at all. With the monthly allocation and the internally generated revenue, and if they don’t embark on white elephant projects, flee from corrupt practices, then it is achievable. Even if they say that it will cause inflation, inflation has been with us before now; there is economic crisis in the nation, so it is not the new minimum wage that will lead to inflation. Even with the 30,000 naira, Nigeria is still backward. The major reason I came up as the chairperson is to defend and protect the rights and the interests of all workers and to fight injustice among them. The same is also applicable to pensioners, and we’ll ensure that their gratuities are paid. We have about 42 affiliates under the union of NLC, and we are ready to protect their rights. We’ll also ensure we fight against any anti-people’s policy; we will mobilise the workforce and speak against injustice meted out to the citizens.