Troops have again neutralised three terrorists in Borno to consolidate on the achievement of the clearance operations in the northeast. The spokesman of the Army Col. Sagir Musa who announced this in a statement said troops recovered two gun trucks and other weapons from the insurgents. The statement: “Following sustained robust and aggressive clearance operations, in recent days, troops had recorded tremendous successes in the fight against terrorism and insurgency in the North East. “Dozens of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) fighters were annihilated, large cache of assorted arms, ammunition and so many variants of gun trucks and other fighting vehicles were captured. “Additionally and most importantly, the operation resulted in the rescue and eventual liberation of over 100 women and children from the grip of the criminals/terrorists. “Therefore, in order to consolidate on the numerous successes so far achieved, the rugged troops of 112 Task Force Battalion deployed at Mafa in Borno State had effectively dealt ruthlessly with members of BHTs/ISWAP terrorists in Mafa, Mafa Local Government Area of Borno State, when some terrorists attempted to attack Mafa on 24 June 2019. “The terrorists failed attack on Mafa was as a result of available intelligence indicating the desperate longing for food and other logistics by terrorists necessitated by the recent, incredibly tireless and ferocious troops’ operational exploits. “During the failed attack, terrorists in 5 gun trucks and several motorcycles were seen. Consequently, the troops reacted swiftly with heavy firepower forcing the terrorists to scamper for their dear lives and recovered 2 Gun Trucks mounted with Anti-Aircraft Guns and a motorcycle and the extermination of three (3) terrorists. “There were indications that some of the insurgents’ members were wounded in an exchange of fire. “The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division and Commander Sector 1 Operation Lafiya Dole, Brigadier General Abdulmalik Bulama Biu had since visited the conflict location with reinforcement. “While being conducted round the camp to assess the situation, the GOC urged the troops to remain focus and not to be carried away by the successes. “He directed them to redouble their efforts and doggedly maintain the momentum until they win the war on terrorism for Nigeria through total victory against the bandits.”