It was a day of joy for 91 pupils, their schools and parents as they were honoured by the British Council and Cambridge Assessment International Education during the Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards last Friday at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island Lagos. The pupils from 46 schools got 125 awards for excelling in four international examinations – Cambridge IGCSE; Cambridge International AS Level; Cambridge O Level and Cambridge A Level – conducted by Cambridge Assessment International Education in 2017 and 2018. The award categories were: Top in World – for candidates who scored the highest mark achieved in a subject all over the world in the Cambridge IGCSE and Cambridge International AS Level; top in Nigeria in Cambridge IGCSE/Cambridge International AS Level, Cambridge O Level and Cambridge A Level; Best Across Awards in various subjects in the various examination categories; and High Achievement in the various examination categories written. Pupils of Lifeforte International High School, Ibadan, clinched 36 of the awards – including four of the five Best Across awards; and one of the three Top in the World Award. Principal of the school, Mrs Grace Aina, said in an interview that the pupils were exposed to quality tuition and told they can do all things with God as their enabler. “I am grateful to God.  We are a Christian school and we teach the character of excellence.  God is an excellent God.  We believe in inclulcating in our students the spirit of excellence.  We always tell them to aim for 90-100 per cent.  We tell them this from the junior classes.  Our children school both in Nigeria and abroad.  They excel wherever they go,” she said. In his speech, Regional Director, Sub-Saharan Africa, Cambridge Assessment, Juan Visser, said the Cambridge programmes were rigorous and designed to prepare students to achieve more than expected. “We are proud to work with over 10,000 schools around the world to prepare students with the knowledge and skills they need to do well in the future. That’s why we make sure that our programmes and qualifications are rigorous, up to date, continually improved and prepare students well for the next stage of their education.  And you can always be sure that the Cambridge grades achieved by students here in [Nigeria] are the same standard as those achieved by Cambridge students in every other country around the world. A grade A* in the US or the UK is the same standard as an A* in Nigeria]. Every year, thousands of students use our qualifications to enter universities around the world, including top universities such as Harvard, Yale, Oxford, and of course Cambridge,” said Visser, who was represented by Kanto Adesina, Territory Manager for Cambridge Assessment International Education. Also speaking, the Country Director, British Council Nigeria, Lucy Pearson, said it was important to prepare students with skills to survive the future world of work which would be dictated by technology. “There is also increased emphasis on values such as integrity which is interesting, given technology advancements will continue at pace and new technologies such as artificial intelligence will become the norm. To remain relevant and to keep our young people who are being celebrated today on top of their game, we need to invest in the learning skills that will be required to quickly adapt as change happens,” she said. Peter Thomas, Deputy Head of Mission, British Deputy High Commission, Lagos, said the British Government was collaborating with Nigeria to develop the educations sector. “We do understand the value of a good education and are currently working with key stakeholders in the Nigerian educational sector to develop the sector and improve access to quality education,” he said. 