Prominent Nigerians have taken to social media to react to the trending video of Busola Dakolo, wife of singer, Timi Dakolo, where she said the senior pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Biodun Fatoyinbo, allegedly raped her at the age of 16. Busola in an interview alleged that she was raped by the founder of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Abiodun Fatoyinbo. Some of the people who reacted are Funmi Iyanda, Don Jazzy, Daddy Freeze, Toke Makinwa,  Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, Banky W among many others.
See some reactions below: Funmi Iyanda I believe Busola Dakolo. Every word she uttered. There are many layers of power, politics, manipulation and crime woven through her brave revelations. I expect that Pastor Biodun will go to jail or whatever the equivalent of that is in Nigeria now. Don Jazzy Thank you for being a voice for the many women that don’t have the courage to speak out yet. It is important we let our mothers, sisters, daughters know that you cannot be bullied for speaking the truth. Daddy Freeze Addressing this by 12 noon…. live on YouTube.com/daddyfreezeteaches
–
I will never undermine a woman’s pain and how she seeks her redress, in truth it hurts deeply
–
However, there is a question on my mind…….as Christians, is there any room for forgiveness in issues like these? Toke Makinwa This is our sister, let us lift her up in light. All I see is a strong, black woman who beat the odds to survive the horror and nightmare of abuse. I am so sorry you had to go through this, I am so sorry babe. Thank you for speaking out, thank you for unlocking the door for others to do the same. Your Pain is not in vain, your pain will break the chains for other people who are in the dark. Well done. You are beautiful, I applaud your courage, I salute you for doing this. Guys pls let us come together and love on her, let us lift her up in love and stand by her. Let us stand in her shoes and speak out against injustice. Let the perpetrator face the law. Lawyers in the building let’s do this right. To watch your abuser daily go on unrepentant is the worst thing that anyone can imagine and @busoladakolo needs justice. Let the system work this time.
God will mend your broken heart,
God will heal your soul and protect you.
Dear @timidakolo God bless you for standing and speaking out even when you faced heavy criticism, thank you for being strong for your other half, this hurts so much, so so much and I pray we get justice. We cannot let this slide, let’s not stop at talking on Social media, let us use our network to get every victim the justice they deserve. If we don’t fight now, we have failed all the victims, we have silenced the voices that need to be heard too. cc @opetodolapo Ebuka Obi-Uchendu Busola Dakolo is a real super hero. I’m in complete awe of her strength!!! Bless you BankyW This was so hard to watch.. I am so sorry you went through this nightmare. But I am SOOOO PROUD of you for sharing your truth. You didn’t speak up for yourself alone, but for all the voiceless victims who have suffered similar horrors at the hands of predators like him. Sending love, light and support your way. We are standing by you and @timidakolo. God bless, protect and strengthen you. Stay strong. You are incredible. 