A Cost-reflective tarrif is coming in the power sector as the new metering scheme, introduced by the Federal Government, gets underway, the  Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission(NERC) Chairman, Prof James Momoh, has said. The new metering arrangement, which culminated in the approval of Meter Asset Providers (MAPs), he said, would  reduce the 4.7million metering gap and make it easier for Nigerians to monitor their consumption level. NERC chairman, who spoke at a training organised for 100 newly recruited graduates by Eko Electricity Distribution Company( EKEDC) in Lagos, said the firm had met its statutory  obligation by improving supply of electricity to its customers. He said the company has attained 100 per cent in the area of providing solutions to the grievances of its customers, urging other power firms to follow suit. Also, the Ikeja Electric and Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Companies (PHEDC) have concluded arrangements to provide 440,000meters to customers in five states Lagos, Bayelsa, Rivers, Cross-Rivers and Akwa-Ibom. While Ikeja Electric will distribute 276,000 meters to customers in Ikodoru and Epe, Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company is expected to provide 175,000 meters to customers in Bayelsa, Rivers, Cross-River and Akwa-Ibom states. Speaking on the sideline of the introduction of New Hampshire Capital to customers of Ikeja Electric at Ikorodu Town Hall, its Chief Executive Officer, Odion Wesley Omongoman, said two firms, New Hampshire Capital and Ikeja Electric are out to achieve a common goal of metering customers under Ikeja jurisdiction. Omongoman said his firm and Ikeja Electric have agreed to simplify the process of acquiring meters by customers in line with NERC directives. He said: ”Whether you are paying for meters upfront or instalmentally, we would provide you with meters. Irrespective of the payment options you choose, our duty is to provide you meters and later reach an agreement with customers on how to settle their debts.” Similarly, Armese Power Solutions Chief Executive Officer, Mr Aslam Khokhar said the company would try its best to meter as many customers as possible. He said the firm, a metering asset provider to Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company had the capacity to meet any volume of meters given it. He said: ”Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company has more than 14 million customers and through our meter manufacturing plant in Akwa-Ibom, we have the capacity to provide meters, no matter the  volume.”