No fewer than 28 individuals, including a CAMPUSLIFE reporter Adesola Ikulajolu, have received the ‘Outstanding Personality’ award for their good leadership in the society. The awardees were honoured during the yearly awards by Prestige Anchor Leadership and Empowerment and Capacity Building (PALEC) at Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife. PALEC is a non-governmental organisation (NGO) on leadership and capacity building. The event, with theme ‘Maverick’, was the fourth. According to Adebayo Nathaniel Adebola, the convener of the event, the slection of the awardees, went through several stages of three weeks’online voting, which is 70 per cent, as well as 30 per cent of profile screening for potential awardees. Adebola added that since youths were the ones who transform the world, there was need to preach to them good leadership and entrepreneurial skills. “Youths are the transformers. What happens on campus affects the world. This is why preaching leadership while building youths’ entrepreneurial skills and awarding them is necessary,” Adebayo said. Ikulajolu Adesola, who won in the Campus Journalist category, said  the award was a feat and an encouragement to do more. “Winning this award is an encouragement to do more in journalism,” Ikulajolu said. “I don’t know who did the nomination, but that means someone is somewhere watching the things I do. I really appreciate God and everyone who supported me for this award,” Ikulajolu added. Another awardee, Olufemi Damilola, who won the Media Personality of the year, also said he never expected to win. He said: “I never expected I could win it. I didn’t know the pedigree of other nominees, how strong they are, their past records and achievements. I only knew I was competing and I that someone would win. But with the support of God and everyone who voted and helped in the voting stage, I came atop others.” Another awardee, Dr Bolanle Ogungbamila, who lectures at the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, expressed his appreciation to those who voted for him. “An individual cannot attain a position or record and achievement without deliberate sacrifices from others,”Ogungbamila said. He added that the award had taught him “to continue to sacrifice time, energy, and space in order to make human and physical environments better” than he met them. Other awardees include, Humanitarian of the Year, Ogunode Sunday Abraham; Women Empowerment Activist of the Year – Prof. Beatrice  Olubukola Ogunba; Most Dedicated Leader of the Year, Dr Christiana Shade Ade-Johnson; Leadership Personality of the Year, Olugbenga Ayo Ojubanire, and Leadership and Capacity Building Platform of the Year – ENACTUS AAUA. Other were Best Student Innovative Brand of the Year, Yung Kay Graphics; Student Entrepreneur of the Year (Male), Ibrahim Oluwaseun Ridwan; Student Entrepreneur of the Year (Female), Ilesanmi Ajoke Esther; Youth Capacity Building Blog of the Year, Sando.org.ng, Most Innovative Student of the Year, Jolayemi Oluwatobi Samuel; Student Activist of the Year,  Tosin Agbaje; Most Influential Student Leader of the Year, Epueke Mmaduka Mathew; and Student Leadership Personality of the Year, Ajagunna Daniel Abdulganiyu.