The two decades of uninterrupted civil rule that the country has just marked might not have been possible, if the June 12, 1993 annulment did not elicit resistance and demonstrations against the military regimes of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida (rtd) and that of the late Gen. Sani Abacha. The story of June 12 cannot be complete without the sacrifices of those who laid down their lives for the struggle, writes Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI. IT will be uncharitable to forget the role played by some individuals which gave birth to the current political dispensation. Nigeria’s current 20 years of unbroken civil rule was conceived on June 12, 1993, when Nigerians trooped out enmasse to vote for democracy and the end to military dictatorship. It was the annulment of the election by the then Head of State, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, that gave birth to progressive and consistent agitations for a democratic government that finally materialised on May 29, 1999. The June 12, 1993 presidential election is regarded as the freest and fairest election in Nigeria by international observer groups. But, some Nigerians paid dearly for this to happen. Amongst those who died in the course of agitating for the June 12, 1993 mandate are the winner of the historic presidential election, Bashorun Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, his wife Mrs Kudirat Abiola and Chief Alfred Rewane.  Abiola The late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola is the supreme martyr of the June 12 struggle; the one who laid down his life for the survival of democracy in Nigeria. Abiola’s death, under controversial circumstances after drinking the now famous cup of tea, threw the country into turmoil. Abiola’s death shocked and saddened a country that had come close to experiencing true democracy through valid elections for the first time in its history. He paid the supreme price for democracy, when he refused to trade-off his mandate for freedom. The military authorities did all they could to buy-off that mandate but Abiola would not budge. As a result, he was incarcerated for many years, held incommunicado and subjected to a harrowing experience, but the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland refused to succumb. He was pressurised, begged and threatened, but he would simply not exchange his mandate for personal freedom. Abiola was initially reluctant to fight for the restoration of his mandate, after the military annulled the election. Given his relationship with the military, Abiola initially did not want to adopt a confrontational approach in getting back his mandate. When the idea of the Interim National Government (ING) was broached, he appeared more amenable to relying on the late Sani Abacha and a clique within the military to dislodge the hurriedly set up contraption headed by Ernest Shonekan, rather than on a mass protest by the activists of the Campaign for Democracy. He had already wasted valuable time before he realised that Abacha was up to some mischief. At that time, the nation was already in disarray, with street protests becoming a regular feature in many cities, especially Lagos. Abiola became a changed man after increasing pressure was brought to bear on him by his supporters at home and abroad to claim his mandate. He had gone abroad following the annulment, to solicit international support for his mandate. He remained abroad for several months, finally returning to Nigeria at the end of 1993. Resentment against the military grew during the first part of 1994. During the constitutional conference of May 23, the Campaign for Democracy called for a boycott of elections, demanding that the military return power to Abiola, the presumed winner of the June 12, 1999 presidential election. On June 11, 1994, after declaring himself president before a group of 3,000 persons at Epetedo, on Lagos Island, Abiola went into hiding. He called for an uprising to force the military to recognise the 1993 election. In his speech at Epetedo, Abiola said it is inconceivable that a few people in government should claim to know so much better about politics and government than the 14 million Nigerians who actually went to the polls on June 12. He said: “The people of Nigeria have spoken. They have loudly and firmly proclaimed their preference for democracy. They have chosen me as their president for the next four years. They have determined that August 27, 1993, shall be the terminal date of military dictatorship in Nigeria. On that date, the people of Nigeria, through their democratic decision of June 12, 1993, expect me to assume the reins of government. I fully intend to keep that date with history.” After conducting a nationwide hunt, the military arrested him on June 23. The following day, 1,000 demonstrators trooped to the streets in Lagos to demand Abiola’s release. In response, the military charged Abiola with treason. The events that followed are some of the most storied in Nigerian history. By the end of the year, Abiola was languishing in prison, where he would pass away on July 7, 1998 under Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, who succeeded Abacha. Born on August 24, 1937 in the city of Abeokuta, Abiola’s birth was not greeted with explosive joy and celebrative hullabaloo that normally followed childbirth in this part of the world. The reason is obvious. He was the 23rd child of his parents and since all the preceding 22 offspring had died in their infancy and his parents, smarting understandably from the inexorable feelings of déjà vu, welcomed the new arrival with a good dose of apathy and repressed enthusiasm. Their skepticism for his survival was aptly captured in the name they gave him, “Kashimawo” i.e. “Let us wait and see!” MKO had a rough beginning as he grappled with poverty after his father’s early death. He resorted to menial jobs like hewing firewood from ancient forest to sell in Abeokuta. He was however determined to survive and he did. It is a great tribute to human indomitable spirit that the young Abiola, armed with great resource of natural, intellectual talents and the greater asset of unflagging determination, dealt a mortal blow to poverty at a young age; he conquered human wants and deprivation and rewrote the scripts of his life, substituting the negative episodes and scenery of penury, privation, wants and powerlessness with the positives like satiety, prosperity, powers, self-actualisation and escape into elitism. After self-liberation, Abiola was not contented with fulfillment of his own dream alone, he was impassioned to share the triumph with countless number of human beings who were not so lucky to help themselves out, hence his pursuit of phenomenal altruism and charity. In his campaign for the epic 1993 presidential election, dubbed ‘Hope 93’, the billionaire businessman had indicated that he wanted to use power to abolish poverty in Nigeria. Before he joined the race, he had established himself as a friend of top military brass and philanthropist. Apparently, the ruling military class underrated him as a presidential material, until it was too late. His credential was highly intimidating. Consequently, he received massive support, beating his rival, Alhaji Bashir Tofa of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) in his native Kano State.  Kudirat Alhaja Kudirat Abiola, the second wife of the late Abiola, is a martyr of democracy in her own right. Kudirat, who has been described as a paragon of beauty and virtue, of courage and conviction, was gunned down in broad daylight while on a steadfast campaign for the actualisation of the June 12 mandate. She was assassinated whilst her husband was being detained by the Abacha-led military junta. Kudirat became a firebrand activist and an advocate of democratic ideals in the process of fighting for the release of her husband and the restoration of the mandate bestowed on him by Nigerians on the historic 1993 election. The annulment forced Kudirat into the pro-democracy movement. She developed a steely determination that dared military bullets. When her husband was in solitary confinement for claiming his presidential mandate, Kudirat confronted the military dictators. Her leadership motivated other pro-democracy groups to spring up and seek the actualisation of the election. In 1994, Kudirat was actively involved in sustaining the oil workers’ strike, which crippled the economy and weakened the military junta. Despite the constant harassment she received from the military authorities, Kudirat continued her campaign. She and the late Chief Alfred Rewane funded the pro-democracy activities, which unsettled the military. When protesters were detained, she would promptly visit police stations to secure their release. Kudirat knew that she was operating in an atmosphere of danger. She was planning to process her visa to leave Nigeria, but on June 4, 1996, a few days to the third anniversary of the June 12 election, Kudirat was shot dead by assassins in Oregun, Lagos State. At the time of her death an anti-military rule “Radio Democracy” had just been created to help end military dictatorship in Nigeria. It was based in Norway. Following her death, the name of the Radio station, which was based in Norway, was changed to Radio Kudirat. In recognition of her contribution to end military dictatorship in Nigeria, a street corner in New York was renamed Kudirat Abiola Corner in 1998, amidst protests from the Nigerian government. Kudirat Abiola, nee Adeyemi, was born in 1951 in Zaria, Kaduna State. She married Abiola in 1973.  Rewane Pa Alfred Rewane, who is of Itsekiri extraction, was the financier of the defunct National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), the group that fought the military to a standstill. The man who was a close associate of the late Obafemi Awolowo paid the supreme price for daring to oppose the military. Rewane, a veteran businessman and patriarch of progressive forces, was murdered in cold blood in his house in Ikeja, Lagos on October 6, 1995, ostensibly to silence him and deal a deadly blow to the struggle for the restoration of democracy in Nigeria. He was reportedly shot at close range. His executors were said to have gained entrance into his heavily-guarded home by speaking perfect and flawless Itsekiri and by donning the uniform of one of his companies. They had been let in on the pretext that they had an urgent message for the old man. During the dark days, Pa Rewane used his pen and money to fight the military. He was a pillar of financial support for NADECO and many human rights activities. His motive was the de-annulment of the June 12 election. He also personally campaigned against official graft in high places, lack of accountability and gross violation of human rights by the military. His death elicited wide outcry. The killers are still at large.