Promasidor Nigeria Limited recently had a mini marathon for children from 50 schools in Lagos in commemoration of this year’s Children’s Day. The mini marathon kicked off at the Ndubuisi Kanu Park, Alausa, where the children ran through the Lagos State House of Assembly complex to terminate at the park. It was part of the celebration for children at the event tagged Promasidor One Love Family Fest. The first category was for children between the ages of 5-8years old, who ran in the 1.5 kilometres race while the second was for those within 9-12years old who partook in the 3.4 kilometres race. The third category was for children between 13-15 years old who participated in the 4.4kilometres race. The maiden edition of the One Love Family Fest by Promasidor, makers of Cowbell Milk, Loya Milk, Miksi Milk, Top Tea, Onga, and Sunvita Cereal was endorsed by the Lagos State Sports Commission, whose officials were present to conduct the mini marathon. It was an enjoyable event for the children, and they expressed delight for being exposed to a mini-marathon at their early stage, a situation that would spur interest in sports in future. Gifts such as school bags, writing materials and products were given as reward to winners, both in the boys and girls category. Elated for being the overall winner in the 4.4 kilometres race, Sulaiman David, a student of Wonder Gate College, Agbado, said the marathon was fun for him. “I am pleased that Promasidor has put this together for us to experience what a mini marathon is all about,” he stated. David Chukwudi, a student of Morality College, Egbeda, could not hide his feelings as he lifted his gifts in excitement saying, Promasidor has done well for children. “I am happy for being given these gifts,” he said. While presenting the medals to the winners, the Marketing Manager, Promasidor Nigeria Limted, Mr. Abiodun Ayodeji said it was part of the company’s effort in celebrating children as it is a household of brands that caters for the needs of the family.