Unity Schools Old Students Association (USOSA) is set to converge on Lagos for its 35th Plenary. The event which is scheduled to hold between June 28 and 29 at Kings College Annex Lagos, will bring together old students from all 104 Unity Schools within and outside the country with the theme: “USOSA Resurgence: Harnessing Our Diversity for National Security.” A statement by the President General of USOSA, Lawrence Anirejuoritse Wilbert said there is a great need to have a conversation around the elements of diversity which can help unite the nation and enhance national security. Wilbert said the theme of the plenary couldn’t have come at a better time than now, particularly as “Our nation has continued to witness the clamor for cessation, increased rate of insecurity and spate of violence caused largely by intolerance among citizens across the federation.” He pointed out that it is around this premise that the association sought out to rise to the responsibility of harnessing Nigeria’s diversity in other to enhance the unity of the nation “During the political campaigns for the just concluded elections, we saw the alarming high volumes of hate messages, especially through using social media tools and channels that threatened to pollute the relationships of people and communities that have, despite occasional challenges, largely co-existed in relative peace with one another,” he said. Wilbert also stated that there is need for a collective counter voice to promote the message of Unity in the face of ever-increasing negative rhetoric because the absence of such voices emboldens the agents of violence to instill fear and insecurity in the minds of Nigerians. He added; “We acknowledge the efforts of governments at all levels to respond to this growing sense of uncertainty and fear to ensure the security and welfare of citizens, but we also recognize the need for us, the custodian of Nigeria’s unity, to reassure Nigerians that we can harness our diversity to overcome our present challenges in our country. Wilbert, who said it’s time to capitalize on the investments made on every member of USOSA to join hands in addressing these developments, while also encouraging to provide leadership in championing the cause of unity and promotion of policies that seeks to integrate and unite Nigerians, adding that “If we fail, the consequences will continue to threaten our national unity and rich diversity.” In his words, “As one of the most enlightened network of Nigerians coming from every ward, village, district, emirate, community, ethnic group, constituency, LGA, state, vocation, profession, occupation across our country and beyond, it has then become our collective responsibility to keep Nigeria united and safe. “As USOSAns we must rise to the responsibility of harnessing our diversity to enhance the unity of our country. Please join the conversation and follow us on our social media platforms as we seek active collaboration from all stakeholders to ensure qualitative outcomes.”  