Immediate past Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Hon Kabiru Adjoto has vowed to open can of worms on the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress and former Governor of Edo State, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Adjoto was sacked by the Supreme Court two weeks after he was sworn-in as member of the House of Representatives. He was replaced by Hon. Peter Akpatason who has the backing of Oshiomhole. Adjoto said Oshiomhole was a deceitful man who does not practice what he preach. Speaking at a homecoming reception at Igarra, headquarters of Akoko-Edo Local Government Area, Adjoto stated that Oshiomhole who was an apostle of ‘One Man One Vote’ and fought ‘Godfatherism’ have now become an ‘Emperor’ that want to lord over everybody and everything. The former speaker said Oshiomhole has succeeded in negatively changed the destiny of many people. since he became the National Chairman of the APC. Adjoto vowed that at the appropriate time he would speak on the many atrocities committed by Oshiomhole. He said the people of Akoko-Edo have been denied, through him, an effective representation at the National Assembly because he refused to give Governor Godwin Obaseki problem as the Speaker. According to him, “Oshiomhole wants to be everywhere at the same time. Everything he preached against that we supported him to fight against is what he is now doing. “When Oshiomhole introduced one man one vote, we believed in him and supported him. We did same when he was fighting Godfatherism and insulting Chief Tony Anenih and Chief Gabriel İgbinedion. “We were with him and even helped him to remove leadership of State Assembly that was against his government then. Whatever success you can attribute to him today, its because of the support we gave him. “I was under intense pressure to give Governor Obaseki problem when I was speaker, but resisted because it is the people that will suffer when it happens. “We are going to resist Oshiomhole antics. We will support Obaseki to make him succeed. He is doing wonderfully well and has surpassed the previous administration. “God will catch them if they say Obaseki will not come for second term. Let them try it, that time, the whole world will know the truth about the Mobutu Seseseko Mansion and many other things,” he stated. Reacting, Akpatason said Adjoto’s comments were the cry of a frustrated man haven lost at the Supreme Court irrespective of the resources in the course of the case. Akpatason challenged Adjoto to tell Akoko Edo people the development he brought to the area as Speaker. “Adjoto should be ashamed of himself for trying to deride Oshiomhole who made him all he is today in politics. What will he say his new found friend Obaseki has done for him rather than use willing tools like Adjoto to insult our leader Oshiomhole. They are bunch of ingrates and God will not forgive them. “The Nigeria masses have always known and identified with the dispositions of Comrade and what he stands for. “The APC National Chairman has always been recognized for his unassailable democratic ethos, his championing of political inclusiveness, pioneer of One Man One Vote; One Woman One Vote, his headlong battle against godfatherism, and several other causes that promote the Rule of Law. So whether Adjoto and his cohorts likes it or not they cannot change history. 