The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has warned that Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) tanks and vessels should be kept outside as it is the ideal practice to avoid unnecessary risk and fire outbreaks. The Director General/Chief Executive, SON, Mr.  Osita Aboloma gave this warning recently, at the general sensitisation of the agency’s ‘Certification of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Tanks and Vessels’ held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Aboloma, who was represented by the Regional Coordinator of SON, Sale Babaji, said it was important to carry out the enlightenment campaign as members of the public seem not to have known the dangers of using gas tanks at homes. He said: “We have to sensitize the people about the standard of Liquefied Petroleum Gas tank and vessel. These are areas where nobody cares about what they are doing. “We use it on daily basis. But, we do not care to know the components. We don’t care to know the danger involved and the advantages, and how to protect ourselves from danger. “So, SON feels it is a duty, as part of our mandate to meet our stakeholders and sensitize members of the public.  It is a sort of capacity building,” Aboloma explained. He disclosed that the Act which established the agency empowers it to carry out enforcement on any company operating and producing any substandard items. “The Act has empowered us to prosecute offenders but, we don’t want to start with arrest.  We want to start with sensitising the people because, when people don’t know, you look stupid, if you are there to enforce. He said, “LPG dealers should know what we are doing.  We should not be surcharging our customers.  We should do it rightly. That is what is required.” In his presentation, the Coordinator, Rivers/Bayelsa State, SON, Engr. Ololade Ayoola, said SON certified LPG is more ideal to be used at home, describing it as the fastest combustible energy. According to him, every certification must have met 100 percent of all the requirements, adding that the consequences of not having certified LPG storage could be very disastrous.