The Centre for International, Advanced and Professional Studies (CIAPS) has announced a scholarship scheme for the 2019 Postgraduate Commonwealth students. A statement by the Centre Director, Prof Anthony Kila, said there are a total of fifty (50) scholarships available, worth a total of fifty thousand dollars (USD50,000), adding that each successful applicant can receive up to one thousand dollars to pay his or her tuition fees at CIAPS for the duration of the postgraduate professional study. The CIAPS Commonwealth Scholarships are part of the new CIAPS Scholars Scholarship programmes, which will directly benefit students entering postgraduate professional education in July 2019. Kila added that these scholarships are funded by individuals and corporations who like CIAPS are dedicated to the advancement of knowledge, learning and understanding in the service of society insisting that “our aim is to identify and help students who are pursuing higher learning so that they can use the skills acquired in playing a part in making their societies and the world a better place.” The statement further noted that students will be selected on the basis of a test consisting of a personal statement and interview, advising that “a good personal statement must not exceed 1000 words and it will be a chance to tell us about yourself, why you think you deserve this scholarship and how you think it will help you serve yourself and society once you graduate.” To be eligible for the scholarship, students must be aged 22 to 30 with a degree or equivalent and must have graduated with a minimum of 2.2 or equivalent GPA. The student must have a desire to study for international professional courses that can lead to creation of jobs and wealth, be ready to commence study by 6th July 2019, and be Commonwealth citizens or be residents in a developing Commonwealth country. They must also be willing to study full time, weekdays in Lagos, Nigeria. Kila noted that refugees or families of people working with organisations linked with developing Commonwealth countries are also considered and added that candidates must meet six of these seven criteria in order to be considered as eligible. According to him, courses slated for these scholarships are in the areas of banking and finance, business development, production and operation management, digital business management, health, education, media, office management and events management. He noted that all applications should be submitted by Saturday, 15th June 2019, saying interested candidates should visit (www.ciaps.org) for further details.