Again, kidnappers on Sunday struck in Igbo Ora, Ibarapa Central local government area of Oyo state, making away with a popular caterer and joint operator. The woman popularly known and addressed with her business name ‘Hosanna’ located around Igbo-Ora-Abeokuta expressway, was said to have been whisked away around 10:30pm. It was gathered the incident occurred when unsuspected kidnappers swooped on the area, few minutes after closing for the day’s business. But the police said the case was not that of kidnapping but abduction by close and regular customer of the woman, who she might have had certain unconfirmed business with. Sources privy to the incident explained that the kidnappers only announced their arrival and presence in the area with sporadic gunshot, which led to the injury of four people trying to scamper for safety. No one could confirm the number of kidnappers who carried out the operation nor the type of vehicle used to convey the woman. “While being whisked away, the victim was overhead shouting ‘don’t kill me, don’t kill me’ as she was being scooped into a car, as the abductors fled the scene,” the source added. It was further learnt her family immediately reported the case at the nearby police station while the area became deserted immediately the news filtered into town. By Monday morning, it was gathered that, the incident had become the talk in the city as residents contacted one another to be security alert while movements within the town was observed to be at a low ebb. However, unconfirmed sources within the town informed the family had been contacted and that the kidnappers are currently demanding N20million ransom before her release. It was also gathered the family is yet to make any arrangement as to how to pay the money because the ransom was said to be far beyond what the family can afford. When contacted, the Commissioner of Police Shina Olukolu, while confirming the incident said it was a case of abduction of a woman who is a food seller. He added she might have had a deal with somebody or people leading to the incident. According to the CP, the suspected abductors were her regular customers who might have scores to settle with her. He said: “There was not a case of kidnapping at all but an abduction of a woman who is a food seller. It is like she has a deal with somebody leading to the incident “If it is to be kidnapping, the kidnappers would have demanded for ransom but no ransom has been demanded. We are working on some information and we will soon rescue the woman.” He assured that the police would do all within its power to ensure the safe release of the abducted woman.