A member of the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC), Halima Umar, abducted by Boko Haram insurgents in January, has been freed. She was handed over to the Borno State Deputy Governor, Umar Kadafur on Thursday by the  GOC 7 Div Brgd General Abdulmalik Biu alongside the State director of the DSS. The Borno State government in a statement, said the release of the female corp member was as a result of coordinated effort of a journalist and security agencies. “A serving corps member, kidnapped in January 2019 by one of the terror groups in the North East, Halima Uwani Umar has been freed. “Her freedom came as a result of a joint coordinated engagement involving key stakeholders. It is an outcome of a preliminary level negotiation involving the state government, the Kalthum Foundation for Peace, a non-governmental organization with intermediatory negotiation with the leadership of the terror group handled by a prominent investigative journalist with critical access. “The state government states that the step is in line with its desire to work with strategic partners to open lines of communication with the insurgents as a means of freeing several non-combatant captives of the terror groups. “The strategic interventionist team was expanded to use every necessary tools and good spirited individuals to engage the insurgents in noncombatant ways as a means of de-escalation framework that will eventually result in freeing more captives and safe return of displaced persons in the state. “The insurgents released Ms. Umar as a sign of goodwill to commit to a new process of resolving the conflicts in the region. The state government, the military, the DSS played vital roles deploying professional field experience and strategic cover for the process. The state government shall continually bring the media up to speed as may be necessary. “We, as a government, are committed to working with the Federal organs of security as well as non-governmental organizations and well-meaning citizens to pursue with vigour the safe return of captives, displaced persons and vulnerable population of our great state”, the statement reads.