The Bauchi State Command has confirmed the arrest of two suspects for allegedly raping a 10- year- old girl. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Kamal Abubakar, said the suspects, Bashar Haruna, 25 and a 55 year old man, Isah Sule, allegedly raped the girl, whose name was simply given as Fatima, a primary four pupil, at different occasion. He said the Police received the information of the crime on 16th June, 2019 and swung into action which led to the arrest of the duo. Abubakar said: “I can confirm to you that the incident is true. On 16th June, 2019 at about 13:55pm, we received the information from a complainant, one Abubakar Haruna, of Sabuwar Kasuwa area of Bauchi metropolis, that on said date at about 10am, he left his shop back to his house. “On reaching his house, he found out that his younger brother, Bashar Haruna, Male, 25 and one Fatima, his niece, were looking suspicious. “Upon interrogation, he discovered that the said Bashar, allegedly  raped his niece, Fatima.” The PPRO said that upon receipt of the report, the Police swung into action and arrested the said Bashar. He said that further investigation led to the arrest of one Isah Sule, Male, 55 of Sabuwar Kasuwa, “whom the girl had also alleged severally raped her. He was traced and arrested.” He stated that the case is under investigation after which the suspects will be charged to court. Also, narrating the incident to newsmen, Fatima’s guardian, Muazu Haruna, who described himself as her elder brother, alleged the suspects used to lure the girl into the act by giving her N100 when she passes through the area they reside in the Sabuwar Kasuwa market. He said the suspects were exposed on June 16 when he was called by good Samaritans on phone who informed him that one of the suspects was allegedly caught in the act with Fatima. After being spoken to, she revealed that Isa raped her about 10 times, Bashar 2 times and the fleeing suspect Jibrin had allegedly done it three times on several days. He said he reported the suspects to nearby police divisional office at Dutsen Tanshi who arrested them and ordered that medical tests be conducted on the girl to examine her health status. Muazu also uncovered that the 55- year- old suspect sells metal beds at Sabuwar Kasuwa market, adding that other suspect, Bashar, 27, is an uncle to the girl while the third suspect one Jibrin is still at large. By David Adenuga, Bauchi The Bauchi State Command has confirmed the arrest of two suspects for allegedly raping a 10- year- old girl. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Kamal Abubakar, said the suspects, Bashar Haruna, 25 and a 55 year old man, Isah Sule, allegedly raped the girl, whose name was simply given as Fatima, a primary four pupil, at different occasion. He said the Police received the information of the crime on 16th June, 2019 and swung into action which led to the arrest of the duo. Abubakar said: “I can confirm to you that the incident is true. On 16th June, 2019 at about 13:55pm, we received the information from a complainant, one Abubakar Haruna, of Sabuwar Kasuwa area of Bauchi metropolis, that on said date at about 10am, he left his shop back to his house. “On reaching his house, he found out that his younger brother, Bashar Haruna, Male, 25 and one Fatima, his niece, were looking suspicious. “Upon interrogation, he discovered that the said Bashar, allegedly  raped his niece, Fatima.” The PPRO said that upon receipt of the report, the Police swung into action and arrested the said Bashar. He said that further investigation led to the arrest of one Isah Sule, Male, 55 of Sabuwar Kasuwa, “whom the girl had also alleged severally raped her. He was traced and arrested.” He stated that the case is under investigation after which the suspects will be charged to court. Also, narrating the incident to newsmen, Fatima’s guardian, Muazu Haruna, who described himself as her elder brother, alleged the suspects used to lure the girl into the act by giving her N100 when she passes through the area they reside in the Sabuwar Kasuwa market. He said the suspects were exposed on June 16 when he was called by good Samaritans on phone who informed him that one of the suspects was allegedly caught in the act with Fatima. After being spoken to, she revealed that Isa raped her about 10 times, Bashar 2 times and the fleeing suspect Jibrin had allegedly done it three times on several days. He said he reported the suspects to nearby police divisional office at Dutsen Tanshi who arrested them and ordered that medical tests be conducted on the girl to examine her health status. Muazu also uncovered that the 55- year- old suspect sells metal beds at Sabuwar Kasuwa market, adding that other suspect, Bashar, 27, is an uncle to the girl while the third suspect one Jibrin is still at large.