For adults, good evidence exists that early nutrition affects key risk factors for chronic degenerative diseases of middle and later life, such as osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease. The influence of nutrition (good food) on health status and disease supports primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention of disease and intervention strategies at each point in the process. The objective of such a prevention-oriented model is to enable people to live well for longer, while minimising chronic disability. Starting down the right path with appropriate nutrition and staying on it by eating well are important components of healthy aging. General prevention of cancer: Good nutrition can prevent cancer. As illustrated by the evidence presented in a research review, there are numerous reasons (biological, psychological, and social), opportunities (school and community, healthcare, and family settings), and approaches (non-intervention and intervention) to understand and impact behaviour change in children’s diet and nutrition and weight and physical activity. It is clear that more attention should be paid to early life and early developmental phases in cancer prevention. Brain health/Mental health: Brain development in humans is remarkably resistant to permanent damage from protein-energy malnutrition. However, specific nutrients have crucial roles in brain development. Iodine deficiency is the most important and widespread nutrient deficiency; it causes endemic cretinism, associated with deaf-mutism and cerebral palsy. Iodine deficiency during pregnancy causes both maternal and fetal hypothyroxinemia, resulting in irreversible impairment of brain development at a critical stage. In conclusion, considering  what  is  said above and the evidence, a person is basically what he/she eats and what he says (word). Common sense of what to eat: Except in the case of children or the infirm individuals and in cases of outright ignorance, you hardly need a lesson from specialist doctor to tell you what is reasonable to eat. But here is a guide: (a) Avoid industrially processed food as much as possible; they contain high salt, sugar and undesirable chemicals that may be toxic to our bodies and mind; (b) Avoid food that has passed through dangerous insecticides, if possible; (c) Avoid “fast foods” if you can; they help you to pile the weight on; (d) Indulge yourself in lots of fruits and vegetables. If you are a vegetarian, take folic acid and multivitamin supplements especially one containing vitamin B12.; (e) Give yourself a pleasure in non-complex meat such as fish and chicken; (f) Blood and blood-looking meat (red meat) is bad for your health; such meat increases cancer of the colon; (g) Drink water in moderation of average 1.5Liters in a day; could be more in hot climate/weather; (h) Use food supplements if required; examples are vitamin B-Complex; but be very careful with Vitamins A, C and D; they require moderation; ask your doctor; (i) Wash fruits and food thoroughly before eating; this removes the chemicals and the germs that may be attached to the fruits; (j) Some fruits and vegetables only require gentle cooking in order to preserve the vitamins and proteins. How do you know what is polluted? (a) Read the labels on the food that you buy from the stores; (b) Read or ask for the source of the food and preservatives on the food if possible; (c) If unsure, stick with natural products. The truth is, you may not be able to avoid pollution totally but you can reduce its consumption. You don’t need the chemicals. Even where the food has not passed through voluntary chemical process, the environmental pollution such as biological products (bacteria, virus etc.), fumes and industrial wastes being released into the environment may contaminate the food. For children, the World Health Organisation says and we think this is true, that when parents and adults lead a healthy life, it rubs on the children. Children and ill- individuals need guidance from doctors or parents and may require supplements for their food. In newborn, the breast milk remains the ultimate best food, shall we say the ultimate “fast food.” Breast milk is able to sustain such new children even up to six months in absence of other food if breast milk is dutifully given by the mother. Of course, this depends on the circumstances. In some, there is a need for healthy supplements. But the sooner children are introduced into healthy living, the better. The rule of thumb is very simple. Consider what I say under “Common sense of what to eat.” If you have any question or clarification on this article, please contact me: Tel: 07087733114 or website: www.the-hospitals.com 