MANY of us know them for the things that made them famous. We see them as superstar singers, famous dancers, popular actors and actresses, rib-cracking comedians, top models and sports stars. But not many people know that our celebrities are masters in the game of side hustling. In addition to the stuff that brought them fame and, in some instances, fortune, these men and women have branched out of their calling to other businesses in order to make ends meet. As it is well known, being famous is a full time job, but these busy bees have made the choice to fill their timetables with even more grind. This week, let’s take a stroll through celebrity alley and see how they do their thing. 2Face Idibia: Nigerian pop icon, Innocent Idibia, popularly known as 2Face, owns or co-owns the hit night club Rumors, which has thriving branches in Ikeja, Festac and Victoria Island, Lagos. He’s also reputed to own choice real estate properties. Kate Henshaw: Henshaw is an actress, author, model, politician, real estate investor and fitness expert. Not much is known about the value of her investment but Henshaw is not one of those actresses who complain that life is hard. The smart businesswoman also converted her passion for fitness into a business, which sells her fitness routines in the form of DVDs like the “Kate Fit For Life.” Kanu Nwankwo: In case you are wondering how Kanu Nwankwo earns his daily bread since he stopped playing professional football years ago, do not ponder for too long. The ex-Super Eagles player is reputed to own a water bottling company (Kanu Water) and choice real estate, including one that has been in the centre of a storm for sometime, Hardley Apartments, located in Victoria Island. He also has a photo and video-editing studio in Ikeja. KCEE: We fell for artist Kcee’s music talents long before his company called Five Star Oil and Gas, a subsidiary of his Five Star brand, made him rich. Although it is his very popular and extremely well-off brother, E-Money, that is better known as the money man, KCEE is also a good businessman. Funke Akindele: Actress, director and producer Funke Akindele, popularly known as Jenifa, owns a television production outfit and co-owns a record label business named SOP Records with her husband. Funke, one of the smartest showbiz persons around, has found the right formula for making successful movies and keeping her audience intact for years. Emmanuel Emenike: Sources say ex-Eagles strike, Emmanuel Emenike, is a very wise investor with hands in several economic pies. Emenike also owns E-29 Records and he has been deeply investing in real estate. DBANJ: I’m DBANJ! The Nigerian international music superstar has business savvy. Apart from founding DB Records, Dbanj also dabbled into reality shows and has investment in agriculture. He is said to own, among others, a garri processing plant. Rita Dominic: In addition to films, the bold and beautiful Rita Dominic is a businesswoman.  She launched her signature hair by BK Unique Hair at Sleek Square, Victoria Island, Lagos State in 2016. Jim Iyke: Smart and shrewd Nollywood actor, Jim Iyke’s investment are not very well known, although he drops hints every now and then. However, Iyke, one of Nollywood’s most successful male artists, is said to own a construction company, a water bottling company, a real estate business and others. Annie Idibia: The gorgeous Annie Idibia runs Be Olive Hair collections where she sells human hair. She also runs a salon located in Atlanta, USA – Be Olive Hair Studio. Yul Edochie: Actor and politician is an efficient businessman, along with being a great actor and politician, he has set up a film academy company, which goes by the name Yul Edochie Academy. Yemi Alade: Alade is a commercially successful musician with as much fans in Nigeria as in other African countries. Her shows anywhere on the continent are always packed. Alade launched her jewelry line – The Yemi Alade Collection – a collection of an exclusive range of exotic costume jewelry in 2015. Iyabo Ojo: The actress, Iyabo Ojo, runs a well-known beauty parlour- FESPRIS World. Chika Ike: Besides being an actress, Chika Ike also has a reputation for being a venture capitalist. She has her hands in several pies- real estate, beauty store and boutiques to mention but a few. Agbani Darego: The beautiful Agbani Darego took her distinctive facial looks and offered it to the world. The 31-year-old ex-beauty queen has moved on to greater heights after winning the Miss World Beauty pageant in 2001. She has been a model for several local and international fashion brands, and in 2014 she launched her own denim range called AD by Agbani Darego-offering jeans, dresses, sunglasses and bags. Osita Iheme: Osita Iheme is in the hospitality business. He owns a magnificent hotel in Owerri, Imo State. Odunlade Adekola: Adekola is also into branching into businesses other than film acting and production. The popular Yoruba actor owns a unisex salon and boutique in Abeokuta. Bisi Ibidapo-Obe: Actress Bisi Ibidapo-Obe, pupolarly known as Bisi ‘Omo Logba Logba,’ owns a lingerie and sex toys shop located in Magodo. Mercy Aigbe: Nollywood actress Mercy Aigbe owns ‘Mag Divas” boutique. Everyone knows Genevieve Nnaji for her acting prowess, but not so much the fact that she’s a founder of St. Genevieve clothing line, and also into the real estate sector. AY-Ayo Makun is one of the most enterprising and talked-about celebrity CEOs in Nigeria. From the A.Y show to A.Y’s Crib and now, he has gone out of his usual line of business to set up the first non-smoking night club in Lagos, MVP.