• Pilot phase of Lagos Innovates Talent Development Programme coming Honeywell Group Limited is partnering the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) to help youths acquire skills needed in the global market. The Talent Development Programme, which will be run under LSETF’s Lagos Innovates Programme, will provide student loans for about 80 per cent of the training cost for beneficiaries, who are to be trained by any LSETF training partner for three months. LSETF said some of the courses  are stack web development with JavaScript (JS) -React JS, NodeJs, Express and Mongo DB + API Development, among others. For the first phase, Honeywell Group has provided N10 million, to be matched by LSETF to provide  N20 million. Head Innovation & Sustainability of Honeywell Group, Tomi Otudeko, said:  “We are pleased to partner LSETF on this strategic and exemplary initiative that will impact positively on the lives of young people in Lagos State. We are impressed by the work LSETF is doing, and our investment in technology training is borne, first, out of our stated mission to “use enterprise to make our world better” and, secondly, out of our conviction that to innovate and thrive in the new economy, young people need to build tech skills. “We have also seen how well LSETF, through its Lagos Innovates Programme, has made its mark in progressing the Lagos-based tech ecosystem. The decision to work with LSETF was therefore an easy one. Together, we are poised to help build a pipeline of the next level of innovators who would develop disruptive technologies that will provide solutions to some of the critical social challenges facing the country.” Also, the LSETF Acting Executive Secretary/CEO Teju Abisoye said: “We are glad to work with Honeywell Group to build a talent pool of globally competitive professionals, whilst actualising one of the most important mandates of the LSETF, which is to improve the skills and employability of the young people in the state. Both the LSETF and Honeywell Group are committed to ensuring that young people are equipped to support the growing start-up ecosystem in Nigeria, in addition to positioning themselves for a growing global freelance market. I hope more organisations will emulate Honeywell Group and partner with us on our various programmes.” LSETF advised interested applicants to apply for their preferred course.The application will close on July 12.