The parlous state of aeronautical facilities at the airports has become a pain in the neck of operators and stakeholders in the aviation sector. Pilots, airlines, ground handling firms, concessionaires and other airport users are agonising over the issue. They have called on the government to scale up efforts at closing the infrastructure gap, saying, it is threatening safe flights, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports. If the state of air navigation and airport facilities is subjected to international scrutiny, it is unlikely that Nigeria will score a high mark. This is because efforts by the Federal Government to scale up aeronautical equipment and facilities at the airports have, so far, failed to close the huge infrastructure necessary to propel Nigeria to sub-Saharan Africa’s aviation hub. The result is that at the moment, the airports still parade obsolete and ageing facilities that are raising serious concerns by foreign and indigenous carriers that utilise the aerodromes and airspace. Nigeria, according to experts, remains an attractive destination for many foreign carriers. Because of its strategic geographical location, it requires about six hours to connect either into Europe, Middle East, or a little more into other parts of the world. The snag, however, remains decrepit infrastructure at the airports. Although this has forced the government to embark on a radical air safety and airport and air navigation modernisation programmes in the last few years, experts said that despite the huge funds released for such programmes, Nigeria is yet to meet the required standards by global aviation bodies. Some of the modernisation programmes include the Safe Tower Project, Airports remodelling, and the State Safety Projects. The programmes were aimed at improving facilities at the airports to meet required global standards and put Nigeria in the elite league of civil aviation nations. However, the intervention programmes appear not to have delivered on the expected outcomes. Consequently, there have been lamentations by various stakeholders over inadequate facilities. The complaints range from poorly designed airport terminals to lack of facilitation equipment, deplorable state of runway, and ineffective radio communication in the airspace for pilots and control tower personnel. Air field lighting system at some airports is also lacking. There are also poor storage facilities for cargo and absence of security and airport perimeter fences. Some stakeholders also accused the Federal Government of failing to install critical airport infrastructure to ease the pains of air travel. They note, for instance, that for several years, the majority of the airports cannot allow flights to land at night because they lack airfield lighting and instrument landing system. For example, of the 22 airports under the management of the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), 18 do not have airfield lighting. This means that flights cannot land at those airports after 6:30 pm. According to experts, deficit airports and air navigation facilities constitute an infraction to the standards and recommended practices prescribed by the apex civil aviation regulator – International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), Airports Council International (ACI), International Air Transport Association (IATA), and Council of Air Navigation Services Organisation (CANSO) .Poor runway facilities at Enugu Airport The poor state of airport and air navigation facilities is having ripple effects on the operations of airlines as some operators are experiencing bird strikes on their aircraft because of the alleged FAAN’s failure to put in place bird control measures at some aerodromes. The latest of such incidence occurred last week, forcing an Air Peace aircraft to initiate an air return after one of its aircraft engine was struck by birds at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. Besides this incident, other carriers, including Ethiopian Airlines, have complained of the poor state of facilities at the same airport. This ugly development forced the government to propose a shutdown of Enugu Airport and its downgrade for international operations. Minister of State for Aviation Hadi Sirika said the government had to shut the airport because of the deplorable state of the runway, noting that any responsible government would take such decision in the interest of flight safety. He said consistent complaints about the state of the facility were not safe for flight operations. He, therefore, said the airport will be degraded for international operations, because the runway length was not ideal for such operations. The minister said: “We may downgrade Enugu Airport in terms of its status as an international airport. The runway is terrible. I have been there three times, seen the governor of the state and told them what to do, but nothing has happened. ‘’There is a market and an abattoir at the side of the runway and these attract birds. Of recent, Air Peace suffered a bird strike and this affected the airline. Thank God there was no major incident. “At the end of the runway, you have the government establishing a free trade zone at the centre. Enugu is to the East what Kaduna is to the North. “When the government wanted to expand the runway to 60 metres long and 71 metres wide, there were few houses there and we were promised that they would be demolished and the owners compensated so we can have the improvement. “But now, they have built more houses. Enugu airport would have to be closed down; that is the honest truth.” Ground handlers’ complaints  at Lagos airport A few weeks ago, Skyways Aviation Handling Company (SAHC) Plc Managing Director Mr. Basil Agboarumi complained about the state of airport facilities, which he said, are having negative impact on the operations of ground handlers. Agboarumi, who listed other challenges confronting ground handlers to include inadequate and obsolete airport facilities, accused FAAN of parading inadequate infrastructure. He said: “We have to pay through our noses most of the time. We pay a lot to be in business; everybody is collecting. I don’t want to go into controversy, but it becomes so bad that before you can even sneeze around the airport, you must pay; everybody is squeezing. That’s a challenge.”  Air traffic controllers also A few weeks ago, the Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) decried the deplorable state of control towers at some airports, describing them as threat to safety of flights. The body listed the airports with deplorable control towers to include Kaduna, Maiduguri, Ilorin, Yola, Sokoto, Benin and Katsina. Its President, Abayomi Agoro, said communication between air traffic controllers and pilots remained a huge challenge. Besides the poor control towers, he said there was need to look into other challenges air traffic controllers grapple with, including the Abuja Airport Tower Elevator, that dropped from its topmost floor to the ground. Agoro said more worrisome was the health hazard to air traffic controllers, who go through the agony of climbing 232 flights of stairs daily. The NATCA boss also lamented the poor controller–pilot very high frequency radio coverage of airspace. Noting that it was a far cry from the required international standards, he described the situation as work in progress for National Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). He said NAMA was experiencing enormous loss of revenue in foreign exchange because many foreign aircraft avoid the airspace and, consequently, operate in contiguous airspace. Agoro said: “Over the years, it has been quite herculean for air traffic controllers to communicate effectively with pilots. “The limited or inadequate number of air traffic controllers in the country to effectively man all air traffic control units across the country is not only hampering service delivery, but leading to a situation where the staff are overworked and may lead to significant safety implication.” Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) Managing Director Captain Fola Akinkuotu admitted that radio communication over the airspace remained a challenge to pilots and Air Traffic Controllers (ATCs), despite efforts made by the agency to address it. Akinkuotu stated that part of NAMA’s duty was to provide communication in the airspace, but that the agency has not achieved that 100 per cent. His words: “Radio communication is not the best. I have spent two years in NAMA and I thought I would have fixed this problem, but I haven’t. Effort is being made and we are not going to stop because any air traffic communication that is not crisp clear is a recipe for confusion.” Akinkuotu said, for instance, that in the South-east, a lot of pilots have had issues with ATCs because of poor communication. “If you are foreign to the clime, that may make you categorise our airspace as unsafe. “Part of NAMA’s job is communication, but we have not achieved what we set out to do. And so we are asking for feedback from the users. We are not afraid of criticism, but we enjoin you to make it civil. “We beg in the interest of safety to take things seriously and for our pilots to be more patient and understanding with the ATCs,” he stated. Flight Crew Association of Nigeria (FCAN) Coordinator Captain Robert Roland urged stakeholders to address poor or non-existent communication facilities.  Operators’ verdict The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, said there was need for upgrade of airports infrastructure nationwide. He said: ”There is no way you can optimally use your planes in Nigeria. The airport infrastructure do not support that. And that is why we are saying the first thing we should do in this country is to improve on our airports infrastructure. “From check-in to flight navigational aids, making airport environment conducive both for operators and passengers is necessary. The infrastructure is poor. There is no way airlines will optimally use their equipment.” Onyema said poor airports infrastructure had contributed to failure of airlines. “It is a capital intensive business. Every kobo counts. We must get our airport infrastructure right. It is not about saying Nigerian airlines are weak. I hate it, especially when it comes from government officials. I do not find it funny. “We should promote our own. Bring the legacy airlines of this world to come and do domestic operations in Nigeria, they will pack up in 72 hours. We know what we go through. The first thing is the improvement on airport infrastructure and aviation infrastructures generally. “It is key. Don’t let anybody deceive you. This country will never be a hub to anybody or for anybody, except our airports infrastructure are improved upon,” he said, adding that poor airport infrastructure also contribute to flight delays as over 1000 passengers sometimes have to use one security screening point.  Govt’s efforts Worried by the development, NAMA said it has put machinery in place to accelerate the upgrade of the airspace radio communication infrastructure across the country. Its General Manager Public Affairs, Khalid Emele, said it was part of efforts by the government to address the challenge of poor communication. According to him, the ongoing programme was to ensure that communication challenges experienced by pilots in some parts of the airspace were eliminated. He said to boost the clarity of radio communication, especially at the upper airspace, the agency has taken steps to replace all the Very High Frequency (VHF) radios at the eight remote sites in Lagos, Kano, Wukari, Sokoto, Ilorin, Port Harcourt, Abuja and Maiduguri. Emele said the agency has also added six new sites in Jos, Kaduna, Yola, Enugu, Benin and Calabar, bringing the number of VHF sites nationwide to 14. The VHF remote sites, he explained, are operated in a network, which will have signal pattern that covers the airspace. Emele said the agency has also taken delivery of the VHF radio equipment under the “Extended Range VHF Coverage” project, affirming that its installation would start soon. He said last year, NAMA deployed four stand-alone Jotron High-power long range VHF radios at Lagos East and Lagos West, as well as Kano East and Kano West Area Control Centres (ACCs). He said it was a backup aimed at addressing Remote Control Air to Ground (RCAG) communication challenges in the upper airspace by providing reliable backup in the event of loss of VHF radio communication on the main system. Continuing, Emele said: “Plans have been completed to extend the range of the above-stated long-range backup radios and is only awaiting the passage of the 2019 budget by the National Assembly for the implementation to commence. “When completed, the backup radios would also have sufficient overlap of propagated signals to cover the entire airspace. “As an agency, one of our overriding priorities is to provide reliable communication link between the air traffic controller and the flying pilot at all phases of flight and this we are continuously committed to doing.” Indeed, Sirika had reiterated that the  administration was providing critical infrastructure at the airside of the airports, which include landing aids like instrument landing system, airfield lighting and others. He stressed that the administration was not interested in terminal building, but in upgrading and providing those facilities for safe flight operations. But at the twilight of this administration, none of the airports has had its airfield lighting installed. The Accountable Manager, Dana Air, Obi Mbanuzuo, said the airlines face a lot of challenges daily, due to delays caused by inadequate infrastructure. He said: “We go through day-to-day operational challenges. In some airports the landing aids are not there; in some places the power is epileptic. “There are agencies’ challenges, with some doing better than others. There are lots of deficiencies in different places. “When you say the environment is harsh, imagine a place where you can’t land after 6:00 pm or where maybe a state government has tried to help the system or the environment by providing equipment and then sometimes the people who are supposed to look after them vandalise them. “Airports are not places where anyone on the street can get access to, so telling me that someone outside the airport environment has stolen the landing aids is not possible.” The minister reiterated that the government was conscious of the decay in airports and air navigation facilities hence, it initiated efforts to fix some of the gaps. He said of the over 157 safety projects inherited from the previous administration, about 130 were completed. Sirika said: “We have completed the Kano Tower Automated Air Traffic Management and Meteorological Systems, installed the Instrument Landing Systems (ILS) Category II (CAT II), Doppler VORs (DVORs), Distance Measuring Equipment (DMEs) at four airports. “They are Lagos, Kano, Port Harcourt and Kaduna, while that of Minna, Jos, Yola, Maiduguri, Benin and Akure are still on-going and nearing completion. “You will also recall that almost two years ago, NAMA installed CAT III Instrument Landing System in Lagos and Abuja, which has helped in great deal to improve operations during inclement weather conditions.” The minister added that the government has installed the VHF radios for aerodrome and approach air-ground communication in 18 airports. The airports are Maiduguri, Enugu, Jos, Calabar, Yola, Ilorin, Sokoto, Lagos, Kano, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Ibadan, Zaria, Katsina, Owerri, Yola, Calabar and Kaduna. “Besides, we have installed the high power Very High Frequency (VHF) stand-alone radios in Lagos and Kano Area Control Centres (ACC) as backup for air-ground upper airways voice communication. “We also embarked on the deployment of Controller-Pilot-Data Link Communication (CPDLC) in Lagos and Kano to enhance communication in the oceanic region and the remote areas of the north,” Sirika stated. The government has also started the Aeronautical Information Management Automation Project, which comprises a network of 26 VSAT facilities at all Nigerian airports as well as Search and Rescue (S&R), with coordination domiciled in Lagos. ”This will enable Nigeria to comply with the mandatory transition from Aeronautical Information Service (AIS) to Aeronautical Information Management (AIM). We also developed and published Performance-Based Navigation (PBN) Procedures for 18 airports across the country. “We have also introduced Standard Instrument Departures (SIDs) and Standard Arrival Routes (STARs) at Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt as an improvement on the procedures,” the Minister added. He said government will continue to develop its capacity to design and fabricate automatic weather equipment and meteorological satellite system. According to him, government has installed Low Level Wind Shear Alert System (LLWAS) at Katsina, Ilorin and Kaduna Airports, just as it has completed the modernisation of NiMet forecast office and construction of zonal office at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kano. It has also installed Tidal gauge at NiMet Marine Station in Eket, Akwa Ibom State. Besides, it has constructed additional hydrogen gas generation building and remodelled synoptic offices at Lokoja Station and Gombe. “We have also continued with the Doppler Weather Radar project, which was started in 2007, but abandoned. The weather radar systems will soon be commissioned in Kano, Lagos, Port Harcourt, Abuja and Yola. “We have undertaken rehabilitation of several meteorological enclosures, recording equipment, forecasting facilities and associated infrastructure nationwide to enhance weather recording and use in support of safe air navigation,” Sirika said. Meanwhile, stakeholders under the aegis of the Airport Business Summit and Expo, have urged the government to address the problem of infrastructure deficit to restore passenger confidence. Its convener, Mr. Fortune Idu, said adequate funds should be mobilised for the agencies to fix the sore points, including poor baggage handling, poor cooling systems and lack of logistic facilities at the airports.