The Ogunoye Royal Linage has selected a consensus candidate from the 12 interested contestants to the throne  of Olowo of Owo in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State. This is coming five days after the stool of Olowo was declared vacant. The Ogunoye Royal Linage is one of the two linages comprising the Elewokun Ruling House. Others included Ajike and Olateru-Olagbegi. At news briefing  in Akure, the state capital yesterday, the Head of Ogunoye, Chief Olutokun Ogunoye, said the linage has picked Prince Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye as the sole candidate for the throne. The linage also insisted that it is their turn to produce the next Olowo of Owo as other linages have produced monarchs of the town. According to him, only two linages have since 1888 contested for the Olowo chieftaincy stool whenever the stool is declared vacant. He said it is Ataneneye comprising Ajike and Olateru-Olagbegi and the Ogunoye that have ruled the town. He said other members of the Elewokun, including Orimolade, Adara and Aladetohun have gone into extinction. The Head of Royal House, who was represented by his deputy, Chief Adafin Ologede, said Ajibade emerged out of the 12 princes that showed interest in the stool. According to him, “Ajibade is the choice of Ogunoye family. Before we picked him, we consulted Ifa oracle in three different places and they were unanimous on the choice of Ajibade. “We picked Ajibade because he is educated, exposed and vibrant. We want a king, who will be acceptable to the people of Owo. He will be able to use his contact for the development of the town. “He is a young man who can move around especially during Igogo and Ogun festivals. He will be able to move around to bring development to the town. Ologede noted that Ajibade was two years old when his father ascended the throne and  lived many years in the palace,stressing that he understands the custom and tradition of Owo kingdom. He said in spite of the fact that many of the aspirants have accepted the decision of the royal linage, the family head said they would reconcile any of the aggrieved members to present a common position to the kingmakers. He emphasised that the royal house would produce the next Olowo because the other houses including Ajike and Olateru-Olagbegi, who belonged to Ataneye Royal Linage, have produced Olowo for more than 82 years while the Ogunoye had only 36 years.