Weeks ago, I read and followed a rather unfortunate story an Abuja based lady recounted on Twitter. The story aligned with my thoughts and conclusion that it appears there is an “epidemic” ravaging our society today. No, it is not an epidemic in the form of Ebola or Lassa fever, but nonetheless, with a magnitude to consume us all if not nipped in the bud. It is an “epidemic” of morbid hatred targeted at anything perceived “rich,”  “good” or “progressive.” The lady in question – through a tweets thread – narrated the sad story of an accident that happened in front of her estate. The accident involved a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) and a Peugeot 207 car. In her narration, she was attracted by a very loud noise which was difficult to ignore. Since her house was close to the fence of the estate she decided to find out the cause.  It turned out to be an unbelievable accident in a serene area of Abuja. She, alongside others moved in to give direction for the rescue mission. They were able to seek out a Good Samaritan to evacuate the occupant of the Peugeot car to the hospital. Things later became complicated when they attempted to bring out the occupant of the SUV and also evacuate him to the hospital since he was unconscious and bleeding. That was when the drama began. Majority of the rescuers felt he should be left where he was because he was the cause of the accident and is driving a “big car!” They said since he is part of the people “oppressing us” he should remain where he is until people like him come to his rescue. She tried to reason with them that this is a human life that is worth saving irrespective of their conclusion which may be wrong. All eyes later turned on her with some questioning who gave her the right to talk where there are men. She had no choice but to quietly slip away before she become the focal point of their morbid envy. Invectives followed her as she gently walked back to her estate. She later concluded – through another source – that they later reasoned and evacuated the injured occupant of the SUV to the hospital. This story underscores many I have read or witnessed in recent times. The spate of kidnappings, violent robberies and banditry that appears to be the new normal now cannot be divorced from this morbid envy phenomenon. Yes, we may have “oppressors” in our midst, but we also have hardworking people who worked hard to earn whatever they have today. And most have not even worked with the government or engaged in politics. So, it would be a wrong to paint everyone with the same brush of “oppressor” because they happen drive a “good” car or live in “good” houses. To put a firm handle on this, I love Wikipedia definition of envy. Envy, it says, is an emotion that “occurs when a person lacks another’s superior quality, achievement, or possession and either desires it or wishes that the other lacked it.” In our country today, many people at time feel envious. In a society where poverty is growing at an astronomical rate it is understandable why envy now appears to be a powerful emotion to vent our anger on anyone perceived to be living the “good life” irrespective of whether the person earned it or not. However, no matter how negative we may perceive it, envy – which is commonplace – is a painful emotion. This notwithstanding, it can also be channeled or used as a stimulus to direct energy into self which can make it to be productive. Morbid envy, an extremely painful emotion is mainly found in individuals’ emotional insecurity. Dr. Sam Vaknin, an expert describes envy as “…a compounded emotion. It is brought on by the realisation of some lack, deficiency, or inadequacy in oneself. It is the result of unfavourably comparing oneself to other – to their success, their reputation, their possessions, their luck, and their qualities. It is misery and humiliation and impotent rage and a torturous, slippery path to nowhere. The effort to break the padded walls of this self-visited purgatory often leads to attacks on the perceived source of frustration.”  A “… slippery path to nowhere…”It can’t be best described! If we are to be honest, it appears this is where we are, or gradually walking blindfolded into. But how did we get to a position where people wish others dead because of the assumption that they brought us to this sorry pass? Will things get better or worse? It all depends on whether the government – that includes us – pauses, take a breather, walk back and start putting things in perspective. There is no better place to gauge this pulse than in the education sector. Today, we have tens of millions of out-of-school children and potential “morbid enviers” who would do anything to live the “good life.” But how can they live the “good life” without proper guidance and qualitative education? But the painful irony of our present situation is that those who are supposedly in “school” now are learning absolutely nothing! You do not need to consult an oracle to know how bad the situation is, just check the social media and see for yourself! Hope you get my drift? Have you visited a public primary school recently? If you haven’t please do and get the shock of your life! If you are not strong willed you will start planning on how to join the millions doing everything to relocate to wherever. Whenever you decide to visit one you will know we are sitting comfortably on explosive devices more powerful than an earthquake. If you’re not able to visit, don’t worry as I paint the scene for you. You will not only meet decrepit schools, terrible and horrible teachers but more pathetic pupils. Chicken pens and pigsties are most times better than some of the things called public schools. Of course, you will wonder what kind of “learning” takes place in such “schools.” Most of the buildings of some of the schools I visited had leaking roofs, cracked walls, broken floors, damaged furniture, and in most cases, none at all. In some, pupils sit on bare floors. The “teachers” are something else as there are often no materials or inspiration for teaching and learning. These “schools” are nothing but mini kiosks where teachers sell everything from snacks to detergents. If you think the rot stops at the primary school level you’re dead wrong. Our secondary schools have now deteriorated beyond the level of producing half-baked and ill-prepared young adults to creating smart and intelligent young criminals who, instead of learning to be productive members of society, use their knowledge of the internet to serve as go between for kidnappers. They are the experts that make sure calls to victims’ contacts cannot be traced.  Furthermore, our secondary schools have also become breeding grounds for immoral, sexually perverted and criminally minded young men and women. Again, if you are in doubt, visit a nearby public secondary school. Incidences of organised rape and orgies are rampant. It gets morbid when these are uploaded on the internet and goes viral. They never stop to contemplate that they are doing this to someone else’s’ daughter. It’s really scary. I’ve written so much about the state of our tertiary education system on these pages that I need not bother you here. But suffice to say that most of our graduates are only interested in getting a certificate – or “meal ticket” – thus they are not prepared for any form of systematic learning. Why would they when “Yahoo-Yahoo” business can rake in the millions they often dream about. We have a deadly mix when we combine it with Advanced Fee Fraud (419), armed robberies and ritual killing. The other day I wrote about the ones stealing women’s underwear’s in my piece “Underwear palaver.” Is it too late to walk back and identify where we stumbled in order to make positive headway?