Stakeholders of Ukum local government area of Benue state have condemned in strong terms the proposed decision by federal government to establish Ruga settlements in some parts of the state including the local government. Arising from a well-attended emergency stakeholders meeting held at the council hall Sankera the local government headquarters, the people outrightly rejected the proposed project and called on federal government to rescind the decision with immediate effect. They warned that should the federal government defies their warning, they will explore all available legitimate means including legal action to protect their ancestral heritage. In their separate speeches, a two term senator representing Benue North East senatorial district and former Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Professor Daniel Saror said the people were dumb founded when the news broke out. Senator Saror who spoke through a representative expressed surprised over the unilateral decision of the federal government and wondered under whose authorisation the federal government has come up with such an unpopular decision since according to him he was not aware of any communication between federal government and any authority in the state in whose custody the 1978 Land Use Act and a 1960 judgment from federal High Court Abuja gave land ownership to. He said instead of ceding part of the local government’s scarce land for such a project, the federal government should explore the possibility of acquiring such land from either Sokoto, Katsina or Kano states which he said have vast expanse of land. Other speakers at the meeting including the Ter Ukum, His Royal Highness Chief Orkaa Kaave, care taker chairman of Ukum local government council Tor Tyokaa Ibellogo and a former state house of assembly member for Ukum state constituency, Dan Abagu all condemned the proposed Ruga settlements in the local government area and called on federal government to explore other areas to acquire land for such project in order not to deny the people access to their only means of livelihood. Meanwhile, economic and vehicular activities in Zaki Biam were almost brought to their knees following a peaceful protest on the streets of Zaki Abiam by hundreds of Ukum people to express their grievances against the proposed establishment of “Ruga Settlements” in the area and some parts of the state. The protest lead by Mr. Gideon Tyozenda were seen chanting solidarity songs and carrying placards with different inscriptions: “NO LAND FOR INTRUDERS”, OUR HERITAGE CAN’T BE TEMPERED WITH”, “WE CONDEMN RUGA SETTLEMENT IN UKUM” as well as RUGA SHOULD BE ESTABLISHED IN THE FAR NORTH among many others. The youths who  vowed that they will defend their heritage at all cost said the proposed Ruga settlement by federal government was a deliberate strategy to annex their ancestral land for herdsmen to rear their cattle thereby depriving them of their only source of livelihood. According to them, it was an insult on their sensibilities for anybody to attempt to take over their land which at the same moment cannot accommodate even their farming needs. Addressing the protesters at the local government council secretariat, the Caretaker chairman Honourable Ibellogo Tor Tyokaa accompanied by the chairman Ukum Traditional Council led by Ter Ukum, HRH Arc. Orkaa Kaave said they were at the local government secretariat in solidarity with their feelings and promised to convey their message to the state governor Samuel Ortom through the council chairman.