The library, playground and school uniforms and bags gift by Seedtime Foundation to pupils of Vetland Primary School and Wesley Primary School, both in Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Education Authority (LGEA) warmed many hearts last Tuesday, chief of them, the Chairman of the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Dr Ganiyu Sopeyin. The Foundation donated the library (including books and furniture) to Vetland Primary School and playground equipment (swings, slides, see-saws) to Wesley Primary School, while 80 needy pupils of both schools got uniforms and 26 got school bags. Sopeyin in his remarks and the inauguration of the library and playground done in honour of the Late Kayode Oladeji, the husband of the Executive Director of the Foundation, Mrs Tola Oladeji, said the facilities would be of immense benefits to the teachers and pupils. “I am particularly happy to be here with you on this auspicious occasion of the donation of uniforms, playground and library, which is useful to both teachers and pupils.  The teachers can visit the library to do research, while the pupils can study. I sincerely appreciate Seedtime Foundation for this beautiful gesture. “To our head teachers, this is a challenge for the two of you, members of staff and the children.  Judicious use of all these facilities is the challenge you have.  We awant to continue to see this playground and library kept clean and utlisied such that those coming behind will know that Seedtime did this,” he said. While touring the new library, the SUBEB Chairman announced the donation of a television set to boost multimedia learning. The Education Secretary, Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Education Authority (LGEA), Mr Olamilekan Jogbon, said the pupils were lucky to get the facilities, which are the main attraction of private schools.  He said their perception would change. “It has been a long time that most public schools have these types of facilities.  The children had been parading the school before the project was completed.  I felt so positive that if many of our foundations and neighbours will do this, the perception of children attending public schools will change,” he said. Giving her speech, Mrs Oladeji said the library was the fifth by the Foundation in public schools.  She added that this particular gift was done with the support of friends and family of her late husband. Apart from donating libraries, playground and kitting school pupils, Mrs Oladeji said the Foundation also trains teachers, organizes reading projects and charity parties. She urged the government to step its maintenance culture.