Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC) has challenged the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to either make public the identity of anyone in illegal possession of government’s property among the officials who served during the Abiola Ajimobi administration or “stop spending available resources on cheap blackmail”. Governor Seyi Makinde has been accusing some of those, who served with Ajimobi of having taken away government’s vehicles with them. But, Oyo APC said in a statement by its Assistant Publicity Secretary, Prince Ayobami Adejumo, yesterday  that the noise about the issue of vehicles allegedly taken away by unnamed persons was a clear indication that the PDP was not prepared for the serious business of governance. The statement reads: “They were desperate for power and now that they have it, they do not know what to do with it. How can a serious party be comfortable with the fact that a governor it sponsored into power cannot role out a significant action plan or blueprint, but chose to dwell on mundane issues four weeks after inauguration and without any sign of promise to deliver? “As concerned stakeholders, we have done our investigation and found out that none of our members went away with official vehicles or any government’s property illegally as Governor Makinde and his party want the public to believe. Therefore, we challenge the present administration or any of its sympathizers to name all those they have established to be in possession of the said items and initiate appropriate measures to recoveries same from them. “But if all the present administration and the PDP would prefer to do while its span runs out is to wage war against the persons of Senator Ajimobi and other who served the state meritoriously between 2011 and 2019 under the banner of the Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN)/APC, we wish them good luck.” The  party said it was regrettable that governance has since gone on holiday in Oyo State. The APC advised Makinde “to resist every instinct or pressure capable of causing unrest in the state, especially as it concerned sponsorship of anarchy and confusion at the local government tier”. It warned that the Pacesetter State should not be in the news for any wrong reason because a governor must satisfy himself or his party men. “The current officials at the local council are a product of legitimacy and since the governor has agreed to edge them out through after his first self-help attempt failed, he should submit himself wholly to the court process without any overt or covert effort to circumvent democracy and the rule of law. “We say no to intimidation of elected council chairmen and councillors by the governor or any of his men who are desperate to feast on the resources of local government councils as done in the past. “The Appeal Court has picked July 5, 2019 for hearing of the case brought before  it by the governor with a caveat that the status quo must be maintained. “What this means is that elected officials should not be prevented from functioning in their capacities and we expect the PDP government to be aware of this,” Adejumo said. The APC, in another statement by its spokesperson, Dr. AbdulAzeez Olatunde, advised Makinde and PDP to have a rethink on its plans to inaugurate caretaker committee government in the councils  in defiance of court order. The APC advised the PDP led government to halt the plan in the interest of the masses to avoid needlessly inflicting untold suffering on the people at the grassroots. The state APC accused the PDP government of executive recklessness, especially in its recent decisions to thwart the legacies of the immediate past APC government . According to the party, the governor has taken on the toga of impunity by  sacking  elected council chairmen and  the perfection of the  government’s  plan to inaugurate caretaker committee despite a subsisting court order.