With his impressive showing at the 12th African Masters Athletics Championship in Tunisia as well as the IAAF World Masters Athletics (WMA) Outdoor held in Poland, Peters Olajide Femi has yet been tipped for greater glory in the sport exclusively preserved for athletes already enjoying their Indian summer. On the fringe of the championship in Touron, there was a conference which reportedly was the first of such collaboration between the IAAF and WMA in order   to contribute to the continuous professional development of master age level athletes – those 35 and older-in a practical and interactive way. Hosting Femi recently in Lokoja following his medallion in Tunis and Touron, Honourable Sani Ogu Salisu, the Kogi State’s Commissioner for Sport and Youth Development said he was impressed with the performance of the athlete, adding the courtesy visit was mainly to bridge the gap between the government and indigenes of the Confluence State, adding the Federal Government through the Ministry of Sports should improve its funding for sports. Salisu further encouraged Femi  not to relent in his efforts at  making Nigeria  and particularly, Kogi State proud in athletics with a promise of using his wealth of experience at the forthcoming 3rd edition of the State’s Sports Festival. “I’m really grateful to the Honourable Commissioner for creating a forum for athletes and officials to interact and cross fertilize ideas for overall interest of sport in our great state,” stated Femi. “This is no doubt a good motivation for me as a representative of Kogi state and Nigeria at large. “I’m really grateful to the Almighty God for the successful outing in Tunisia and Poland and I can’t forget the assistance of President of Nigeria Athletics Masters Mrs. Gloria Obajimi as well as General Secretary in person of coach Urueme Adu and my coach from Kogi State, Mekudi Kaka who has trained me so hard to this high level of achievements.” Meanwhile,  a representative of the athlete and consultant, Tokunbo Omisakin  has equally eulogized Dr. Safiyat of the Nigeria Athletics Masters  for her assistance in sorting out Femi’s travel logistics to Tunisia and Poland respectively. “ Our athletes need encouragement and I’m really impressed with the efforts of  Peters Olajide Femi at the two recent Masters Championship in Tunisia and Poland but unfortunately his great performance where he won medals in the 100m in Tunisia and another medal in the 50m Outdoor event in Poland were largely unreported.” Speaking further, Omisakin  advised the Kogi State Governor, His Excellency  Alhaji  Yahaya Bello to give his full support to  the Nigeria Athletics Masters particularly Peters  Olajide Femi who has become a great ambassador of the state. “It is not every day that you have an athlete at Femi’s age with two medals and I’m happy that Honourable Sani Ogu Salisu is happy over his recent performances,” Omisakin stated. “This is a step in the right direction and I hope Governor Yahaya Bello would continue to support his drive in order to bring more glory to the state.”