Lagos State University (LASU) last week joined the world to celebrate the World Bicycle Day. It was an exciting spectacle as students, workers, visitors and guests, displayed their dexterity with the two-wheel instrument, ignoring the heavy rain that repeatedly pounded the campus premises and its environs. About 150 bicycles were made available for students’ and other interested riders free of charge The event was facilitated by the Asian African Chambers of Commerce and Industry (AACCI) in collaboration with the United Nations Organisation, Wealthroot Global Ventures, Watechnology Nigeria Limited (OUR BIKE), Office of the Deputy High Commissioner of India in Nigeria and Lagos State University Students Union (LASUSU), among other participants. The event started very early as scheduled and cyclists rode up to 8.5 kilometres within the school premises. Riders were escorted by members of the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Security Agency in their vehicles and bicycles. Mr. Ahmed Adekunle Anrinle, who co-ordinated the event on behalf of the Asian African Chambers of Commerce and Industry (AACCI), and the Office of the Deputy High Commissioner of India in Nigeria, described the exercise as ‘very successful’ in view of the collaborations, which he said engendered a large turnout. Talking about the collaboration, Anrinle, who is a member, Advisory Board of AACCI said:  “We partnered a company called AWA Technology, a company that deals in bicycles. Today all those bicycles are opened for students. We also partnered Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Security Agency, a security outfit that uses bicycles. They also brought their bicycles to participate.” “The Information Centre of the United States and the Management of LASU were all here to collaborate with us,” Arinle added. Anrinle, a LASU alumnus and the Chief Executive Officer of Rinllandded Nigeria Limited, said the AACCI is considering compensating the participating students with its membership. “The height of the event is that we want to give membership opportunity of AACCI to the students, who participated at the event. This would encourage and give them a sense of belonging,” Anrinle explained. LASU Registrar, Mr Olayinka Amuni, who spoke on behalf of the university, assured that the annual event has come to stay in the institution. According to him, the university promised not only to sustain the exercises, but to make subsequent editions bigger and more colourful. “In LASU, it (World Bicycle Day) has come to stay. In fact, we are going to promote it to be a lecture free-day. It is our plan that on that day the students will know that they are coming to ride bicycles,” Amuni said He added: “It is also to teach the students about nature. One of the merits of bicycle is that it benefits the environment. It is also economical because it is the cheapest form of transportation.” Also at the event was a representative of the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Security Agency, Mr Leke Adeleke. “When you go on bicycle, you are exercising. In terms of the economy it is friendly and in terms of the environment it is also friendly. You don’t run on fuel. Some people are so lazy to exercise, but when they bike, unconsciously they are exercising and shedding excess weight. At the end, they are happier,” Adeleke said. Some students who did well in the race were rewarded for their feats  Adigun Mojeed, a 400-level Education Management student came first and was presented with N30,000.00 cash.  Dani Shakiru a 200-Level Mass Communication undergraduate and his counterparts Osunkoya Emmanuel, a  200-Level student from the School of Transport, who both emerged first and second runners up, were given N20, 000 and N10,000 respectively. The trio, who expressed their appreciation to the management and organisers, said they were very happy and lucky to be part of this year’s event.