The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) has pledged to strengthen its partnership with the Army to enhance security on the highways. FERMA Managing Director Mr Nuruddeen Rafindadi stated this  in Abuja when he received a team of the Nigerian Army led by the Chief of Army Staff Lt.-Gen.Tukur Buratai. In a statement by FERMA Deputy Director, Communication and Public Relations, Mrs Maryam Sanusi, Rafindadi said the agency had always considered itself as a part of the country’s security as the road network across the nation is a part its security architecture. He said: “When I go out to seek  funds, I always try to make a point that funding of road maintenance  should be given a priority that is given to security because roads are part of the security network. FERMA is one of the federal agencies in every part of the country, including the Northeast even during insecurity. “FERMA is proud that in all its activities in the Northeast, the Army has given it a great support as there have not been any major incident even though we work under precarious condition.” Rafindadi said last year, special attention was given to the Military Theatre Operation Zone to assist the Military carry out its operations effectively in the Northeast while major maintenance and repairs were carried out on the Maiduguri-Damboa-Biu Road in Borno State and  Biu-Wuyo in Gombe State Border with Borno. Others are roads in Adamawa State,  the rehabilitation of Baga Mogo Park, Abdu One Mohammed to Songhai Road Junction in Maiduguri, Borno State. Rafindadi said FERMA had embarked on more road maintenance  to enhance the operations of the Military, adding these works were at various stages of completion. He said the Military recently called on FERMA to clear the bushes on selected federal routes nationwide, such as the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway, adding that  this has yielded results by the several reports received through the media. Gen. Buratai said the visit was for two reasons: to congratulate the managing director on the giant stride the agency is making in road maintenance and to solidify the partnership of the Army with FERMA to link roads to rural areas where criminals take advantages of to perpetrate their activities. According to the Army chief, it would be easier for the Army to reach such places to provide security when the roads are passable.