The Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) has urged state governments to engage in taxpayer enlightenment and expand their tax net to increase their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). The call was made following President Muhammadu Buhari’s advice to states to increase Value Added Tax (VAT) to increase their IGR. NECA said increasing VAT at this time was not only misplaced but would further impoverish the citizens the President promised to take out of poverty. To NECA, the step will do more harm to the already burdened private sector. Its Director-General, Timothy Olawale, who spoke at the International Labour Conference in Geneva, Switzerland, said  the President meant well by urging states to be innovative in increasing their IGR and prudent in their expenditures. He, however, argued that state governments could not increase VAT without amending the VAT Act at the National Assembly. According to him, it is the common man that will be at the receiving end of any increase in VAT. “Even if businesses are taxed more through likely illegal levies and rates, outside the provisions of the law, they will naturally pass the cost to the customers whose purchasing power is already at the lowest ebb,” he said. Proposing a way out, Olawale said the federal and state governments should engage in an aggressive taxpayer enlightenment and expansion of the tax net to capture more citizens, adding that less than 40 per cent of Nigerians pay tax. He suggested that the states should put mechanisms in place to eliminate leakages as a large chunk of the IGR realised did not find their way into the government coffers. Olawale advised governors on reduction of cost of governance, saying the retinue of aides kept by them at prohibitive cost to the state was needless. “Besides, ingenious idea of corrupt practices in the name of security votes and frivolous foreign travels by state government functionaries are veritable examples of cuttings in avoidable expenses draining state government purses.” Olawale, however, opposed the call for state governments to hike VAT to increase their IGR. Considering the reported over N2 trillion of bail-out funds to many of the states, it was apt for the President to advise them to be innovative to increase their IGR and at the same time be prudent in their expenditures. “However, the call for increase in VAT or any other form of tax as a way to increase IGR at this time is not only misplaced, but will do more harm to the already burdened private sector and further impoverished citizens that the President promised to take out of poverty.