Nigerian women are truly exemplary and virtually all women given leadership responsibilities by the All Progressive Congress (APC) administration are proving their worth, Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has said. Expressing his deep appreciation for the support given by APC Women from the South-South geopolitical zone, who visited him in his Abuja residence on Tuesday, Omo-Agege emphasised his firm commitment towards enhancing a lot of Nigerian women. The Delta Central Senator, who noted President Muhammadu Buhari’s inclusive policy that has prioritised women empowerment and given several women the opportunity to demonstrate their capabilities in various positions, stated that no nation can do well without sensitivity to the inputs and capabilities of its women. The Zonal Leader of APC Women in the South-South zone, Mrs. Rachel Akpabio, who led other APC women leaders from all the South-South states congratulated the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan and the Deputy Senate President, stressing that their long-expected victory is a source of joy for women in her zone. She said: “It has been the desire of our great party (APC) to have our party faithful at the helm of affairs in the National Assembly, to make laws that will enhance the realization of party’s manifesto and by extension, national policies and programme. “That dream became a reality during the recent inauguration and election of the National Assembly’s presiding officers as you were duly elected as Deputy President of the Senate with Senator Lawan as the President of the Senate. “As the leaders of the party in South-South zone with particular reference to women, we join other well-meaning Nigerians in congratulating you on your well-deserved victory; judging from your well known antecedents and your love for the party we know that you and the new leadership in the Senate will make a success of the assignment given to you.” According to Mrs. Akpabio, areas where women want the National Assembly to focus more attention include provision of more employment for youth, appointment of more women into high positions, more human capital development programmes and enhanced capacity-building to enable more women from the South-South zone to successfully hold leadership positions.  