The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Anambra State Command has expressed its readiness to partner the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in the state for effective traffic management and control. The State Sector Commander, FRSC, Mr. Andrew Ayodele Kumapayi who stated this in Awka while playing host to state executive members of NUJ, described the media as force to reckon with in traffic control, management and public education. He said the Command under his watch has zero tolerance to extortions, bribery or corruption, urging the media to help expose any of its staff or public caught in the act while performing their statutory functions. He said, “We prefer having the media as Special Marshals because they will assist us to sanitize the road of reckless driving, accidents and traffic congestion. “We want your members who can sacrifice their time to join us as Special Marshals. If they see the areas we are not doing well, they should correct them.” Earlier, NUJ Chairman, Comrade Emmanuel Ifesinachi lauded the Command for its resolve to enthrone traffic discipline, obedience and good conduct. He described journalists in the State as responsible, responsive, highly dedicated and committed, stressing the need for the sustenance of the existing cordial working relationship between the Command and the Union. He said, “We are ready to work in synergy with the Command in the area of Public education, Enlightenment and Sensitization to ensure free-flow of traffic and minimize road accident in the State.” He condoled the Command on the demise of their immediate past Sector Commander, Late Sunday Ajayi who died recently on road accident, describing him as a seasoned administrator. He said the deceased’s spell in the State was spectacular and appreciated especially in his relationship with media practitioners within and outside the State. He explained that the Union had articulated various public education programmes in the year, calling on the Command to be part of the exercises to reaching the motoring public.