Entrepreneurship is a key driver in job creation that can further boost the economy. An Abuja-based organisation has held a forum to empower Nigerians with entrepreneurship skills. DANIEL ESSIET was there. Although experts have said the economy is strong, many youths still have economic problems. By  focusing more on entrepreneurship, analysts believe that Nigeria can help the youth to acquire necessary skills to start their businesses. Against this background, Corpus Business Development Limited has held Global Entrepreneurship Week (GEW) in Abuja to recognise women and youths in entrepreneurship as well as connecting the ecosystems around the world. The aim was to help accelerate  entrepreneurship growth to ensure that Nigeria has a strong and diversified economy. The five-day event tagged: “Inclusion and ecosystem connect among women and Youth” saw five  entrepreneurs winning a grant of N500,000 each to support their businesses. The event attracted government officials, seasoned entrepreneurs and the media among who were Bankole Williams (LydAfrica); Chief Executive, Red Media, Adebola Williams; Arese Ugwu (Smart Money Africa), Chief Executive, Elpee Consults Lanre Philips; and founder PS Nutraceutical Intl Limited, Ogbole Samson. Speaking on the topic “Entrepreneurship in Africa; The place of young people”, Williams said Nigerians have the potential for  growth in entrepreneurship, adding that there were resources are to support them. He charged the delegates to think big as an entrepreneur and envision the  long-term benefits. On why the event was put-together, the co-founder of Corpus Business Development Limited, Mr. Chibuike Okoli said: “Corpus BDS Limited seeks to provide a platform for entrepreneurs to engage, network and form collaborations that will not only increase their business performance but also create a sustainable brand.” Okoli said Corpus BDS will  support entrepreneurs through business development services, mentorship and financing to scale and expand their enterprise. The highlight of the event was the pitching of businesses by several entrepreneurs who wanted funding. Of the 22 entrepreneurs pitched, five were selected and given a grant of N500, 000 each to support their business.