A couple and a mentally unstable woman were at the wee hours of Friday murdered by suspected members of the Black Axe cult group at Ikorodu, a Lagos district. The killings occurred around 3:42am at Itupate after armed men said to be over 80, stormed the area in search of members of Eiye cult group. It was gathered that the armed men had invaded the area to avenge the attack meted one of their members identified as Lanre three days ago. The Nation gathered that the said Lanre had escaped being lynched by members of Eiye over feelings he was using his position to shield Aiye members in Ikorodu. Cult-related violence had continued in that district overtime with allegations that no fewer than 10 persons have been murdered in the past three weeks. A resident who cannot be named for obvious reasons told our Correspondent that they were woken up by screams from the hoodlums who were chanting war songs. “They went straight to Lati’s house. His younger and the wife live there. It seems they came for his younger brother who is alleged to be an Eiye member. They killed him. “Then, his wife recognised one of the killers as Lanre’s boy and when they saw she has identified them, they killed her too. “As they were leaving, a mad woman was pouring water on them and they shot her dead. These killings have become worrisome in Ikorodu. The police in Ikorodu need to sit up. “The police in Ikorodu did not show up in all of these. I am telling you that they only came out with Onyeabor after the cultists and miscreants have retreated. We cannot continue to live in fear as a result of the activities of criminals. Let the police go after the criminals and their sponsors. “Who is buying arms and ammunition for these cultists? Who is using them? Will the police say they do not know them? Can’t the police arrest Lanre? “There are complains that the palace was behind these Lanre boys and that is why there are going about committing atrocities. If not for Rapid Response Squad (RRS) men who stopped the rival cult group, they would have burnt down the palace,” he said. Our correspondent gathered that while the RRS were dislodging those who advanced towards the palace in protest, miscreants were said to have taken advantage of the melee to vandalize people’s shops, carting away television sets, fans and other valuables. Contacted, police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) said the violence occurred around 10pm on Thursday, adding that two cultists died and six injured. He said Friday’s melee was as a result of the police’ clampdown on the hoodlums which led to the arrest of 21 suspects including an alleged notorious kingpin. He said the police received a distress call that some cult members from two rival groups engaged themselves in supremacy battle along Isikalu palace and Solomade area of Ikorodu. “The command’s anti-cultism unit and patrol teams from Ikorodu were promptly drafted to the scene. The leader of the gang, who has been on the wanted list of the command, Yusuf Omidele popularly known as General was arrested and twenty other cultists. “General was charged to court on several occasions and sentenced to prison. He completed his last sentence in 2014 and has become an Elder-in- Council in Eiye Confraternity. He led his gang in a reprisal attack on the members of Aiye, whom they alleged to have killed the wife of one of their leaders some weeks ago. “The suspects arrested belong to both Aye and Eiye confraternity and have all confessed to belonging to secret societies. Two cultists died from the cult clash and six others were injured. “The massive onslaught launched by the command on cultists and gangsters is a continuous operation with a view to arrest other fleeing members of the gangs. Four locally made pistols, eight matchets and three daggers were recovered. Suspects will be charged to court. “To proffer lasting solution to youth gangsterism, involvement of teenagers and underage persons in cult activities, especially at Ikorodu, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police Zubairu Muazu on Friday met with traditional rulers, religious leaders, elder statesmen, parents, youths and other stakeholders at Ikorodu. All the stakeholders agreed to join the police in the fight against the menace of cultism and gangsterism,” he said.