The Presidency and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday reacted differently to position of 60 political parties on the raging controversy on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) server. In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the Presidency welcomed the endorsement of the February 23 presidential elections as free, fair and credible by the presidential candidates and chairman of the 60 parties. But the opposition PDP accused the INEC of raising the parties to cover its track. It spoke through a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbodiyan. The Presidency urged the opposition to accept the loss with grace and maturity, assuring that the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari’s watch would look into the Electoral Act as advised by the parties at their joint news conference. The statement by Shehu reads: “We are encouraged by the patriotism of the presidential candidates expressed in clear and matured language. We are convinced that, regardless of our different political persuasions we can work together to improve electoral integrity in Nigeria.” Towing the line of the parties, the Presidency said:  “Despite the temporary setbacks experienced at the beginning, INEC managed to produce an election in which the voice of the ordinary people counted. Democracy is founded on the will of the people and INEC did well to ensure this outcome was achieved in the 2019 elections. “The success of democracy does not only depend on electoral laws, but also on behaviour, character and attitude of politicians. “Do-or-die politics is a threat to the success of electoral laws and democracy. And you don’t need to kill in order to serve the people.” The Presidency assured members of the joint forum of the 60 political parties and chairmen of parties that the President will not spare any effort in signing the Electoral Act into law after looking into it. The PDP knocked INEC for allegedly sponsoring an “amorphous” group to support the denial by the Commission of existence of a central server. Ologbondiyan said PDP’s investigation revealed that the group was hurriedly “conjured” by the leadership of INEC and the All Progressives Congress (APC). According to Ologbondiyan, the main objective of the group was to assist INEC in distorting facts and making misrepresentations on a matter that are already subjudice. He said: “This was an attempt to help clean up INEC’s blunders on the existence of the server, sway judicial pronouncements and influence public opinion on extant matters in court. “The PDP invites Nigerians to note that the press release by this nebulous group emerged after INEC’s several blunders while the Presidency has already admitted that the claim by the PDP and millions of Nigerians that INEC had a server wherein it stored results of the 2019 elections, constitutes the fulcrum of contention in the Presidential election. “Nigerians are already aware of the existence of the server, which was duly budgeted for, set up in various INEC offices and in which data from the elections, including results, were stored. Moreover, the ruling of the Court of Appeal preventing the PDP from inspecting the server does not in any way obviate the existence of the said server. “Furthermore, PDP counsels that instead of engaging in this unnecessary media trial, INEC should have listed its nebulous group as witness in the election tribunal. “We also challenge INEC to confront the indictment contained in the reports of the European Union and other international agencies which showed evidence that the 2019 general elections were marred by irregularities and violation of rules by the Commission.” He urged the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to be apologise to Nigerians for not living up to expectation in the conduct of the last general elections. According to him, the electoral umpire should own up to its alleged failures.