It was a week of joy when 3,853 residents of Bakana community in Rivers State received free medical services at a five-day medical mission conducted by the O. B. Lulu-Briggs Foundation. The outreach, the 32nd by the Foundation,  tackled  health challenges in rural and semi-urban areas across the Niger Delta by giving access to quality medical services. Clinics included pediatrics, optometry/ophthalmology, dental, physiotherapy and surgery. Treatments included 156 Dental, 165 Physiotherapy, 113 surgeries, of which 56 were herniorrhaphy and 43 eye surgeries. She said: “In 2014, during the inauguration of one of the many health facilities, High Chief O. B. Lulu-Briggs supported in his lifetime, he stated: ‘Even if it is just one life we can save, or one person’s pain we can alleviate, it is a good beginning. And the more people and organisations that can provide similar services, the more people we can help collectively’. “Working in partnership with other organsations in the government, non-government, private sector, and academic sectors is one of the secrets to our success. The power of strategic collective engagement on common issues, as espoused by Dr. O. B. Lulu-Briggs, is demonstrated and affirmed by the cooperation which has made this medical mission possible. We would like to use this opportunity to invite you all to join forces with us on this or any of our other initiatives.” Mrs. Lulu-Briggs was represented at the mission by the Foundation’s Director of Programmes, Mrs. Ineba Ideriah Tongkam. The Bakana Medical Missions Team comprises 150 medical and 20 non-medical volunteers, including a team lead by Dr. Sobomabo Lawson from the Kalabari National Association Inc, United States, who partnered the Foundation on the mission. Lawson said: “The Kalabari National Association is grateful to the O. B. Lulu-Briggs Foundation and other supporting bodies for bringing succour to the people of Bakana town.” Prof Victor Dappa thanked the Foundation for its continuous support to the community and others across the Niger Delta. Michael Braide, one of the patients, appreciated the Foundation for helping the needy. In addition to its medical missions, the Foundation has, among others, donated a N50 million Health Centre to the University of Port Harcourt. It also funded research on Parkinson’s Disease to the Rochester Research Institute in New York and to the Virginia Keiley Benefaction of the University College Hospital London. In partnership with specialists, the Foundation also carried out campaigns on the following non-communicable diseases: Parkinson’s disease (2010), Prostate Cancer (2016), Kidney Disease and Diabetes (2018). 