In October 2002, Covenant University (CU) in Ota, Ogun State, admitted its pioneer students. During its 10th anniversary, the institution conceived the ‘Vision 10:2022, a 10-year vision, which will catapult it to be among the 10 best universities by 2022. Three years to the target year, the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Aaron Atayero, is upbeat that the vision is on course. In this interview with ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA, he says the institution’s meteoric rise in nearly 20 years of its existence is a testimony in that direction. FOUR mandate to be one of the 10 outstanding universities in the world is barely three years away. To what extent are you close to this mandate? Vision 10:2022 is a prophetic mandate with the thrust of having Covenant University listed among the top 10 universities in the world. Sequel to this mandate, the university subscribed to the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Ranking, which is the most prestigious ranking body of universities globally. At present, CU has made her debut into the World University Ranking, entering the ranking at the 601-800 bracket, which adjudges us as the best university in Nigeria and West Africa. By this development, Covenant is now among the top three per cent (97th percentile) of over 26,000 universities in the world. Again, we entered the the Emerging Economies University Ranking in 2019, ranked 151 out of the 442 universities in the rankings. Still, in this year’s subject rankings, Covenant ranked 501-600 in Engineering and Technology in addition to being ranked 500+ in Business and Economics. Besides, in  the ranking of African Universities, Covenant is ranked among the top 10 on the continent at -6. Moreover, the university was ranked 301+ in the maiden edition of the University Impact Rankings. By this ranking, Covenant is now in the elite group of Top 1.2percent of universities globally. In all, Covenant is ranked in five of the rankings. How many inaugural lectures has CU churned out since it began its academic sojourn? How many have been delivered this year and how many are we expecting before the year runs out? Covenant made its entry into the higher education sphere in October 2002. The first inaugural lecture of the university took place in March 2011. So far, we have had 20 inaugural lectures. The 20th, which was the third this year, took place in April. 1n 2019, we have had three inaugural lectures. Four others have been scheduled to hold before the end of the year. In terms of investment, does CU have a yearly budget, considering that resources are immediately deployed into any initiative that aligns with the university’s vision? Covenant is a vision-birthed university with a divine mandate to raise a new generation of leaders. In other words, there is a prophetic dimension to the operations of Covenant University being directed by the Chancellor, Dr. David Oyedepo, as instructed by God, who is the founder and funder of the university. This is why resources for any initiative of the university are immediately available, as these initiatives are directed by God. In the words of the Chancellor, “we don’t do anything until it is commanded.” Vision 10:2022 is a prophetic mandate from God to the chancellor. That is why suddenly Covenant is among the top 1.2percent elite universities in the world within a space 16 years of its founding. Nevertheless, like any responsible and well-managed organisation, the university has yearly budgets for its operations. In 2017, CU signed up with Elsevier to track her achievements in terms of research, publications, and citations. To what level has this initiative achieved the said monitoring? Vision 10:2022 is a 10-year mandate and we need to monitor our progress in terms of research, publications and citations which constitute part of the ranking parameters of the World Universities Ranking. By so doing, we would be able to reinvent our strategies towards achieving the vision. Since the vision was unveiled on October 21, 2012 at CU’s 10th anniversary, the research output of Covenant in international peer reviewed outlets has experienced a whooping 906.36percent increase. Let us talk about enrolment in universities. It is a fact that many private universities nationwide are still shopping for students for admission. What is the scenario like in CU? Covenant has certain uniqueness that endears the university to prospective candidates. Our programmes are highly subscribed  and competitive, so much so that we are not able to accommodate all applicants. Covenant is blessed with a dynamic Chancellor and Chairman of the Board of Regents in the person of Dr. David Oyedepo who provides focused strategic leadership to the university together with members of the Board. We also have a crop of committed faculty and staff who have imbibed the seven core values of the university. Besides, our campus is serene, safe, secure, pleasant, and empowering  Information and Communication Technology(ICT)-driven, teaching and learning environment. We have robust international linkages with top-ranked global institutions. Our pedagogy is focused on graduating job creators rather than employment seekers. In terms of scholarship, to what extent are your students involved in innovative research? Innovative research is one of our focus as a university. In line with this drive, we have established several research clusters to undertake collaborative research in different fields. Our students are actively engaged in research activities of these clusters. Several of our final year projects in the fields of Engineering and Computer Science for example, through our Hebron startup lab, are being developed into high value startups. Moreover, our students’ involvement in innovative research have seen   high value startups, such as PiggyVest, ThriveAgric, KoraPay, PayStack, Wilson Lemonade and more than 100 others evolved from Covenant within these few years. What is the university doing to further encourage staff/student exchange? We observe that except researchers, we do not often see international students in CU. Is our perception wrong? Covenant University has increased its international institutional academic collaborations by more than 500percent in the last two years. The scope of these partnerships include, but limited to the exchange of academic employees for teaching, student exchange, joint research and credit recognition. A few instances on recent student and staff mobility may suffice as evidence of these dramatic increases and collaborations. Four Covenant University students of Engineering are interning with Centrale Nantes, one of France top four engineering universities. Several postgraduate students are executing a portion of their research at another partner institution- University of Johannesburg, South Africa. Another partner, Sciences Po, an Ivy League university in International Relations, will be hosting six of Covenant University’s students studying International Relations for three months, next semester, while few of their students will join us at Covenant. Covenant is also expecting several students from Centrale Nantes, Mauritius campus in the next session.  Covenant University has equally in the last one year hosted almost 12 research interns from Azerbaijan, Mexico, Austria, Denmark, and Slovenia. Some of them include Clemens Rainer, Lucy Emireth Uranga Leyva, Natali Gareca, Ieva Miceikaite and Javad Rustamov. Another set of 10 more of these research interns have applied to utilise three academic months at Covenant in the next academic session. Still on staff  mobility this semester, 28 international scholars from reputable institutions like Cambridge University, UK; Hanze University of Applied Sciences, Netherlands; LUISS, Italy; University of Pittsburgh Bradford, USA; Howard University, USA,  University of Johannesburg; and the University of Cape Town both in South Africa;  University of Ghana, Ghana; Seoul National University, South Korea; Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing (JAAS) China; and more have joined Covenant University as international visiting scholars. Eleven of these international visiting scholars were on campus this semester to teach both undergraduate and postgraduate students. The remaining 17 will be on campus next semester to teach and engage in possible research collaborations with members of faculty in receiving departments. It may be no gainsaying that most of our senior faculty members also collaborate with international partners as either team leaders or co-researchers on diverse globally recognised and funded research projects. Moreover, you may be wrong about not seeing international students on our campus. International students are in multiples of 10 on our campus. These students are from different countries, including Kenya, Ghana, Zambia, Botswana, South Africa, UK, United States, UAE, and Australia. Nonetheless, we anticipate over 250+ international students on campus in the next session. These are the numbers of foreigners who have applied to join Covenant University as both PG and undergraduate students. Two European scholarship-awarding organisations (Queen Elizabeth Commonwealth Scholarship and DAAD) have also reached out to Covenant University to serve as a host to Non-Nigerian students who emerge as beneficiaries of their scholarships. Finally, Covenant University has flagged her International Excellence Scholarship award. The scholarship is open for academically excellent Non-Nigerians who want to pursue a Post Graduate program at Covenant. So far, more than 50 persons from different parts of the world have applied to be admitted. As successful as CU is in Nigeria and beyond, we guess it is about time the university started programme in Law and Medicine. What are still delaying these programmes? As I earlier mentioned, Covenant is vision-driven, we do not undertake an initiative except it is divinely directed. Your key mandate is to restore the dignity of the Blackman. To what degree has the university been fulfilling this mandate within the black continent? Our mandate to restore the dignity of the Blackman is predicated on our vision of raising a new generation of leaders imbued with Godly character, noting that at the root of the challenges the continent is faced with is leadership. In line with our vision, we have established a curriculum and quality assurance processes that ensure that we turn out total graduates who are mentally resourceful, intellectually reinforced, enterprisingly self-dependent, futuristically visionary, and responsibility sensitive to the changes demanded for the leadership role or dominion nature they are made for. Moreover, feedbacks from our alumni base for those in employment and in self-employment within and outside Nigeria, shows that they are demonstrating responsible leadership in their respective engagements and in the process restoring the dignity of the Blackman.