In keeping with its tradition of excellence, Corona Secondary School, Agbara in Ogun State, penultimate Saturday, rolled out the drums to celebrate 66 exceptionally brilliant students during its 2019 graduation and valedictory service held at the sprawling school compound in Agbara Ogun State. With “Excellence as a Culture” as the theme of the event, the school celebrated its talented, hardworking and exceptionally brilliant students was. Among the dignitaries present were Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, Chief Executive Officer, Corona Schools’ Trust Council, Mrs. Adeyoyin Adesina, Chairman, Parent/Teacher Association, Mr. Sola Falodun, Guest Speaker, Mr. Peter Bankole, Chairman, Corona Secondary School Board, Mr. Niyi Yusuf, Principal, Corona Secondary School, Agbara, Mrs. Chinedum Oluwadamilola, parents and well-wishers, among others. In her welcome address, Mrs. Oluwadamilola reeled off some of the accomplishments of the students as she praised them. Her words: “You have been talented, hardworking and well-behaved class. I am proud to have been your Principal.” Continuing, she said: “This Class has demonstrated a propensity to succeed on the biggest stages. Be it in the classroom, at competitions or in the community, they have displayed their talents, passions, skills, accomplishments and achievements. They produced outstanding results in the Cambridge International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE), with two of them; Anna Adobamen and Shalom Emeka, obtaining A-Stars in all the subjects they had registered for. “Also worth savouring is their imposing Standardised Aptitude Test (SAT) results.  Worthy of note again is the fact that two of the students in the Class of 2019 got 2nd best SAT result in the world and best in the country, scoring 1,550 out of 1,600. “Similarly, we have some of them scoring above 300 in the recently-released Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) result. The Class of 2019 had a strong representation in a group of students that won the Global Business Plan Award which had over 9,000 schools across the globe in contest. The Class of 2019 is, indeed, trail blazers! They have exhibited a commitment to the values and culture upon which everything in Corona school is predicated. “They have led by example and worked incredibly hard to foster, nurture, support, display, and instill the tenets of a positive, safe, and proud school culture and climate. We will be forever grateful for the indelible mark you have left on our learning community, on our hearts, and on me, personally. “The theme of this year’s Graduation ceremony: ‘Excelencia Como Cultura (Excellence as a Culture)’ lies at the very heart of Corona Secondary School essence.  Excellence is one of the indispensable core values that provide strong anchorage to the school’s avowed mission and vision. “For us, excellence is a culture, a way of life in CSS. We all lead this very life happily, cashing into emergent trends..” Corroborating Mrs. Oluwadamilola’s assertion, the guest speaker and Chairman Board of Trustees (BoT) Supreme Education Foundation, Mr. Peter Bankole, admonished the graduates to uphold the spirit of excellence in all they do, as they embrace the world. He said: “For me, the preparation that you have gone through here is a foundation of how life is should start. I have no doubt that even the theme that has been chosen for this graduation is very apt, ‘Excellence as a Culture’. “Excellence is not something that happens. It is something you plan for, and you do in a very meticulous way. And when you do it consistently, it then becomes a culture. And once excellence becomes a culture, it is very difficult for you to see mediocrity and associate with it. Everything you do, even in your personal life, would be different. But it is a commitment much more than something else. And I can only admonish you to keep the flag of excellence flying as you depart from here into the rest of your bright future.” High point of the event was the presentation of various categories of awards and endowments to some outstanding students of the 2019 graduates by the school and other professional bodies, parents and individuals. While the Head Boy and Head Girl of the set, Chidindu Okpaleke and Chizoma Duru, both earned the service award. Special awards and endowments in various subjects were presented to Chibuike Udenta, Shalom Emeka, Nneka Okolo, Chizoma Duru, Raqeem Kukoyi, Memunat Abiru, Anna Adobamen, Mercy Ipinmoye, Abimbola Akala, Chizoma Duru, Nzubechukwu Okoye, Daniel Ihekweme and Oluwaseyitafe Ajayi respectively; with Chizoma Duru bagging most of the special awards categories, winning four out of eight. Mercy Ipinmoye emerged as most endowed with seven endowment funds won. The trio of Shalom Emeka, Anna Adobamen and Memunat Abiru stole the show with their overall academic perform assessment to emerge as the CSS’s top three best graduates, with Shalom scoring 91.39 per cent to be crowned the Valedictorian, Anna 89.67 per cent to become the Salutatorian, and Memunat 88.78 per cent to become the third best overall graduate. Speaking with reporters, the Valedictorian said her journey in the school which began six years ago was one that confronted her with several challenges but with the help from the school structure, she triumphed at the end of the day. She said: “It started six years ago. I was still getting used to the idea of being in a boarding school and secondary school, even as I used to think that life was all about fun and games. But it took a lot of dedication and hard work as instilled by the school and my parents to keep my eyes on the price and keep looking forward. “I also thank God for being there for me even when I didn’t believe in myself. I remembered one of my setbacks in one of the terms I didn’t emerge first in my class as I used to. It was really a setback for me emotionally, but God helped me through it and I bounced back better than I have ever been. “In a lot of ways, CSS has impacted my life. First I knew I never used to be this brilliant in my primary school, but the moment I entered CSS, that excellent spirit of Corona wrapped me up, and here we are today. The school has been such a lovely community with very supportive non-teaching members of staff and teaching members of staff all to ensure our success. “For me, it is the best school in Africa if not the world.” Shalom plans to study Product Design Engineering in the United Kingdom.” Adobamen on her part said the journey was one that went by a flash. It wasn’t easy, it was stressful but fun. There were ups and downs for me, especially in my years 9 and 12. But with the help of the school and my parents, I was able to remain focused. “In year 12, I had over four external examinations to sit for and at a point I felt really overwhelmed, but thanks to God, the teachers, and parents, I was able to pull through. Aside academics, Corona has made me to be self-confident, learn how to manage time, and always pursue excellence in all I do. From here, I would be moving over to the United State of America to study Electrical Engineering. For Memunat Abiru it is quite unbelievable. She said: “I can still remember my first day in year seven, coming into the school as a new student. “In all, Corona has helped me to learn how to deal with pressure and stress.