The old students of St. Charles Grammar School, Osogbo, have disclosed plans to meet the Osun State governor, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, on how to improve standard of education in secondary schools. They further disclosed that they are planning to appeal to the state government to return their school to the Catholic Church, the founder and original owner. Addressing a press conference to mark the opening ceremony of the 59th St. Charles Founder’s Day Anniversary in Osogbo, President of the institution’s alumni association, Charlean Rotimi Aluko, said the call for return of the school and others to their original owners has become urgent and imperative because of students’ poor academic performance over the years. Aluko, who maintained that students are better managed by the owners than government, said the alumni of the school are planning to meet the state governor, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, to advocate returns of schools to owners as part of their strategy to restore lost glory of education system. According to him, return of schools to their original owners would stem the tide of falling education standard. He said: “When schools were in the hands of original owners, they were properly managed under strict regulations of the missionaries. So, the takeover of schools by government and the eventual change of administration is the bane of the education system. “Therefore, we are appealing and making an advocacy for the reversal to the old order. Call for the return of schools to owners has dominated our agenda as old students association and this would remain our standing advocacy point until the government listen to us.” Aluko, who said handing the schools back to the owners would allow government focus on social investment and other sectors of the economy begging for attention, continued: “Government alone cannot take care of our education. The challenge of falling education standard is not only peculiar to Osun State alone but to Nigeria as a whole. “As a matter of fact there are many sectors of the economy apart from education that require serious attention. In other climes what government does is to support the owners of schools in the area of policy, regulations and control. They leave the business of doing the running the schools to the people. “What we need today is the involvement of stakeholders, who are motivated and passionate about education. We would fail to pass our message to the government whenever we have the opportunity to meet with the governor. “We are also planning to meet other stakeholders so as to help improve the quality of education in the school. This issue has become important amd our concern becuase the standard for which the school was known had substancially dwindled. He disclosed that past regular meetings of the old boys’ association with principals, teachers and parents are already yielding fruitful results. On their contributions towards the development of the school, Aluko said the association has donated modern examination hall, renovated some classrooms, dug bore holes for water needs of the studsnts and teachers among others notable achievements, noting that old students are key to quality education in public schools. He also disclosed that the old students’ association had engaged in beneficial activities, including providing scholarships to students to uplift the school, saying their aim was to improve academic performance and enhance the school’s infrastructure. Advising Nigerians to always look back and assist their former schools, he said their intervension is critical and key to restoring lost glory of education in Nigeria. He, therefore, called on well meaning Nigerians to contribute to making available quality education in public schools.  