In line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s resolve to deploy science and technology in growing the economy, the Institute of Agricultural Research, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria has developed a variety of Cowpea resistant to Pod Borer (PBR), insects. Researchers from the Institute said the new variety has potentials of saving Nigeria N16bn annually. Disclosing the development during  a press briefing by the Lead Scientist for Pod Borer Resistance (PBR) Cowpea, Professor Mohammed Ishiyaku  at the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, assured that the new variety of cowpea developed through genetic engineering is safe for public consumption just like other types planted conventionally local farmers. “We conducted series of scientific experiments under the supervision of National Biosafety Management Agency, (NMBA) and submitted the results to required agencies. “The NMBA after studying the results submitted them concluded that this new variety is safe as other conventional ones. They however granted the permission for its environmental release and that it should be grown in our farms everywhere in this country. ” Highlighting other economic benefits of the new varieties, professor Ishiyaku said “the new cowpea ariety has potentials of giving farmers in the country 20 per cent more yield. “It Economic benefits to Nigeria from one million hectares of crop, will translate to over N16.2bn Naira annually,” he added. He explained that such monies could be saved from spraying insecticide to prevent Pod Borer from the crops. “It was developed to protect itself from Pod Borer. Farmers can grow crop without the normal insecticide sprayed ranging between five to eight times.” He stressed. He said that besides been expensive at between N1, 200 and N1, 500 per litre the insecticides are toxic and dangerous to humans and environment. The researcher went on saying that benefit of the new specie to farmers is that instead of eight sprays, new variety can be produced by farmers with two sprays, saving cost of between four to six sprays. He emphasized that the economic benefits could go even go beyond N16bn, as absence of insects can give 1\5 more yields to farmers, with financial value pegged at about N48bn. “The result was corroborated by farmers. Even though NBMA granted control, FG put in another control that new crops have to go through test of National Variety Regulatory Committee. “We shall provide clear advantages associated with this variety and by December, after release completed, seeds multiplied and by 2020 it would be disseminated commercially through seeds producing companies,” he said