A non-governmental organisation, the Young Bookworms, has inspired hope in the pupils of National Primary School, Abule-Ijesha in Yaba, Lagos, by screening a movie, entitled “Akeelah and the Bee”. The movie, which was screened at the school premises and witnessed by no less than 120 pupils in attendance, was greeted with a lot of excitement. The movie draws the attention of kids to the need to believe in themselves no matter the circumstances around them. It also tells the story of how an 11-year-old child who grew in the midst of a failed environment decided to rise up to the challenge by studying hard to become a national champion. Beyond that, it explained the need for young pupils to develop the right attitude to learning by ensuring that they heed  mentorship, advice and learning tips from their teachers and colleagues. Capturing the essence of the movie, the Project Manager, Young Bookworms, Ms Lola James, explained that the idea behind the concept was to encourage kids who grew up in less-advantaged background to remain unlimited in the pursuit of their dreams and aspire to greatness. Ms James stated that the idea of showing inspirational movies to less-advantaged pupils of primary school age is in line with our NGO’s strategic goal of encouraging the culture of learning through leisure activities. According to her, the NGO focuses more on primary school-aged children because they are relatively amenable to such educational interventions, unlike their counterparts in high school. “We believe in catching them young’, she said. The School Community Cinema is only one of the initiatives through which we fulfill our NGO’s objectives. We also run six other projects all year round, including ‘Boko Halal’ through which we churn out creative communication encouraging education as a way of combating all forms of extremism in the country. We also have run the ‘Knowledge-ON’ initiative where like a light switch, we encourage less-advantaged children in mushroom and public primary schools to switch on their value of the pursuit of learning by donating interesting picture-led story books and non-curricular books  to them. So far, we have donated over 900 story books to mushroom and public primary schools in Tarkwabay, Makoko, Ikorodu, Akoka, Ijero and Oke-Aro, on the borders of Lagos. “What we do for school communities is that we look for stories of children or individuals that are in similar situations to theirs.  What we showed today is titled “Akeelah and the Bee”. The story of Akeelah is very similar to the present situation of most of these kids. Akeelah is an 11-year-old who grew up in a ghetto neighbourhood in the United States. Thanks to a perceptive class teacher and school head who noticed Akeelah was good at spelling. She ended up being a national champion. “For us, the School Community Cinema does not end with just showing the movie. These pupils at National Primary School are required to write short essays about the movie, which we will score and award prizes to the pupils with the winning essays. What we are trying to inspire in the kids is that irrespective of where you are coming from, irrespective of what your immediate environment offers you, just like an Akeelah, you can succeed.,” she said. Speaking on the movie and the lessons therein, the head teacher of the school, Mr.Folusho Oyeleye said NGO’s gesture has reinforced in the pupils the significance of hard work in achieving success in life. According to him, the movie has provided the needed motivation for the pupils to believe in their potentials to succeed in life regardless of the challenges around them.