Sen. Oluremi Tinubu, representing Lagos Central at the Senate, on Saturday described Mr Gbolahan Yishawu, member representing Eti-Osa Constituency II at the Lagos State House of Assembly, as a worthy representative. Tinubu gave this commendation at the 9th Assembly Inauguration Reception organised by Yishawu for his constituents. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event, held at Giwa Military Barracks, was organised by Yishawu to thank the constituents for re-electing him during the 2019 general elections. Tinubu, in her remark at the event, said: “You will all agree with me that he (Yishawu) indeed deserves to be celebrated. The victory has been so sweet. “Our victory has been sweet and wonderful. You are the one that elected us and we are so happy that we are all here to celebrate. “Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu has really represented you all well. I represent Lagos Central, he is the one who represents me. “I tell you that when residents of Ikoyi-Obalende have any issue and I call him, he is always on top of it. “He has been a worthy representation of what good representation should be. He has represented us effectively.” She commended Yishawu for his massive empowerment projects in the past and the bonanza packages he doled out to constituents at the event. The senator, who alongside others defied the afternoon rainfall to attend the event, said she was proud of the lawmaker. Also, speaking, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, the Speaker of the Lagos Assembly, corroborated Tinubu’s observation. He said that Yishawu had demonstrated so much love and passion for his constituents, and had represented them well on the floor of the House. Obasa said that the ruling party had several reasons for celebration, hence the victory party organised by Yishawu. “We have reasons to celebrate our contributions, dedication and commitment to our party and everything we put into that election which didn’t go in vain. “We want to thank each one of you, the party loyalists and supporters for everything you put into that election. In recognition of your efforts, Hon. Yishawu has put this together. “He has displayed that he has you people in mind. I want to tell you that he has done tremendously well in the Lagos Assembly. “He has been representing you adequately well. You have a very good representative and I want to commend you for returning him. Obasa, who noted that the House was to represent people’s interest, said that the parliament would not ignore the interests of the constituents. The speaker said that the House would collaborate with the executive arm to make sure that the government delivers on its promises. He, however, said that the House would not be a rubber stamp, but would work with the executive to ensure people’s aspirations were adequately met. In his speech, Mr Fuad Atanda-Lawal, the Chairman, Ikoyi-Obalende LCDA, described Yishawu as a good ambassador of the party and the constituency, having represented the people well. NAN reports that the lawmaker distributed cooking gas cylinders, school bags, bed sheets, bags of rice, power generator plants and electronic gadgets, like iron, deep freezers, blenders among others to residents. The event was attended by various APC party leaders, members, market men and women, religious and community leaders, among others. (NAN)