One course I loved so much while in the university was comparative economic development. To date, I’m still intrigued whenever I undertake research into why some nations develop and others have perpetually remained basket cases. Why, for instance, would nations that share common borders be poles apart in development like the United States and Mexico? Why do African countries remain at the bottom rung of the development chart? I have read countless books on development and followed most of the theories of underdevelopment propounded in earlier years, but the thorny issue of why Nigeria, and most African countries, have remained underdeveloped despite the enormous natural resources in these countries has remained a “mystery.” For a while now, I have shifted my focus from most of the theories propounded to look at the simple – yet not so simple – matter of the mind. Should we hold our mindset responsible for the way we are or our culture? As I change focus toward our mindset – which I feel is very critical if we are to make positive headway – I realise that people tend to think of ability and intelligence in one of two ways.  Those with a fixed mindset generally believe that ability and intelligence are relatively fixed at birth and little can be done to change them. Those with a growth mindset however believe that the brain is malleable throughout one’s lifetime, thus ability, intelligence, and work capacity can significantly grow. There is this all-pervading mindset that we cannot get an     ything done until we get “outside” help. The ‘Asian Tiger’ economies in the 1990s looked inwards changed their mindset by challenging the status quo and were able to place their economies on the pedestal of growth. I am gradually beginning to assume that our major problem is a fixed mindset. A fixed mindset person sees challenges as a threat to their identity while a growth mindset person sees their intelligence and ability as separate from their identity as a result; they see difficulties as learning opportunities. This means in essence that a fixed mindset shy away from anything that requires them to grow and change, which is untenable in today’s complex environment. If I had a single psychological metric to assess the effectiveness of leaders, it would be mindset. While a fixed mindset is associated with the inability to change and adapt over time, a growth mindset can be an indicator of one’s ability to learn and evolve. Some of the challenges we are grappling with today were not there fifteen years earlier. We only read about terrorism in books or by watching cable television, but today, we have been battling it for close to ten years now. The spate of industrial kidnappings and banditry was also alien to us ten years ago, but today they remain an ever present danger. The impact of these negative trends is that development has taken the back bench. Enormous resources needed to positively impact the economy and the welfare of citizens are being channeled to deal with the security challenges staring at us daily. Just like the president mentioned some weeks back, kidnapping and banditry has become an industry for some people. In her seminal book, “Mindset,” Carol Dweck shows how mindset impacts both how we do things as well as our potential. Dweck differentiates between people who have fixed versus growth mindsets; a distinction, she maintains, that impacts how we navigate life and especially how we deal with achievement and failure. As Dweck explains, “Individuals who believe their talents can be developed (through hard work, good strategies, and input from others) have a growth mindset. They tend to achieve more than those with a more fixed mindset (those who believe their talents are innate gifts). This is because they worry less about looking smart and they put more energy into learning.” Mindsets are also impacted by one’s upbringing. While children’s mindsets are more malleable, anyone can change. As Dweck says, “Your mind is like a muscle. The more you use it, the more it grows.” But how can one exercise their mind? First, we need a clear sense of our orientation to both rigidity and growth. Next, we need to understand what triggers us towards growth – when we are comfortable taking risks, trying new things, and accepting new challenges. Conversely, we need to look honestly at what triggers us to revert to a fixed mindset. There are a lot of variables that impact the mindset we ultimately embrace. What Dweck makes clear is that people who embrace a growth mindset and do so more often are also more likely to find ways to break out of tired old habits and more likely to tap into flow. Why? Because when you’re in a growth mindset, you’re always looking for solutions. You’re open to change. When you adopt a growth mindset, you’re already open to the idea that there may be more than one way to tackle a problem. Even though they did not mention mindset specifically, the 2012 book, “Why Nations Fail,” co-authored by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) economist Daron Acemoglu and the Harvard University political scientist James A. Robinson, argues that the key differentiator between countries is “institutions.” Nations thrive when they develop “inclusive” political and economic institutions, and they fail when those institutions become “extractive” and concentrate power and opportunity in the hands of only a few. Four years ago, I met Professor Robinson in Lagos where he delivered the 70th commemorative lecture of Wema Bank on “Why Nations Succeed.” In the lecture, Robinson highlighted salient points on why Nigeria is where she is today. From his perspective, he said Nigeria is poor because it has suffered from a long history of “extractive economic and political institutions.” This, according to him, are part of deeply rooted historical processes which reveal the slow development of centralised political entities compared to Eurasia. He raised two salient and age old questions: Why is it that some parts of the world are much richer and more successful economically than other parts of the world? What can poor countries do to make themselves richer? To answer these simple, yet difficult questions, he proposed a theory based on differences in economic and political institutions. “Institutions” are defined as the rules (both formal – written laws and the constitution – and informal – like social norms) that structure economic, political and social life and generate different patterns of incentives, rewards, benefits and costs. Nigeria is partly where she is today because of the “negative institutional legacies of colonialism.” Colonialism, he stated, also created an arbitrary state system which has led to political conflicts, instability and dictatorship. Colonial authorities also created “gate-keeper states which were only interested in ruling rather than in developing the countries and these have left a path dependent legacy.” The political authoritarianism of the colonial state is therefore a direct source of the authoritarianism that has plagued Nigeria and Africa. Colonialism thus created and shaped identities and cleavages in dysfunctional ways that still plague us to date. The “extractive political institutions” that was in place for a better part of our post-independence period took the form of military dictatorship which led to a weak state unable to control violence as is evident with the Boko Haram insurgency and the spate of kidnappings and armed banditry. This weak state is at its best creating monopolies for the politically connected. But as expected, the result has been economic decline. So what does he proffer to change the tide? The broader evidence is the need to move towards “inclusive” institutions. “Our framework emphasizes that this is not a technocratic economic problem, this is a political problem. Focus first on developing inclusive political institutions and the economics will sort itself out. All countries which now have inclusive institutions historically had extractive institutions. How did they change them? We emphasize the emergence of a broad coalition which pushes for and underpins inclusive institutions.” This, to me, can only happen when a growth mindset is activated.