Alvin Chinedu Okpogba is a final year student of Music at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University in Awka, the Anambra State capital. In this interview with EMMA ELEKWA, the Imo State-born singer reveals what informed his decision to abandon Medicine and Surgery for Music. Can you share your early life with us? I’m a native of Ideato South Local Government Area of Imo State, but I grew up in Anambra State, precisely Otolo Nnewi. I attended two primary schools, St. Joseph Nursery/Primary School, Dala-Imo Otolo Nnewi and The Good Shepherd Nursery/Primary School, Nnewi, respectively. I later proceeded to a seminary school, which is St. Paul’s Seminary, Ukpor, Anambra State. I withdrew from the school for a Pre-Science programme in Mbaukwu, Awka South Local Government Area of the state where I was admitted to study Medicine. After my first year, I switched over to the Department Music of the school. Why did you leave the seminary? Every seminarian makes music. In fact, that’s one thing I learnt there. I felt there’s more to what I’m doing there. I actually learnt music in the seminary, but I realised there’s more to my talent. I want to explore more of music and I should devote more concentration to it. The seminary helped to fine-tune the talent. Music has actually been the driving force in all my changes. Initially, I didn’t know how to tell my parents about my plans to leave the seminary because I felt they would oppose it with the argument that it was the seminary that brought me this far. But I eventually did. At what point did this passion for music come up? I must say I was a very good dancer. I had to travel to Lagos, Abuja and Port-Harcourt to perform. It was really glaring to all that I was talented both in singing and dancing. But the dancing aspect had to give way for singing and writing when I had a surgery in my JS3. I think music is hereditary in my family. Presently, all my siblings are into music. Both parents have nice voices and can sing. As kids with Catholic background, my parents would take us to early morning Mass. We were more like a morning mass choir. I remember those days, I would be singing on top of my voice in the church. It was fun. I see myself living out that part of my father, which he didn’t really pay much attention to. Securing admission to read Medicine couldn’t have been a child’s play. Yes! When I left the seminary, it was like a different journey altogether. I saw academic environment as an entirely different world. I was determined to succeed, so I had to face my studies squarely, giving it every seriousness it deserved. I had two options – either to get admission directly or pass the Pre-science programme. I fear failure so much because I know its impact in my life anytime it occurred to me. Having left seminary, I realised all eyes were on me. But one could have expected you to continue with the same spirit? Honestly, I had to focus on what I wanted. Yes, initially, I had wanted to bear the title, ‘Doc’, for the fun of it, but later I felt I could still go on with the music and later follow it up with a Ph.D. What informed your decision to drop Medicine? When I enrolled into the Pre-science programme, music became more of serious distraction to me, even though I enjoyed it. Lecture would be going on, but music would be singing on my head. Some of my best songs were written during lecture hours. That was not really ideal, but that was making much sense to me. At a point, I became scared that if I continued that way, I might not graduate, especially considering the nature of the course. Besides, I felt that if I continued and eventually graduate in Medicine, I’ll still come back to study music. I felt sacrificing my passion for between five to years was not worth it. So, I decided to follow my heart fully. What I wanted to do was music, though I came from a lineage of teachers. My Mum is a retired principal while my Dad is a lecturer. So, the choice of Medicine could have made more sense to them. It was just the fear of their reactions that made me delay in informing them of my decision as at the point I did. I believed that when the time came and I opened up, they had to understand me. Definitely, your parents couldn’t have accepted the switch over just like that? It was actually my Dad that felt somehow. Then, he was my class teacher and you know what that meant. He was teaching Chemistry, and I had to face him everyday. I had to summon the courage one day and walked to his office to tell him my mind. That was after the day’s lecture. He had to tell some of his friends to convince me. But then I had already made up my mind. Is it that your parents didn’t see the inate talent in you or they just wanted you to be a medical doctor? Naturally, a father would want his son to toe his line; but I don’t see my dad wanting to do that. At a point, I felt I was just trying to please someone. But I later felt I should live my life. There’s no point continuing in a course only to come make a u-turn later. Did your friends and classmates mock your decision? Yeah. I could remember while I was studying Medicine, my classmates would advise me to follow my passion because to them, being with them was a mere waste of time since my heart was elsewhere. But since music was something I had neither dreamt of nor wanted to study as a course, I didn’t give it a second thought. Even at the seminary, I had wanted to be a priest, not a musician. I was even underrating the profession.  But when the conviction became strong, I saw myself embracing it as the best thing that could happen to me and I’ve never regretted that decision. The fact remains that the power of passion is so real and fascinating that it’s always difficult to resist. If you do, you may likely lose it eventually. Since you left Medicine for Music, how has the experience been? Since I followed my passion, I’ve known inner peace. I’m someone who wants to be happy before paying attention to whether the whole world is happy with me. It’s not really being selfish, but one needs to be contented with what one has, and what one can offer to the society. I could remember someone entering my room while I was in the Pre-science school, and saw me composing songs. He said something very provoking, ‘What nonsense are you doing? Others are here studying and you are busy writing songs?’ I simply looked at him, smiled and continued with what I was doing. The truth is that life without music and sound is boring. Music is power; it can trigger a revolution that can bring an end to a bad government. It’s a force that can permeate and break barriers. As someone from the academic world, my music is expected to be distinct, including my dress code. My music plus my dress code are a complete package on its own. I have to bring in what I studied in school. I like corporate music and I intend to bring in originality to my music because I’m a champion of originality. Maybe that’s why I don’t have too many works. Where do you expect to be in five years’ time? Every good hardwork will always pay. It only takes time to materialise. I believe that in five years’ time, I will have been more of a celebrity. How many songs do you have to your credit and do you have any sponsor? I have about 15 songs. I’ve done works on Christmas and New-Year periods. I have done works on mother and father’s Day. Right now, I’m working on that of children. You discover that these are songs for special days, but there are hardly songs for them. Talking about sponsorship, it’s actually a challenge because it’s always difficult to convince people to buy into your project for sponsorship. I’m looking at exploring African opera with drama, including Igbo songs that are going into extinction.