The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State said it had uncovered plots by the  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to rubbish the legacies of former Governor Abiola Ajimobi. The plan which is comprehensive, according to the prty, includes using the social media, some radio stations whose officials  are partial to PDP and a few newspaper correspondents in the state. The Publicity Secretary of the APC Dr Olatunde Azeez, said the arrowhead of the plot is a top PDP stalwart whose wife holds a sensitive position in the new administration. The PDP chieftain decided to oversee the plan in order to prove his loyalty   to the  party and Governor Seyi Makinde considering the furore that has trailed his wife’s appointment. “ We will not name names now but a meeting was held in the Ikolaba, Ibadan home  of the governor where the plans were hatched”, Olatunde said. The Publicity Secretary said that the mode of executing the plans include planting false information about the Ajimobi administration and those who served in the administration. “ Since the administration of Governor Makinde came in,  it has been trailed by a lot of criticisms based on its pronouncement on the local government dissolution,  the cancellation of secondary schools levies of N3000. They now seek to divert attention from all these with their plan. We now heard that a substantial amount of money was earmarked for this hatchet job. We gathered that when the Governor was presented with the bill, he balked at the idea of spending so much  money until he was prevailed upon by those present at the meeting”. Azeez also revealed that part of the  plans is getting  fictitious people to write to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission(EFCC) to raise false allegations against the Ajimobi administration. We have no fear concerning these as the records are there with due process followed in all the activities of the administration”. The APC enjoined the ruling party to face the issue of governance instead of chasing shadows. “Ajimobi has finished his tenure and left indelible Mark’s of performance in the state which everyone acknowledged. The PDP should face governance instead of focusing on shadows.”