Two lawmakers have been laying claim to the speakership position in the Bauchi State House of Assembly, following the parallel inauguration of the house, which produce the two All Progressives Congress (APC) contenders. The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had thrown its weight behind one of the contenders in a contest seen as proxy battle between the APC- dominated assembly and the Governor Bala Mohammed-led executive. A settlement is however in the offing. David Adenuga reports. Former Governor Muhammad Abubakar has waded into the House of Assembly crisis at a meeting in Kano. At the meeting, the contenders for the Speaker resolved to support former Speaker Kawuwa Damina. Two All Progressive Congress (APC) lawmakers were laying claims to the Speaker last week. The contenders are; Abubakar Suleiman representing Ningi Constituency,  the former Speaker Shehu Damina representing Darazzo Constituency, and former  majority leader, Tijjani Aliyu representing Azare/Mangala Constituency. The PDP has thrown its weight behind Abubakar. Apparently, the drama that played out at the inauguration where two Speakers emerged underscored the battle between the PDP, led by Governor Bala Mohammed and the APC, led by former Governor Mohammed Abubakar. The former  governor had held a secret meeting  with some APC lawmakers where an agreement was reached and the three contenders were asked to step down for the former Speaker, Kawuwa Damina. The meeting, however, failed to work out because one of those asked  to step down refused. He outsmarted the ex-governor  has he got the support of the PDP. He later got votes from  11 of 31 lawmakers at the inauguration. The 11 lawmakers comprises  of  eight members of the PDP, two APC lawmakers and the only member of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, NNPP. A quorum of 11 of 31 lawmakers was formed when Suleiman Abubakar became Speaker. The APC has 22 members, PDP has eight, NNPP has a member. Other 18 aggrieved APC lawmakers who were outwitted held a parallel election to elect the former Speaker Damina, after they were reportedly prevented from gaining access to the chambers by security personnel. But, an  APC chieftain, who spoke in confidence, said the former Damina is not popular among his colleagues. “He only enjoys the support of the former governor“ he said. He said his APC counterpart  Suleiman Abubakar, elected by 11 lawmakers, appears to be the favourite to occupy the seat. The source said that Suleiman Abubakar may have betrayed the former governor. The source said the former governor allegedly wooed the APC lawmakers, but things did not work out as planned. The source described the situation as a national embarrassment, saying the governor ought to not have let matters generated. He said the  governor ought to have also wooed the majority of APC lawmakers to his side before the inauguration like his predecessor did in Kano. The APC secretary, Bako Hussaini, alleged that the government employed tactics to create a situation similar to what played out in 2015  at the National Assembly to install the minority over the majority. He said constitution did not empower a governor to suspend the inauguration of the legislature. Hussaini condemned the alleged removal of the Clerk of the House of Assembly, few days  to the inauguration. But, the PDP dismissed the allegation of masterminding the drama that played out at the inauguration. The Chairman, Hamza Akuyam,  said his party was not interested in imposing leaders on the Assembly. He said PDP was committed to the democratic process. He clarified that the inauguration of the house was postponed due to inadequate logistics. Akuyam said since the APC is the majority, there was no way, the PDP could have manipulated the  inauguration. The Assembly leadership tussle   may now be left for the court to decide. A high court sitting in Bauchi which has retrained the factional Speaker, Kawuwa Damina, and his Deputy, Tukur Ibrahim, from parading themselves as speakers had adjourned the case to July 2nd 2019. Delivering Judgement, Justice Karim Madaki granted an order of interim injunction following an order filed by Abubakar Suleiman and  12 other lawmakers.