The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has disclosed that on appointments, he learnt his lesson during his first term in office, between 2015 and 2019. He also disclosed that his second term appointments would be based on absolute loyalty, commitment to the vision of the administration and the capacity to deliver. Wike spoke Monday at Government House, Port Harcourt, while inaugurating the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Dr. Tammy Danagogo; Chief of Staff, Government House, Chukwuemeka Woke, an engineer; Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Dr. Zaccheus Adango; and Commissioner of Finance, Isaac Kamalu. He said: “These appointments are not based on sentiments. The appointments are based on one hundred percent undiluted loyalty and competence. I will not appoint people who will run down the government. “We will appoint people who believe in the vision and mission of the state government. Those who will defend the government and its policies.” Rivers governor also revealed that the first set of appointments was made to kick-start his second term and to enhance the development of the state. He said: “The appointments that I made were not lobbied for. I know these persons personally. “Going forward, I will take time to scrutinise people that will be appointed. I learnt my lesson during the last term. I will only appoint people who want to work and those who want to make sacrifices for the state. “I have known the SSG (Danagogo) closely. He is loyal and committed. This second term is for people who want to work for the state”. Wike also charged the new appointees not to take their appointments for granted, stressing that if they failed to work for the people, they would face the consequences, while urging Danagogo to work for all Rivers people. He said: “You are not the SSG for Kalabari people. You are the SSG for Rivers people. You must serve the interest of the state.” Rivers governor also asked the people of Andoni LGA to take immediate measures to rescue the expatriates kidnapped by Andoni youths or face the withdrawal of government recognition for their traditional rulers and stoppage of the construction of the Andoni section of the Ogoni-Andoni-Opobo Unity Road. Later in an interview, the reappointed chief of staff assured that he would make his contributions to the actualisation of the vision and mission of the Wike’s administration. The new SSG, while also speaking, gave an assurance that he would bring his wealth of experience to bear in the discharge of his responsibilities, while hailing Wike for the opportunity to serve the people of Rivers state, assuring that he would live up to the expectations of Rivers people.