Saturday’s creation of an online poll on its social media handles, Facebook and Twitter, to sample the opinion of Lagosians on the suspended monthly environmental sanitation, seems to confirm speculation that the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration in Lagos State may revert back to the restriction of movement of vehicles and persons for the purpose of environmental sanitation every last Saturday of the month. As at 5:45 p.m. on Saturday, the poll, which was set up around 4:00 p.m, had recorded over 5,500 votes, 226 comments and 152 shares. As at that time, participants who voted in favour of reverting to the last Saturday of the month as environmental sanitation day constituted about 79 percent while only 21 per cent voted against it. It would be recalled that one of the major criticisms of the government of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode was the heaps of waste that suddenly took over the streets of Lagos after the governor gave exclusive rights of waste disposal to a firm, Visionscape. Reacting to the piling wastes, the House of Assembly passed a resolution demanding that the Lagos State Waste Management Agency be in charge of waste disposal in the state. Today, many Lagosians seem to believe that the new government of Sanwo-Olu, which has already declared a state of emergency on waste management, is likely to revert to environmental sanitation day introduced by the Muhammadu Buhari/Tunde Idiagbon junta in the early 1980s. Successive military and democratic governments in Lagos had continued to observe this until former Governor Ambode’s government stopped it following an order by the Lagos State division of the Court of Appeal in 2016 which ruled that it was illegal for the state government to arbitrarily restrict the movement of people without an enabling law in place. The suit was brought before the court by a citizen, Faith Okafor (appellant), against the Lagos State Government (respondent). The court restrained the Lagos State government and its affiliates from further arresting anyone whatsoever on the basis of a purported environmental sanitation offence or trying anyone in the Special Offences Court without conforming to the dictates of the Constitution. The court asked the state government to pass a law restricting the movement of persons before enforcing the restriction.