The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) has said the provisions of the Public Procurement Act 2007 will guide the award of contracts by the Fund with recourse to the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) to ensure  that the rules and regulations guiding such processes are complied with. The Managing Director/Chief Executive of NSITF, Adebayo Somefun, who made this known in Abuja, also dispelled speculations that the Fund is currently engaged in a massive secret recruitment exercise. Somefun, who spoke through the General Manager Administration, Olusegun Basorun, said whenever the Fund recruits, it does not charge prospective applicants for job placements. He challenged anyone with credible evidence on such illegal charges to provide it. He explained: “For any government agency to collect money from job applicant, such vacancies must be advertised, which must tell the public how much to pay, whether such money is for scratch cards or something like that. It is a well-known fact that government had stopped payment for jobs by applicants. The National Assembly has frowned against such act.” He added that since the Treasury Single Account (TSA) came into operation, all government funds are automatically moved into that account. Dismissing the allegation that job racketeering is prevalent in the Fund, Somefun said: “Matters relating to recruitment form part of the schedule of the General Manager Administration, which include the authority to sign appointment letters as delegated. “But before such letters are issued, certain things must happen, one of which is the approval of the Federal Character Commission. The last time we recruited here was the first quarter of 2018, and since that time, no one has been recruited. “It is a criminal act to recruit without due process. The NSITF is a responsible organisation. All its recruitment exercises are guided by the constitution of the nation, extant rules and regulations particularly the Federal Government Circular of July 11, 2017.”