House of Representatives member Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo extols the virtues of Speaker Femi gbajabiamila, who clocks 57 today. There is no debating that humans are breeds of various categories whose paths show different levels of sheen. And in answering the question of the birth of nobles, nobles carry upon their shoulders significancies that point to nobility. For the President of the Nigerian House of Reprentatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, his birth is a blessing to humanity in many ways. His coming to the mother earth on the 25th of June, 1962 is nature’s deliberate of blessing mankind with life whose time on earth will make a preponderance better. For his parents too, his coming was not characterized with fanfare or tragedy; it was a numb day that brought an unexpected occurrence to a couple who lived in the heart of Surulere, Lagos Nigeria. It was an experience many fortunetellers will describe as a sign of an unusual demeanor. Alhaja Lateefat Gbajabiamila had ceaselessly wished for a child after she had her first issue, which was a set of twin girls. Her prayers were unanswered for 8 long years, which was a lengthy wait for a woman in want. With much faith in her God, she finally got pregnant and gave birth to a girl. Now the pressure then began to mount for a boy. It was another accomplishment that returned her desire to give birth again. Soon she got pregnant, and planned to deliver her next child at Island maternity on Campbell Street, Lagos Island. Lateefat, who is a trained staff nurse and Midwife, had made adequate preparation for her oncoming baby. Her husband’s cousin who was meant to escort her to Island maternity didn’t turn up. The unexpected began on June 25th 1962 when the labor pains kicked in and her experience as a midwife made her decide to deliver the baby herself. Due to her work ethics and she having a maternity center at Ebute Meta, she had prepared her Labor ward for her next delivery. She courageously made her way to the Labor ward while the baby was quite hasty to be born. She had reached out to her neighbor who lived opposite the building, and by the time she had arrived, the baby’s head was already out. Her neighbor was dumbfounded and was about to call for help, but Lateefat calmed and assured her that she was capable of delivering herself. Femi Gbajabiamila was born in an unusual circumstance that made Lateefat joyful beyond control. She immediately called her husband, who left work hurriedly to embrace his ‘Arole’, as the Yoruba call the first male child. He later had two younger siblings whom strengthened the family tree. Femi’s birth and Lateefat’s bravery heralded a story of determination, love and optimism that has positively influenced his journey in life. Fearless Femi has made an impact as a formidable opposition Leader before APC became the majority. His arrival into this world will never be forgotten, and his push for the greater good of Nigeria will never in vain. Beyond the significances surrounding the birth of this noble, it is profound to note that every person who has been privileged to know Gbajabiamila has a good story to tell about his capacities and brilliance. As a person, I feel very proud of my association with you and I have always been inspired by your unassailable record of hard work, impeccable integrity and patriotic zeal for a better Nigeria.