Supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who are indigenes of Ondo state in the United Kingdom(UK) have sought a permanent relief for Nigerians who they noted, are presently facing economic hardship. They urged President Muhammadu Buhari to use his second term in office to put smiles on the faces of the masses supporters. In a statement signed by its chairman,Julius Adeyeye, Secretary, Olu Esho and Publicity Secretary, Fola Olagbegi appealed to the President to justify the confidence reposed in his administration which necessitated the massive votes he garnered at the polls to retain his position of another four-year time. Besides, the APC stalwarts urged the president to carefully constitute the next federal cabinet with much emphasis on next level agenda to ensure adequate security to life and property, reduction of poverty level as well as provision of food security in Nigeria. It hailed the smooth transition of leadership at the National Assembly and peaceful inauguration of Buhari/Osinbajo second term. According to the group, the successful completion of the first four-year in spite of all odds would ginger unprecedented breakthrough in the ongoing dispensation. The APC supporters in the diaspora noted with delight that Nigeria now has a dedicated leadership in the two legislative chambers in Abuja with Senator Ahmad Lawan as Senate President and Hon.Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker,House of Representatives. They expressed optimism that the duo would provide robust leadership and national service devoid of selfish interest unlike in the last eighth assembly. The group also rejoiced with Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for the smooth transition at the Ondo State Assembly, urging him not to relent in providing impactful governance to the citizenry in the state. They pledged its commitment to support his administration in order to uplift the state in all facets of life. The party men also promised to rally round Akeredolu’s government in its bid to make the state, an industrial hub of the Southwest. 