The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria MACBAN has warned mischief makers to stop their malicious publications against the Southeast Governors over herdsmen, saying they have no problem with their hosts. The reaction followed online reports that Southeast will soon boil over the stubbornness of the governors ascribed to Alhaji Gidado Sidikki, president of the group. But Sidikki told reporters on Tuesday in Akwa that the online publication was fake and malicious. He said it intended to pit the Cattle breeders against the Governors and people of the zone, who had been good to them since inception. Besides, Sidikki said he had not visited Abuja for the past one month and he was only the Chairman of MACBAN in Southeast and not President as quoted. According to him: “Once again duty calls you to rise and save our society from the pains of misinformation consequent upon the permissiveness of the Social Media. “Few days ago, we woke up to a malicious publication in a Social Media platform, Akelicious.com/proxy/, purporting a phantom statement in Abuja entitled ‘South East will Boil any moment from now because of their Stubbornness’ ascribed to the leadership of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, erroneously assigned to me” “My mission here is simply to expose the lie in the mischievous publication. First. while it is my wish to inform the public that Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria did not make any statement to the effect of the content of the publication either in Abuja or anywhere for that matter” ” I humbly would wish to correctly place my designation as the Chairman of South East Zone of the Association and not ‘the leader of cattle breeders in Nigeria’ as I was addressed in the primary falsehood the publication sought to disseminate” “Again, I wish to put it on record that the South East Zone of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, and her cattle herder members whom I serve as the Zonal Chairman enjoy warm relationship with the governors, governments and people of South East Nigeria” ” I wish to state that this warmth has not been completely devoid of flashes of momentary conflicts at few locations. Such instances were however promptly addressed by the authorities and warm communality restored amongst the people.” He added: “Given the increasing orientation and re-orientation of our people and the locals, who are our landlords here, and given the strong commitment of the state governors to peaceful relationship across board, one harbours no doubts that the relationship between our herders and their landlords can only be increasingly better as time progresses” “It is, therefore, my intention, while dispelling the published rumour from the pit of malicious mischief, to share my upbeat spirit with all of us. It is my utmost belief” “That the sincere and committed understanding we all propagate today will yield us minimal rancour if not rancour free society tomorrow” “I wish to thank the Governors of the South East States of Abia, Anambra, EbonyEnugu and Imo for their wonderful sense of accommodation, as I pledge our continued efforts towards greater harmonious environment for thriving economic activities and better life.”