The lawmaker representing Ikpoba-Okha/Egor in the House of Representatives, Hon. Ehiozuwa Agbonyinma, has inaugurated a skill acquisition centre and an Information and Communication Technology centre for the people of Egor Local Government Area. Edo State Deputy Governor, Hon Philip Shaibu, who inaugurated the projects said some lawmakers would rather line their pockets instead attracting projects that will enhance the well-being of members of their constituencies. Shaibu said the projects were in line with the vision of the Edo State government to build skilled work force. He said the 200,000 jobs promised by the All Progressives Congress (APC) under Governor Godwin Obaseki were to be achieved by providing skills for youths and not through the civil service. He said: “We are creating job opportunities for our youths. It is only when labour are skilled that they can become self-employed. We are driving an economy that is private-sector driven. “The only way is when we have skilled man power. People trained here will be employers of labour. This project is in line with our vision. We urged other lawmakers to build same for their constituencies.” Agbonyinma said he has attracted projects that his constituents are happy about. He assured that he would reclaim his mandate at the tribunal because those that rigged him out have been charged to court. His words: “In the last election, they voted for me. Whatever happened, the end will justify the means. We are at the tribunal. The mandate stolen by some people will be retrieved. It is not only physical infrastructure I attracted; I have bills and motions I sponsored that helped to move the country forward. The bills helped to return stolen money back to the country. “I sponsored the Money Laundering Bill, the NNPC Motion on crude oil that left the shores of the country. Nigeria’s undeclared crude oil was taken to 41 countries. $18 billion worth of crude oil was taken to the United States. I went to the US Customs and they provided comprehensive details of what came to their country through the back door. “The issue of gas flaring and payment to host communities by the Federal Government was also achieved. I moved the motion for oil leakages. Is it Abacha loot? The PENCOM probe I investigated uncovered missing $33billion. “