A building expert, Prof. Bala Muhammad, has identified the use of substandard building materials as one of the reasons for incessant building collapse in the country. Prof. Muhammad, said that many buildings in the country are composed of substandard materials, poor workmanship, as well as persistent maintenance challenges. He spoke at the first professorial inaugural lecture of Baze University, Abuja. The lecture had “Building collapse and builders in shackles: research efforts on polymer modified concrete as way out” as its theme. The Professor of building noted that while substandard building materials appeared to be on the increase in our markets, the construction industry suffers from unavailability of modern construction equipment. He said: “While substandard building materials appear to be on the increase in our markets, the construction industry further suffers from unavailability of modern construction equipment as well as poor workmanship and barely little to no maintenance capabilities. “As a result, the much desired economically viable, structurally safe and serviceably durable buildings are never achieved in many executed projects. “Consequently, both properties and most importantly human lives are periodically wasted through incessant partial or complete building collapse. “This situation needs to be examined and equally corrected so that lives and properties can be saved. “Please beware, the custodians of buildings (builders) must be allowed to shoulder construction responsibilities, otherwise building collapse will never ever stop.” Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Tahir Mamman, described the topic of the lecture as apt and eye-catching considering the challenges facing the building sector. “The title of his research is very apt and eye-catching for today’s challenges and a way of addressing some of the concerns of the public, given the current incidences of building collapses in Nigeria. “I believe we will have an inspiring direction towards a possible solution to this menace,” he said.