Youth international Prince Izu Omego is marking time with Al-Sinaa Sport Club of Baghdad as he cast his eyes on a move to Europe and playing for Super Eagles, reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Tough-tackling defender and youth international, Prince Izu Omego says he opted for Al-Sinaa Sport Club of Baghdad as a precursor for his professional football career away from the shores of Nigeria. Keen followers of the national youth teams would easily recalled Omego for his no-nonsense defensive style during his days with the Golden Eaglets and Flying Eagles. He was on the U-17 side that won Silver at the U-17 AFCON held in Morocco in 2013 and was a major fulcrum in the Flying Eagles side that won the U-20 AFCON in 2015 en route to their  FIFA World Cup qualification in New Zealand. With nothing concrete in sight after his exploits in Senegal and New Zealand , the 18-year-old  said he opted for a short career  in Iraq as a stepping zone to greater things in the foreseeable future. “We are different people with different destiny, my former teammates are destined to start their professional football career  abroad  in Europe while I’m starting mine in Iraq,” Omego who would be 19 on 15th  August told The Nation. “I have a short six-month contract here; and life in Iraq  has been good so far. “  Just the  language that is a  barrier but I’m fast adapting to because this is really a good place with many good people who are ready to assist in their own ways.” Of course, Omego is not disillusioned about what lies ahead of him: “My short term plan  is to improve my games as fast as possible and impact lives around me. “My long term objective  is to play in one of  the biggest club in the world and to play for the senior team of my country before I retire from football.” Described as a ‘rock of Gibraltar’ by foremost sport journalist and current Chairman of Akwa Ibom United Etubom Paul Bassey after his imperious performance in the left-full back position when the  Golden Eaglets handed a 4-0 defeat to their counterparts from Niger in Niamey, Omego said playing under coach Manu Garba-led side was one of the major highlights of his career. “Playing under coach Manu  was a great privilege for me,” he explained.“ We won the U-20 Nations Cup in Senegal but unlucky against Germany in   New Zealand where we went out in the Second Round; but I got more exposure which has added valuable experience to my career.” Still, Omego is  nostalgic about his first international tournament in the green and while colours in Marrakech (Morocco) where the Golden Eaglets nearly won the U-17 AFCON only to lose  5-4 via penalty shootout to Cote d’Ivoire. Omego noted:  “I still have good memories on the U-17  Championship in Morocco because the experience  was so great and inspiring, I felt favoured by God to represent my country for the first time. “ But it was so painful the way we lost the  final match to Cote d’Ivoire.  Though I felt bad,  we have to accept it because I felt that was the will of God.” With some of former teammates now regulars with the Super Eagles, Omego said he remained  upbeat that something great would happened at the expiration of hi contract with Al-Sinaa in Iraq. “I’m not worried playing here in Iraq; It’s just an experience for me but I’m  just being focussed  for now because playing for the  Super Eagles is  one of my  main targets.”