Lagos State Police Commissioner, Zubairu Muazu, never had the childhood fantasy of becoming a cop; fate and the desire to correct an injustice meted out to a relative by the police changed his career path. In this exclusive interview with PRECIOUS IGBONWELUNDU, CP Muazu gives insights into his life, career and ways to improve the Nigeria Police. Excerpts: It is said that all men are born equal but the finest of them become cops. What was growing up like and did your childhood influence your decision to be a policemen? I grew up in a very large family. My late father had four wives and 25 children. Of course, not all of us were born at the same time. We have different peer groups in the family. So, I grew up among by brothers and sisters. I had a very humble beginning from a very humble family. My father was an Islamic scholar. He brought us up and I will tell you that all of us went to school even up at least first degree. My father died when we were still in the secondary school. I went to the university with the support of the eldest of us in the family who is also late now. So, I grew up among my brothers. We schooled together; three of us from three different wives were in the same class both in primary and secondary schools. I went to Ahmadu Bello University in the early 80s and graduated with a first degree in Botany, Natural Sciences. I was posted to Cross River State (which included the present day Akwa Ibom) for my National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) where I taught Mathematics and sciences in secondary school. After my youth service, I picked up an appointment with the governmen,precisely in the Forestry Department, Ministry of Agriculture. The government sent me on an official forestry training course in Edo State where  I started my career as a public servant in the Forestry Department Department. At what point did you become a policeman? While working as a civil servant, I had an encounter with the police. My first cousin, who is my age mate, and I grew up together;  he was head of the pharmacy department at a hospital in Bauchi. Unfortunately, there was burglary there and he reported it to the police. But when he made the report, he was kept at the police station the whole day. I learnt of it and went there and was told he needed someone to bail him because he was the first suspect. I wondered how someone  who reported a case of burglary in an office he was heading suddenly turned the suspect. I felt something was wrong and I instantly developed interest in becoming a policeman. I said I will go into this job and see what I can do to change it. While we were doing this, the advert for entry into the police was going on. I still did not make up my mind until the very last day for submission of forms. I went to pick my own form under the PRO,  DSP Julius Fakoya. He asked if I was serious at all and why I was coming to pick the  form on the last day for submission? I told him I was very serious and that I will return my completed form before the close of work that day, which I did. About 18 of us were invited for the preliminary screening in Bauchi and we went to the zonal headquarters in Yola for the interview. When the appointment came out, my name was first on the list. They called us on radio that in two weeks time, we should report to the Police Academy. This is how my life started as a police officer. It’s been over 30 years since that encounter and you have held several appointments as a policeman. Have you been able to change those things that spurred you into the service? I have made my own impact in my own way. We went to the Police Academy in March,1988 and trained for 18 months. Then, there was a policy that Inspectors, ASPs, DSPs should be deployed to their states of origin. Incidentally, I started working in that same division where I had that nasty experience; that was my first division. The first one year, you will go round various departments- investigations, operations, we did it. Then, I was posted to the headquarters in Bauchi where I worked with the CP Uba Uba, now retired AIG. As a DSP, I was posted to the Police Staff College (PSC). The British Government wanted to establish a central planning unit for the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). So we were the pioneering staff. We had four British police officers to help the Nigerian government establish the unit which would control centrally, all the training programmes in the NPF, coordinate all the police colleges, draft curriculum for all police trainings and promotion courses. We worked with them for three years and we left. I can say most of my early policing duties were in investigations and trainings, though I had a brief stint as a DPO in Adamawa for a year and half and was posted back to the CID. I served at the Special Fraud and AIG Monitoring Units. As an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), I was posted to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) where I also did more of investigations and operations. I returned to the Special Fraud Unit as Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) and was also posted to the Rivers State Command. That was where I was promoted Commissioner of Police. I have been CP Admin, CP EOD, CP Niger, CP Akwa Ibom, Nigerian Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies Kuru (NIPSS), CP InterPol before becoming CP Lagos Command. Niger State was my first command as CP and the experience was something else. I was posted there at the peak of banditry and other security issues in Niger. It was not easy but by the grace of God, we were able to salvage the situation. In Akwa Ibom, the issue was that of cultism and communal crises. It was a different ball game in Niger, particularly in two Local Government Areas (LGAs). We put a lot of community policing strategies in place to ensure stability. While at EFCC and SFU, you handled several fraud and corruption cases and it is on record that you were meticulous. Can you share some of the experiences with us? The experience in EFCC Lagos is not what you think. We did more of the advanced fee fraud cases and cyber crimes in Lagos. Those are the main issues in Lagos. Most of the corruption cases were handled in Abuja, though we had few in Lagos and treated them successfully. We had more of bank fraud cases. While I was Head of Operations, we investigated issues surrounding five banks that later went under. We did a thorough investigation and charged the cases to court. Were there threats to your life or inducement attemtps? There is big difference between investigating financial crimes and violent crimes. Financial crimes are white collar crimes and the suspects are mainly well educated people who play tricks and then take money from people through banks or other means. So, I won’t say there was threat to my life. But there was a lot of temptations. In fact, the experience was terrible. They will not come to you and say we want to bribe you. They call it different names and it is left for the investigator to reject such by taking his mind very far from it, otherwise, you will fall for it. We were able to overcome it. You cannot record success if you are not determined. I am proud of my experience and I hope that what we left behind is still being maintained at the EFCC. What major challenges have you faced in your over 30 years as a policeman? Well, investigation is very challenging. My first experience as an investigator was at the SFU as a young officer. Then, the link between the fraudsters in Nigeria and their victims abroad was just a telephone number and fax machines. The fraudsters wrote beautiful but fake business proposals which they used to lure their victims. Once there is a complaint, it is that phone number used we usually relied on. Initially, we will go to NITEL to get the details of the owner of the telephone number but the fraudsters realised this and started using fake names, addresses and pictures to register their telephones. This was being done with conspiracy from NITEL workers because I did not understand how someone will come to apply for telephone line and the picture he came with isn’t his but he is approved. Getting the suspects became a challenge because the details on the file usually belonged to someone who had nothing to do with the fraud. So, we started tossing the lines of these suspects once a signal was given and traced the lines to the nearest distribution box to know the apartment the suspect telephone was. Other times, we disconnected them once their numbers had been flagged; so they came to NITEL to complain and they were picked up from there and taken to their homes for investigation to continue.  It was very dramatic and also exciting. Then came the 090 mobile and the fraudsters would just discard the lines after hitting their target. Once they noticed their line was tossed, they will just buy a new one and communicate to their victims. To address this, we started doing partial tossing of their lines so that they will think it is a technical problem. What we did was to make it such that they can either receive calls but cannot call out or the other way. That way, they will come to complain at NITEL and then, we will pick them up. Those days, we did the jobs ourselves and I cherish those moments despite the challenges. Then, as CP Niger State, I had a very nasty experience. There was this clash between locals and the military and I had to play a vital role. The community members were looking up to me to get justice. On the other side, I had my colleagues in the security service that were also looking up to me. But thankfully, we were able to address the situation with each side leaving satisfied. I came in as CP Lagos at a rough time. It was the last lap of political campaigns towards the 2019 general elections but we ensured peace reigned in the state. There were exaggerations on the social media about the incident that happened during the presidential election.  There was this video of somebody being beaten and burnt to ashes; it was not true and we had to call stakeholders together to discuss and avoid any violence. Then, we reviewed our deployment and identified trouble areas. For the first time Lagos was peaceful during elections; there was no violence. Nobody died in Lagos State during the 2019 elections. We made sure there was also no violence during the governorship exercise. It was a nice experience. After elections, it was a different ball game because the youths who were earlier engaged by the politicians for campaigns and other things were now idle. We started having issues of cultism, clashes between rival cult groups, few cases of kidnapping and we started experiencing traffic robberies. But we are on top of it and I assure you that in all the kidnap cases we had after the elections, all the suspects were arrested. I know you also know that we have few cases of police officers’ indiscretions, over  which we stood firm and ensured necessary sanctions. Between March and May, we arrested a total of 90 armed robbery suspects; five died during encounters with the police; 77 armed robbery attempts were foiled and nine incidences reported; 40 arms and 68 ammunition were recovered and seven suspected kidnappers held. Also, 60 persons were arrested for cultism, three vehicles snatched, four removed from where they were parked and two driven off by drivers.That is the experience so far in Lagos. What strategies did you adopt that have led to drastic reduction in kidnapping s, armed robberies and violent crimes in Lagos since you assumed duty? I will say it is the practice of community policing that has been working for us. It was the same strategy that worked for us in Niger and Akwa Ibom states. Then, there is determination and constant supervision of my DPOs and officers. Once you supervise them and they see the commitment in you as a leader, definitely, they would follow suit. I ensure that DPOs and Area Commanders are carried along in what I want achieved. Let them see transparency and hardwork in you and it will be easy. My DPOs are on their toes in Lagos because they do not know which division I will visit next. I go round regularly. On Sunday, I was in Ajao Estate in the evening; from there, I went to Isolo to see what they are doing. So, once they know that the CP can appear anytime, they are always on their toes, and once they are on their toes, jobs get done. Recently, a picture where you stooped before the family members of a young man shot dead by the police went viral with lots of commendation from the public. Many have wondered if that was a policing strategy or personality touch? I told you earlier that I grew up in a very humble home. I will say it is my personality. My philosophy in life is give every human being his due respect or right and live in peace with them. Do not harass or embarrass anybody. Treat him like a human being, and he will give it back to you. As a police officer, it costs nothing to do our jobs with human face. We have powers given to us by law but you should also know that the same law that gives us such powers, limits the powers. So, work within your limit. Once you work within your limit and respect human dignity, we will live peacefully and it will make your work easy. You will find people being attracted to you. I come here (office), sit down and listen to anyone who comes to see me. If it is something I can do, I’II call my officers to do and if I cannot, I’IIbtell the person I cannot. I encourage my officers to do the same and that is why we have synergy and are achieving results in Lagos. Given the opportunity today, what are the things you think you will change to make the police more effective? We have majorly three issues-Recruitment, training and welfare. In recruitment into the police force, we should go back to the grassroots and return the powers on who becomes a policeman from a community to the people. It is the people that know who the criminals in their communities are; they are the ones who know those who will not make good officers.  So, let the people have a say in who represents them as a police officer. That way, people who are committed and passionate about the police job and not those who are looking for employment will join the force. The nature of training in the force needs to improve and be more practical. Police job is a practical thing, so you cannot train policemen like they do in the universities and expect them to come out as practical police officers. Policemen need to get practical training of the job. Every training school must have a police station so that while in training, they start practising these things, including arrest of suspects and the procedures. Lastly, it is human beings that do the job. The current welfare package can be improved upon. There has been clamour for better welfare for policemen and this is against scarce resources at the disposal of the federal government. Some people have suggested the decentralisation of the force as a way out, while others want private sector sponsorship encouraged. How can this funding issue be addressed in your opinion? Show original message Yes, I do relax. I told you earlier that I visited Ajao Estate on Sunday. It was for a social event, family’s baby dedication and it was from there I visited the Police Divisions I mentioned. I enjoyed nice music and the company of the couple for about an hour and half. I was not CP during those moments. Some weekends, I visit the nearest beach. The Police Officers Mess is just by my house and I go there. We have the police sports arena and as a sportsman, I go round to see what my colleagues are doing and also play. What kind of sports do you play? I was Chairman of Darts Association. I played Dart, Athletics and Squash.  I am the Chairman, Police Athletics Association. As a youngster, I played hockey for my state and while in the training school.