Igbo group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has charged Governors and politicians in Igboland to serve the people who elected them into the office or quit from politics. The spokesman of the group Chuks Ibegbu also warned the governors against looting public funds and asked Ndigbo to watch their elected officials and what they do with funds that accrue to the zone. In a similar development, the leadership of Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL) has called on all the governors in the Southeast not to renege in fulfilling their campaign promises. COSEYL in a release issued to journalists on Saturday asked the Southeast governors to emulate the leadership qualities of Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Dr. Michael Okpara, Dim Chukwuemeka Odimegwu-Ojukwu and De Sam Mbakwe who they described as selfless leaders. The release signed by Chief Goodluck Egwu Ibem, President General of COSEYL charged the governors to ensure that they implement people-oriented programmes and policies the zone forward in their various states. According to COSEYL, any of the governors who know that he’s not prepared and only cooked up his manifesto just to deceive electorates to come to power should quickly resign, stressing that the era of amassing wealth for their selfish use is over. “We call on all South East governors as they will be sworn-in for a second term in office or even first tenure never to renege in fulfilling their campaign promises to the electorate who elected them as it is a sacrilege to do so. “We advise all of them to go back to history and emulate legends like our founding fathers: Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Dr. Michael Okpara, Dim Chukwuemeka Odimegwu-Ojukwu and De Sam Mbakwe in rendering selfless services to the people. “We charge them to ensure that the implement people-oriented programmes and policies in their states that will move the zone forward. We urge to prioritize Education, Agriculture, and industrialization. “We are watching them closely; we have copies of their campaign promises to the electorate, if they fail to fulfill them, we will sensitize the people to rise up to demand what is rightfully theirs. “The era when some politicians will contract the services of intelligent speechwriters to prepare beautiful manifestos for them to hoodwink our people into voting them of which they’ll later throw into the trash can as mere political exercise used to express their grandiloquent verbosity is over. “We shall start from all our higher institutions to build what is called South East Concerned Citizens Monitoring Team. We shall constantly remind them of what they told us before we elected them. “From their first 100 days in office, we shall start rating their performances with video evidence of their projects. “Any of them who knows very well that he’s not prepared and only cooked up his manifesto just to deceive electorates should quickly resign now because we will not spare any leader who is underperforming when we start giving records of what they got and what they did with it. “We shall apply serious constructive criticism and awaken the spirit of all sleeping and unconcerned South Easterners to begin to ask questions. “We are tired of the secret loves that have not paid us. We shall apply open rebuke henceforth to make some persons sit up. “Any leader who is contributing to the under development of the South East will be made to lose his or her political value and will forever remain politically irrelevant.”