Five days after the stool of Olowo was declared vacant, the Ogunoye Royal Lineage has selected a consensus candidate out of the 12 interested contestants to the throne of Olowo of Owo in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State. The Ogunoye Royal Lineage is one of the two lineages comprising the Elewokun Ruling House. Others included Ajike and Olateru-Olagbegi. At a news briefing in Akure, the State Capital, the Head of Ogunoye, Chief Olutokun Ogunoye, said the Lineage has picked Prince Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye as the sole candidate for the throne. The Lineage also insisted that it is their turn to produce the next Olowo of Owo as other lineage have produced successive monarchs of the town. According to him, only two lineages have since 1888 contested the Olowo chieftaincy stool whenever the stool is declared vacant. He said it is Ataneneye comprising Ajike and Olateru-Olagbegi and the Ogunoye that have ruled the town. He said other members of the Elewuokun including Orimolade, Adara, and Aladetohun have gone into extinction. The Head of Royal House who was represented by his Deputy, Chief Adafin Ologede said Ajibade emerged out of the 12  princes that showed interest in the stool. According to him, “Ajibade is the choice of Ogunoye family. Before we picked him, we consulted Ifa oracle in three different places and they were unanimous on the choice of Ajibade. “We picked Ajibade because he is educated, exposed and vibrant. We want a king who will be acceptable to the people of Owo. He will be able to use his contact for the development of the town. “He is a young man who can move around especially during Igogo and Ogun festivals. He will be able to move around to bring development to the town. Ologede recalled that Ajibade was two years old when his father ascended the throne and lived many years in the palace, stressing that he understands the custom and tradition of Owo kingdom. He said in spite of the fact that many of the aspirants have accepted the decision of the Royal Lineage, the family head said they would reconcile any of the aggrieved members of the Lineage in order to present a common position to the kingmakers. He emphasised that the royal house would produce the next Olowo because the other House including Ajike and Olateru-Olagbegi who belonged to Ataneye Royal Linages have produced Olowo for more that 82 years while the Ogunoye had only 36 years. 