UFUK Dialogue, a non-profit organisation, makes a strong case for national cohesion, GBENKA OMOKHUNU reports There is little doubt that Nigeria’s diverse faiths and religious backgrounds are not quite welding its people together, but rather driving them far apart. It is against this backdrop that UFUK Dialogue, a non-profit organ, held in Abuja the seventh edition of its annual Dialogue and Peace Awards and Interfaith Friendship and IFTAR dinner. The ambience of the gathering was electrifying as was the composition of the audience. Their attire revealed their religion. What makes it very interesting was the fact that on a table, you find people dressed in turbans and cassocks interacting freely with one another while dining. All through the event, the message being preached was peace, love, and tolerance. So strong was the message that you would wonder if you were in Nigeria because of the intolerance level amongst us. Nigeria is now clearly divided along religious and ethnic lines which is unprecedented. And the attendant result has been a series of ethnic and religious clashes in the country. In his opening remark, the president, UFUK Dialogue, Kamil Kemanci, said, “The 7th edition of Annual Dialogue and Peace Awards organised by UFUK Dialogue is the day to confer awards on some exceptionally fantastic personalities in Nigeria for their wonderful effort and support on developing a peaceful society.” Speaking on the organisation’s commitment to the society, he said, “UFUK Dialogue serves to stand by societal peace, love, tolerance, respect, and compassion in support of human dignity and the greater good of humanity. As such, we are committed to universal values of freedom, justice, democracy, and the rights of all living beings.’’ He said UFUK dialogue also organises annual conferences with a theme of “Countering Violent Extremism through Love and Tolerance” which brings people of different faiths and ethnic backgrounds around the same table. Kemanci, while stressing the need for a peaceful society said: “we need dialogue and peace more than we need food and shelter”. He explained that dialogue and peaceful co-existence has always been and still remains a need, a necessity for us to have a healthy and more productive society. He explained that it is possible to transform conflict into cooperation. The Interfaith Dialogue seeks to realise religions’ basic oneness and unity, and the universality of belief. “Islam and Christianity all come from the same root, have almost the same essentials, and are nourished from the same source. ‘’Apart from the common points between them, they share the same responsibility to build a happy world for all of the creatures of God,’’ he said. Explaining to the gathering how the organisation will succeed, he said we must forget the past, ignore polemics and focus on our common points. In order for everyone to live peacefully, it is important for individuals to rise above differences that drive us apart and that goes beyond any ideology or political system, and above any religious movement or authority. Stressing more on the need for humans to recognise their selves first before religion, Mr Kemanci quoted from Fethullah Gulen, a Muslim scholar, where he said: “We must consider ourselves human first before we consider our belonging to a religious or cultural tradition. We are human first before we are Christian or Muslim or Ibo, Yoruba or Havza.” He informed the audience that the dialogue has now expanded to the entire world. The results have been positive and the followers of all religions will find more ways to get closer and assist each other. A “Peaceful World” is not something that can be naturally created. It is made by our hands. So, whatever it costs, we must continue to be a voice for dialogue and love between peoples of all faiths and cultures. He charged everybody present to co-operate and build a peaceful world, “Let’s co-operate and create a peaceful world desired by every person. Let’s come together to listen and understand each other in empathy and look to the events from the mirror of justice and reason, not the partisanship of one group. This is the dream that we carry through the world. “That something wonderful will happen in a peaceful world.” During the awards presentation, several persons were presented with awards who, in the opinion of the NGO, are “Peace – Loving People” who have dedicated their expertise to building bridges of peace between cultures and religions. The awardees in appreciation thanked the organisation for counting them worthy of the awards, Catholic Archbishop of Orlu Diocese, Imo State, Most Rev Godson Ukwuoma, expressed his profound gratitude to the organisation. He said the award was very significant because it shows that this organisation places and recognises cultural diversity as an opportunity for growth and also sensitises the people on building bridges among the various ethnic groups in Nigeria. He advised that people of goodwill should help to build bridges of understanding as a way of resolving conflicts and minimising misunderstandings in the world among the various ethnic groups. The speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Mudashir Obasa, who was represented by Eng Misbau Opeyemi Aminu, lauded the organisers for recognising his efforts. He has led Lagos for the past four years towards peace, progress and for the betterment of all Lagosians. In her appreciation message, former deputy governor, Plateau State, Dame Pauline Tallen, said she dedicated the award to all Nigerians adding that they should have a heart of love, love one another as true children of God. The event, once again brought together a lot Nigerians from different religious and cultural backgrounds among them are Prof. Ibrahim Mohammed of the Bayero University, Kano, Kano State and chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lagos State and co-chairman, Nigeria Inter Religious Council (NIRC), Alexander Bamgbola. Others are Executive Secretary, Nigeria Inter Religious Council (NIRC), Rev Cornelius Apebu Omonokhua; President CAN, Lagos branch, Dr. Ayokunle Ayokunle; General Secretary, CAN, Prof. Olalekan, SAN Barr. Joseph Daramola and many others.