It can now be confirmed that the majority, if not all, of President Muhammadu Buhari’s next ministers will be card-carrying members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The list has been compiled and is awaiting dispatch to Senate President Ahmed Lawan, possibly tomorrow, sources said last night. It was also learnt that the last lap of the screening of the ministerial nominees involved the verification of their names from the database of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with a view to ensuring that they are authentic members of the party. Getting maximum senate co-operation in approving the ministerial list was the key reason for last week’s meeting between Buhari and Lawan Highly placed sources said last night that the ministerial nominees list may be sent to the Senate President tomorrow. The President has kept the list to himself to foreclose any leakage. Sources said President Buhari had audience with Lawan on his vision for the nation and his ministerial nominees. It was gathered that the President reviewed the last four years and was displeased that the 8th National Assembly hampered his administration. “Buhari actually repeated his determination to leave legacies in the next four years and he asked Lawan to ensure that he gets the required cooperation from the lawmakers,” some of the sources said. “He (Buhari) said he is ready to present his list of ministerial nominees to the Senate for confirmation in line with his agenda to really work on a fast pace this time around. “Lawan, who assured him of the cooperation of both chambers, advised Buhari to look for capable hands that will help him to fulfil his desire to leave sustainable legacies after two terms in office. “The President did not reveal any of his nominees to the President of the Senate.” Another source said last night that barring any last minute change, “we are hopeful that the President may send the list to the President of the Senate on Monday.” Continuing, the source said: “Security agencies have worked round the clock to screen and verify the dossiers of some of these nominees. In fact, the names of some of them, suspected to be coming on party basis, were sent for verification from the database of APC. “There is anxiety within the party, among ex-ministers and some associates of the President because no one is sure of those to be appointed by the President. “Buhari still keeps the list to himself and he has cautioned against any leak of the list. It is this secrecy that has heightened the jostle to be in the cabinet.” When contacted, a presidential aide: “As to your enquiries on the cabinet, I don’t have any information on that.” Section 147(1-3), provides that the President has to run his government with at least 36 ministers at one each per state. The section reads:   “There shall be such offices of Ministers of the Government of the Federation as may be established by the President. “Any appointment to the office of Minister of the Government of the Federation shall, if the nomination of any person to such office is confirmed by the Senate, be made by the President. “Any appointment under subsection (2) of this section by the President shall be in conformity with the provisions of section 14(3) of this Constitution: “Provided that in giving effect to the Provisions aforesaid the President shall appoint at least one Minister from each state, who shall be an indigene of such state.”