As a way of tapping from the wealth of experience of people who helped to actualise his governorship ambition, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state on Friday inaugurated a 10-member Council to help provide expertise advice in policy formulation and implementation when the need arises. The committee, christened the Oyo State Advisory Council, inaugurated at the Executive Council Chambers of the Governor’s office, Agodi, Ibadan on Friday is chaired by the former Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Senator Hosea Agboola. The brief ceremony was also attended by dignitaries, including the deputy governor, Rauf Olaniyan; Deputy Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Abiodun Fadeyi, who represented the Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin; Justice Moshood Abass from the state high court; Chief of Staff to the governor, Bisi Ilaka; and Head of Service, Mrs. Amidst Agboola Members of the council, who also witnessed the inauguration include former chairperson, Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu; former Majority Leader, House of Representatives, Mulikat Adeola-Akande; a legal luminary, Chief Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN); former Head of Service in the state, Prince Samson Laoye; a chieftain of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Jacob Adetoro; former member of the House of Representatives, Kamil Akinlabi; and Prof Kolapo Hamzat. But three other members of the committee, including former secretary to the state government, Sarafadeen Alli, and Mr. Joseph Olaitan were not in attendance. The absence of Alli might have confirmed the fears in some quarters that the former Oyo SSG rejected being a member of the advisory council when the idea was first muted to him. The Governor at the occasion noted that he decided on the initiative, been the first of its kind in the history of the state because he felt it necessary to have men with vast knowledge in various fields of endeavours in the affairs of the state. Relating the idea to that of advisory boards as found in corporate organisations making waves in their areas of interest, Governor Makinde reiterated that the appointment of the members was never politically motivated as being insinuated. Many political observers had expressed fears in the sincerity of the formation of the Council noting that it was to ‘cage’ perceived opponents that might want to contest the governorship seat with the incumbent come 2023.
Continue on Page 2