PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari yesterday met with the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors’ Forum at the State House, Abuja. But the governors said the issue of the ministerial list was not part of their discussion with the President, who they maintained has the prerogative to assemble members of his cabinet. The President, the Forum said, should appoint whosoever he wishes. Kebbi State Governor Atiku Bagudu, who doubles as the Forum’s deputy chairman, told State House reporters at the end of their parley with the President that the constitution of Buhari’s cabinet was not discussed. Four members of the party – two senators and House of Representatives members – emerged as presiding officers during the inauguration of the Ninth Senate on June 11. According to Bagudu, the Paris Club refund, the budget support fund and the refund for money expended by states on federal roads, were on the agenda. He said: “This morning (yesterday), Mr. President graciously granted audience to Progressive Governors Forum (PGF). We came to congratulate him on the National Assembly elections and thank him for the confidence he had in the PGF members who participated actively in all the processes that led to the emergence of Senator Ahmed Lawan as Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege as Deputy Senate President, Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker (House of Representatives) and Ahmed Wase as Deputy Speaker. “Furthermore, we used the opportunity to thank Mr. President in all he has been doing and all the successes recorded in the areas which he campaigned upon and, by extension, our party, which are security, economy and accountability. “We are quite happy with his support for states where close to N2 trillion was given to states in form of restructuring of loans, refund on federal roads, refund for Paris Club, which has helped encourage economic activities in the states, payment of salaries, payment of pensions, payment of gratuities and overall investment by infrastructural spending. “We are also appreciative of increased investment in agriculture, which has been because of conscious decision to support agriculture as a way out of economic challenges and provide economic growth. “We also congratulate Mr. President that despite drop in incomes, the value for money that he insists upon has begun to pay off in terms of more security across the country even though some challenges still remain; he is working hard on that with sincerity.” Bagudu added: “Last and not the least, we offer to work with Mr. President continuously to ensure that we increase economic performance, security of our country and social cohesion.” He also said that the PGF thanked President Buhari for celebrating the Democracy Day, which was consistent with his promise. The governor said that it was a measure of his democratic ideals that an issue so important to many Nigerians has been finally addressed. He said: “Well, we, as progressive governors, will push so that legislation and cooperation between states and federal government will intensify. We will be more active during investments in all areas that can provide employment and incomes will rapidly increase. “We will collaborate more to ensure that security is enhanced, particularly when it involves state borders.” At the meeting were Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti State);  Yahaya Bello (Kogi); Godwin Obaseki (Edo); Dapo Abiodun (Ogun); Babagana Zulum (Borno); Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos); Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano); Simon Lalong (Plateau); Gboyega Oyetola (Osun); Mai-Mala Buni (Yobe); and Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa). 