The youth arm of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Akwa Ibom has slammed the state government as well as council chairmen in the state for opposing financial autonomy for the third tier of government. The youths under the aegis of APC Youth Caucus stated their position following a suit jointly filed by the state government and the 31 council chairmen opposing the decision to channel funds directly to local governments in the country. State Chairman of APC Youths Caucus, Obong Iniobong John said youths of the party are dismayed and disappointed by the dismayed by the state government’s conspiracy with council chairmen to truncate development at the grassroots. In a statement obtained by Iniobong youths of the party, said, ”The evil conspiracy between the Akwa Ibom state Government and the local government chairmen against the autonomy granted the local government by the APC federal government and to us, it is absurdity of the highest order. ”At this juncture, we like to know the fears and interests of the state government. Is it that the state government can’t function without controlling local government funds?. ”We understand that the local government chairmen were well  “appreciated ” by the state government to sign against their freedom or autonomy. To say that they are hypocrites and sycophants is an understatement. ”This is the first time we’ve seen how someone was paid by his slave master to sign against his freedom. It is really absurd”, the statement said. Youths of the APC further said,  ”the suit by the Akwa Ibom state Government and the local government chairmen against local government autonomy is the height of open display of disdain for accountability and grassroots development which was the primary essence of the local government system. ”Any local government chairman who says he or she is not competent and capable of controlling and managing funds accruing to his or her Council should resign immediately. It shows he or she never had any plans to develop his or her area”, it said. The APC warned the state governor take his eyes and mind off the local government funds, adding that ”we want to be holding the local government chairmen accountable for the  lack of development at the grassroots”. 