Not all successful men were born with silver spoon in their mouths. Some struggled to become prominent in their lives. One of them is former Bayelsa State House of Assembly Speaker Kombowei Benson, who rose to prominence after selling pepper, onions and tomatoes to pay his school fees. MIKE ODIEGWU met him. Most people believe that the immediate past Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Hon. Kombowei Benson was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. But Benson came from a humble background. He walked the creeks, paddled canoes, working and sweating profusely to rise to prominence. Born in far-flung Korokorosie in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, Benson weathered the storms, overcame challenges and obstacles thrown at him by life. First, his survival instinct made him realise the importance of healthy competition to progressive living. “I did not just come into the office of the Speaker without paying many prices. From my youth and after my secondary school education in Government Secondary School Okubie, I knew the importance of competitive lifestyle. I was a football player in my secondary school days and after my secondary education, I was involved in communal and inter-communal football matches. “So, I was a frontline player, one of the 11 players of my community called the Olode Lions. The spirit of sportsmanship in football is always exhibited in whatever I am doing. In fact, after his secondary school, Benson, who shared his experience with the Niger Delta Report said life became tougher. He recalled: “Even after my secondary school, there was nobody that was willing to train me. I remained in the village. I was only employed in 1983 where I worked for only one month because of the fraud in the Ministry of Education for which I was dropped. “I stayed in the village doing all kinds of menial jobs. I engaged in many menial jobs such as cutting of woods and oil palm milling (because we had agric. palm plantation). So, I did that to feed my wife and the family. Again, there was a kind of contribution five of my brothers did. Each contributed N200 to raise the sum of N1, 000 for me. I had to use that N1, 000 to travel to Warri in Delta State on a big wooden boat, sleeping two nights on the river; going one night and coming back another night. “Between 1989 and 1991, I went there to buy garri, pepper, onions and other things that the table could accommodate. I will then sell to the villagers. I was and is still a trader”. Indeed, Benson’s engagements in football competition, his trading finesse and social interactions made him a household name in Southern Ijaw. He owned a shop at Oporoma, the headquarters of the local government area, which was also the meeting point of political and community leaders. Little wonder he rose to occupy his first political office. “I became a councillor in 1992”, he said. He tried two times before he was able to emerge victorious in the councillorship polls. His victory was a product of doggedness and never-say-die spirit. After his councillorship experience, Benson reverted to his buying and selling business. Recalling one of his business trips, he said: “There were many businesses I did after my councillorship experience. They included selling of ogbono which I took to Kano without knowing anybody in Kano. “I had to come back the same day after the business trip. We had to stand from Kano to Onitsha as there was no seat except what they called attachment. That was how I managed until I came to Agbor. It was in Agbor I had a seat, but we were already close to Yenagoa. But Benson’s performance as a councillor catapulted him to a higher political office. He was elected the Chairman of Southern Ijaw Local Government Area. On how he achieved that feat, he said: “I became a full time trader after being in office as a councillor until another election period. I contested from the GDM and won the election as the Executive Chairman of Southern Ijaw Local Government Area. I stayed in office until General Sani Abacha died. We were thrown out of office and I decided to relocate to Yenagoa. So, since 1998, I have been in Yenagoa. “When I came to Yenagoa, I went into trading again. I was one of the earliest petroleum dealers because as at then there was no petrol station in the area until one Sobaz established a filling station at Ekeki and so the petroleum market was no longer favourable. I tried as much as possible to raise a filling station. The filling station got to a particular level and I became insolvent. Therefore, the trading business became something else. I was off and on”. But Benson’s dream to own a filling station became a reality later. With determination, he was able to build his first filling station along the Isaac Boro Expressway. Despite the challenges and having won all his two elective positions with his school certificate, the former Speaker’s still longed for education. This compelled him to return to school. In fact, going back to school was a tough decision. Benson said: “My academic life was very rough and taxing. Even after my local government chairmanship, I still did not have the wherewithal. I was already training my younger ones in school. But I said, ‘now that my younger brothers are going to school, if I don’t do anything now that I am ageing, anything can happen and I may not have the opportunity to go to school again’. “There were schools that offer distance learning courses. I had to enroll in one of them. It was my uncle that also persuaded me to go back to school. He even bought the forms for me. I started going to the distance learning classes in the University of Calabar. So, we were made to write some of the examinations here and then we were also made to go to the main campus to write other examinations. “Thereafter, I enrolled at the Akwa Ibom Polytechnics that had come to open a branch at Biogbolo in Yenagoa. So, I earned my Higher National Diploma (HND) in Public Administration. I did not stop there. There was another institution that was here, the Institute of Public Administration and Management from the Obafemi Awolowo University. I had to write that examination for my Post-graduate Diploma PGD and that was the year I was already elected into the office as a member of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly. “After my PGD in 2007, I began planning for my doctorate degree programme. I wanted to be addressed as ‘Doctor Benson’. So, I enrolled for my Master’s degree in Public Administration at the Delta State University. Thereafter, I had to pursue the PhD programme at the Imo State University (IMSU).  I studied hard and attended lectures for all my certificates because I know I will do a disservice to myself if I can’t defend my certificates. “By God’s grace, I was awarded the PhD degree. But it was not easy going back to school. I recall that in my HND before I was elected into the House of Assembly, I had a very serious challenge in terms of payment of school fees. This is the reason why I try to support school children. I feel their pains because I passed through that process. “I had the problem of paying my school fees during my secondary education. During my HND programme, two of my younger brothers and one of my sisters were in the university and all of them were under my care. So, I could not meet up with payment of my school fees at a time we were writing examinations and I was sent out of the examination hall. “Maka Yoros, who was also a member of the civil service commission and I stayed outside. They asked us to leave the examination hall; we waited until those who had paid their school fees finished writing their examinations. When they were about closing, the examiner called us and said we could go in to write for thirty minutes. So, we had 10 minutes to answer each question. It was very challenging. But by God’s grace, I didn’t have any carry over. It was my greatest challenge while in school.” Indeed, while pursuing his academic interests, Benson also followed up his political ambition. Following his grassroots political experience; having served as a councillor and as an executive chairman, he was elected to represent the Southern Ijaw Constituency 4 in the state Assembly. He remained in that position till the last general elections when he contested the Southern Ijaw Federal Constituency and lost to his rival at the All Progressives Congress (APC) in an alleged controversial circumstance. Believing that his mandate was stolen, Benson had since filed a suit at the tribunal to retrieve his mandate.