With the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second four year term of office, all eyes are now focused on the National Assembly. The big question now is who emerges Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Ninth National Assembly. President Buhari is expected to issue the proclamation for the inauguration of the Ninth National Assembly any time this week, it was learnt. Findings showed that the two front line contenders for the Senate Presidency, Senator Ahmad Lawan and Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume, have increased the tempo of their campaign and lobbying of their colleagues to clinch the exalted position. A competent source in Lawan’s camp told our reporter yesterday that “efforts of Lawan campaign organization to convince more senators and senators-elect to key into the Lawan for Senate President project, have been yielding tremendous results.” He referred to the open declaration of support for Lawan by Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senator, as a telling example. More PDP senators including a former governor from Abia State, he said, were warming up to declare support for Lawan this week. Ndume is also said to be “moving steadily” to get more senators on his side. A source close to the Borno South senator confirmed that Ndume held a close door meeting with Senator Mohammed Danjuma Goje last week. Although the source refused to say the out come of the meeting, he described it as “strategic” and “not unconnected with Ndume’s move to gain the support of more senators.” Findings showed that the two front liners have stepped up their games, leaving no stone unturned in their bids to carry the day. Senator Goje was rumoured to be in the race for the Senate Presidency. However less than two weeks to the inauguration and election of the presiding officers of the National Assembly, the Gombe Central senator has not declared his intention to run for the position. The insinuation making the rounds is that Goje may have “quietly jettisoned the idea to go for the Senate Presidency.” It is not clear why Goje may wish to withdrew from the race. Speaking on the emergence of presiding officers of the Ninth Senate, Chairman, Senate Committee on Labour and Productivity, Senator Abu Ibrahim, said that it is unfair to say that President Muhammadu Buhari should not have interest in who becomes the next Senate President. Ibrahim said that it is in the interest of President Buhari to find someone he could work with harmoniously although he may not openly campaign for the person. He said that the President is not barred from making preference especially when the National needed competent leadership. The Katsina South Senator also said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) must come in to zone positions, which it had done. He added, “The issue of imposition is misunderstood. If someone is recommended, he must be elected by the senators on the floor. The only thing is that people have to subject themselves to the principles of their parties. “Anybody conniving with PDP should be expelled. The party has done everything for you, so you should be expelled.” 