Even though the old saying goes “when you know, you know,” there are certain signs that it’s time to pop the question that you should look for. Here are ways to ensure she wants you to propose. 1. She talks about your future together: This is one of the biggest signs your girlfriend wants to take your relationship to the “next step” and get engaged. If she constantly talks about your life together, possibly including buying a house, having children, moving somewhere, etc., she can definitely see a future with you and her being so open about this probably means that she wants you to propose. 2. She brings you to every family gathering: If you two get married, you will officially become a part of each other’s family. If your girlfriend has been thinking about getting married, she’s probably made efforts to invite you to her family get-togethers. She wants her family to get to know you and vice-versa because she knows that if you get married, you’ll be part of this family! If your girlfriend is obviously pushing to include you in her family, this could be a sign that she wants you to officially join the family, meaning she wants you to propose. 3. She starts the ‘baby’ talk, even if on a lighter note: This is one topic that even some married couples struggle to address. If your girlfriend randomly drops hints about how she likes babies or shares about her ideas of motherhood, it means she is comfortable talking about children with you. Remember, motherhood is not an easy topic to talk about with anyone unless a woman is comfortable with the person. 4. She drops hints about how her friends are getting married: Does your girl keeps reminding you about her married friends and frequently expresses how happy she is for them? This might be a good sign that she looks at marriage with a positive attitude and takes inspiration from her married friends. It’s time to fetch the ring if she is surrounded by married couples and she loves spending time with them. 5. She tells you: If she’s ready to get engaged, not all signs your girlfriend gives you will necessarily be “indirect.” In fact, she might just be straight-forward and tell you that she really wants to get engaged to you. This “sign” is difficult to misinterpret – there’s really no denying that she wants you to propose.