Of the last-minute theatrics displayed by the then outgoing governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, the most bizarre and grotesque was the installation of 75 traditional rulers on a whim. Never in the history of this great state has such level of desecration of traditional institution taken place. Amosun distributed Obaship titles like confetti. It is important to note the press report which indicated Amosun’s Obas were being installed on a daily basis – his own brand of departure gift to the poor masses in our rural communities – up to the last few hours of his exit from power on May 29. You woke up in the morning and thought about the next tantrums to throw. You descended on the sacred traditional institution and upset the apple cart. One cannot but agree with the current governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, for describing the queer action of his predecessor as “unprecedented in the history of our traditional institution” and his desire to retrieve the highly revered Obaship institution from disrepute to which it had been plunged by the sacrilege committed by the former governor. The Ogun State House of Assembly must be commended for its resolution “suspending all traditional rulers appointed and promoted from February, till May 28, during the last minutes of Governor Amosun.” So much has been remarked in recent times on the monumental waste of the scarce resources of Ogun State on 15 model schools (or were they 25?) that littered the woods of the state. Each of the school was said to have been built at a cost of over N1 billion, yet only one of them is partly functioning while the others are left to the mercy of the elements, reptiles and area boys. It is haunting to observe that while the waste on model schools was going on, Amosun, allegedly, was paying his political appointees half salaries and owing the civil servants pension and cooperative deductions. But more regrettable to the private residents like me who manage their own businesses and pay tax to the coffers of Ogun State government is that such colossal amount of money should have gone into renovating the dilapidated public schools that litter the entire nooks and crannies of our state. But a greater harm that befell the education sector can be viewed from the prism of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY) which the ex-governor purportedly converted to Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology (MAUTECH) without the wherewithal to nurture the new institution. It is instructive to note the media reports that while the ex-governor was busy converting, on paper, MAPOLY to MAUTECH, the staff of Tai Solarin College of Education were being owed 24 months’ salaries! When you consider the fact that MAPOLY, then Ogun State Polytechnic, had produced many leading lights in this country and  was probably the most flourishing institution, being able to substantially generate and pay its staff’s salaries as and when due, the disruption caused by Amosun’s misadventure is most galling. The former governor, by his decision, crippled MAPOLY and for two years, the students could not advance in their studies; no new intake and salaries of workers could not be paid. Amosun’s thoughtless policy killed MAPOLY, a once flourishing institution. Therefore, one was pleased to read from ThisDay, a news report indicating that “Dapo Abiodun has ordered that the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta should revert its activities to the way things were before with full activities restored. Governor Abiodun also set up a committee to see to the operational modalities of the Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology, Abeokuta and that of the Ogun State Polytechnic, Ipokia. According to report, the former governor of Ogun State, Sen. Ibikunle Amosun, had introduced a policy that replaced MAPOLY with Ogun Poly, Ipokia and created MAUSTECH, which led to controversies and protests by both lecturers and students before completing his tenure. However, Governor Abiodun has stated that his directive would remain until the committee determined the way forward for the institutions. Abiodun made this known on Sunday through a statement issued in Abeokuta by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin. The governor said the development became necessary due to the fact that the state-owned MAPOLY had been in comatose since MAUSTECH and Ogun State Polytechnic were created. ‘As a responsible government, we cannot fold our arms and allow the situation to continue. We cherish human capital development…’” There appears to be so much mess for Abiodun to clear. The pictures of the derelict state of Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) that I saw a few weeks ago made me to break down in tears. I had read in the papers that the former governor was attempting to build a 250-bed specialist hospital and that work was already in progress just before May 29. I never believed the story because I knew the state hospital in Ijaiye, right at the heart of the state capital, Abeokuta, was in shambles. Little did I know that the state’s university teaching hospital in Sagamu was itself in ruins. Most of the Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the state, which are closer to the masses, are empty of medical facilities. It is good to read in the papers the new governor will focus on reviving the PHCs. One should not even mention here for lack of space the daily harrowing experiences of residents of Igbesa, Atan-Agbara, where the former governor  claimed to generate N7 billion (???) Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) monthly yet the roads have been in tatters for years nor our agonies at Ishasi-Akute due to abandoned projects of the ex-governor! I pity Dapo Abiodun. One can only pray for God to grant him the grace to do his best, as the challenges are so enormous. But so far, he’s on the right track and we hope the interest of the downtrodden will continue to be uppermost on his mind throughout his term in office. 