Sir: This may turn out to be the most unpopular piece coming out of Enugu State in recent times because it carries the force of bitter truth that many may not want to hear. Indeed, with the quantum of praises streaming into Enugu government house, it amounts to navigating against the tide to ask the above question. Some may wonder aloud where my courage and audacity came from. I make bold to say that my courage came from desperation to stay alive. I am making a case for the numerous retired primary school teachers of Enugu State whose retirement benefits are being denied. We must not forget that these retired teachers have earned this money. And so, it is their right and not privilege. God provided for them when in his infinite mercies, guided them through 35 years in good health and strength, rendering invaluable services to this state. They have earned these benefits but they are being denied. I am not sure the present governor of this state is aware of this man’s inhumanity to man, but I am sure that God hears the cries of these old men and women as they groan under the weight of sickness, hunger, lack and poverty. I am also aware that the huge debts involved was not accumulated by the present government of the state alone, but I am also aware that he inherited both assets and liabilities on assumption of office. Can anybody justifiably adduce any reason(s) why successive government officials in this state should use their positions to deal so ruthlessly with the teachers who helped to actualize their dreams in life? It is curious to observe that some teachers’ pensions are owed for up to 36 months and gratuity in arrears of twelve years and above. This is a desperate cry of a helpless man who has problems money can solve but none is available. This has nothing to do with opposition.  I am crying out because I am involved. I cry for I have problems money can solve. These unpaid pensions and gratuity are the reasons we endured for 35 years working under the most unfriendly and unfavourable conditions while doing the most invaluable and indispensable job for humanity. Nobody advances educationally without primary education. I stand to be contradicted. I call on every well-meaning members of the larger Nigerian society for prayers for these retired teachers and local government staff of Enugu State for God’s grace for survival.  Our governor is too kind hearted to allow this. I guess he does not know the true situation as far as this problem is concerned. 