Nigerian gospel singer Yinka Ayefele has debunked the rumour of welcoming a set of triplets with his wife, Temitope. The music star made this known via his Instagram page @yinkaayefele on Thursday June 6, where he asked fans and followers to ignore the rumour. “Fake News, Fake Pictures. That picture was taken seven years ago during my younger brothers naming at music house in Ibadan. “Thank you all for wishing me well and I claim it in Jesus name,” he wrote. The gospel singer said it was a rumour that his wife gave birth to triplets as reported on social media. His manager, David Ajiboye also confirmed that the news going around were just rumours in a mail sent to Pulse. Ajiboye categorically debunked the news, stressing that Ayefele is in the United States with his ailing mother while his wife, Temitope is in Nigeria. “We left Nigeria for the United States on Monday. While Yinka Ayefele, his mum and younger brother, Laolu headed to Maryland to give their mum better medical care. Ayefele’s wife, Temitope is holding forte back in Nigeria,” the mail read. The talented gospel singer has been releasing albums ever since 1998 and his music has become so popular that the man was awarded the cultural ambassador in Ekiti. The music star releases one album every year and sometimes even two albums which made him outstanding in his career. The year 2009 to 2016 were marked by the release of new studio albums with Yinka Ayefele music, which include Transformation, Everlasting Grace, Prayer Point, Goodness of God, Comforter, Overcomer, Upliftment etc. In 2017, there was the album titled Living Testimony and the song went viral. The gospel music artiste is really incredible because the man sings in different languages, including English, Yoruba, Igbo, and Hausa. The singer got married to Temitope Titilope in 2000. The talented Nigerian gospel singer is now a businessman and has over 200 awards for his musical talent and millions of fans who truly love his songs The 51- year- old renowned singer’s music radio station was demolished recently and Nigerians reacted to it.