NEMA has received another batch of  137 stranded Nigerians from Libya which brought the total number of assisted voluntary returnees to 14,036 from 10 different countries since April, 2017 when the European Union  and International Organization  for Migration special programme commenced. The Coordinator, NEMA Lagos Territorial Office, Alh Idris Muhammed who received the Returnees on behalf of the Federal Government disclosed that 94 male adults, three male children and three male infants are among the new returnees while 34 female adults, one female child and  two female infants. The Returnees were brought back to Nigeria via a charter flight with Al Buraq airline with registration number MVTBRQ189/20.5A- WAC.MJIAD1505/15   landed at the Cargo Wing of Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos. about 8:20 p.m on Thursday night. On arrival, the Coordinator enjoined the Returnees to make better use of the opportunities they have upon their return to the country to forge ahead and tap into various government enabling facilities that are aimed at empowering every Nigerians to be successful in life. Out of the total 14,036 Returnees repatriated so far, those brought back from Libya amounted to 12,457 while Niger, Mali, Burkina Faso, Ireland, France, Gambia, Austria, Poland, Morocco and Liberia share had various minimal number of Nigerians brought back purely a facilitated by IOM. Meanwhile, the analysis on the total number that have been brought back indicates that 465 males and 408 females amongst those brought back have Psychosocial related needs. Also, 454 males and 618 females are having various degree of medical needs. The analysis further indicates that there were 61 males and 61 females Unaccompanied Minors who had been reunited with their relations. There are 37 pregnant women brought back so far in the course of the exercise. The Coordinator while receiving the Returnees expressed Federal Government gratitude for humanitarian gestures of the EU/IOM intervention in aid of the Stranded Nigerians. 