The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has charged local and foreign investors to invest in LPG cylinder plants in the country. The agency said this is coming on the heels of the recent commissioning of Techno Oil Limited’s LPG manufacturing plant by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo who stated that the present administration is planning to achieve over 5million metric of domestic, commercial and industrial LPG utilisation in 10 years. Representing the Director General, SON, , the Director, Compliance, SON, Engr. Obiora Manafa, said SON is in the business to ensure that goods and services produced in the country meet global best standards, while also calling for both local and foreign investments into the sector to bring down importation of LPG cylinders to the barest minimum. He added that investment in setting up LPG manufacturing plants will not only reduce dependence on imports, saying that it will also create job opportunities for the nation’s teeming unemployed youths. He noted that efforts of SON’s enforcement and certification programmes have seen an increase in the usage of LPG gas cylinders, stressing that consumers are now sure of the quality of LPG cylinders in the nation. He said SON was with Techno from the beginning of the project till the commissioning, adding that this was to ensure SON improve lives through quality assurance. The SON boss disclosed that efforts have been intensified to subject LPG Cylinders to laboratory tests and analysis to confirm their conformity, stressing that if these cylinders fail critical safety parameters on construction, performance and markings they will be seized and destroyed. He commended Techno Oil Limited for the launch of the LPG plant, stating that the plant can measure up with other LPG plants in the world Also speaking, the Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Techno Oil Limited, Mrs. Nkechi Obi, appreciated the commitment and support of the standards body from the beginning of its ultramodern LPG cylinder plant commissioned recently by the Vice President, Prof. Osinbajo in Epe, Lagos. “We cannot thank SON enough. We pledge our resolve to continue to work with SON for the good of the industry,” she said. “We are also thankful to the Lagos State government for being a worthy host by providing the much appreciated conducive environment for our business,” she said.