Opera, one of the world’s major browser developers, and a leader in the field of content platforms, presented Tuesday the report on State of Mobile Web 2019, which gives a detailed look at the digital landscape of the African region. The report reveals that in Q1-2019, the Opera browsers and stand-alone news app were used by nearly 120 million internet users in Africa and by more than 350 million people globally. Moreover, the State of Mobile Web 2019 shows that Opera experienced a user growth of more than twenty five percent over a one-year period. “We are thrilled to see that our mobile browsers and news app has grown by 25 million monthly users in the last year in Africa” said Jørgen Arnesen, Head of Marketing and Distribution at Opera. “The new Opera News app has led this positive growth, as well as the introduction of new features to our mobile browsers such as a built-in VPN and crypto wallet. The successful partnerships Opera has with major smartphone manufacturers in Africa have also contributed to the massive growth.” The 2019 edition of the State of the Mobile Web report also looked into the use of the Opera Mini browser and the Opera browser for Android. The State of Mobile Web 2019 report shows that mobile browsing is one of the most popular activities among African internet users. For example, in South Africa, nine out of ten people use their mobile browser every day, an activity they prefer over the use of other applications. State of Mobile Web 2019 also revealed that on average, Africans using Opera spend more than 30 minutes browsing on a daily basis. Moreover, the report showed that 31% of browsing sessions of people who use Opera Mini in Africa in Q1-2019, are to social media platform domains like Facebook, YouTube and Instagram, followed by search engine websites like Google and entertainment and sport websites. Opera’s commitment to the African digital transformation has already started. Beyond the development of its mobile browsers and standalone news app, Opera has made major investments in the African region expanding its services to other technology areas such as FinTech and digital advertising. In 2018, Opera announced the launch of OKash, a fintech solution for micro-lending that quickly got traction among mobile internet users in Kenya. Today, OKash ranks among the most downloaded micro-lending applications among Kenyans and its user base keeps on growing. Also, in May 2019, Opera announced the introduction of Opera Ads, a new advertising platform that allows media agencies and publishers to run more targeted marketing campaigns across the Opera platforms. The full version of the report can be read via this opera online http://blogs.opera.com/new­s  