The hope of every pregnant woman is to have a safe delivery. But on Monday, June 10, heavily pregnant Amina Salisu was faced with two options: run for her life with her near-to-term pregnancy or wait behind in Kwaki village where she lived with her husband and children and fall victim to the bandits that had invaded her village. She chose the first option and damned the possibility of losing her fetus. For her, it is better to lose the unborn baby than lose her own life. Amina ended up running for about five hours from Kwaki to Chikuba with her pregnancy in her bid to escape the bullets of the invaders. Recounting her ordeal in a chat with our correspondent, Amina said she had to run because nobody would wait for herwhile the merciless bandits were in hot chase. “Any attempt to wait, I would be dead,” she said. However, her escape soon became a mixed grill of sadness and joy. After running for about five hours, she could no longer feel the baby in her belly moving. “As we stopped at Chikuba to rest, I could no longer feel the baby moving and I started feeling pains,” she recalled. According to the medical team at the IDP camp in Erena, she gave birth to a still born at the Kuta General Hospital. A nurse, who spoke with The Nation at the hospital, said Amina was put under observation when she was brought in and had to be referred to the General Hospital for further investigation and urgent medical attention. Amina attributed the loss of her baby, which would have been her seventh child, to the stress of running for many hours without a rest. “It was the stress that made me to have a still born. If the incident had not occurred, my baby would be alive,” she said.  Other victims relive experiences Rebecca Lado was luckier. She escaped the rampaging bandits and still made a safe delivery of her baby. But she said she would have loved to give birth at home instead of the IDP (internally displaced persons) camp where she was delivered of a baby. She said: “I had prepared everything that was needed for the arrival of my first baby. Everything was set. I even had an appointment to go to the hospital to put to bed. Although I am very okay and my baby is fine, I am not happy that I gave birth in this IDP camp. My initial plan was to make the birth of my first baby very special.” The Director of the Primary Healthcare Centre in Shiroro Local Government Area, Musa Idris Aliyu, said the medical team had had four successful deliveries, two miscarriages and one still birth in camp since the IDPs began to stay there. He also said about 513 people had received medical treatment from the medical team in the IDP camp in Erena since they arrived the camp. He said: “The total number of patients treated to date is 513. We had four deliveries, one stillbirth and two miscarriages. My team and I have put in our best to provide the best medical attention for the victims of bandit attacks. Bandits’ attacks on eight communities in Shiroro Local Government Area, which occurred on Sunday and Monday, 8th and 9th of June, left scores of people dead, several injured and villages deserted for fear of the return of the bandits.  Vengeful attack The attack had begun on Sunday June 9, 2019 when the bandits first attacked Kwaki community in the wee hours before proceeding to Ajayi-Kwaki where they raided the community and rustled cattle. But the youths in Kwaki did not allow them to complete their mission as they intercepted them and prevented the bandits from making away with some of the animals. This did not go down well with the bandits who vowed to return to complete their mission. This they did in a vengeful and deadly manner, killing and shooting whoever they met and going into other villages to continue their deadly mission. The villages affected included Kwaki, Barden Dawaki, Ajatayi Gwassa, Ajayin Bataro, Bwailo, Baton village and Giji village. The bandits did not only attack the villages, they also ransacked homes and rustled over 800 cattle. The villagers claimed to have seen a helicopter hovering minutes before the incident. They also claimed that other previous but minor attacks had been preceded with a helicopter hovering in the same manner.  Heartbroken widows, wounded children At the IDP camp, 42 women were in grief after losing their husbands during the attacks. They wondered how they would face life when they return to their villages. Although none of them could speak on account of their grief as any attempt they made to speak ended in weeping and wailing, it was clear that they had lost their treasured ones. The bereaved women were kept in a room where people visited to sympathise with them. Children were not left out of the injured. A lot of them were spotted with bandages and plasters on different parts of their bodies. The most pronounced was that of five-year-old Ibrahim Isiaku, who was seen writhing in pains at the time our correspondent visited the camp. With a serious fracture on his leg, he was asleep when the reporter arrived the camp. Ibrahim would later wake up with a scream obviously from the pains emanating from his fractured legs. All the efforts his distraught mother made to pet him back to sleep were in vain as he continued to cry. Heard that the bandits were returning to the village, everyone, including the children, tried to flee. “But as Ibrahim was trying to flee together with his friends, there was a stampede and they all fell on him. He fell down and broke his legs in the process. We had to carry him all the way to safety.” The IDP Camp in Erena is a primary school of eight blocks. Two of the blocks were used as  clinics and wards for the injured. Another of the blocks was used as a store. One other was used for storing the utensils used for cooking in the camp while the remaining ones served as sleeping quarters. Some of the displaced persons were said to be staying with their friends and relations in Erena.  No place like home Some of the survivors, who spoke with our correspondent, however, said they were tired of staying in the camp and would love to return home. They said although they had everything they needed in the camp, they were already missing their homes. They asked government to expedite action in flushing out the bandits and providing security cover to enable them return home. The Erena community has been most helpful to the survivors, especially those that stay in the camp. While the men in the community donated foodstuffs to the IDPs, the women took it upon themselves to render services like cooking and keeping the camp clean for the IDPs who were still smarting from the shocking attack. One of the good Samaritans, Lamude Abubakar, said she had been in the IDP camp since Tuesday, June 10, helping them to cook. She said: “I live in this community. When I saw that they had set up a camp here, I decided to come and help them to cook. Apart from cooking, I help in sweeping, washing plates and serving food. I am doing this because I see that they are not in the right conditions to do these things by themselves.” Another of the helpers, Sherrifat Shittu,said: “We are here to help them. We are all from Erena. We feel sorry for them. And since we know that we cannot help them get what they have lost, we are helping them the little way we can, believing that this will go a long way in encouraging them.”  3,000 displaced persons in camps Giving the statistics of the IDP camp, the Camp Secretary, Alhaji Yahuza Isah Erena, said in the Erena camp, there were close to 3,000 people, including 900 males, 1104 females; they include 42 widows and 150 nursing mothers, and 863 children. He said that other camps like Galadima Gogo had 87 IDPs, Zumba had 130 IDPs while Gwada had 132 IDPs. The Acting Director General of the Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Abdullahi Tanko Zumba, said that 24 injured persons were still receiving treatment, adding that the people had enough food and non-food materials provided by the government, the community and other concerned stakeholders.  The way out Some of the villagers have told the government to investigate a hideout they claimed was harbouring the bandits. They want the government to take action by raiding the hideout. Mohammed Kabir said the hideout is a government-owned games reserve called Kwangama Games Reserve, which he said had been abandoned for years. He said: “This is the place where the people hide before they attack. What we want the government to do is to clear them off the games reserve and release it for farmers to farm on it. That will keep them out of the place.” Niger State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, during a visit to the IDP camp, assured the people of adequate security arrangement for their safety, adding that they would soon leave the camp to return to their normal  activities. He said that troops had been dispatched to the villages and tasked with ensuring maximum security of the area. He said: “We will beef up security in the contiguous areas. Unfortunately, access to these areas is almost impossible because it is mostly marshy and rocky. But we have been able to send security personnel there so that the local people can go back to their various homes. “I have spoken to a few of them and I understand their fear. They are scared to go back home and I do not blame them for being scared. But I think we have sent enough troops to these communities to provide adequate security for the time being. “We are doing our best to make sure they go back home, as we look at the comprehensive plan for providing more security.”