The Olojo of Ojo, Oba Galib Adeniyi Rufai has called on the Chief of Army Staff Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai, to call his men in Ojo to order. Oba Rufai told The Nation yesterday that the soldiers are debarring the community from accessing the land close to the Ojo barrack. According to him, the community has donated the land to Lagos State Government for the proposed general hospital. He said the administration of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode approved the proposal and included the fund for its construction in the 2019 budget. The monarch said he was surprised learning that the soldiers are chasing away people who went to prepare the land for the construction of the hospital. “The land is ours and it is not part of the areas acquired by the government for the army barrack. It is unfortunate that the soldiers are debarring our people from accessing it. We do not want trouble having live with them peacefully over the years,” he said. According to the monarch, officials of the state government from ministries of Health and Works, who came for the ground-breaking last Friday, could not hold it on the land because of the soldiers’ hostility. “We had to change the venue to the Ojo Local Government Secretariat. Are the soldiers saying they don’t want the general hospital beside them? This is a project the community has been longing for over the years,” he said. Oba Rufai urged the Chief of Army Staff to wade into the matter, adding that the soldiers are also committing some other atrocities in the area. The Apex leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Ojo Federal Constituency Alhaji Raji Olorunfunmi said the land belongs to the community. “The army had barricaded their barrack with fence since the 80s. The other part of the land belongs to the community. The issue on the land arose from a contractor that wanted to build a Low-Cost Housing Estate on the land. He said the former council chairman gave him the approval four years ago but we told him that we do not want an estate there. We also told the former council chairman that he should desist from giving the land out. He is not from Ojo. Why should he give out the community’s land to a contractor without carrying the owners along? “The matter was reported to the former Deputy Governor and we told her that we want on the land is a general hospital. She promised to discuss it with former Governor Ambode and it was approved by the state government.” Alhaji Olorunfunmi, who is the Lagos APC Assistant Welfare Officer, said the state government has mobilised the contractor to start work.