THAT an exciting week we seem to be having. With many things happening at the same time and in such a dizzying manner, it is a bit difficult for a commentator to catch up and do justice to these contemporary issues. But for experience and duty, he would have been as confused as his audience, who keeps wondering what the hell is going on. But, that is not to say that all the events are important. No. You consider the excitement and the revulsion they have created and wonder why we pay so much attention, knowing that we are never short of oddities and that sardonic feeling that has helped us to waddle through in obviously difficult times. You think about the hysteria and, in some cases, wonder where goes our sense of humour. Take, for instance, the video that hit the social media on Monday or thereabout. There is a grinding traffic jam on a major highway. Nothing unusual about this; we have learnt to live with it and all the discomfort it brings. Passengers disembark to free their legs cramps and ease themselves in the bush. Suddenly, a helicopter shows up overhead, roaring and humming, seeking a space to land. A movie? Not quite. People reach for their mobile phones and begin to record the scene, like excited village kids seeing an aircraft for the first time. The chopper  lands right there on the highway. A passenger hops in. And off flies the chopper. Then the debate. Some, including self-proclaimed aeronautics experts, said a billionaire who felt uncomfortable with the crippling traffic in which his girlfriend had been caught hired the helicopter to fetch her. To back their story, the purveyors of this line threw in the picture of a bearded man in a private jet and claimed that he was the one who sent the chopper. The man’s friends kicked. They said their man had not left Lagos for a while. So, who is the mystery billionaire? Who is the lucky girlfriend? If a girlfriend could get such a royal treatment, how about the wife? Could she have got such a thrilling experience? Is this the first time this has been done? Hasn’t the mystery billionaire taken romance to the “next level”? How much did this exclusive service cost? How did the other people left on the ground to sort themselves out feel as they watched the chopper disappeared into the hot afternoon air? Was this a mere stunt by a crazy moneybag? Didn’t Femi Otedola ride on a Molue, the rugged mass of metals and steel contraption that has been in the service of Lagos commuters for ages? Dear reader, I am sad to report that all these questions are merely postulational. Our reporting skills have, once again, failed us. Thankfully, aviation authorities have announced that the matter is being investigated, even as experts say no wrong has been done as an emergency may have been established. Before the helicopter puzzle could be resolved, another controversy had set the social media on fire. Tonye Cole (remember him? The young businessman whose dream of flying the Rivers APC flag at the last election collapsed like a building with a weak foundation) tweeted Prof Wole Soyinka’s picture on an aircraft, a young man sitting beside him. The young passenger was said to have demanded that Soyinka quit the window seat allotted him by the airline for his (the Prof’s) seat on the aisle. The social media began to rumble. Was the young man right to have asked Kongi to leave his seat? Who is this “insolent” young man? Could he have asked Davido or Naira Marley or Tonto Dikeh (She of the my-man-lasts-45-seconds fame) or Whizkid and others of that clan to quit? Is this a matter of right or what and who is right? An issue of morality, respect for elders, which Africans hold so dearly? Home training? So loud was the noise that it all became a jungle affair, with people hurling abuses at one another. Some said the young man holds a doctorate degree and actually recognised Soyinka (one of the world’s most recognisable figures – Nobel laureate and those glittering white hairs that symbolise many years of struggle, intellect and wisdom), but was only following protocol. Others said, “to hell, all passengers are equal; why will prof not take his allotted seat?” “Will prof not have done the same thing if he were in the young man’s shoes?” Yet, others contrived a reaction, supposedly by the young man. They said he had some medical condition that necessitated his choice of a window seat. In fact, said the purveyors of this “reaction”, the mystery passenger exchanged contacts with Soyinka and promised to keep in touch with him. So, why the noise? Case closed? No. Not yet. Soyinka, in a reply to inquiries from Mo Abudu, the popular television personality, said of the “minor thing”: “I’d forgotten all about it. However, after reading the boy’s response, I became curious. First, I never spoke a word with him throughout beyond inviting him to take his allotted seat. Never spoke a word to him after that. Certainly never exchanged contact. So, of course, I wonder if it’s the very individual who’s posted this or a total fake. The phenomenon of stolen identities takes very strange dimensions and has become a source of worry. I wonder if this is one such. .. .” Tonye Cole we know fairly well. Who  is this “mystery” young man who sparked off this raging dispute in which social media “hyenas”  are tearing at one another, even as some moderate voices are trying to weigh in? Does Tonye-Cole know him? Which airline was involved ? Is there a case of an identity theft? Who made up all the salacious stories about this “minor” incident? Was there a plan to embarrass Soyinka? Why will anybody do that? Again, dear reader, I am sorry to admit that we reporters have failed to resolve this matter, giving room for the sharks and barracudas of the social media to, as usual, sink in their bloody teeth. From the air planes, back to land. The Presidential Elections Petition Tribunal ruled that PDP and its candidate Atiku Abubakar will not have their request to access INEC’s server granted because, said the tribunal, doing so will mean deciding the subject matter of the petition.  Atiku says he, not President Muhammadu Buhari, won the election and the tribunal should so hold. INEC says it has no server for Atiku to access. Case closed? No, said Atiku and PDP. They have resolved to fight on, even as 60 parties have asked them to pull the brakes on their struggle because the electoral umpire did not transmit the results electronically. So, said the parties, there is no question of any server anywhere. To a famous lawyer a colleague of mine went yesterday to resolve this matter. He met him at a popular pub where he was relaxing after a gruelling court session. “Good day sir. I am a reporter for AJ News. I would like to have your reaction to the INEC server issue and the PDP-Atiku case.” “Thank you, young man. Although I don’t talk to the press, I’ll talk now in the public interest. What is a server? A barman who serves is a server. So long as he renders this all-important service, he is a server. Important because if the server refuses to serve, there will be no service and there will be trouble in the bar. Understand?” “No sir. I don’t get it. I’m talking about the INEC server, which the tribunal says Atiku can’t check now.” “The server issue is as clear as day. For those of us who have been at the bar for so long, it is not an issue. I was called to the bar before you were born. Nobody lobbied for me. The big boys just looked at me where I was hitting the bottle outside this place and they said, ‘boy, you’ve been here for too long, come right inside.’ That was how I became a member of the inner bar. I was called to the bar. “So if I try to tell you about a server, you listen. If there is no server, no need to access the bar. If INEC says it has no server, why insist you want to see its server? Non poteris aedficare aliquid ex nihilo. Can you build something on nothing? You have server, I don’t have server. Case closed. Chikena.” “Thank you sir.” Mad houseboys, evil housemaids LAGOS High Court has sentenced to life the cook who killed Credit Switch Ltd. boss Ope Bademosi. Justice Mobolanle Okikiolu-Ighile convicted Sunday Adefonuo Anani (not to be confused with the deadly robber Lawrence Anini of terrible memory), after the Togolese pleaded guilty to manslaughter. Many believe the punishment is a mere slap on the wrist, considering the status of his victim, the circumstances of the horrible incident and its shattering effects. But, that is the law. Anani’s conviction came just after last Thursday’s alleged murder of an 89-year-old woman, Adejoke John and her daughter, Oreoluwa John,38, in Lagos. The suspect? A houseboy, Joseph Ogbu, who is being held by the police. There are many other instances of domestic workers taking the lives of their bosses, leaving their families to mourn their irreparable losses. We hardly do background checks on such people, who find it so easy to escape justice. This should change to prevent more losses in the lethal hands of these evil fellows whose dark minds conceive fiendish actions. Besides, those who deploy them must have their activities well controlled by the police. Even in our state of disorder, there must be some sense of order. 