THE Project Lead of Niger Delta Youth Employment Pathways (NDYEP), Emeka Ile, has stated that to tackle unemployment in Nigeria, there is need to innovate and do things differently. He noted that the challenge of unemployment in Nigeria was not about not trying, but not adopting the right approach and not effectively utilising the available opportunities. Ile stated these on Tuesday in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, at the second dissemination workshop and roundtable with the private sector organisations by NDYEP, a project of the Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND). The project lead of NDYEP, PIND Foundation, said: “Where there are new opportunities, those are the places that we go. We train young people in skills that are market relevant. “We need more partners and we need to use more market-relevant approaches. PIND Foundation is also focusing on peace building and economic development. Emphasis must be placed on training the youths in market relevant areas and skills, providing support and have linkage.” Ile also said the PIND Foundation, a Nigerian non-profit organisation, which was established in 2010 by Chevron Corporation, had been placing emphasis on building partnerships for peace and equitable economic growth and development in the Niger Delta, thereby contributing to reducing poverty and conflicts in the region rich in crude oil and gas. The Project Coordinator of NDYEP, PIND Foundation, Mrs. Yvonne Jonah, stated that the young people were a force to reckon with, stressing that to change anything in the country, it must start with the youths. Jonah also admonished the youths to always utilise the opportunities that came their way to excel, stressing that restiveness was because the youths were not being properly engaged. In his goodwill message, a Director of Agriculture in the Rivers State Ministry of Agriculture, Morris Ogolo, said: “You cannot get it right, if the youths are not with you. If we do not employ or engage the youths, how will they be gainfully busy? “Agric sector is so wide and can absorb everybody, while it cannot be finished in twenty years. Any employment generation without agriculture cannot be said to be on the right track. Crude oil will soon dry up. It is time to move on and focus more on agriculture, with many youths to be fully involved.” The Head of Employment Generation in the Rivers Ministry of Employment Generation and Economic Empowerment, Elemchukwu Onuotu, in his remarks, stated that focus should be on skills’ development, for the youths and others to be employers of labour, rather than seeking non-existing jobs and be wasting their time. Onuotu stressed that the energies of the youths should be channelled in the right direction, in order for them not to miss their paths in life. A retired Permanent Secretary in the Rivers Ministry of Lands and Survey, Pastor Christopher Briggs, while also speaking, noted that the decision of the Federal Government to henceforth allow local government councils nationwide to directly take charge of their funds was a step in the right direction, thereby ensuring commensurate development of the grassroots and empowerment of the people, especially the youths. An official of the Directorate of Youth Mobilisation in Rivers Ministry of Youth Development, Rev. Christian Amadi, insisted that the minds of the youths must be trained and reorientation emphasised. The Volunteer Executive Director of Keeping It Real Foundation in Port Harcourt, Mrs. Bitebo Gogo, called for market-driven training of the teeming qualified youths.