In its quest to bridge the nation’s infrastructure deficit, the federal government has introduced the Road Infrastructure Tax Credit scheme which allows players in the private sector to carry out road construction and other allied turnkey projects ultimately to earn some tax credit. In this report, Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf examines the pros and cons of this innovative initiative With the nation’s infrastructure deficit getting worrisome and with little or no corresponding resources to address this, President Muhammadu Buhari recently signed into law, Executive Order No. 007 of 2019 to be cited as the Companies Income Tax (Road Infrastructure Development and Refurbishment Investment Tax Credit Scheme) Order, 2019 (“EO7 of 2019” or “the Scheme”). What the scheme is all about The main objective of the Scheme, among others, is to accelerate road infrastructure development for balanced economic growth in Nigeria by granting approval to private sector entities to construct and refurbish eligible roads across the country in exchange for tax credits, which could then be applied against company income tax payable. Thus, the motivation for the Scheme derives from the desire to take advantage of private sector funding and discipline to enhance road infrastructure development in the country. The Scheme has a life span of 10 years reckoning from the commencement of EO7. Upon inauguration of the Scheme, the President, indicated that it would provide another opportunity to demonstrate the commitment of the administration to conceive, design, develop and deliver public private partnerships (PPPs) with notable investors in order to close the road infrastructure gap in the transportation sector due to revenue shortfalls that have hampered government’s efforts to fully fund critical projects. Modus operandi of the Road Infrastructure Tax Credit (RITC) The Scheme entitles participants to utilise the project cost incurred in the construction or refurbishment of eligible roads as a credit against companies income tax that is payable. In doing so, participants are afforded a single uplift equivalent to the prevailing Central Bank of Nigeria Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) plus 2% of the project cost. Besides, participants are at liberty to utilise this RITC from the relevant fiscal year in which the project is incurred, until it is fully utilised. However, the amount of RITC that may be utilised in any year of assessment shall be limited to 50% of the company’s income tax payable by the Participant for that year of assessment. Where there is any unutilised tax credit, it shall be available to be carried forward by the participant to subsequent tax years. However, as with similar schemes in the past, where a participant takes benefit of the RITC under the Scheme, it shall not be entitled to claim any other tax credit, capital allowance, relief or incentive on the project cost incurred in respect of that eligible road under any law in force in Nigeria. The responsibility for administering and implementing the Scheme belongs to the Road Infrastructure Refurbishment and Development Tax Credit Scheme Management Committee (“the Committee”) set up under EO7 of 2019. Expectedly, the Committee will approve the issuance of RITC certificates to participants annually, in proportion to the Project Costs incurred by them in that year. Furthermore, the Committee is charged with the task of registering participants under the Scheme. Other agencies of government have been empowered to play different roles under the Scheme and these other agencies are Federal Ministry of Finance, Federal Ministry of Works and the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). Assessment of the RITC scheme According to the duo of Simeon Oyakhilome Okoduwa and Rose Adaji, both of whom carry on practice at Alliance Law firm, while attempting a review of the RITC, they argued that the Scheme under review is a welcome introduction as it is aimed at enabling interested participants better manage their tax obligations in such a way that guarantees an upward growth trajectory for profits, goodwill and corporate citizenship. “There is clarity and no conflict with previous tax relief schemes. For example, the provisions of EO 7 of 2019 provides that “A participant entitled to a Road infrastructure tax credit on an eligible road shall not be entitled to claim any other tax credit, capital allowance, relief or incentive on the project cost incurred in respect of that eligible road project under any law in force in Nigeria, in addition to the Road Infrastructure tax credit.” The Committee, the duo of Okoduwa and Adaji noted, “May need to, through recommendations and proposed amendments to the President, secure clarity around some critical aspects of the Scheme. Reckoning that road infrastructural development is usually a capital intensive exercise, chances are that companies may, from time to time, consider debt as an option for raising required funding in order to ultimately enjoy tax credits.” Echoing similar sentiments, speaking in an interview with our correspondent at the weekend, Mr. Afolabi Adedeji, an engineer by training and Chief Executive Officer, Ethical Business & Management Associates [EBAM], said, the decision to have a road tax is not a new idea after all. Waxing philosophical, he said, “In the field of marketing, there was is what marketers call a hard sell, something that may not be easy to convince buyers to buy.” Many Nigerians, he maintained, “already feel that they are entitled to a paycheck from our oil revenue. So you are now trying to say they should pay an extra charge even if it’s 50kobo, they won’t readily accept. Even the idea of paying tolls; you can see how people in Lekki had responded to the Lekki Concession Company. It’s not as if they are poor, even those who work or commute to Lekki are not poor but they feel that it is awkward. They find it unappetizing or unpalatable to pay tolls on the Lekki expressway thus giving some challenges to the LCC.” Challenges with the scheme Okoduwa and Adaji who observed that it is the expressed intention of the federal government to provide adequate facilities for the free mobility of people, goods and services throughout the federation, for the purpose of national integration and protecting the rights of citizens to engage in legitimate economic activities concerned with the production, distribution and exchange of wealth, goods and services. Thus, the establishment of this Scheme is a step in the right direction, they stressed. While noting that the Scheme represents a bold step towards closing the road infrastructural gap in the country, Okoduwa and Adaji however warned that its implementation would not be without some teething challenges, which, unless addressed, could limit the promise that it offers. Harrowing experience with past  PPP schemes It is instructive to note that some individuals have had bad experiences with the PPP initiative. The contract award for the Lagos-Ibadan expressway by Dr. Wale Babalakin of Bi-Courtney Group was abruptly aborted after it was approved by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. While making oblique reference to Babalakin’s case, Lawal Kamal Alaba, a former project consultant with High street Management Scheme, recalled his firm entered into a partnership withthe Lagos State government to rehabilitate roads, regretted that the scheme was dogged by a number of challenges chief among which is policy inconsistency of the state government. “PPP projects deliver developments, elsewhere but in Nigeria, it has come with a lot of hiccups and challenges.” Dangote, others, among fresh beneficiaries of RITC scheme It is instructive to note that Dangote Industries Limited and five other companies are amongst the first sets of beneficiaries under the RITC scheme to construct and refurbish roads across the country. The other companies are Lafarge Africa Plc; Unilever Nigeria Plc; Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc; Nigeria LNG Limited; and China Road and Bridge Corporation Nigeria Limited. In the pilot phase of the scheme, the six companies will construct 19 roads covering 794.4km in 11 states across each of the six geo-political zones. The Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, who listed the roads at the signing ceremony, said the scheme was the outcome of efforts to think outside of the box and deploy new techniques to develop critical road infrastructure in the country. During the signing ceremony last February, President and CEO of Dangote Industries Limited, Alhaji Aliko Dangote stated that, “the impact is huge because it will allow private sector to use their capital, their know-how and also their efficiency in terms of delivering roads in time and the Nigerian government will be saving billions of naira.” The Federal Ministry of Finance had conceived the idea after industrialists in the Council expressed their willingness to intervene in road rehabilitation and construction in their areas of operation in a transparent process that ensures the cost of construction/rehabilitation can be recouped, the ministry therefore promptly proposed the scheme for the Industrial Council to develop. The Federal Executive Council approved the Industrial Council in March 2017 as a vehicle for partnering with the private sector on the industrialisation agenda to address key hindrances to the growth of manufacturing in the country. The Council, chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, aims to increase the contribution of the manufacturing sector to Gross Domestic Product and establish Nigeria as the manufacturing hub for Africa by implementing initiatives aimed at accelerating industrialization by leveraging private sector expertise and capital. Dr. Okechukwu Enelamah, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, who is one of its Vice Chairmen, explained that, “The Council’s mandate is to assist the government in implementing initiatives that will enhance the performance of the industrial sector through partnerships with the private sector.” Other infrastructure initiatives which the Industrial Council is facilitating their implementation includes the ongoing deployment of 18,000 km of fibre across the country to improve broadband penetration; and the generation of additional 4.2GW of power to the national grid. Best practice In the view of Adedeji, who had a short stint with the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing in the 90s, recalls that, “In Britain the Virgin Atlantic Group, whose head is Sir Richard Branson, has had some successes in the British rail. They gave them some concessions on some railway lines I think in London metropolis and some other intercity lines.  It was a long concession of about 25 or 30 years and one of those concessions would soon end and I hear that there is an exit profit of some tens of millions or hundreds of millions of pounds for the Virgin Atlantic Group. So the experience is a big difference in Britain.” In South Africa, a number of turnkey projects including road infrastructure and power supply have been facilitated by private businesses. A case in point is the Sasol Oil, based in South Africa, which contributes over 15 per cent to the nation’s power grid. A South African citizen, Maxwell Coetzee, who confirmed this development to our correspondent during the latter’s visit to Johannesburg recently, said, Sasol is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE: SOL) and the New York Stock Exchange. Pressed further, he said, “It is the largest corporate taxpayer in South Africa and one of the largest of the country’s state owned enterprises. The South African government encourages many indigenous companies to invest in infrastructure by granting them waivers and all forms of concessions. That way, many of them are encouraged to support the social service sector.” Pray, hope Nigeria will take a cue from South Africa?