It was fanfare of some sort recently, as the matriarch of the Balogun Family of Ovao-Weppa, in Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State was laid to rest. Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, who witnessed the ceremonies, reports. When Williams Shakespeare penned the now famous lines, “When beggars die, there are no comets seen; the heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes,” he just might have had the likes of late Lady Chief Christiana Omosi Balogun (LSM) nee Tenebe in mind. Indeed, for the late matriarch of the Balogun family who passed on Wednesday, April 3rd, 2019, it was honour  and privilege reserved only for a few great men and women. The week-long funeral rites which began on Friday, May 3rd, 2019, literally opened chapters of pleasant memories and surprises, which would linger in the minds of those who witnessed the rites of passage of the amazon of the famous Tenebe family from Ikabigbo in Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State. Born to the family of Michael Braimoh Tenebe and Zenebu of Ikabigbo, she was the first child in a polygamous family. Lady Balogun, who lost her mother at a very tender age, took up the onerous task of taking care of her younger siblings with the support of her father. Signs that the ceremony was literally going to be a showstopper became evident as soon as her remains arrived her husband’s residence at Balad Avenue, in Aviele, Edo State, for lying-in-state There, trumpeters and brigade boys serenaded the motley crowd with dirges,  such as, “This World is not my Home, Heaven’s Now my Home, I’ll fly Away,” etc, before the priests offered prayers for the deceased. The funeral train would later leave for the Immaculate Conception Cathedral, Auchi, Edo State, where the Bishop of the Auchi Diocese, Most Rev. Dr. Gabriel Ghiakhomo Dunia, presided over the rites of passage, heralded by soulful hymns by the church choir. All roads later led to the residence of the deceased’s husband at Ovao-Weppa, in Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State, where a long motorcade comprising families, friends and associates converged for the vigil mass. Chief Henry Duke Tenebe, a blood relation of the deceased and onetime commissioner in Edo State, led members of the Tenebe family including: Mr. and Mrs. Sunny Tenebe, Linus Tenebe, Emperor Jarret Tenebe, Mrs. Mercy Oyarhekhua nee Tenebe, Director, State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Mr. Raphael Tenebe, Engr. Robert Tenebe, to mention a few, to pay their last respect to a jolly good sister. Before the funeral mass proper, as a mark of honour for the late Lady Balogun, who was a titled chief, there were series of the usual traditional gunshot salutes and – wait for this: even the heavens acknowledged that it was a passage of an icon, as the community, which had been experiencing unprecedented drought, witnessed its first heavy showers in months. And then the tears would not cease flowing. Many, including the young and old, whose path had at one time or the other crossed the late Lady Balogun’s wailed uncontrollably,  as they couldn’t come to terms with the fact that the woman with the heart of gold was gone, to a world far beyond their ken. This reporter, himself, a foster son and in-law to the deceased, who had stoically borne the weight of the loss, was finally  moved to tears when he beheld the moving sight of the community’s insane clown, sober like never before. Sporting dreadlocks on a Liverpool jersey, complete with canvass shoes, middle-aged Jerry The Coach, as he is fondly called, expressed his sorrow in staccato English: “This woman was my mother. She was very good to me. She gives me food and money anytime she comes around. Even this jersey I’m wearing and others… she bought them for me. Now, she is no more. Walahi, I’m very sad.” The vigil mass, largely solemn, was also a night of tributes, as many spoke of the deceased in affectionate terms and adjectives. Firing the first salvo, of course, was the widower. He wrote, “Christy, how do I start telling it all? Where do I start from? I have been trying several days to put this tribute on paper but my emotions keep failing me. Now I truly believe that man proposes and God disposes. Though you have not been too strong lately, but death was far from our expectations. This relationship started over 50 years ago, when we were still teenagers. Through the mercy of God, it metamorphosed into holy matrimony and we were blessed with four boys who are now married with their own kids. Because of the nature of my job, I was not always with you and the children but as a professional teacher, disciplinarian and an ardent Catholic, you were able to raise the boys to men honourably. You were a blessing from God to me, the children and the entire Balogun family…. Your death has created a deep gully in my heart because you didn’t wait to enjoy the fruits of your hard labour. But I’m consoled because God has made a better provision for you in heaven. I will miss you forever. Good bye confidante.” Her first son, Dr. Christian Balogun, in whose home she breathed her last in Owerri, Imo State, also wrote: “Great mum, as I always call you, I still have memories of the cheering smiles you carry on your face. It will be too early to forget the warm hugs of hope; your doggedness at all times…. You left a space that no one will ever fill in my heart.” Next was his brother, Oshoke, who wrote: “Words cannot express how much I miss you. You were a mother to the motherless; you gave shelter to everyone. You didn’t judge people by their looks; you were a strong and accommodating woman. You were a devoted Catholic who always said her rosary. I called you my world’s greatest, wonder woman…. You were strong till the very end. To God alone be all the glory.” Dr. Philips Balogun, who braced all odds to attend his mum’s funeral all the way from the UK, wrote, “I still can’t believe you’re gone. You were such a lovely, strong, intelligent, encouraging, fun, hardworking mum. It’s still like a dream. It’s going to be hard to cope without you…” Osikhena, the last born of the house and based in Canada, wrote: “Mum, I can hardly express my feelings in words, sometimes I just wish everyone can see through me and get a clear picture of the vacuum you left in me… I console myself with the idea that you’re in a better place, watching over me.…” Tom Balogun also wrote, “You showed me right from wrong. You taught me the value of hard work, good judgment, courage and integrity. You taught me to love and fear God. I will always remember that special smile, that caring heart, that warm embrace you always gave me… I know you now dwell among the angels in heaven, a place where there is no pain, no sorrow.” The deceased brother, Sunday Tenebe, who is yet to get over the rude shock of losing two loved ones in quick succession, as the patriarch of the Tenebe family, Pa Michael Braimoh Tenebe (JP) only breathed his last barely a week after the death of his daughter, Lady Balogun, wrote of his late sister, “You’re the best sister in this whole wide world and your space in my heart can never be replaced…. Sleep well sister.” Even her bosom friend of many years, Mrs. Margaret, with whom she taught in few schools within the oil-rich Niger Delta, came all the way from Warri, Delta State, to pay her last respect. “I’ll miss her very much. She was such a dear friend, always supportive and caring,” she said. Ahead of her final interment at her husband’s residence, her remains were escorted by members of the order of Knights/ Ladies of St Mulumba, Afenmai and Ugborikoko Subordinate Council, to St. Joseph Catholic Church, Iviari-Weppa, where Most Rev. Dunia assisted by other officiating priests, prepared her for her final resting place. A socialite of repute, the roll call of guests include eminent sons and daughters of Agiere, Ovao-Iwamachi ruling houses, members of Usagbe Club of Nigeria, Chevron colleagues, Association of Table Water Producers Auchi Zone, Aluagbaye, Weppa Wanno Warri branch and Uyemhegbe Club. Others include members of Apeagbiye Club of Nigeria led by Monday Aziku, Dame Daisy Akagbosu, wife of the late Rector of Auchi Polytechnic, Auchi and Matron, General Hospital, Auchi, Edo State, Chief Greg Idatsaba, Barrister Ibrahim Abdulmalik Mabi, Air Commodore Gandhi Garba (rtd), Professors Marcel Okhakhu, Phil Campbell both of UNIBEN, as well as Professors Jack Agbodion and Phil Agbebaku both of AAU Ekpoma. The late Lady Balogun attended St. Paul Primary School, Weppa and later Momodu College, Agbede/Federal Girls Grammar School, Ibillio. She later proceeded for Teacher Training programme at Nana Teacher’s College and College of Education, both in Warri, Delta State, where she obtained her NCE, before proceeding to Delta State University, Abraka for a Bachelor in Biology Education (B.Ed). She got married to Sir Chief Christopher Balogun (KSM) in 1978 and was blessed with four boys and eight grandchildren. She was conferred with the traditional title of Enakhe, The Egbenedufa of Weppa Clan, Etsako East Local Government Area by HRH Moses Akpamuka Etsu, the Ogie Eppa of Weppa clan in August 2018, for her unquantifiable services and contributions to the political, social and economic development of Weppa Clan and Nigeria in general. She was aged 65.