Senate President, Bukola Saraki, has paid tribute to the late mother of Emir of Ilorin, Alhaja Aishat Nma Zuluqarnain Gambari. In a statement, he personally signed Saraki said: “I have just received with immeasurable pain the news of the passing unto glory of our mother, mother to all sons and daughters of the Ilorin Emirate and the mother to our royal father and spiritual leader, the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaja Aishat Nma Zuluqarnain Gambari. “Even as a Muslim who must submit to the wishes of Allah SET at all times, I want to say that her death is a personal loss to me and my family. “I find it extremely difficult to accept that our mother and our revered queen-mother has departed. Even though I am short of words to express my sadness and to praise her virtues, I want to say that  Nma Zuluqarnain’s demise has left a great void in our lives – my family and I – which will be difficult to fill. “We have lost a virtuous and compassionate queen-mother, who lived her life in the service of Allah, the Muslim Ummah, the Ilorin Royal House, the Ilorin Emirate Council, Kwara State and the nation at large. “She was always there for me. Her love and affection for me and my family cannot be quantified. Her soothing words of motherly advice to me over time still rings in my ears. “I can say that during my meetings with our mother over the years, I found her to be a complete embodiment of peace, wisdom, humility, hardwork, philanthropy, discipline and piety. “I can say that shorn of royalty and noble birth, she was a charismatic leader in her own right who toiled daily to earn her place under the sun. “Those of us who knew and interacted with her closely can testify that she was a woman with a deep sense of compassion, love and above all, an ideal Muslim faithful. “She was a true servant of Allah who contributed immensely – time and resources -to the furtherance and deepening of the Islamic faith in the lives of Ilorin sons and daughters through her deep knowledge of the Quran, life of piety and force of personal example. “I cannot forget her passion to ensure that wives in the Ilorin Emirate in particular and Kwara State in general embrace and practice the true teachings of Islam which dictate unalloyed obedience to their husbands, care for children, community support, fidelity to the Islamic faith and faithfulness to marital obligations. “Her footprints of service to humanity would remain indelible in the sands of time and her lifestyle worthy of emulation. We shall all miss her. “My heartfelt condolences go to the Emir of Ilorin, His Royal Highness, Alh. (Dr.) Ibrahim Sulu Gambari, the royal family, the Ilorin Emirate Council, the Kwara State Traditional Council and all sons and daughters of Kwara State over the passage of our loving matriarch and historical personage. “I pray that Allah forgives her shortcomings and count her soul among the righteous in Aljannah firdaus. Amin.