Chairmen of Oyo State local councils, sacked last week by Governor Seyi Makinde, have taken their case to President Muhammadu Buhari for his intervention. The sacked chairmen who are operating under the auspices of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), dispatched a petition to the president on Thursday, accusing the state government of brigandage in bid to get rid of them. But the government claimed the sacked chairmen got into office through an illegal election and have no reason to parade themselves as elected officials. Governor Makinde’s  Chief of Staff (CoS), Bisi Ilaka,who announced the dissolution of the LGs, soon after the governor’s inauguration, asked the council bosses  to hand over to the Head of Local Government (HLA) in each council or the most senior director at the council. But the chairmen described their sack as an act of illegality, arguing that  they were elected on May 12, last year. They added, that, a May 6 High Court judgment had also restrained the state government and its representatives or agencies from dissolving the councils or freezing the bank accounts of the councils, among others. The court held, that, dissolution of elected council chairmen and other officers by the state government or the House of Assembly is contrary to Section 7(1) of the 1999 constitution as amended. In their June 3, 2019, Save our Soul (SOS) letter to the President, the sacked LG chairmen  urged Buhari to call Makinde to order and prevail on him to respect the decision of the court. In the letter signed by its Chairman, Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, and the Secretary, Olayinka Jesutoye, ALGON also insisted that just as Makinde cannot be removed by any executive fiat, they cannot be sacked without recourse to the constitution. The chairmen said, appealing the judgment is the only legal means of resolving the crisis, which Makinde has created by his decision. ALGON also accused the state government on Thursday of planning to forcefully take over local government secretariats by deploying hoodlums, an act it described as a sad return to the years of brigandage, which ended at the emergence of the former governor, Abiola Ajimobi, eight years ago. “The insidious plan of government’s hatchet men to forcefully overrun secretariats of local government councils in Oyo State is their next act of illegality spiced with hooliganism. “The general public is hereby alerted to this government sponsorship of political brigandage. This is a sad return to their old days of governance though violent intimidation of opposition and the general public with no regard to law,” they said. They added: “After eight years of civil peaceful governance in Oyo State, we should not allow and will not condone the old ways of the power vipers to return and push the state to reckless governance. “There is an existing High Court judgement, government should go to court instead of resorting to self- help.” “The subsisting Supreme Court Judgement on Ekiti State has removed such fanciful act of executive indulgence in using the House to perpetrate illegality and dissolve elected local government on the whims and caprice of a state government. The group’s chairman, Abass-Aleshinloye, has also alleged threat to his life. He pleaded with the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to offer him security, stressing that, after  he addressed a press conference on May 30, on ALGON’s position, strange people suspected to be supporters of the governor and his party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), went  to attack him in his office. He said the men also trailed him on two different occasions after speaking on radio. Reacting to Abass-Aleshinloye’s claims, the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, dismissed them, stating that their election was illegal, and that the state government’s decision was in defence of the constitution. He said: “The government of the Oyo State committed no illegality in dissolving the councils. Rather, the government took the step in defence of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The laws say that you cannot create local governments by whatever name called, without recourse to constitutional procedures. “The immediate past state government went ahead to create LCDAs in total disregard for the constitution. They also jointly conducted elections into the recognised councils and the LCDAs the same day. “By that singular act, they have tainted the elections conducted into the 33 local governments with illegality. Also, remember that the council chairmen were guilty of what lawyers call ‘forum shopping’ in trying to vacate the injunction that was issued to stop the conduct of the elections by rushing to a different court to get an order.