It is one of the best ways to preserve a heroine, a queen mother who lost her only son to save Ife people. Come June 8th, 28 of Nigeria’s master artists will display their different works at the Alexis Galleries, Lagos. Edozie Udeze who encountered some of the artists and the promoter of the project, Patty Chidiac-Mastrogiannis, reports It is planned to be the greatest show in the history of visual art sector in Nigeria in recent times.  It is a moment when twenty-eight of Nigeria’s masters of the art will be on display at the Alexis Galleries in Lagos.  Each of the masters cutting across all genres of the visual has been able to paint or sculpt the image of Queen Moremi of Ile-Ife, a virtuous woman who sacrificed her only son and indulged in other personal sacrifices to save her people.  The project is Patty Chidiac Mastrogiannis contribution to the ongoing campaign begun by the Ooni of Ife , Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi to entrench the name of this quintessential Queen mother and what she did that was rare and still unparalleled in today’s world peopled by self-centred leaders and individuals. The masters include Bruce Onobrakpeya, Kolade Oshinowo, Tola Wewe, Edosa Ogiugo, Bunmi Babatunde, Abiodun Olaku, Gbenga Offo, Reuben Ugbine, Chinwe Uwatshe, Sam Ovraiti, Duke Asidere, Dominique Zinkpe, Fidelis Odogwu.  Others are Sam Ebohon, Tony Nsofor, Alex Nwokolo, Diseye Tantua, Mavua Lessor, Segun Aiyesan, Ato Arinze, Zinno Orara, Joshua Nmesirionye, Gerry Nnubia, John Oyedemi, Joe Essien, Abraham Uyoubisere, Gab Awusa, and Gerald Chukwuma.  Each artist is meant to prepare one work in his medium and from any perspective of Moremi that suits him or her.  At a press conference to announce the commencement of the show which will open at Alexis on June 8th, Mrs. Chidiac Mastrogiannis disclosed that none of the works will be made public until the Ooni sees them first.  “It will be his right to see the works first.  That is why none of the works is here for this press preview.  He deserves that respect and honour.  And this show will be the biggest visual art show in the history of contemporary art in Nigeria where twenty-eight of the masters would be on call with their individual artistic works on one person.  It is big; it is a show that we all hope to witness”. It will also be a travelling art exhibition.  From Lagos, the works will travel to London, from there to New York then Dubai and finally to Lebanon.  Interestingly, this series will be on for a while.  More works of visual will be done on the Moremi project to totally explore all aspects of her sacrifices to better the lot of her people of Ile-Ife.  “It was not easy to have such a beautiful and virtuous queen at that time with so much passion for her people. This is why we have to key into the ideals of House of Oduduwa project to embark on this gargantuan project”.  Of course the Ooni will be there to declare the exhibition open and to seize the opportunity to let the world into the history of this woman of honour. For the artists, it will be an ample time to show dexterity, class and uniqueness.  This is why the theme of the show is: Moremi  Art Exhibition, views from the masters.  Both on canvases and on carved forms, the different views will be amazing artworks to view and cherish and appreciate. Masters speak At the press conference some of the artists spoke about the angles they took and what Moremi means to them.  As a historical figure, good enough to generate rich repertoire of art pieces, the artists were really excited to be part of this epoch-making historic projects.  Gerry Nnubia a painter, said, “as an experimentalist artist, a master in my own right, the story of Moremi provides a rare saga for an artist.  She is a special and good personality for an artist to paint.  Therefore, when we watched the musical drama on her at Terra Kulture, Lagos, we saw all sorts of aspects of her to make the canvas smile.  I then saw her as a woman in both traditional and contemporary era.  What she did, no man can even do it for his people.  So I see her as a winner, from that point where she and her people used fire or torchlight to subdue their enemies”. As for Ato Arinze, a porter and ceramist, “It is good to be here now.  I have heard different versions of what Moremi did.  But today I have got the true picture.   The story from the palace is the authentic one as told by Princess Tolani Ademuluyi, the Moremi ambassador.  She was a true mother to all.  This is what I virtualized and represented in my work”, he said. Abraham Uyovbisere, a painter was glad to be involved in this remarkable exhibition.  He said: “It is good really to be part of this.  She left legacies no one can ever surpass in our clime.  We need to learn from her example in good conduct and purposeful leadership.  This is why I chose to do justice to what she represented.  It did not take me much time to conceptualise and contemplate what angle to take”. Fidelis Odogwu is a sculptor and he concentrated on an image of immense imposing character.  “I titled my work the custodian.  That was what she was to her people.  She was a rare custodian and she gave all herself to ensure that safety returned to Ife.  She gave away what she treasured most – her only son.  A very beautiful woman, she used her charm to save a whole community.  This is the sort of example that is very hard to come by these days.  It was a serious sacrifice and our works will certainly depict all aspects of her leadership attributes.  She is our own African Queen and the piece I did, will show all those remarkable qualities”. Moremi Ajasoro She was one of the wives of Oranmiyan, the Ooni of Ife.  At that time, a particular set of people called the Igbo people were tormenting the people of Ile-Ife.  They devised a guerrilla form of warfare to torture Ife people.  They would attack at will and random that the people of Ife could not find any solution.  Kidnapping, maiming, killings were on the increase. So, Moremi sneaked out of the palace to seek for ways to resolve the matter and save her people.  The sea goddess she sought after told her to go on ahead to do her best.  Then Moremi promised that she would do whatever she wanted from her if she succeeded to discover the secret of their strange adversaries. So at the next war, she let herself to be captured.  Over on the enemy side, she used her charm and beauty to hoodwink the King of the people of Igbo to fall in love with her.  In the end, she discovered the secret told her by the king himself.  The seductive power of a woman at work!  The king told her that they wore mantels of the grasses and bamboos to disguise and look weird.  This was a trick to frighten their opponents and appear awful.  Yet the only antidote is that fire or torchlight should not be near the soldiers.  The light may burn or weaken the potency of their powers.  Again, Moremi escaped back to Ife to relay her discoveries to her people. She told her soldiers to carry torchlight each to the battlefield.  This way, the Igbo people were finally routed and defeated and driven far away from the vicinity. Then she visited the sea goddess (may be Yemoja) with all sorts of materials and items to appease her.  She rejected them all.  ‘I need only one thing’, she said to her, ‘what is it?’ Moremi asked.  And the goddess declared Olurogbo, your only son else…”  Promptly weakened by this demand, Moremi nonetheless recovered in no time to go ahead to sacrifice her only son.  History records or speculates that if she had disobeyed the goddess she would have inflicted them with more devastating disasters.  Already their constant disgraceful defeat by their enemies, was rumoured to be a punishment from the ancestors.  So, Olurogbo had to go and Moremi remained broken all her life.  Yet she was gladdened by the fact that Ife was finally rescued and preserved by her motherly love, passion, concern, sacrifices and boldness. Plays have been written and staged in the name of Moremi.  Musicals have been produced to entrench her exploits in history.  Today, it is visual art in forms of traditional and contemporary arts to still give more accolade to this indefatigable beautiful queen who lost all to save humanity. Already the Ooni has erected a 42 feet high statue of Moremi in front of the palace in Ife.  He insists that the singularly life of Moremi should be promoted to teach modern virtues in leadership.  This is why he is bent on using all aspects of the art to project her place in history. Ademuluyi who is the ambassador of the project said it will be made a nationwide one.  “This incident took place about 1,700 years ago, yet we will see it as if it is today event.  Its significance transcends time and season.  It is to encourage the younger ones to do the best to at least project and protect their families, to always show love, concern to others. It is also a time to promote the place of Nigerian women in leadership and more”. The exhibition opens on 9th.  It is sponsored by Pepsi, Amstel Malt, The Guardian, Wazobia TV, CoolFM, La Cave, Mikano,Cobranet Internet Service Provider, Delta Airline, The Homestores and Art Café.