The Ninth National Assembly will be inaugurated on June 11, The Nation confirmed last night that a Presidential Proclamation document had been forwarded to the Office of the Clerk of the National Assembly. The document dated May 30 and signed by President Muhammadu Buahri, slated next Tuesday June for the inauguration of the Ninth National Assembly. A source at the office of Mr. Mohammed Sani-Omolori (Clerk to National Assembly), confirmed the receipt of the letter for the Proclamation of the Ninth National Assembly. Although the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate) Senator Ita Enang, claimed ignorance of the document, but a Presidency source confirmed that the document originated from the President’s table. The letter was titled: “President, Federal Republic of Nigeria Proclamation for the holding of the first session of the 9th National Assembly.” It reads: “Whereas it is provided in Section 64(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) that the person elected as President shall have power to issue a Proclamation for the holding of the first session of the National Assembly immediately after his being sworn-in. “Now, therefore, I, Muhammadu Buhari, President Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, in exercise of the powers bestowed upon me by Section 64 (3) aforesaid and of all other powers enabling me in that behalf, hereby proclaim me in that behalf, hereby proclaim that the first session of the Ninth (9th) National Assembly shall hold at 10:00am on Tuesday, 11th June, 2019 in the National Assembly, Abuja. “Given under my hand and the public seal of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in Abuja, this 30th day of May, 2019.” The National Assembly has fixed Thursday for the valedictory section for senators and members of the House of Representatives It is expected that party members will take position on the election of the presiding officers of the two chambers of the National Assembly on the inauguration day. Senate Leader Ahmed Lawan, Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume and House Leader Femi Gbajbiamila are front runners for the Senate President and House of Representatives Speaker.