The Amnesty Programme will train 2, 500 ex-agitators on modern fishing techniques under the fishermen training programme, which was officially launched on May 24. The training involves ship building transfer of technology component, with fish packaging and processing plants. This target will be archieved through partnership with Concept Amadeus Limited. Chairman of Concept Amadeus Limited, Prince Patrick Osobase, who is also the Lead Consultant to the Amnesty Programme Office told Niger Delta Report in a chat that a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a Greek University has been signed for the training and other Greek companies for the project. It is obvious that this development would be life-transforming for the ex-agitators as they embrace the programme. Osobase said: “We joined the Amnesty Programme in 2015 as strategic communication consultant. While executing that job, we were able to understand the workings of the amnesty office. We have realised that from 2009 when the amnesty office was established by the late President Musa Ya’Adua, there was 30,000 ex-agitators who handed over their arms and embraced amnesty. “From 2009 to date, the amnesty still has about 30, 000 men. The amnesty office was supposed to be designed to train, empower and remove them from the programme. And that is why you here from time to time that they want to stop the amnesty programme or shut it down because it was not meant to be forever. “But because of the kind of trainings that were being imparted, when the trainings were over, people were scared to employ them because nobody wants anybody who will turn their business upside down when they are angry. “So, nobody envisaged that after training them, nobody wants to employ them. They remained in the amnesty programme. Even after they had completed the programme. Government still pays them N65, 000 monthly stipends. And government kept training them. Government has spent over $500 million on the amnesty office from 2009. “So, this money is being spent and it is basically a palliative. We looked at it and we said there must be a solution. The first thing we realised was the need to know the reasons for their agitation. The people who used to fish could not fish again because of oil spillage and they were using boats.  So, their livelihoods which they have been using for decades were gone. Right now in Niger Delta they import fish, and buy ice fish.” On getting the people back to fishing, which they are used to, Osobase said: “We realised that this is a touching point. If we can get the people back to their fishing career, it might reduce the issue of agitation and also give them what they are used to. We investigated further and we realised that the Greeks have been fishing in these waters for decades and they know the waters. “With this development, they promised to bring vessels, train the boys and then employ them to do the fishing for them. And it sounded like a good arrangement. Nigerian government looked into it and agreed. “When the Greeks fish, they are fishing for the European Union market and EU has the largest standard in the world. So, you have a situation where the Greeks have to fish, but they have to fish for what they can bring into Europe. So, the training has to be done by them, bringing in a Greek university to train the boys to the standards of EU. If we can achieve that, it means they will get EU certification. And by the time they get EU certification, then it means they can work anywhere in the world. “We tabled it before government and for a start we will build 100 vessels and absorb 2,000 boys. And they demanded to have 2,500 boys and the best 2,000 will get automatic employment while the remaining 500 will have certification and they can work anywhere in the world. So, the Amnesty Office accepted the deal and approved it and said it will also assist the Ease of Doing Business. “So, with these, Nigerian government signed the agreement with the Greek government immediately and after that, Osobase said: “We thought all is well until during further investigation. Government also reasoned that the Greeks will take all the fish, pay dollars and take the fish? Then government disagreed with that arrangement on the grounds that it will not be good for the economy. “As at the time we started this project, Nigeria was importing $1.5 billion worth of fish in a year. If they take all the fish and go with them, we are still going to be importing the same $1.5 billion worth of fish. So government insisted on 50 per cent on the fish they will take away. “They agreed but said they have to build a processing plant in Nigeria, so that we can process it to EU standard. They also came up with the idea that in each of the six geo-political zones we have to build deports where we catch the fish in the Niger Delta and move them to all the deports in the country over night. “So, within 24 hours, the fish is at its destination. And that is the only way it can be done because if we keep all the fish in the Niger Delta, they will spoil because fish is perishable. If it’s not well handled before getting to the destination, it will spoil. The Federal Government has signed the MoU on the arrangement. “The Greeks will recover their money in the next 25 years. We are talking about $300 million expense. Our boys can go to Angola and other parts of Africa to fish and come back to Nigeria. This is business and we have access to the entire fishing coast line region of Gulf of Guinea which is rich in all kinds of fishes. The benefit now is that by coming through Nigeria, they now have access to the higher waters. So, in each of the countries we are registering the Gulf of Guinea fishes.” On what Nigeria is going to achieve generally, he said: “We have created the first multinational fishing company in Africa. That is what we will be achieving at the end of the day. This first 100 vessels we are building only 40 will work in Nigerian waters. The rest are been distributed to other parts of Africa. “In all the countries, there will be vessels carrying the flags of those countries. But it is the same company. This is a Nigerian initiative so we care about the transactions and agreements. President Muhammadu Buhari chairs the Gulf of Guinea Commission. Nigeria runs the entire bodies that are currently operating those waters which gives us a very good edge and allows us push this forward easily because Nigeria can call for meetings and put things on the table. “From next month, we are starting to tidy up that. The first country outside Nigeria that we are going to launch is Angola, and from there we will start opening up others. With the boat industry now in place in Nigeria, we can now train boys in states, empower them. Before the launch nothing could be shipped into the country, because there was no reason to do that. Now that the official launching has been done, the hardware can be brought into the country. “Expect that in the next couple of months we will start the training. The training of the 2,500 will take three months. And we are also training another 100 in administrative duties. They will be made administration personnel. They are the people who had First-class and Second-class Upper. “They have been selected from the amnesty data because amnesty spent money training these people abroad. After the training that will be done here, the Greek government has said they will take them over there for another one month, to place them in all the companies that are doing this business and let them have practical experience in the business before the business kicks off fully. It promises to utilise our talents properly.” “After training the boys, he said, the Greek government will “take our boys to Greece every three months to work during their fishing season and they will pay them in Euros. These 2,000 boys we are taking out of the system will enable the government to save N1.98 billion per year. “The Amnesty Office will not pay out N1.98 billion yearly. For the boys, their future is rosy and for the Federal Government a lot of money will be saved.”