It’s a matter of great pride whenever a national team qualifies and takes part in an international competition. And when it happens to be football, all the better. The women of Nigeria have travelled all the way to France to take part in the eighth edition of the FIFA Women’s World Cup. The most important competition in women’s football, fans have high hopes for the team and are following its progress with enthusiasm. Nigeria had a nervous start to their campaign in the World Cup. Their first match didn’t go as planned, and as a result, the team lost 3-0 against Norway. The Super Falcons, as fans call the team, have been struggling to make a stance in international soccer and have suffered quite a few loses over the past few months. However, Nigerian women aren’t without purpose, and their passion for football keeps them going on, match after match.   In terms of the competition, the World Cup is proving to be quite entertaining. It’s also an excellent opportunity for punters and bookmakers around the world to earn profits as betting on the games is in full swing. Those looking for betting tips can check out forecastr, a leading bookie that covers major as well as minor football leagues around the world while offering much-needed daily predictions for its customers. In the Women’s World Cup, USA and Germany are at present slated to be the top contenders, but that is not to say upsets don’t happen. Bookmakers have the USA at 16/5 odds to lift the cup, but host nation France is hot on their heals with 10/3 odds. However, betting on the winner isn’t the only option, as Nigerian fans and punters can make money from individual games, especially when the Nigerian team has a few tricks up their sleeves.  In their game against South Korea, a strong team in the competition that was initially considered an underdog for the title, the Super Falcons performed exceptionally well, leading to a 2-0 victory over their Asian counterparts. Asisat Oshoala, the ex-Liverpool forward, was responsible for one of the goals that not only boosted up the energy in the Nigerian green room but also gave the country a fighting chance to make it to the knockout stage. South Korea, on the other hand, is out of the competition as a result of this loss. Looking at Nigeria’s World Cup group, it faced off three strong teams, and even after having entered the competition with very little hope, they have managed to make a mark for themselves at an international stage, where it matters. France though is another story altogether as most pundits have them as one of the leaders in women’s football right now, and they are going to be the Super Falcon’s staunchest opponents. No matter the result of the World Cup, Nigerian women have done the country proud. The Super Falcons have shown the kind of determination that makes football a much-loved game, giving the people of their country something to cheer about and relish over the years to come.   