Burrow pit owners in Avbiama community and environs in Ikpoba-Okha local government area are working in fear following demand of monthly payment of ransom by kidnappers. Four burrow pit owners, including a relation of former Edo Deputy Governor, Dr. Pius Odubu, operating in Avbiama have been kidnapped within the last three months. They were released after huge ransoms were paid. National President of Road Transport Employers Association of Nigerian (RTEAN), Comrade Osakpamwan Eriyo, who owns a burrow pit in the area, is said to be a target of the kidnappers. A burrow pit owner said he has asked to be paying some money monthly to avoid being kidnapped. Besides the burrow pit owners, clergy men, workers of NSIK Engineering, the firm carrying out the construction of St Saviour road, a native doctor and many others have been abducted. The abduction of construction workers has stalled work on the road project. It was gathered that the kidnappers usually stormed the burrow pits and Avbiama community through the Ikpoba River and also take their victims through the river to their hideout. A top staff of NSIK Engineering who confirmed the abduction, said their workers have been released but refused to disclose how much was paid as ransom. Sources said the chairman of Tipper drivers was chased to his residence and narrowly escaped being abducted. The source said he has increased private security guard at his residence. In the same vein, Bénin Branch of the Nigerian Bar Association, has condemned attempted kidnap of its former Chairman, Barr. Solomon Odiase. A statement by its spokesman, Barr. Douglas Ogbankwa, said Odiase managed to escape from his abductors but the kidnappers made away with his Toyota Camry Saloon Car Market Edo USL 330 EL. The statement said continuous target of Lawyers by armed robbers and kidnappers validates the present position of the Benin Bar of boycotting Kidnapping and Armed Robbery cases in Court and Police formations. It called for a rejig of the Security architecture of Edo State to provide a safe security corridor for inhabitants of the State. When contacted for comments, spokesman for the Edo Police Command, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, promised to speak on the matter on Monday after getting official report.