TO improve patients’ experience and enhance healthcare service delivery in  public hospitals in the state, the Lagos State Government has started training for no fewer than 825 health workers. The training is centered on work etiquette as well as professional core values. The Permanent Secretary in the  Ministry of Health, Dr. Titilayo Goncalves, made this known  while addressing participants at one of the sessions of the capacity training at Ikeja. She noted that the health workers consist of core health workers and other professionals in the health sector within the senior management cadre drawn from primary, secondary and tertiary health facilities as well as departments of the state ministry of health, health service commission and primary health care board. Although nurses form the bulk of the participants, other core health workers like doctors, pharmacists, laboratory technicians and professionals working in the health sector like engineers, accountants, administrative and human resource officers as well as public affairs officers are also being trained. While explaining the rationale for the training, Goncalves said the state government has been inundated with complaints and reports from patients and the general public on poor attitude of its health workforce prompting the need for orientation and re-orientation. “The complaints and reports have become worrisome and it is inimical to our goal of providing quality affordable and efficient health services to the populace. Hence the initiation of these trainings whose overall goal is to assist health workers and other related professionals in health service delivery system to improve their attitude for greater effectiveness at work,” Goncalves said. She noted that 66 participants, would be trained  on values, empathy, client or customer satisfaction, positive mindset, attitude, courtesies, time management, and professionalism. Noting that the participants were expected to get the training to other cadres of staff in their facilities and offices, Goncalves tasked health workers in the state health sector on the need to embrace the core values and ethics of their profession in the care of patients. She implored health workers especially nurses and doctors to continue to exude professionalism, discipline, integrity, humility, selflessness and great care built on patient-centered care in the discharge of their duties, adding that patient-centered care is an essential tool for improving the quality of healthcare service in the state. “Patient-centered care involves providing care that is respectful and responsive to individual patient preferences, needs and values, and ensuring that patient values guide all clinical decisions,” Goncalves said.