Journalism is a profession imbued with danger. Therefore, it requires greater attention in terms of the welfare of workers.  The Nigerian press has been bedevilled with an ugly phenomenon called “poor welfare” and it keeps getting tougher, year in year out. There is no doubt that the society may have to support the initiative because it deserves a better and more improved brand of journalism championed by credible journalists, guided by professional ethics and general public interests. For this to happen, society should be bothered about the welfare of its ‘watchdog’. In recent years, development in the media industry is raising serious concern over the twin challenges of funding and ethics that are deeply and negatively impacting on the operations and credibility of the media and its practitioners.  The expansions in the industry have, unfortunately, not translated into improvement in the quality of life of journalists vis a  vis better conditions of service. Poor welfare of journalists is manifesting in financial intimidation, threats, inferiority complex, physical pressures and psychological hazards, as well as social and emotional risks for practitioners and their families. No thanks to the state of insecurity in our nation which has exposed journalists to harm or even deaths in the line of duty. Of course, neither is it debatable that the welfare of journalists affect the quality of their profession, ethical conducts, efficiency and  the credibility of their employers. Premium Times Centre For Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ), in a publication of August 27, last year by Kinsley Obi, stated that “media issue of poor remuneration, as well as poor welfare, provisions for journalists, has been identified as one of the greatest challenges eating up media industry in Nigeria. The wider ramifications of the problem are that most media organisations also do not pay salaries, as well as benefits like pension, insurance and other statutory requirements like tax remittances”. As a result, the terrors of punishment they suffered in the hands of overzealous security officials, political elements and economic forces still hamper them. Arguably, that is why we hear of brown envelopes, weak investigative spirit, fake news, hate speech, corporate begging, and so many scandalous cases which have reduced the reliability, competency and relevance of media among its audience. It has also  battered the image of the profession. Akabogu, C. E. (2005), in his paper titled: ‘The Ethical journalist and brown envelope syndrome: The way forward’, argued: ‘’Although some journalists will always reject bribe, a greater majority of them do take bribe because they are generally not well paid. This is coupled with a lot of financial problems within and outside their working environment.” The inability of the central labour organisation and sectoral unions to strongly confront the challenge has also helped in adding fuel to the wave of explorative and unfair treatments of the journalists. All hands must be on deck to battle unscrupulous employers to save its members and the society upon which the media operates. Dapo Olorunyomi, Publisher of Premium Times, said: “One of the major problems of the media house is the business model brought which most media houses are run. Business models based on advertising can no longer work in the country.” Olorunyomi, therefore, suggested that media owners must come up with innovative ways to make money based on the platforms they operate to sustain the business and eventually improve the salary structure of their employees. Further, he also recommended that “sustaining democracy is largely dependent on an effective media which also largely depends on adequate remuneration”. Beyond improved perequisites for journalists, the freedom of press is still under incarceration. There’s the need for the government to understand that promoting good governance and socio-economic development of a nation is hinged on best journalistic practices. This clearly echoes the words of Helen Thomas, who states thus: “We don’t go into journalism to be popular. It is our job to seek the truth and put constant pressure on our leaders until we get answers.” The freedom of the press puts journalists in a better position to fulfil their constitutional responsibility of holding government accountable to the people. Ralph Akinfeleye, a professor of Mass Communication at the University of Lagos, says of unfettered journalism practice: “The other name for democracy is free journalism and there can’t be sustainable democracy without a free press. The government must understand this for developments to occur.” With the coming of democracy, we thought our society will reflect the above truism.  Unfortunately, democracy still appears to a nightmare in Nigeria.