The Ghanaian Government has appealed to its citizens in Diaspora and other nationals to leverage on the five years tax holiday operational in the country for new businesses. Ghana’s Consul-General James Nyasembi spoke at the weekend during the Ghana Diaspora Home Coming Summit pre-event cocktail at the Consulate House in Ikeja. Nyasembi noted that the summit was introduced by President Nana Akufo-Addo to tap into the expertise of citizens in Diaspora for the good of the country. He said: “The Government of Ghana is using this opportunity to invite Ghanaians in the Diaspora to come and invest back home. They should also woo their friends and other business owners to invest in Ghana. “Global statistics show that in 2017, Diaspora contribution to world economy was $466 billion. That is huge. Apart from these remittances, Diasporans have experience and human expertise which they use to develop their country of residence. “Most Ghanaians living in Nigeria, America, Europe, Australia and other parts of the world benefited from the government of Ghana in their education. So, if they have benefited from the government, what would be their contribution towards the development of Ghana? “When President Nana Akufo-Addo came to power, he wanted to tap the resources of Ghanaians outside. He wants them to come home and help develop the country. In Ghana, we have a GIPC (Ghana Investment Promotion Corner). If you take investment there, they give tax holidays for five years. You will not pay any tax so that is a big incentive. “Within the West African sub-region, Ghana has the best tax incentive for businesses. That is why you see a lot of businessmen and women going to Ghana to establish. It is not only for foreigners, it is even for Ghanians in Diaspora to come and establish businesses in Ghana and that is why this program is taking place. It is a programme that is done across the world. “I am happy to inform you that the issue of Ghanaians in the Diaspora started from Nigeria. Some years back, when there was a disaster in a large stadium in Accra, contributions were gotten from Ghanians all over the world, but those in Nigeria contributed the highest amount to augment resources for victims. Ghanians in Nigeria will always be at the forefront of augmenting initiatives from the Ghanaian government in Ghana. We will now be at the forefront of spearheading activities of Ghanaians in Diaspora for Nigeria.” A grand patron of the Ghanaian community William Derby appreciated his country’s government for deeming it fit to invite citizens in Diaspora to help develop the country. “I think the Nigerian government should also invite Nigerians in Diaspora. I believe Nigeria will be a great place because it already has all the potentials to be the best country in the world. I assure you that with the natural resources Nigeria has, coupled with it best brains, the country should be the envy of the world. The government should call its nationals outside and seek their expertise on how to develop Nigeria without political inclination.”