Vice-President of Xiamen University, China, Prof. Yang Bin, has expressed satisfaction over the level of understanding of Chinese language and culture by students of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State. He said this in Awka, at the celebration of a decade of Confucius Institute at the university where he started teaching Chinese language and culture to the students and the public up to diploma and degree programmes. Bin noted that there was need to conduct research on what contributed to the fast understanding of Chinese language and culture by the students. He expressed optimism that the students will serve as a bridge between Nigeria and China. Earlier in his speech, the Vice Chancellor, UNIZIK, Prof. Charles Esimone, said the Confucius Institute at the university had moved from a mere centre for teaching Chinese language and culture to capacity-building in diverse disciplines ten years after its establishment. He reiterated that the institute was established as a result of a memorandum of understanding between the Chinese Language Council International (HANBAN) and Xiamen University on one hand and Nnamdi Azikiwe University on the other hand. Comending the Chinese teacher, Esimone noted that they have done marvelously well in the university by blending fast with the students and staff of the institution. He said, “My vision is for the university to capitalise on its relationship with the institute to train people in different areas, even in manufacturing, equipment maintenance, ICT, in Engineering, and Mass Communication. The Chinese have promised to accomplish it and has asked us to come up with a proposal. “There is subsisting staff exchange between UNIZIK and Xiamen University and arrangements are on to deploy staff of UNIZIK to teach Igbo language and culture in Xiamen University to make the relationship truly reciprocal.” Bin noted that there was need to conduct research on what contributed to the fast understanding of Chinese language and culture by the students. He expressed optimism that the students will serve as a bridge between Nigeria and China. Earlier in his speech, the Vice Chancellor, UNIZIK, Prof. Charles Esimone, said the Confucius Institute at the university had moved from a mere centre for teaching Chinese language and culture to capacity-building in diverse disciplines ten years after its establishment. He reiterated that the institute was established as a result of a memorandum of understanding between the Chinese Language Council International (HANBAN) and Xiamen University on one hand and Nnamdi Azikiwe University on the other hand. Comending the Chinese teacher, Esimone noted that they have done marvelously well in the university by blending fast with the students and staff of the institution. He said, “My vision is for the university to capitalise on its relationship with the institute to train people in different areas, even in manufacturing, equipment maintenance, ICT, in Engineering, and Mass Communication. The Chinese have promised to accomplish it and has asked us to come up with a proposal. “There is subsisting staff exchange between UNIZIK and Xiamen University and arrangements are on to deploy staff of UNIZIK to teach Igbo language and culture in Xiamen University to make the relationship truly reciprocal.”