The Controller General (CG) of Nigerian Prison Service (NPS), Mr. Ja’afaru Ahmed, at the weekend said no money had been given to him to pay workers’ promotion arrears. Ahmed’s reaction followed allegations that he had not paid the promotion arrears of the workers. Speaking at the inauguration of the fourth phase of the Nigerian Prisons Service (NPS) Staff School, Abuja, the NPS chief also revealed that none his predecessors were given money to pay promotion arrears. He said: “We have promoted 20,000 officers and men of the Nigeria Prison Service (NPS). The issue of stagnation, which has led to low morale, is now a thing of the past. We will continue to ensure that we recommend people to the board for promotions. “It is my responsibility to promote from level 3 to 7. And it depends on the vacancies available. I think this will further boost the morale of the officers. “The circular from the Federal Government says clearly that once promotions are done, you work them out and send them to the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation. If there is money, I believe they will pay. We are pursuing that, and we have a promise that these arrears will be paid from 2013. “But I want to emphasize that no money has been given to me to pay arrears and no money has been given to my predecessors to pay arrears.” President of the Prison Officers’ Wives’ Association (PROWA) Hajia Gwamma Ahmed said the Ministry of Education in Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had approved all subjects offered at the NPS Staff School in Abuja. She said the approval was given by Quality Assurance Department of the ministry. Hajia Ahmed noted that with the approval, pupils of the school could sit for national examinations “without having to go to other government schools”. She said the school project was part of the association’s efforts at catering for the well-being of children of members. Hajia Ahmed added that the project was a fulfilment of promise her administration made on assumption of office in 2016 “to leave prisons staff school better than it met it”. She added: “We promised to ensure an enabling environment for sustainable growth of quality and affordable education for all children of officers and men of the service. “The promise is to ensure that our children are not left behind in this era where the global overall policy thrust is to provide unhindered access to compulsory universal basic education to all citizens. “To this end, besides this twin one-storey building, the school underwent major internal reforms in the last one year to ensure that our teachers offer nothing less than the best…”