Two institutions – International Republican Institute (IRI) and the National Democratic Institute (NDI) – yesterday submitted their reports on this year’s general elections to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). This is coming few days after the European Union Election Observation Mission (EU-EOM) submitted its report, which slammed the commission, the two major parties and security agencies. NDI’s Senior Associate for Africa and Regional Director for Central and West Africa, Dr Chris Fomunyoh and the Acting Regional Director for Africa Division at the IRI, Elizabeth Lewis, led the delegation to submit the report at INEC headquarters in Abuja. Receiving the report, INEC Chairman Prof. Yakubu Mahmoud assured the two organisations of the commission’s readiness to implement the recommendations, especially the one on administrative actions. He said: “It is, therefore, our expectation that your report is all-encompassing with clear recommendations for all institutions involved in the electoral process. Given the size and peculiarities of different parts of the country, it is understandable that no single observer group covered every polling unit and collation centre throughout the federation. “For the 2019 general elections, the commission accredited 159 organisations (39 foreign and 120 domestic) which deployed 73,258 observers. Some of the organisations have already submitted their reports.” “The commission hereby appeals to all organisations that have not done so to submit their reports in earnest, in line with their terms of accreditation, to enable us take a global view of all the recommendations. “The commission will study your recommendations in detail and will continue to partner with you to improve the electoral and democratic processes in Nigeria. We have already embarked on our own internal reviews. Your report is coming at the right time. “I wish to assure you that we will implement aspects of your recommendations that require administrative action by the commission, beginning with the forthcoming Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections scheduled for November 16. We will also work with other institutions on aspects of your recommendations that require consequential action beyond the mandate of the commission.” The INEC chairman stressed that the two institutions “are working towards common objectives, in spite of the slight variations in focus”. He added: “Both are non-profit, non-partisan and non-governmental global organisations. The IRI works to help political parties to become more issue-based and responsive; it also works to assist greater participation of citizens in governance and increase the role of marginalised groups in the political process. “On the other hand, the NDI works to strengthen democratic institutions through citizens’ participation, openness and accountability in government. “The two institutions have been long-standing partners of INEC, working together to improve our electoral process.” 