The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has admonished President Muhammadu Buhari to stop the hostility and ill-treatment of the nation’s judiciary. Secondus spoke against the backdrop of what he described as the President’s continued show of hostile behaviour to the nation’s judiciary. In a statement, Thursday by his media adviser, Ike Abonyi, the PDP chair accuses President Buhari of unwarranted and unprovoked attacks on former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Nkanu Onnoghen on Tuesday. The President, while hosting some Yoruba leaders at the Presidential Villa, had castigated the judiciary and had gone ahead to justify his removal of Onnoghen as CJN. Decrying President Buhari’s seeming aversion for the judiciary, Secondus charged the President to rather focus his attention on his “stinking executive”, adding that his aversion for the judiciary is becoming very apparent, dangerous and antithetical to democratic norms. “The President has continued to bemoan his past with the judiciary by displaying his unconcealed anger and unforgiving desire to take a pound of flesh on them”, Secondus added. According to the party chair, the motive behind the President’s endless attacks on the judiciary, particularly his often repeated ordeal with the courts was strategically designed to cow the judges into submission to his undemocratic desires. The party chairman pointed out that among Buhari’s audience where he was lampooning the judiciary, were persons whose questionable source of wealth is not unknown, yet he pretends not to be aware because it favours his political interest. “We all know it as a fact that the motive of the President in his countless berating of the judiciary at the slightest moment is deliberately designed to frighten them, take away their confidence and force them to submit to his wishes by intimidation”, Secondus said. He described as preposterous and highly unacceptable the President’s continuous ridiculing of the highly revered arm of government just because the judges did not dance to his selfish tune at some point. Secondus urged all lovers of democracy in the country to rise up in defence of the judiciary, which he said, gets bashings from an executive arm that seeks absolute power from the back door. He noted that the double standards apparent in the administration of President Buhari comes glaringly when he ceaselessly berates the judiciary but turns blind eye to alleged monumental corruption going on in the executive arm. The PDP chairman charged members of the judiciary not to abdicate their responsibilities in the sustenance of democracy and refuse to be intimidated, but to insist on delivering justice in the land, stressing that it is the only route to growth and development.