Philip Shaibu, the Deputy Governor of Edo State spoke on the recent election of presiding officers in the lower chamber and his conviction that the APC was on the right path with the choice of Femi Gbajabiamila as the Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives. In this interview with a group of journalists, the former federal legislator, who represented Etsako Federal Constituency of Edo State in the House of Representatives between 2015 and 2016 before becoming the Deputy Governor, described as misconception the perceived rift between Governor Godwin Obaseki and APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Dele Anofi was there. FOR some time now, there have been reports of a rift between Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor, the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. What is the true state of things? His Excellency Godwin Obaseki and our National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, are best of friends. Oshiomhole is like a father to me and to the governor; he is a leader, brother and friend. And the National Chairman nicknamed the governor, “Goddie Goddie” and he is still the Goddie Goddie to the National Chairman. But sometimes, the teeth and tongue will fight but the ability to live together and move on is key. I can tell you there is no tension; it is just that there is this tendency to blow up little misunderstandings and create acrimony. I can beat my chest and tell you that it is not as bad as you see, especially in the social media because those small issues that came up have been taken care of. In few months, you and the governor will be going in for another round of election to seek for a second term; what would be your advice to the people of Edo State? We did promised that we were going to create jobs and we also promised that we were going to build on the foundation laid by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, after a long neglect of infrastructure in our state. We also promised that we will enforce the rule of law and transform Edo from a civil service state to an industrial state. But we also promised that we will never make noise about what we are going to do but we will leave it for the people to assess us. I can tell you; this has worked out for us. They call us ‘Wake and See Government”. What this means is that, when you sleep, by the time you wake up, the bad road in your backyard has been tarred; as you wake up, before you take your child to school, the dilapidated school without roof yesterday has been renovated and equipped. The truth is that we have been able to connect a lot of roads because we believe that government business is to create an enabling environment for business to thrive. We know that if we must bring industries to our state, the first thing to do is to install rule of law and build necessary infrastructure. We need an environment that is peaceful; an environment where goods and services can be moved without hindrance; and that is exactly what we have done. So, moving forward, those are the issues that will be in front burner in the next elections. And if those issues are brought up, I can tell you the same way Gbajabiamila defeated my brother Bago with a wide margin will be the same margin we will defeat our opponents. You witnessed the election of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and his deputy, Hon. Idris Wase. How would you assess what transpired at the inauguration of the House? When you compare what happened on June 11 in the House of Representatives with the events of 2015, I will say this time around, democracy was allowed to prevail. Unlike what happened during the election of presiding officers in 2015, democracy was at its best this time. What I saw in the election of presiding officers in the House of Representatives and indeed the Senate on June 11 was democracy at play, across party lines. One significant thing I saw in the election of Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives and was impressed was that both nominations were seconded by members of a minority party. And also even Hon. Umar Bago, who lost to Hon. Femi Gbajabimila, had his nomination supported by a PDP lawmaker. For me, this is all about democracy across party lines. President Muhammadu Buhari had at every fora lamented how the leadership of the 8th National Assembly, which was controlled by Senator Bukola Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogara, frustrated his policies; do you think with the emergence of party candidates as presiding officers, will these complain cease now? It is not just about Senator Ahmed Lawan an APC member being Senate President and Hon. Femi Gbajabimila also of the APC, being Speaker of the House; it is also about their leadership potentials. Whether you like it or not, issues of bills and motions and requests that are brought to the National Assembly, you must build consensus; you must be able to sell the party’s policies and programmes to all lawmakers. So, when you have a leadership that is interested in building consensus and selling the policies of government to legislators in the parliament for them to digest and understand, it is much easier for them to buy in; but if you have a leadership that from day one is biased and has a motive to just frustrate the executive, it will also frustrate lawmakers from digesting and understanding policies. So, whether it is APC or PDP, it will not make any sense. One recurring issue in the National Assembly is the failure of the executive to implement or act on resolutions passed by the legislators. What do you think could be done to make the executive implement these resolutions? Resolutions are actually advisory; but when you have a good relationship with the executive, they will not just be advisory but will be as potent as a law. But when you don’t have a good relationship with the executive and there is suspicion, mutual mistrust; every of your advice will be seen as trying to usurp the powers of the executive. When you have mutual trust there will be cohesion.