In most competitions, the older, stronger and more advanced seniors usually beat their younger and weaker counterparts. But this was not the case at the first Madam Subuola Taibat Annual Debate Competition organised by the STEE Schools, FESTAC Town, Lagos. Eight primary and secondary school teams participated in the debate with the topic: “Democracy is the best form of government and Democracy is beneficial for children.” Contrary to expectations, two of the four primary school teams, Demopower and Progressive Alliance beat the others to win the first and second positions. Demopower led by Babata Nabiha, won the debate with 432 points.   Nabiha and Agidi Emmanuella (deputy speaker), Okwonkwo Nicole and Bajomo Solape (supporting speakers) affirmed that democracy is the best form of government. Akanbi Jubril (chief speaker), Okoh Rafael (deputy speaker), Hamzat Saheed and Ayuba Toyosi were the brains behind Progressive Alliance’s 416.5 success.  They also argued for Democracy. The Honoured team saved the face of the secondary school pupils by coming third with 416 points.  The team was made up of Saviour Iweze (chief speaker), Tosan Mene (Deputy speaker) and Hadeezah Yusuf (supporting speaker). Other teams that participated were: Shine, Dynastic, Pathfinders, D’valiant and Eagle’s squad. STEE Schools’ Head of Corporate Affairs, Mrs Juliet Keshiro, said the Debate was organised to encourage critical thinking, problem solving and creativity in children, which she said was being curbed. She said: “Creativeness is limited among children so that was what has given birth to Madam T S Lawal school debate competition. We want children to begin to make contributions because the truth is they need to solve today and tomorrow’s problems.  We cannot wait for them to grow up.  They have ideas; they are being affected by all the decisions adult are taking every day,” she said. She added: “We really need to begin to engage the minds of these children. Education should be total, it’s beyond Mathematics and English, I have never believed that education begins and ends in the classroom. And that’s one thing we believe at STEE school, that education should raise a total child.” Agidi Emanuella, a member of the winning team, who also won the overall best speaker, expressed her joy, saying the competition has helped her greatly. “I feel really excited and happy. I am very joyful, I did not really expect it, but I am so happy. This competition has taught me to be confident. I have done a lot of debates so I keep standing on stages. I am glad I made my team and mum proud.”