Igbo Organisations have called on the Igbo to get ready to defend themselves against threats of impending attacks by those they described as some jihadist organisations. Convened by the Prof. Uzodimma Nwala-led Alaigbo Development Forum (ADF), the groups, after exhaustive discussions, decided that: -there is an agenda of a bloody islamisation and jihad to conquer, occupy, take over and enslave Alaigbo and elsewhere in the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Igbo were also urged to continue to promote the Akuruo-Ulo movement through the agency of the town unions and the various traders organisations of Ndigbo. They are also to engage in constant consultations and collaborative efforts to promote the peace, security and development of Alaigbo. The communiqué was signed by Prof. Uzodinma Nwala of ADF; Chief Emeka Diwe (President, Association of Southeast Town Unions); Prof Elochukwu Amucheazi (Secretary, Igbo Leaders of Thought); Innocent Amadi (Bilie Human Rights Initiative); Abia Onyike (Chairman, ADF publicity bureau); Prof. Math Aniekwu (Secretary, ADF): Mrs. Fidelis Chukwu (President, Igbo Women Assembly); Prince Tony Nwakaeze (Ogbako Igbo Traders of Nigeria); Isaac Onyia (ASETU Enugu State) and Comrade Uchenna Madu (Coalition of Pro-Biafra Organisations). But the Southeast Enlightenment Network (SE-EN) has condemned the communiqué, and called on the public to disregard it, while the Igbo nation focuses on robust and more realistic approaches to existing security challenges facing the country as they particularly affect the region. The President, Chimezie Egboh, in a statement yesterday, said the Igbo must be wary of being drawn into fighting the wrong enemy by being misled into randomly attacking or killing Muslims or Fulani. The statement reads: “The fallout of such mistake would not only be costly, but will also stain the Southeast with the stigma of starting a fight of blame even when there are indications that we have been provoked into taking certain actions. “Ndi’Igbo should reject those working with other ethnic nationalities to push us into acting against our own interest by making enemies of other ethnic nationalities before 2023, when alliances will be needed to clinch an Igbo presidency. “We have recent experiences of individuals and organisations that exploited our agitation for fairness and greater self-determination to feather their own nests. Such people went as far as pitching the Southeast against the other five geo-political zones, only to escape to foreign lands to enjoy the money they were paid by our detractors. “These dubious agitators for Igbo rights went as far as inciting our youths to imprudently act in way that cut short their prospects in life while leading to the death of others. This is why we find it alarming that the premises canvassed by Alaigbo Development Foundation uncannily tally with the “Fulanisation and Islamisation” propaganda recently launched by former President Oluegun Obasanjo. This divisive concept originally has its root in the campaign message of Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who, confoundedly, is Fulani and a Muslim. If he is setting the Igbo up to fight his own people (Fulani and Muslims), we should be wary and ask why he wants to use the Southeast as his disposable cannon fodder.”