Nigeria is pushing for equal representation and opportunities at the International Labour Organisation (ILO). The Federal Government believes this will also promote inclusiveness. The government made its position known at the ongoing 108th session of the International Labour Conference in Geneva, Switzerland, Tony Akowe reports. FOR  the Federal Government, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) should remove discrimination and isolation to promote inclusiveness and equitable representation of all regions in the governance structure of the world body. Addressing delegates at the ongoing 108th session of the ILO Conference in Geneva, Switzerland, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Employment, William Alo, asked the world body to correct the international arrangement of reserving permanent seats for countries of Chief Industrial Importance. He expressed the belief that the future of the ILO depends on how it continues to reaffirm and uphold the democratic principles and values of the organisation by removing discrimination and isolation thereby. Alo said: “It is indeed heart warming that the ILO through the ‘Future of Work’ initiative is taking the bull by the horns in anticipating future challenges in the world of work and taking a holistic approach in dealing with opportunities as they may arise “I am pleased to inform this august gathering that Nigeria is one of the countries that has convened a National Dialogue on the Future of Work and is implementing many of the initiatives as well as the recommendations of our National Dialogue. “We agree with the ILO that labour, being the most critical factor of production should be the fulcrum of economic and social policies if we are to have a just, fair, equitable and egalitarian society in the future. “In view of this, the government of Nigeria inaugurated and launched the 2017-2020 Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan for improving and developing capacity in the public sector towards advancing the nation’s economy. “At present, there is concerted effort to create an efficient, productive, incorruptible and citizen-centered work force anchored on four pillars of professionalism, enterprise content management system, entrepreneurship culture and enhanced welfare package for employees. “One other area of interest identified by the ILO in charting the future of work is the need to establish a Universal Labour Guarantee, which advocates, inter alia; “adequate living wage” and minimising the incidence of the working poor. “The Nigerian Government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari has keyed into these ideals by signing into law, a new National Minimum Wage Act which increased the National Minimum wage by 66 percent, and this has consequential wage adjustment for all workers and translates into enhanced purchasing power of the Nigerian workers. “Furthermore, the number of workers covered by the New National Minimum Wage Act has substantially increased in line with the demand of the ILO over the years and this will, ultimately, pull many workers out of the vicious cycle of poverty thereby stimulating investment, economic growth and wealth creation. “One other aspect of the Future of Work Initiative that is close to the heart of the Nigerian Government is the provision of social protection schemes including social insurance schemes for workers and the vulnerable segment of the society. “It is worth noting that for the first time in the history of Nigeria, the present administration’s social investment programme stands out clearly as the largest and most effective social investment programme in Africa. “It involves Home Grown School Feeding Programme for over Nine Million pupils, Conditional Cash Transfer to almost three hundred thousand Nigerians and the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), which financially empowers small and medium scale businesses. These programmes amongst others are geared toward overcoming the daunting unemployment challenges and eradication of poverty.” Alo called for the upgrade of the ILO Country Office in Abuja to the status of a Decent Work Sub-regional Office to serve the English speaking countries of West Africa, adding that the office in Senegal can no longer effectively serve our technical assistance requirements of the sub-region. He called for the employment of more Nigerian professionals into the office to bridge the under-representation of the country in the ILO workforce bearing in mind Nigeria’s status and contributions to the organisation. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) explained the absence of President Muhammadu Buhari at the ongoing ILO Centenary celebrations in Geneva. Over 50 top world leaders are attending the occasion. NLC President, President Ayuba  Wabba, said Buhari was absent due to important political matters at home. Wabba said Buhari could not attend the conference despite the invitation from the ILO because of national assignment, especially the celebration of June 12 Democracy Day. He added that the timing also coincided with Ninth National Assembly electing the leadership and other activities of governance. Wabba, also a member of the ILO Governing body, said the invitation was delivered to the president.  However, the activities of governance called for serious attentions. “But am sure if there is subsequent opportunities he will definitely be here,” he said. Wabba stated that despite the absence of the president, “Nigeria was highly recognised because from the context of Africa, Nigeria, Ghana and South Africa were invited first before other African countries and looking at the strategic position of Nigeria in the  committee of nations, ILO recognises the contributions of Nigeria to the issues concerning all other nations not only in Africa but in the world.” He said the country will host one of the largest global event this year, Global Employment Youths Forum where by the Director-General of ILO, Guy Ryder would visit Nigeria. He said: “The DG was the former General Secretary of the International Trade Union Congress (ITUC), which am now the president. Clearly, there is flow of information. “Looking at the constitution of the National Assembly, every leader will like to get things fixed and those activities have been scheduled, clearly the date that was given coincided with ILO time table. Besides this time around ILO don’t want representation, its wants the  heads of states to be there physically. “Most of us those that came here were Presidents, I was seated beside those African countries that were here, I was in the hall when President of France, Emmanuel Macron, Angela Merkel of Germany and others came in. However the issues on ground at home concerned  governance and that is why the president is not here.” On the issues of low appointment of Nigerians at the top of affairs in the ILO and other international organisations despite Nigerian roles in the body, Wabba said the Deputy General Secretary in charge of African, Cynthia Samuel-Olonjuwon, is from Nigeria, and has held the position for almost a decade likewise also many others holding key positions in the ILO. “Nigerian has been doing well, but we can even do better particularly the people in government, in terms of interfacing, not like what we have now, coming in for two days and disappearing minutes, we want our political leaders to be here in order to have interactions with their contemporaries around the world to discuss vital issues affecting not only economy but other areas that will make life better for the citizenry,” Wabba said. According to him, Nigeria can tap into other opportunities, like in the area of internship. He said youth can do internship in the ILO for two years because in international organization. “They look at experience so those that have done internship with them at the end of the day, they will be integrated into the system. But it requires that your country will continue to pay your salaries and up keeps until your integration. “As an organised labour, we cannot be able to do that as workers, but as a government, they need to look into the opportunity because if we are able to be in one of the international agency, it will be easier to move to others and that is why the system works and the issue of experience is very important,” Wabba said. 