Rice Famers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) has disclosed that the association would soon be embarking on rice processing and milling. The National Vice President of RIFAN, Segun Atho, who disclosed this in an interview with The Nation, noted that this action was necessitated as a result of sabotage of some members of rice processors. “We, the rice farmers have decided to start processing our rice on our own because we have discovered that some of the rice millers have started jeopardizing our efforts. “We are trying to see how we can make fresh farm rice available for consumers all over the country, starting from the 19 states in the north and the 17 states in the south,” Atho said. He pointed out that RIFAN had earlier signed an agreement with the Rice Processors Association of Nigeria (RIPAN), stressing that the agreement was to ensure that whatever quantity of rice is harvested by the Association RIPAN would be amongst the preferred buyers. Regrettably, he said RIFAN decided to embark on rice processing in order to avoid further sabotage, adding that it will help the farmers achieve their utmost goal of self-sufficiency as well as export of the produce. The RIFAN boss noted that part of the Anchor Borrowers’ Fund benefited his members immensely. “The fund has helped all the rice farmers in the whole country to improve and increase production. We have started producing RIFAN rice. All of us are covered by this Anchor Borrowers Fund. We are currently doing the distribution of farm inputs to rice farmers in the country to see that every farmer benefit from this programme.” RIFAN members, he emphasised, are utilising the funds, “I can tell you categorically that almost all our members are complying and we have increased our output astronomically.” He stated that the Association recently distributed vehicles to farmers in Abuja and environs to strengthen the monitoring team, adding that it was part of the efforts to ensure monitoring team in all the states of the federation. “Before 2020, we would flood the Nigerian market with rice produced by Nigerians and the country will no longer have business importing or smuggling rice because our price would be competitive. We are seriously working hard to make sure that we achieve this dream because rice is the only staple food we have in this country,” he said.