A mild played out at the elections petition tribunal in Akwa Ibom State when a witness, Mr. Godwin Afangideh, presented a document confirming that Senator Godswill Akpabio of the All Progressives Congress (APC) won the Akwa Ibom Northwest senatorial election. Lawyer to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Solomon Umoh had given Afangideh a document presented by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to read to the tribunal. The document was an exhibit presented by INEC in a petition by Akpabio, challenging the declaration of Christopher Ekpenyong of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as the Senator for Akwa Ibom North West. Afangide, reading from the document given to him by Umoh, said: “My Lord, even from this document, APC scored 61,329 and PDP scored 9,050 in Essien Udim council, and it is recorded here.” Umoh had attempted to shout Afangide from reading that part of the document. Afangide had earlier tendered results collated from wards in Essien Udim as given to him by the party agents, which clearly showed that Akpabio won with a wide margin. The witness expressed surprise at the voters’ register tendered in court, saying it was different from the one used on election day. According to Afangide, the elections in Essien Udim were peaceful, as attested to by security agencies, local and foreign observers. Two policemen, Commander of Ikot Ekpene Area Command, Assistant Commissioner of Police Naziru Kankarofi and the Divisional Police Officer of Essien Udim, Samuel Isiek, on subpoena tendered situation reports on the conduct of the National Assembly elections. The reports were duly admitted as exhibits despite the initial objections of Umoh, respondents’ lawyer Chief Kanu Agabi and INEC’s lawyer Robert Emukpoeruo. They reserved their objections till final addresses. Another Witness, Chris Akpan, who was a ward collation agent, told the tribunal that the results declared by INEC in Uyo did not reflect collated results from the units and wards. He was also surprised hearing about violence, saying they were hearing of violence for the first time at the tribunal. Akpabio had so far called 14 witnesses, mostly ward agents, who have tendered duly collated results. Results so far tendered showed he had led his opponent with a wide margin before INEC cancelled the results in Uyo.