The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriation, Senator Danjuma Goje on Thursday stepped down for the Senate Leader, Armed Lawan, in the forthcoming 9th National Assembly Senate Presidency race. The duo had indicated interest to run for the office of the Senate President in the next dispensation. The elections and inauguration of the 9th National Assembly is billed for next week Tuesday. The Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, Goje, Lawan and Senator Ita Enang briefed State House correspondents at the end of meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. Goje said that he took the decision as a sign of respect for the President and to obey the decision of the All Progressives Congress (APC). El-Rufai said “Gentlemen of the press, I am very pleased to report to you that we just came out from a meeting with our leader and mentor, the President with distinguished Senator Danjuma Goje from Gombe state and Distinguished Senator Ahmed Lawan from Yobe state and the senator-Elect, Uba Sani from my state. “We discussed steps to unify our leadership in the National Assembly starting with the senate. “I am very pleased to announce that distinguished Senator Goje has agreed to fully endorse and support the choice of the party and that of Mr. President within the Senate, that is Senator Ahmed Lawan. “We are very grateful to Senator Goje for his sacrifice, patience. This discussion has been going on for a long time and I’m honoured to be part of it and I am grateful to him for recognizing the many years we have worked together when he was Minister, as Governor. “I know him to be a man of impeccable integrity and a man of his word and I am very honoured that he has come to see Mr. President and to conclude this matter once and for all.” he said Goje said “First, I want to use this opportunity to thank Allah for giving us this opportunity today. I want to thank my teeming supporters, associates across the country, who have been calling me to declare for the senate presidency, I have listened to them and I thank them very well. “I want to say that as an elder statesman in the senate for a long time. At my age, I should be able to appreciate leadership coming from our elders. So in spite of all these calls, in spite all the support I have among my colleagues in the senate, I have decided to in deference to the loyalty I have for his excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari and in deference to the loyalty I have for my party, the APC in the interest of our party and the development of this country, in other to assist Mr. President to deliver his promises, I have decided to respect his wish by not declaring to contest this senate presidency. “Instead, I am supporting the party’s position thereby endorsing the candidature of Senator Ahmed Lawan.” he stated Asked if the decision was an imposition, he said “I don’t think is an imposition, I am not compelled to step down, I just told you that my age I have the capacity to think well and respect my elders and respect my patty.
Continue on Page 2