Bakery Initiatives Group (BIG), a Dutch bakery consulting firm, in her resolve to impart modern bakery practices and techniques to a large number of bakers in Nigeria, so as to help them run bakeries profitably, held another series of trainings for bakers in Yaba, Lagos. The two weeks’ series of trainings which had over 50 participants benefiting included a “train the trainers” program conducted by a co-founder and expert baker of more than 35 years’ experience in bakery and milling technology, Mr. Jacob Molenaar ended on June 24, 2019. At the “train the trainers” program, Mr. Molenaar told participants that the essence of the program is not only to increase the theoretical and practical knowledge of participants in the bakery and confectionary industry but also equip them to be able to transfer such knowledge to others thereby creating a large pool of knowledgeable people in Nigeria. Mr. Ephraim Mbanaso, the Country Representative and Chief Executive Officer of Bakery Initiatives Nigeria, said that the series of trainings are aimed at addressing one vital area of need Bakery Initiatives identified while interacting with bakery operators in Nigeria over the years which is dearth of professional bakers. He also informed participants that the idea behind the training is centered on skill acquisition for all categories of human resources needed for the effective and efficient running of bakery businesses. The training program saw the participants trained on various aspects of bakery, such as, technology and practice of baking of bread, cakes and pastries with special emphasis on recipes, effects of basic ingredients, cost calculations among others. The company put the program together to train and re-train bakers in Nigeria with a view to equipping them with the requisite knowledge to succeed in bakery business. With support funding from BMZ/develoPPP.de BIG used the program to acquaint participants with the necessary baking skills and other necessary knowledge needed to run bakeries profitably, while also exposing them to international best practices and emerging trends in the bakery industry. Some of the participants bared their minds after completing the five-day intensive training program which ran in batches over two weeks. On her experience during the training, Fibian Ehizibolo who participated in the “train the trainers” program said, “I was thrilled not only by the exposure to the new insights about baking various products but how different ingredients can be utilized to achieve a desired effect in the finished products among many other benefits” The training program which is a continuation of Bakery Initiatives Group’s intervention in Nigeria began last year and so far, more than 120 bakers have benefited from the trainings.