The Deputy Governor of Kebbi State, Col. Samaila Yombe (rtd), has said the Governor Atiku Bagudu-led government prioritised security to safeguard lives and property of residents. He admonished the new leadership of Python International Golf Club (PIGC) of 6 Division,  Army, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, to be transparent in piloting the affairs of the group. Yombe, who is the Chairman, Board of Trustees of PIGC, spoke in Port Harcourt at the weekend during the election of new officers. He said the Kebbi State government had addressed security challenges since inception. The deputy governor, who reiterated the government’s determination and commitment in ensuring the safety of the state and its citizens, assured the people that the Bagudu-led administration would not relent in providing security for the people. “From inception, Governor Atiku Bagudu has been addressing insecurity. In the first three months of our leadership, he took security issues very seriously, so that we can remain safe,” he stressed. Yombe also hailed the 6 Division for its efforts in maintaining the Python Golf, which he said had existed for about three decades, reiterating that the area housing the club used to be a den of miscreants. He added: “I want to thank the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Jamil Sarham, for doing a good job. “What you see as Python International Golf today used to be a thick forest, and then being inhabited by people of wrong virtues, especially robbers. We saw their signs on the wall. They wrote their names and where they robbed. When we were clearing the bush, we saw skeletons of human beings.” The Chairman, Caretaker Committee of PIGC, Brig.-Gen. Bassey Etuk, noted that the club patron, on November 27, 2018, dissolved the 21st executive committee and set up an interim committee to run the club’s affairs. He urged the Emeka Anyaegbunam-led executive, who he said were elected unopposed, to ensure transparency and accountability. Anyaegbunam promised that the executive will work hard to take the club to greater heights.