 African players competing at all levels of football must resist the temptation to react in a manner that can paint the continent in bad light. That was the submission of Nigeria born British footballer Chioma Ubogagu while reacting to VAR triggered brouhaha during the England versus Cameroon FIFA women’s world cup round of 16 clash last Sunday. Ubogagu who plies her trade with Orlando Pride in the United States said why it is understandable to sometimes disagree with the rules, it is important to resist the temptation to over react and throw caution to the winds. Ubogagu who was called up to the England national team for a set of friendlies ahead of the FIFA Women’s World cup was however left out of the final 23-man team.to France 2019. The 26 year old bared her mind on the controversial match via the social media, tweeting “‘As someone with English, American, and Nigerian ties, I found it embarrassing watching a nation represent Africa like that. ‘I also find it worse that people are defending it, in my opinion. Because again, in my opinion, that to me means subconsciously you have and hold African nations at a lower standard. ‘I understand the frustrations of football, I understand being in the moment, and I understand strongly disagreeing with VAR decisions, but behaviour in these times is still massively important,” The striker who played for Arsenal and Houston Dash before joining Orlando Pride, made a combined 80 appearances for the clubs scoring 18 goals. Ubogagu born to Nigerian parents mother Tina a nurse and father Aloy a social worker was eligible to represent Nigeria, England and the United States, but chose to represent United States at the youth level, playing for their under-18, under-20 and under-23 teams. She settled on representing England at the senior level, accepting a call up from the side in October 2018 and making her England and senior international debut on 8 November 2018 against Austria which England won by 3-0. This year’s edition of the FIFA Women’s World cup has recorded a number of controversies with the VAR mostly at the centre of the matter. The Cameroon/England controversy came just a few hours after round of 16 clash between hosts France and Nigeria also ended with France progressing follow VAR triggered penalty replay.