Students of Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto (UDUS) have destroyed one of the two ‘dress code’ signages on the campus. The students were expressing their displeasure over management’s interpretations of dress code as expressed in the signages. Management unveiled two big signages on the main walkway to the hostels, depicting the institution’s ideal dress code, as well as those outlawed. In one of the new signages, tight-exposing trousers are outlawed for female students, and tight jeans for male students. This pictorial triggered  renewed war of words with students seeing the signage as an ‘imposition’ with no recourse to their ethnic backgrounds. A few weeks ago, CAMPUSLIFE exclusively reported, how management initiated a dress code that set it on a collision course with the students, who were disappointed when some of them were forced to return home because of their manner of dressing which the authority considered ‘indecent’. While the management sees it as a step towards ensuring sanity and morality on campus, students described management’s action as outright breach of their fundamental human rights and a misplaced priority in the face of other pressing challenges. “The fact that the school is situated in the North does not mean it is owned by those people. It is a university owned by the Federal Government. Therefore, I see no reasons why the school would impose a particular dress code on students of different cultures, beliefs and background,” says Tosin Olayemi (not real name) a 200-Level student of Accounting. Abdullahi Majeed, a 300-level student of Fisheries, also reacted angrily. Majeed insisted most students would kick against some of the recommended dress code “When I first saw the billboards, I thought the school is actually getting it right until I saw the dresses that were disapproved. No students would ever wear such oversize trousers in this age. How would I look putting on those big Jean trousers?” Abdullah asked rhetorically. “To avoid these ‘this is subjective or who wear these’ questions, the management should come out clean with the right dress codes” But a student, Aminah, whom CAMPIUSLIFE met at one of the signages, implored students to abide by the management directive. He noted that being in the university does not connote total freedom as conceived by many, rather freedom are also meant to be guarded. “We are all mature. Let’s abide and move on; dressing indecently does not make girls like you and dressing half naked attracts no guys with pure mindset to you. “We all have limited time here. To have a peaceful stay in the university, we should all abide by what the school wanted. “The belief that universities offer unlimited freedom is myopic. Remember, certificate is awarded based on learning and character “So because I wear jeans and a blouse, does it make me less a student?” asked Cynthia Abel, a 200-Level Political Science undergraduate.” She continued: “There are other pressing issues on campus but that won’t be attended to with seriousness. Students are waylaid and had their valuables stolen, no tangible effort was made to book the culprits. Let me just finish my four years and leave this school.” Ishaq Abdulmumeen, a 400-Level student of Adult Education, believes that what connotes decency and indecency is at the discretion of the university management. He noted that indecency among students is getting deplorable which without a measure, would degenerate into an uncontrollable menace. “We are not the one to tell the management what we want. They are to tell us what they want and we have to adhere in as much as it is to instill morality. ‘’Indecent dressing is rampant on campus these days. This is the best time to curtail it else, it would turn to something else” Interestingly the Students’ Union has also pitched its tent with the management. “Before the signages were erected, we met with the Dean, Students’ Affairs over what actually connotes decency or indecency. We (students) have to realise that UDUS being in a Muslim dominated state does not condone indecency. Sokoto is guided by the tenets of Islamic teachings, therefore, the university is obliged to form her moral codes in accordance with the norms of the host society,” said SU’s secretary-general, Sulaiman Abubakar. The pictures there are not subjective. No religion or ethnic groups preach indecency and as the saying goes, “the way you dress, the way you’ll be addressed”, students should comply with the directives” “We understand that there are certain stringent measures in the dress codes. We learnt some of the approved dresses do not conform with age that we are. Once we are able to compile the grievances of students on the issues, and there is a need for certain changes or modifications, we would definitely forward it to the management for consideration especially dresses with which students are convenient, but not indecent,” he added.