Arla Dano®, makers of Dano Milk, has marked the World Milk Day. The event  with the theme: On the farm with Dano, held at the Ndubuisi Kanu Park, Ikeja, Lagos. According to its Marketing Manager, Ifunanya Obiakor, the event was informed by the need to showcase the entire process from grass to glass and  helping to bring the awareness consumers need to have natural, healthy, good quality dairy nutrition every day. “As a brand committed to the well-being of our consumers, we are celebrating milk and the nourishment it brings, and World Milk Day is a day that affords us the opportunity to bring the excitement that milk offers in an educating and entertaining way. “Our mission is powered by the desire to make every Nigerian appreciate the inherent benefits in milk consumption. We are also walking this path to underscore our resolve to offering quality dairy products to consumers,” Obiakor added. Also, the representative of the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Health, Mrs Taiwo Fadairo, urged stakeholders to support the drive for milk intake because of its benefits. She said: “Every year, the World Milk Day offers stakeholders in the nutrition industry a fresh opportunity to push for the embrace of milk intake as a prerequisite for good nutrition, invariably, translating to healthy living. “We have made significant progress over the years, however, the Lagos State Ministry of Health is appealing to stakeholders – dairy brands and dairy brand executives, regulators, and government decision makers to intensify efforts capable of facilitating milk intake among citizens. Notably, milk consumption accelerates growth, nourishes the body system and keeps the body in a healthy state”. The Chairman, Nigerian Institute of Food Science and Technology (NIFST), Lagos State Chapter, represented by Dr. Edith Alagbe, commended Dano Milk for celebrating the day, adding that the brand has consistently marked the ccelebration over the years. Guests were thrilled by musician  Reekado Banks. Celebrities, such as Juliet Ibrahim, Denrele, Rachael Okonkwo (aka Nkoli Nwa Nsukka), ace comedian Funny Bone graced the celebration. Lots of prizes were also won by guests. One of the prices recipient s aid: “I am very pleased to be among the beneficiaries of the Arla Dano trivia. It is impressive that Dano Milk is connecting with consumers in ways that are heartwarming.”