The All Progressives Congress (APC) has rejected the inauguration of a few members of the Edo and Bauchi states House of Assembly, describing supposed election of principal officers behind closed doors as a joke and an embarrassment to Democratic practices. In a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party asked the governors of the two states to issue what it called a proper letter of proclamation for the inauguration of the state assemblies. The party disclosed that every elected member of the state assemblies are entitled to participate in the inauguration and election of the principle officers of the state assemblies. The statement reads: “The All Progressives Congress (APC) condemns the charade being presented as the inauguration of new State Houses of Assembly in Edo and Bauchi States. “We viewed this illegality with shock and disappointment. As a party that has made a commitment to change, we strongly reject any attempt to take recourse to brigandage of the past, when democratic practices were defined by the inordinate whims of people in power. Democracy must be governed by the rule of law. “A situation where 11 lawmakers in the 31-member Bauchi State House of Assembly and nine lawmakers in the 24-member Edo State House of Assembly were secretly ‘inaugurated’ and purportedly ‘elect’ principal officers behind closed doors is a joke and an embarrassment. “It is an unfortunate reminder of PDP’s queer brand of democracy. Practices like this are unacceptable under APC-led administration. As a party that is committed to higher ideals, we would use all democratic means necessary to ensure the right thing is done. “Perhaps the actors in the inauguration sham in Edo and Bauchi States need to be reminded of the recent and widely-commended election of presiding officers in the newly-inaugurated 9th National Assembly. Our party has set new standards in party politics by upstaging the rule of force, while upholding the rule of law. “It needs restating that every elected lawmaker has a legitimate right to participate unhindered in the inauguration of the legislative arm in which he belongs. The plot to arm-twist the majority in favour of the minority in the legislative arm died with the defeat of the PDP in 2015. “We therefore call on the Governors of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed to urgently do the needful by issuing a proper letter of proclamation to allow for the lawful inauguration of the respective state House of Assembly and subsequent election of presiding officers in a transparent manner.”