The Federal Government has completed preliminary work on the construction of the road linking the Adamawa State capital, Yola, with the headquarters of Fufore Local Government Area (LGA), Fufore, and another community within the LGA, Gurin. The entire road, from Yola to Gurin, spans about 56 kilometres and should make commuting between Yola and Gurin a quick journey, but it is usually a nightmare because of the bad state of the road. The member representing the Fufore/Song Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Hon Ibrahim Dasin, who has been championing the construction of the road and who spoke on the progress made so far on it, said there is much to hope for. He explained, “In my last visit to the Federal Ministry of Works, Power and Housing, the permanent secretary showed me the preliminary work done on the road. From what I saw, they have finished taking measurements of the length of the road from Yola to Gurin. So, the road will reach Gurin, no doubt. “The ministry has identified where to put either box or pipe culverts and has identified where to put concrete line drain on both sides of the road. It will now be a standard carriage way of 7.3m wide asphalt road and the shoulders will now be 2.75m wide on both sides end to end.” He recalled that the approval for the construction of the road was awarded to Messrs Wiz China Worldwide Engineering Limited at N13,643,670,884.81 with a completion date of 12 months, and that the approval for constructing the road by the Federal Executive Council followed the motion  that he moved in 2016 and the efforts he put in capturing the road in the 2017 budget. “We have been capturing the road in the national budgets from 2017 through 2018 and in 2019 budget,” he said, expressing joy that much had now been done to actualize the project. He thanked the former SGF, Babachir Lawan, “with whom we started it all,” and the current SGF, Boss Mustapha; the FCT Minister, Muhammad Bello, “for their efforts in making the final approval by the federal executive council possible.” 