A food seller, Mrs Florence Imoh, 58, was on Monday electrocuted at her shop at Ikotun in Igando/Ikotun Local Council Development Area (LCAA) of Lagos. Her neighbours, New Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports, found her body around 6.30am in front of her shop at 12, Shosanya Street, Ijegun Road, Ikotun. One of them, Mrs Mercy Alomona, said the body was clinging to the metal gates of the shop. Alomona said it was discovered that Imoh’s death was caused by a naked wire suppling electricity from the electric pole linking the building. “Mama Chikodi as Imoh was fondly addressed, was trying to open the iron gate of her shop without noticing the contact and got electrocuted,” Alomona said. Another resident, Mr Sodiq Bello, said the building was not properly wired. “We have searched for the cause of the death, and we noticed that a naked wire was resting on the metallic sides of the roof, which had transmitted to other metallic objects in the shop. “The building has an electrical defect. She was trying to come out from the entrance of the shop when the incident happened. “Mama Chikodi works and sleeps in the shop. She assists her younger sister in cooking and selling food early morning,” Bello said. In a telephone interview, the District Police Officer, Isheri/Osun Police Station, Rafiu Akinlade, a Superintendent (SP), said the police were notified of the incident. Akinlade said: “We have been informed and I have called Ikeja Electric about the development, and they have switched off the electricity in the area; this is to allow us evacuate Imoh’s body. I have also directed my officers to go to the scene of the event from where the body was evacuated.” Akinlade said the body had been taken to Isolo General Hospital mortuary. He said the incident happened due to lack of insulator protector in the building, adding that it was worsened by the rain. “If the building had an insulator, the insulator would have absorbed and protected the residents from any danger. Residents need to be careful and be vigilant, especially during and after rainfall. When it rains, it is advisable to avoid touching iron or a metal object,” the DPO said. NAN