 Protest and disagreement over money appears to have become a recurring decimal in the relationship between the national teams and the Amaju Pinnick led Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). Just few days after Super Falcons refused to leave their hotel in France insisting on getting their allowances before checking out, Super Eagles currently campaigning at the Nations cup in Egypt have joined the band wagon. The Eagles who are billed to take on Guinea in their second group match on Wednesday flagged off massive protest on Tuesday, shunning training and boycotting press briefing ahead of tomorrow’s match. Information emanating from the team’s camp indicates that the players were not ready to listen to the sugar coated promises often given by Glass House officials insisting on pay before service. Some of the players Sportinglife gathered described the Glass House as specialists in promise and fail, adding that in as much as it is good to be patriotic a labourer still deserves his wages. They accused the officials of taking their welfare with levity just because they listen to their sweet nothings while resisting the temptation to portray the country in a bad light. “There is time for everything we cannot just continue this way promises will be made they will not be kept, “some of the players were quoted as saying. Ahmed Musa who was billed to show for the pre-match conference failed to turn up forcing Coach Rohr to go alone for the briefing. Media men did not fail to query the coach over why the players were not represented at the conference, to   which he confessed that they stayed back in solidarity for what he dubbed a crucial player’s meeting. Eagles managed to earn a lone goal victory over Burundi, raising fears that it may not be a smooth sail for the team despite having two debutants in the group. Going into the next match against Guinea with so much protest in camp some say is an indication that the team may lose the match due to loss of concentration Recall that even the Under 20 side also protested in Poland refusing to leave their hotel until they are paid. Ironically while the Eagles are protesting, fillers from Guinea camp indicate that the players have vowed to rattle Eagles who currently lead the group with three points.   