President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government laid the ghost of June 12 to rest when it declared the day as the authentic ‘Democracy Day’. Twenty-six years after the annulment of that presidential election by the then military president, General Ibrahim Babangida, it has become an important milestone in the country’s political history. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI looks at the place of Babangida in history because of the role he played in the June 12 saga. AFTER 26 year’s struggle, history was made when President Muhammadu Buhari on June 6, 2018 declared that June 12 would henceforth become Democracy Day in Nigeria. On Thursday May 16, 2019, the National Assembly passed the amendment to the National Holiday Act to officially make June 12 Democracy Day. The Senate passed the amendment in concurrence with the House of Representatives, which approved the new date earlier in December 2018. This was done to commemorate the democratic election of the late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola on June 12, 1993, in what has been adjudged as Nigeria’s freest and fairest election. It was, however, annulled by the then military President, General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida; popularly known as IBB. Hitherto, Democracy Day was marked annually on May 29, which was the day the military handed over power to an elected civilian government in 1999. In a sense, the recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day would go a long way to right the wrongs inflicted on the psyche of the Nigerian people who trooped out to exercise their franchise on that day by the Babangida-led military junta. The annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election by the former military president is widely regarded as a colossal blunder committed by the man who could have gone down in history as the one who introduced the most radical structural changes into public administration, in response to pressing domestic and international economic realities. After his palace coup of August 1985, Babangida reigned over the country like a colossus. He had captivated many Nigerians with his charisma, particularly his toothy smile and could have gotten away with many of his perceived atrocities against the people, if he had not committed the ultimate blunder of annulling the June 12 presidential election — a decision which proved to be controversial and unpopular. During the eight years he served as head of state, IBB nearly succeeded in entrenching democracy in the nation’s polity but for a hiccup along the way. His regime sunk billions of naira into nurturing two political parties during his lengthy transition to civil rule programme. But, he truncated that transition midway, when results trickling in from the June 12, 1993 presidential election suggested that the late Abiola had won the contest. The election is widely regarded as a watershed in the country’s political history, because for the first time, Nigerians defied the culture of docility to vote for the exit of the military from power in a telling manner. In that election, Nigerians chose the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the late MKO Abiola and Baba Gana Kingibe who contested on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Abiola not only defeated the candidate of the National Republican Convention (NRC), Bashir Tofa, in his home state of Kano, he also defeated him comfortably with 58.4 per cent of the popular vote and a majority in 20 out of the then 30 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). That election was adjudged to be free and fair, and peaceful. But, the Babangida-led military government, which had been playing games with the transition, chose not to announce the final results. Subsequently, on June 23, the election was annulled. Observers see the annulment as a coup against the Nigerian people and an act of brazen injustice. Many of those who played key roles at the time, including the chief electoral umpire, Professor Humphrey Nwosu, have since confessed that “his hands were tied” and that indeed MKO Abiola won the election. Since he was compelled to step down unceremoniously, Babangida has not been able to come up with a coherent explanation of what happened. Twenty-six years after, he has not been able to say precisely why he annulled the election. In his trademark maradonic style, he has been deliberately giving vague or misleading answers. In his June 23, 1993 broadcast, when he officially annulled the election, he said, among other things, that he took the decision as a favour to Abiola, because the latter would have been killed, if he was allowed to take office. In that broadcast, Babangida had also stated that his major objective of the transition programme was to build a lasting foundation for democracy. He added that the June 12 election, like the presidential primaries that were cancelled the previous year, did not meet the basic requirements of democracy: free and fair elections, un-coerced expression of voters’ preference, respect for the electorate as final arbiter in elections, decorum and fairness on the part of electoral umpires, and absolute respect for the rule of law. IBB said he had overlooked the breaches because of his determination to keep faith with the handover date of August 27, 1993. He said the breaches continued into the June 12, 1993 election, on an even greater scale, but the Nwosu-led National Electoral Commission (NEC) went ahead and cleared the candidates. He added that the courts were also intimidated and subjected to “the manipulation of the political process by vested interests, to the point that the entire political system was endangered”. He added: “Under these circumstances, the National Defence and Security Council (NDSC) decided to annul the election in the supreme interest of law and order, political stability and peace.” While acknowledging that he allowed the breaches to keep faith with the transition programme, he still blames Nwosu for clearing the candidates and the courts for being intimidated and manipulated by vested interests. Ironically, the late Abiola and IBB were bosom friends. He had sought IBB’s approval before joining the presidential race and it is on record that the then military president gave a go-ahead to the late MKO. It is also on record that the approval was not for altruistic reasons. First IBB saw it as a way of resolving the credibility crisis he faced in 1992 after the botched presidential primaries and so observers say it was a way of convincing Nigerians that the transition programme was still intact. The consensus of observers is that history would not forgive Babangida for deliberately toying with the mandate of the 14.2 million Nigerians that voted for Abiola and Kingibe on June 12, 1993. Many of those close to the corridors of power at the time say Babangida was compelled by ruling northern oligarchy to annul the election, to prevent power from shifting from the north to the south. Tofa was the first northerner to lose a presidential election to a southerner, even though the election was not a regional battle. The result of the election is believed to have shocked the northern establishment and their military cohorts and they prevailed on Babangida to annul it. The ruling class had hoped that the combination of Tofa, a Muslim from the North and Dr Sylvester Ugoh, a Christian from the Southeast, was a winning formula. But it did not work out that way. Nigerians gave their mandate to Abiola and Kingibe on the election day, without considering their ethnic, religious and regional backgrounds. Observers say there were two issues that were dreaded by the ‘geo-ethno-military-ruling-clique’. First, Abiola’s election would have led to a shift of power from the north to the south; second, the free, fair and credible election would have led to a shift of power from the ‘geo-ethno-military-ruling-clique’ to the Nigerian voters for the first time. Nigerians were also compelled to reach the escapable conclusion that the objective of Babangida’s long transition to civil rule programme was to transform into a civilian leader. The fact that he sought to return to power after the Olusegun Obasanjo era as a civilian leader lends credence to this conjecture. Nigerians had tolerated all sorts of whimsical ideas from Babangida during the transition. He kept shifting the goal post; he disbanded all the political parties that were in existence then, established and funded two political parties that were the only ones recognized to contest for elections, unilaterally disqualified many politicians and also cancelled primaries that did not meet up to his expectations. The annulment was the last straw that consumed his government and forced him to “step aside”. He left behind an Interim National Government (ING) led by Chief Ernest Shonekan who was handpicked for the assignment, but the ING contrivance only survived for 83 days; in November 1993, the late General Sani Abacha, who was in the ING as Minister of Defence, seized power. It was obvious that the military never wanted to relinquish power. June 12 brought out the worst and the best in the people: the worst in the military and its hungry agents. The injustice also released the people’s energy and capacity for protest. It brought out the best in Nigerians; progressive-minded Nigerians spoke in unison against military tyranny and the violation of their right to choose. The Abacha military junta, which had initially deceived Nigerians about its intentions, unleashed a reign of terror on the country: media houses were attacked, journalists were jailed, bombed, beaten, civil society activists were hauled into detention. The repression was nevertheless met with stiff resistance. The people insisted on the restoration of the June 12 mandate, the military’s exit and Abiola’s declaration as winner of the election. On June 11, 1994, in what is now known as the Epetedo declaration, Abiola declared a Government of National Unity and asked for his mandate to be duly recognised. He was subsequently arrested for treasonable felony, but that only added fuel to the protests. Abiola later died in custody on July 7, 1998, about a month after Abacha died. Without doubt, June 12 has undermined the place of Babangida in history. Otherwise, his regime witnessed a whirlwind of activities and more policy initiatives and fiscal measures than all other past regimes put together.