An Akure High Court in Ondo state has resolved the protracted land dispute between Ikale community in Okitipupa local government and Araromi Obu in Odigbo local government area of the state. It ruled in favour of Ikale community after 15 years has won an age-long land dispute with its Araromi-Obu neighbours. Akure High Court ruled in favour of the Ikale community after 15years of repeated adjournment and trials in a suit number HOR/2/2004. The people of Araromi Obu(Claimants) had approached the court seeking six reliefs against the defendants. The claimants; Oba Aderemi Adelola, the Ajobu of Araromi Obuland, Mr Johnson Ladekugbe, Chief Tola Akintemi, Prince Adegboyega Adenikinju, Mr Bisi Adesanlu, Odigbo local government council for themselves and on behalf of Araromi Obu had dragged Oba Faduyile, High Aderoloye Netufo, the Lisa of Ikoja among prominent defendants to court over the legal battle. The claimants said the defendants were laying claim to their land as well as harassing their kinsmen over the ownership of the land in question. Through their lead counsel, Olagoke Fakunle, (SAN)they prayed the court for “A declaration that the plaintiff are entitled to the statutory right of occupancy to the piece or parcel of land situated at Araromi-Obu, Ondo state. ”A declaration that many towns and villages in the area belong and forms part and parcel of the said land under the aforesaid boundaries as contained in the said amended dispute plan. ” A declaration that any purported sale, lease or transfer of any part of the aforementioned piece or parcel of land to any person or persons whatsoever including the 4th defendant by any of the 1st,2nd, 3rd and 5th defendants and their privies and agents without the consent and authorities of the plaintiff is illegal. On their own part, the defendants led by their counsels, Otunba Olusegun Otayemi and O. B. Tobase argued that the Abodi who is the progenitor of the Ikale race, founded the land in dispute and that the Ikales were the ones who settled the people of Araromi-Obu where they are. They consequently counterclaimed against Araromi Obu on ownership, injunction or forfeiture of customary tenancy. In his judgement, the court presided by Justice O.O Akeredolu, the Chief Judge of Ondo state ruled that the defendants had by traditional history been able to prove that the disputed lands belong to them. The Judge said “I hold that they (defendants) are entitled to customary right of occupancy over the lands,” the court declared. Speaking on the development, the legal counsel to the defendants, Adesegun Otayemi said the judgement of the court must take immediate effect. He said” The court granted an injunction against Araromi Obu restraining them from trespassing into Ikale territory. The part of the land Ikales went to work on is part of the area granted to them which had always been in their possession. Otayemi, however, tasked the police to carry out its official responsibility by enforcing the judgement of the court and ensuring compliance by the Araromi-Obu people. However, Araromi-Obu residents alleged the total invasion of their land by the Ikales inspite of the appeal filed to challenge the ruling. The community’s spokesman, Bisoye Monebi condemned the invasion, warning Ikale people to stay off the land pending the judgement of the Appeal Court.