Adetoun Ogedengbe is the chairperson of Nigeria Association of Social Workers (NASoW), Lagos State chapter. In this interview with Daniel Adeleye, the then Ondo State University Ado-Ekiti (OSUA) graduate of sociology speaks on factors militating against social work practice, the efforts her association is making in Lagos State to meet up with global standard, amongst others. Excerpts; HOW did social work begin with you? Maybe I should trace it down to when the United Nations had their 50th anniversary at far away Beijing in China. I was in my final year in the university then and some youths were picked across the nation and we were gathered in Abuja to write about the future of a girl-child in Nigeria. So that was my first exposure to social work and services. And then we wrote some of those things we wanted to see in a girl-child in Nigeria in the nearest future and those things were part of documents that were taken to Beijing during the 50th anniversary of the United Nations. I was in Sociology class and my thesis has to do with women in development, which is also an aspect of social service; talking about roles women and all that. And in doing this, my interest was developed towards that area. And now I’ve been working as a social welfare officer for Lagos State for about 20 years. Sometime last year, the federal government declined assent to the social work professionalisation bill; what’s your reaction to that development? The bill was passed in March 2017 by the two chambers of the national assembly and it was taken to the president in December of the same year. But Mr. President made some comments and wanted some amendments, so it was taken back to the national assembly. If you ask me for my reaction, I will tell you it’s frustrating because the bill was supposed to have put us in line. We have quacks in the profession, people that do charity and describe it as social work. Social work is not about having money and giving to the vulnerable; it goes beyond that. Social work goes to the root of problems. Not because you feed someone who is hungry or giving scholarship to people, but what’s the cause of the hunger? What can we do to stop the hunger? Giving food is just a temporary thing. In social work, we look at the root cause and we look for a more lasting solution. When the bill comes to be so many things would be in place. What effort is your organisation in Lagos State making to link up with other international bodies in the field of social work so as to prepare your members to meet up with global challenges? Bi-annually, there is a conference that is being organised by International Federation of Social Workers (IFSW). It is an international body of social worker and the body governs the activities of social workers globally. Bi-annually, they converge and talk about the best practices in social work and we have our members in attendance. Last year, we were in Dublin and in 2020 we will be in Italy. We send our representatives to those conferences who bring home the message and current happening in the area of social work practice in the world and they cascade it down to those of us at home and we all share in the experiences. And, again, we have an African region of the IFWS. Come October, we are going to have African region conference in Uganda, where we’ll share experiences on what’s obtainable in different countries and how to work and achieve common front as social workers. We train and re-train to meet up with international standard. Few weeks ago, we all gathered at NECA House where we brought a professor from the premier University of Ibadan (UI), who discussed with us relationship with our clients in social work practice. There is an influx of young people into the profession. Don’t you think age could be a disadvantage to them when it comes to applying life experience? I will say no to that. Social work, as I said in the beginning, is an academic discipline as well as a profession. There is something we call confidentiality, all the information gathered from clients remain within us and not to be shared with others. He only gave the information because he wanted help, so all these are being taught as part of academic discipline. When it comes to profession and you enter the service of practice, there is what we call marrying the practical with academic aspect of it and that’s where you learn on the job because you don’t just go to the field. When I was employed, I was under the tutelage of someone, Mrs Omotosho by name, who was retired as a director of social work in Lagos State. The first time I attended court with her, she did the presentation herself and I saw the way she presented. The second time was at Juvenile Court 6, she also did the presentation, but the third time, she told me to present, though my voice was a bit shaken, I presented. She mentored me and that is where we talk about the practice and the discipline because in academic discipline they teach you and when you get to the field someone mentors you. You can’t start work today and tomorrow they push you to the field to work alone. What does Nigeria stand to gain from having lots of social workers? Having a lot of social workers in Nigeria will enhance social functioning and overall well being of Nigerians. When we talk about social functioning, we are talking about being voice for the voiceless. When there are cases of abuse, they are the ones who will go for rescue. They also put the child in the protective custody pending the time we have relatives who can have the child back to custody. We talk about helping the vulnerable in the society; these are all what social workers do on a daily basis. We meet with people that need us and we render our services and the more we are, the better. Societal issues like rape, injustice, sexual and drugs abuse, amongst others, are still recurrent decimals in the country. What efforts are you making as a body to make sure that social work plays tangible roles? I always correct that impression in people that societal issues are on the increase. It has always been in existence but because people are speaking out now, that’s why we have information about them. People cover it up in the past because it is a taboo and the fear of stigmatising against them.