Review of Olusegun Osoba and Yusufu Bala Usman, Minority Report and Draft Constitution for the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1976, Centre for Democratic Development Research [CEDDERT], Zaria, 2019 How long, by the way, is the American Constitution? It depends on how one configures “length”. The original document produced and signed into law in 1787 was contained in only FOUR parchment pages. As a printed text, it is about 17 pages. If you add its 27 amendments, the Constitution in its current incarnation comes to about 34 printed pages. These facts are worth stating if for no other reason than the fact that starting from the 1979 Nigerian Constitution, all our Constitutions have been structurally based on the American presidential system of government. However, while the American Constitution, with all its amendments is only 34 pages long, the Nigerian Constitution of 1979 is 120 pages long, with the resounding figure of 279 Sections as its component parts. But wait a minute, wait a minute, the 1999 Nigerian Constitution, the one currently in force as the ultimate law of the land, is even longer: 169 pages, 320 Sections! But what does length have to do with modern constitutions? What does it have to do with Nigerian Constitutions in general? Above all else, what does length lave to do in particular with the text under review in this piece, Minority Report and Draft Constitution of 1976 (hereafter MRDC ‘76) of Olusegun Osoba and Yusufu Bala Usman? In length, MRDC ’76 is like the American Constitution. At 65 pages, it seems much longer than the 34 pages of the American Constitution. But that’s a little misleading because the text is in a very bold print with a font that is larger than the very fine print of all the official Nigerian Constitutions – e.g., 1979; 1985; 1989; 1999. Thus, if MRDC ‘76  had actually been printed in the very fine print and small font of the typical Nigerian Constitution, it would have been less than half of its pages, probably no more than about 32 pages. Thus, MRDC ‘76 has the distinction of being the shortest, the most distinct of all Constitutions ever fashioned in our country. Thus, though it is not structurally and ideologically based on the American Constitution like our 1979 Constitution, it is ironically rather like the American Constitution in its brevity. More fundamentally, it turns out that brevity is not the only quality that MRDC ‘76  shares with the American Constitution. Above brevity, above succinctness, MRDC ‘76  shares with the US Constitution the great prose virtues of simplicity, clarity and gracefulness. Whether you are very learned or of very modest education, you go away from a reading of the American Constitution with the feeling that you have both understood and been moved by what you have read. This is exactly the same sentiment, the same impression with which you are left when you have read MRDC ’76: it is simple; it is clear; it is gracefully written, almost like the best of Chinua Achebe’s prose! I am making this particular point the first issue of this review partly because since Nigerians are used to Constitutions that are long, full of jargon and written in a language style that takes ponderous legalese – the special brand of language used by and for lawyers – as its model, nobody can use that as an excuse for not going right away to buy and read MRDC ’76. Indeed, the effect of reading this historic document by Osoba and Bala Usman will be salutary in proving that moderately educated people can not only enjoy reading the nation’s Constitution, but they can do so without the help of a lawyer to interpret the meaning of any word, any phrase or sentence to him or her. This, indeed, was the impact of MRDC ’76 when it was first released to the Nigerian reading public in 1976: everyone came away with their assumptions about Constitutions being written only for lawyers and the highly educated completely debunked and demystified. On this point, I think, again, of my opening comparison of MRDC ’76 with the American Constitution: next to the Bible, the book that Americans like to read the most is their Constitution. Since Osoba’s and Bala Usman’s draft Constitution never became our official Constitution, we will never know whether it would have come to be as popular and as beloved by Nigerians as the Americans love to read and be inspired by their Constitution, but I can report here that in 1976, nearly every literate Nigerian who could lay his hands on the mimeographed copy of MRDC ’76 was reading it and loving what they were reading. However, at this point, the comparison with the American Constitution ends. Why so? First written at the so-called Constitutional Convention of Philadelphia in 1787, the American Constitution was so faulty, so imperfect that it was to take more than two hundred years and 27 amendments for its contents to resonate with nearly all Americans. Slaves, women, workers, immigrants, the poor and the disabled had to fight for very long periods for their rights, needs and interests to be incorporated into the Constitution. For instance, at one stage, in the American Constitution, the black person, man, woman or child, was defined as “three-fifths of a person”, the “full person” being the white male person. In sharp contrast, MRDC ’76 was apparently deeply informed by the mistakes as well as the achievements of many other Constitutions in history and in the world, including both the American Constitution and many versions and incarnations of the Constitution of the defunct USSR, especially the 1936 Constitution, thought by many historians of Constitutions to be one of the best Constitutions of the defunct Union of Soviet Republics. I confess that in 1976, I did not know this dimension of MRDC ’76, that its drafting was inspired by the errors as well as the achievements of other Constitutions in the world. All I knew, all I was immensely inspired by was the fact that Osoba’s and Bala Usman’s draft document had come from the Left, our Left and that in language and style, in contents and perspectives, it was infinitely superior to any other draft Constitution ever produced in our country. Can you even imagine it, compatriots: on university campuses, among workers and their unions, in faith community gatherings, people were talking of MRDC ’76 as Nigerians now talk about Man City versus Liverpool! And the document had not even as yet been published as a book but was being circulated in mimeographed and cyclostyled sheets of paper held insecurely together by paper clips and bounders! This was not a work of fiction, not an episode of the “Village Headmaster” and certainly not the latest of the escapades of Baba Salah; it was the minority draft Constitution of two members out of the 49 Constitution Drafting Committee (CDC) that the Murtala-Obasanjo regime had convoked to draft a new Constitution for the Nigeria that would come to be after the departure of the military from their autocratic rule. With the release of their minority draft, Osoba and Bala Usman, the two dissenting members of the CDC, became more popular, better known and more respected than the 47 members who produced the draft that would eventually become the 1979 Constitution. At this point in this review, I must, if not exactly disagree with the Foreword written by my old comrade, Dr. Abubakar Siddique Mohammed and the “New Introduction” written by Olusegun Osoba himself in the just released, published version of MRDC ’76, I must considerably expatiate on their insistence on the supposedly great gap between their Minority Draft and the Majority Draft that became the 1979 Constitution. This is because while it is not inaccurate to insist on the great differences between the two drafts respectively by the Minority and the Majority of the CDC, it is not helpful either to overstate the differences. Let me put the point that I am making here in a nutshell: even though Osoba’s  and Bala Usman’s draft Constitution was rejected by the majority of the members on the CDC and the military government headed by Obasanjo, in actuality the Minority Draft and the great debate it sparked in the nation produced a decisive impact on the 1979 Constitution that was based on the Majority Draft. In other words, in spite of the valid criticisms that the “Foreword” and the “New Introduction” make about the 1979 Constitution, that Constitution was not a document that constitutionally entrenched all the injustices, the looting, the rampant corruption, the insecurity and the divisiveness of the reign of the Babangida and Abacha dictatorships, of the Obasanjo era of the reign of PDP and the APC and of the current free-fall dystopia of the Buhari era; rather, the 1979 Constitution is in reality a document of solid social-democratic and progressive ideological and ethical vintage. And this is due largely to the great debate sparked by the release in 1976 by Osoba and Bala Usman of their Minority Draft. This is the second major point of this review: MRDC ’76 never became the Constitution of the country, but it launched far-reaching popular and elite debates in the 1980s and 1990s that produced such landmark events and developments as the 1979 Constitution itself; the transformation of the old, conservative and timid NAUT to the radical and resurgent ASUU; the Political Bureau of 1986; the June 12, 1993 national crisis; and ultimately, the withdrawal of the military from the levers of power in 1999. This review is in two parts. Logically, having stated the impact of MRDC ’76 over the course of the of the four decades since it was released in 1976, I should now go ahead and deal with that issue. But this is not how I wish to proceed. Rather than take that path of first tracking the path of the effect and impact over the years and decades of this historic document by Osoba and Bala Usman, I believe that it is necessary to first deal with the impact of the document in its own day, in its own moment in the sun, so to speak. The best way to do this, in my opinion, is to give a sense, an indication of what people encountered then in the document and might again encounter today if they go out and buy the published version of the document. Permit me to explain what I mean by this observation in the rest of this first part of my review this week. There are four parts to this newly republished MRDC ’76 in book form: the Foreword; the New Introduction; the Minority Report; and the Draft Constitution. Logically, the first two were not in the original document; they are additions or supplements to the two other parts, the Minority Report and the Draft Constitution. I suggest, compatriots, that when you buy and begin to read the document as a whole, go first to the last of the four parts, this being the Draft Constitution itself. I assure you that you will be amazed not only by how easy and reader-friendly it is, but also how deeply moving it is, especially in its most basic, most fundamental sections, these being the first three chapters: Chapter One, The Fundamental Principles of the Constitution; Chapter Two, Citizenship; and Chapter Three, Fundamental Rights, Freedoms and Duties of the Citizen. Altogether, these three chapters take up about only 11 of the 65 pages of the Draft Constitution and yet they make anyone reading them extraordinarily hopeful that our country can be a land of justice, peace, equal opportunity, fairness and unity, a land where the best and the most generous and benevolent instincts and dispositions of human beings are given the possibility to operate without let or hindrance. Altogether, there are 12 chapters in the Draft Constitution. Although, all are equally important, I wish to highlight Chapter Four, The Fundamental Economic and Social Objectives. This is because it ought to be the chapter that is the most different segment from everything and anything in the Majority Draft that became the 1979 Constitution. But this is not the case at all because between this chapter and Chapter Two of the 1979 Constitution, the difference is nearly like the difference between 6 and half a dozen. This will be our starting point in next week’s continuing, final installment in the series that makes up this review. bjeyifo@fas.harvard.edu 