The high rate of unemployment in the country has left people desperate for jobs. As such, the unemployed are susceptible to falling victims to fake interviews. Not only are people duped by these fake interviewers, some, it has been reported, fall victims of ritualists. Whatever the case may be, it is best not to fall into their traps. Here are ways to identify fake interviews: ·       They have little or no online presence. This is the 21st century. It is very uncommon that a company or an outsourcing company for that matter will have no website. It is not only restricted to website. They should have blogs, social media accounts or any online presence. However, bear in mind that some credible organisations do not yet have an online presence. ·       They usually send SMS alone. These SMSs are usually filled with excess grammatical errors. True, everyone makes mistakes but when the mistakes are more than usual, it’s a red flag. Meanwhile, credible companies use SMS, email and sometimes calls during recruitment. ·       When you receive messages from people you did not apply from, your suspicions should be up.  It is likely that your number was randomly picked. Normally, your CV is first reviewed before an invitation for interview is done. So, if your database is not in their system, how did they find you? ·       Again, most fake interviews do not specify the job title in their SMS. Reliable companies let you know the job title you’re applying for. ·       Asking you pay a fee. ‘Processing fee’ ‘registration fee’, ‘consultancy fee’, ‘training fee’, all these are some of the names used to embellish the act of duping done by these “interviewers” ·       The venue of the interview can also give away the sincerity or dubiousness of the company. Suspicious- looking structure and unconventional buildings should raise an alarm in your senses. In all, make sure to be alert and careful. Do not allow desperation and frustration get you caught up in the web of fake interviews. Happy job hunting! 