The Nigerian AirForce (NAF) on Monday relaunched its newly refurbished transport aircraft C-130H into its fleet and deployed same to supply weapons, others to northeast and northwest battlefields. The C-130H was relaunched into operation after undergoing an intensive Periodic Depot Maintenance (PMD) at the Aircraft Maintenance Depot (ACMD) in Ikeja, the first of its kind since the acquisition of the American four-engine turboprop aircraft in the 1980s. Although the NAF had attempted an in-country PDM during the years Nigeria suffered international embargo on the supply of military hardware; it turned out badly. Relaunching the C-130H Monday, Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar said he was happy that the intensive PDM was this time around concluded successfully within a year and some months. Aside the huge foreign exchange the NAF saved the country by doing the PDM locally, Abubarkar said it has also enhanced capacity of personnel of the unit who all took part in the exercise. He said: “In country maintenance is very important because it is all about building capacity. This is the first time in the history of the NAF that we are conducting a very successful PDM within Nigeria. It sends a good message that though we have technical partners, we also have technicians that are Nigerians that have participated to ensure the PDM is conducted locally. “It has saved us foreign exchange. If we were to carry this aircraft outside Nigeria, we have to pay for cargo. For it to be moved, it has to be dismantled and then, we will have limited number of personnel that will be sent abroad for that. “But now that it was done in Nigeria, everybody in that unit had the opportunity to really be part of the process and in that wise, we are so excited. “We have just flagged the PDM of the second one which is 912. The Pakistani Air Force is here working with us because they fly the same aircraft and have capacity we believe we can tap from. In Kano, we did life extension of three fighter aircrafts locally and in Port Harcourt, we are perfecting one of the helicopters. “So, overtime, I see us having the right capacities to be able to conduct these things locally by ourselves. This aircraft will be deployed immediately to the northeast and northwestern parts of the country. “Without this C-130, you cannot have a successful operation. How do you carry bombs, rockets? Which aircraft will carry it? It is the C-130 that carries it. Apart from that how do you discharge food materials? “Because of the shortage as a result of conflict, distribution of food items are done by the C-130. Outside Nigeria, we were in Gambia during the crisis and it was the C-130 that carried our troops including army and navy personnel. So, it is a very critical machine when it comes to conduct of war.” Noting that the C-130H has brought to 20 the numbers of refurbished aircraft in the fleet of the NAF, Abubarkar said gradually, the 910 and 914 would also undergo PDM locally. He said that the PDM of the Aircraft marked the beginning of a new dawn in the strategic plan to develop a robust capacity for in-country maintenance and sustenance of NAF platforms and equipment.
Continue on Page 2