Few weeks ago, the media was flooded with various stories of some Nigerian youths who took their own lives to escape life’s struggles. Depressed, some of them announced their suicide attempt on social media before actually committing the act. This time round, former YBNL signee, Opeyemi Babatunde Rahim, popularly known as Lyta, has opened up that he is sad and depressed. On Tuesday, Lyta, 21, during his interview with an online TV platform, NaijaLoaded TV, announced that he is in pains due to his misunderstanding with his record label (YBNL) honcho, Olamide Adedeji aka Olamide Baddo. “I am depressed and tired,” said the singer who hails from Kwara State but grew up in Ajegunle area of Lagos State. “I think Olamide misunderstands me. I see him like my father because if not because of him and God I won’t be famous like this.” This follows reports that Lyta has been axed from YBNL. And as if to confirm the authenticity of the news, Olamide unfollowed him on Instagram. Not to leave fans on a dark-side, Olamide had earlier addressed the issues he had with Lyta, whom he signed from the street. Olamide said that Lyta purposely requested that he wanted to leave and even though he knows the young act was lying, he still wished him well and received his blessings. The ‘oil and gas’ crooner, noted that Lyta was not pleased with the record label’s decision of promoting two or more artistes to maintain equality. According to Olamide, every label with many artistes has a calendar that they follow in order to maintain equality and it seems Lyta was not cool with that. “If one keeps pushing just one artist only, how would the label and every artiste sign under it grow?” Olamide questioned. On why he unfollowed him on Instagram, Olamide said he did not want negative vibes around him. “If you know me too well, you will know I don’t want negative energy or bad vibes around me,” he said. “Bad energy or pity face affects me badly and I can’t help but scrutinise my page to avoid any issue.” Contrary to this comments, Lyta in the trending video said: “Yes, so many people are always showing interest in signing me. “But, I don’t really give green, until my dad called me that there is a guy that always want to sponsor my music.” The singer, who got instant fame after he was signed into the YBNL record on February 15, 2018, said problem began when he informed his boss about the deal and expected a fatherly advice from him. He said: “When I message Olamide to inform him about the deal, he just said ‘if that is the best, I wish you goodluck.” Lyta said that since the incident, his musical dreams began to fade as sadness took the place of joy in his heart. “For the past few months now, I’ve not been doing anything, no music for my fans. “Everybody has been commenting ‘you’re not doing nothing. You’re only changing hairstyle. The thing is, I am depressed and sad,” he said. For eight years, Olamide’s YBNL imprint has become a hub for young musical talents. They have produced superstars like Adekunle Gold, Lil Kesh, Davolee and Temmie Uvwasa. The record label owner, Olamide, once said he is just helping youngsters so they can have a smooth ride in the highly competitive music industry.Lyta also expressed gratitude to Olamide for taking him off the streets. “If not because of him, I would’ve ended up being Islamic cleric (alfa) or repair generator. My greatest achievement is getting signed to YBNL.” He continued: “I don’t have any deal with YBNL but I used to get paid for shows, sometimes 80k, 60k, to 50k. But when I dropped my songs, ‘Time’ and ‘Selfmade,’ I didn’t get anything.” His videos included the cover of ‘Ire’ by Adekunle Gold. According to Lyta, the only reason why he is doing music is to take care of his mother’s blindness. “My mom is blind and I need to take care of her,” said Lyta who started his music career at the age of 12. “And I am the only one who can take care of her for now. My dad didn’t have much and my brothers are also trying their best too but people are seeing me as superstar but I don’t have anything because only me can’t take care of my parents. “I didn’t know to exit YBNL will be a big deal like this. I thought, if I informed Olamide about the deal he would just pray for me and support me.” Lyta’s pathetic story has generated a lot of buzz on social media as fans advise him to snub suicide while some said he should beg his boss to resign him. A fan, Blessing Ogbe, posted: “The boy said he is depressed and he really needs to be looked after. Continue your truth and be real, don’t allow paper money change anything away from you. Stay blessed.” Ramon Dada’ post reads: “Olamide should just reconsider the boy, sign a proper deal with his artists, good paper work and stop the helping street without paperwork contracts. God will open way for all of us, including you Lyta.” Also, Caroline Precious said: “I feel like crying about this guy, story, is not easy to be responsible for ur family, God will help you, keep praying and be God gat you bruhv.”