One hundred and eighty-three newly elected members of the House of Representatives yesterday endorsed Mr. Femi  Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the 9th House and Alhaji Idris  Wase as his deputy. The Forum of First Term Members of the House of Representatives as the group styled itself said the Gbajabiamila/Wase combination has the capacity to deliver and help take the country to the next level. Chairman of the forum, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, said at the ‘grand endorsement’ that  they membership of the group cuts across parties and regions. “We have our members from PDP ADC, APGA, AA, APC,” he said. The members then took turns, zone after zone, to announce their endorsement of the candidates. Speaking for the South East, Pascal Chidozie Obi ( Imo AA ) said: ‘We met and agreed that all newly members from all the parties to cast our vote in favour of Gbajabiamila. He has all it takes to take the House to the next level because of   his unquenchable patriotism.” Lawan Shetima, leading the North East delegation said: “through consultation we have agreed since the beginning of the project that this is ours. We will deliver our votes in totality.” The Southsouth Reps led by Thomas Onyetomi (PDP) said: “We are pleased with the things we have heard about you. We have resolved and come together to say that we are solidly behind you. We have been moving from place to place to canvass for votes for you. “We assure you that we are behind you. We are pleased at the good work and things we heard about you in the past and that your tenure will be of benefit to all of us as members. We resolved to stand solidly behind you. Taiwo Oluda  from the South West said: “This is our project and we are assuring you that it is a national project and we believe in the two that we will have it smooth and take Nigeria to the next level.” Tunji-Ojo, said the forum has the signature of 183  first termers who have  endorsed the Gbajabiamila/Wase ticket. The Director-General of the Gbajabiamila/Wase campaign organisation Abdulmumin Jibrin in his speech said thanked the Reps elect saying:”We aren’t taking anything for granted as we know how things turned in 2015. “Take this as a personal commitment and responsibilities. You need to maintain the commitment. Of course they used all kinds of negative strategies that failed, from nefarious court cases to negative propaganda.” Gbajabiamila said: “We need serious collaboration with the executive. The last four years we had discordant tunes, leading to stagnation, moving round in circles and the people suffered. We are looking forward to a positive 9th Assembly..” 