Mr Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the Federal, on Friday unveiled the 2019 National Democracy Day Exhibition with a call on Nigerians to reawaken their consciousness on the country’s rich heritage. Mustapha, who made the call in Abuja during the unveiling of the exhibition with theme, “Unbroken Democracy”, urged Nigerians to appreciate the country’s rich human, capital and natural endowment. He called for collective efforts to exploit the resources with a view to moving the country on the path of prosperity, unity and progress. The SGF said that the unveiling of the exhibition was part of the activities lined up for the 2019 National Democracy Day celebration to showcase the political and cultural history of Nigeria. “The exhibition with the theme, unbroken democracy takes us back to memory lane on our political struggles and eventual freedom from the British Colonial masters. “I believe that this will reawaken the minds and consciousness of Nigerians to educate our young ones about the founding fathers of our great nation. “This indeed is timely as the 2019 celebration coincides with the 20thanniversary of Nigeria’s uninterrupted democracy since 1999. “It is also to consolidate on achievements recorded in strengthening and deepening our democratic experience since June  12, 1993. ”It is my sincere hope that this exhibition will bring to remembrance the birth of our political history and also serve as a uniting force for all Nigerians,” he said. In his remark, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the immediate past Minister of Information and Culture, said the exhibition was in arts, pictures and immersive digital environment. “This exhibition is aimed at strengthening and deepening understanding of our democracy as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of “Unbroken Democracy” of civilian administration. “ It is designed to provide insight into our political history with the aim of educating especially our youths and reawaken their consciousness about our political history. “It is my hope that this exhibition will give us an opportunity to appreciate the role of our nationalists, activists and the founding fathers of our democracy,” he said. NAN