Dr. Ofonime Inyang is a playwright, poet, and Theatre Art scholar. He is of the Department of Theatre and Film Studies of the University of Uyo. In this interview with Edozie Udeze he makes it clear that reading varieties of books has made him a more outstanding scholar and writer. What inspires you to write? Different things. Could be a word with a spark of wisdom or inspiration behind it. It can also be a scene as I walk on the road. Sometimes when I travel and I look through the country side and receive a push to write something down. At other times, the inspiration could come from reading the work of another writer or watching something good on screen. Personal experiences also motivate me to write many times. For me, the source of inspiration to write is multifaceted. But I like it when that push comes naturally and I sit down to write. On such occasion, the problem is often how to stop or disconnect from that literary tap flowing from my inside. When you read a book what are the essential things you look out for? I start with the story if it is fiction. There is always a way to identify the thread of the story from the first page, the first sentence or the first paragraph. The story weaves a certain kind of canopy over the narrative vision and takes you right to the heart of the matter. Language, by that I mean the use of language is sometimes what I look out for first. You meet a good language user you feel it from the opening sentence. I melt to the power of good use of language like in Eziaba Irobi, William Shakespeare or Wole Soyinka. Characters can also drive your journey. I like iconic characters. Of all the books you have read which character or characters affected your sensibility the most? Bambulu in Ene Henshaw’s This is Our Chance; Lakunle in Soyinka’s The Lion and the Jewel; Julius Caesar in Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar; Helon Habila’s real activists characters in Love Poems but Lomba as a person strikes me as real even though he is a usurper. I am also fascinated by the characters in Arundhati Roy’s The God of Small Things; There is this very courageous character, I’ve forgotten her name in Sefi Attah’s Everything Good will Come. Between prose, drama,poetry,et al,which one draws your attention the most? In terms of visual power and emotional strength, drama is the dominant genre. May be also I have studied in this field for a greater part of my academic life. But where I enjoy the redemption that word and thought provokes is in poetry. I can actually say it is my favourite genre though saying that will be challenged by my love of literature generally. Prose is not the least even though I’m commenting on it last. It is the most engaging of all. Of course, I travel with prose most often and is drawn to the endless stripes of narrativity that one is able to encounter in great prose works. I read and stock up a great deal of autobiographical works also. In this regard, Walter Isaacson is my favourite author in this sub genre. His take on the life and career of Steve Jobs remains a masterpiece in my opinion. At what point in your life did you realise that one day you will become a writer and what book did you read that triggered the muse? I didn’t come to that realization on my own rather I heard that through the mouth of colleagues, peers and people around me. My parent may have known that right from time because of my love of reading. I read everything, I read all the books in the family library and strayed into reading my father’s diary. Whenever I visit an educated man in my neighborhood in the company of my father, I will fix myself near the stark of old newspapers and magazines and sometimes finished reading all while my father is busy in their conversations. Many times, going home will always be a problem until I am allowed to go with copies I didn’t finish. My father was a keen newspaper buyer meaning I formed the habit of reading so early. When Newswatch magazine was established, I used to read it from cover to cover. I have never seen such a parade of fine writers. I used to read Newswatch from cover to cover. I usually read the letters to the editor, the adverts and many other non editorial stuffs. The same is also what I did with Time magazine international. Saying all of this is to establish the fact of my love of reading which is like a precursor to the sign that one could become a writer. In secondary school, I was active in the press and current affairs club writing stories that fellow students used to make reference to. In the university, I became active in campus journalism becoming Editor of several press organizations on campus and writing and publishing short stories, poems and features that used to attract a lot of attention. This may be considered the time that my future as a writer began to form as my lecturers and colleagues used to commend my writing. As a university undergraduate, I was already active in writing and sending my short stories, poems and opinion to several national newspapers including The Punch, The Guardian, Sunray, Post Express Literary Supplement etc. This was when I possibly began realizing that writing might become a serious direction of my literary interest. By this time I already had a lot of exposure to literature from academic and private levels and already read several writers. But Wole Soyinka, Reuben Abati, Chinua Achebe, Nkem Nwankwo, Ola Rotimi, Garcia Marquez, VS Naipaul, James Baldwin, Arthur Miller, Chris Abani, Moses Akpabio, Chimamanda Adichie etc. were to me thoes sources of influence or inspiration. Where and when do you like to read and or write? I read everywhere. I also write everywhere. Whether I am traveling or relaxing at home or in the office, writing comes naturally to me. I always endeavor to carry writing materials with me wherever I go so that I can engage my muse the moment it comes. If you meet your favourite author,what will be the first question to ask him or her? That favourite author within my current purview will be Paulo Coelho and the question will be why do you write the way you write? Who are your favourite writers home and abroad? Eziaba Irobi, Paulo Coelho, Zakes Mda, JM Coatzee, Mungo Beti, Ndabaningi Sithole, Shakespeare and many others. How do you arrange your library? I ensure the books are exactly where I can pick them. I don’t like searching for things or laboring over finding things. So I ensure that the books are in a way and place that I can locate easily. People who live or work with me know this and they get into trouble the moment they scatter my books. I keep my books in such a way that no matter the number in the shelve if you remove it I will know. In that same way, if I need a particular book, I simply describe where it is to the person am sending and it will surely be there. Are you a re-reader,why and how often? Yes, I reread when the copy is strong and the material speaks to the quality of information that I want. Barack Obama’s Audacity of Hope is one of such copies. I’ve reread it many times. Also, this outstanding book Why Nations Fail:The Origins of Power, Prosperity and Poverty by Daron Acemoglu and James A. Robinson is another strong copy. I’ve read it but I intend to read it again. Beyond that, I always go back to Shakespeare. He is the kind of writer you cannot stop going back to because of the depth of wisdom and strong sense of language. I enjoy philosophy and also tend to go back to classical texts. What are you reading now and what do you intend to read next? I’m currently simultaneously reading many books namely Ripples of Rebirth by Martin Akpan, Impostor Alert by Uduak Umoren, Humans and Other Beings by Taofeek Olatunbosun and The Great Believers by Rebecca Makkai. When I’m done, I’ll start reading Ocean Voung’s On Earth, We’re Briefly Gorgeous, Raised in Captivity by Chuck Klosterman and also You Think It, I’ll Say it by Curtin Sittenfeld. Has writing ever reordered your life? In what ways if yes? Yes and no. Yes, writing shapes the better part of how I react to life and my intellectual  development and no because notwithstanding the quality and quantity of writing available and being consumed human civilization and the patterns of life appears cyclic if not static.