It was on a warm Sunday afternoon for this long-awaited rendezvous with Bishop (Dr.) Idah Peterside at his Christ Ambassadors Church situated inside the busy hub of Kempton Park. Walking straight into the vast auditorium while he was delivering his ‘Family Deliverance Sunday’ programme, shouts of ‘Hallelujah’ enveloped the arena as members attested to God’s awesome power. The electrifying atmosphere seemed to underscore the fact that the fundamental key to serving God consistently is understanding the dynamics of the Christian faith itself, one that Peterside is gifted with. His revelations on his Christian calling, how his church has grown by leaps and bounds over the years, and the birth of his baby girl after 10 years of waiting, makes an interesting read as we delve into the amazing transition of a Nigerian former international goalkeeper who rose from football retirement to becoming a giant in the pulpit. It has been an exciting journey for the renowned TV pundit who, to the consternation of his parents, had swapped school for football in a huge life-changing decision reserved only for the bold. Today, Peterside, founder of the Christ Ambassadors Church in South Africa, is making a bold statement as a bishop and a true ambassador of the Christian faith. His church ranks as one of the fastest growing denominations in Africa, and with the launch of his ATV channel expected to guarantee bigger audience and followership, the sky can only be the limit. Yet the straight-talking preacher would be the first to admit that waiting for his first child after a decade after marriage was traumatic but as it’s widely said, ‘faith conquers everything’ for him. In an exclusive interview with MARK OGAGAN in Johannesburg, Peterside speaks candidly about life, family, football, while he describes his international debut for Nigeria as a ‘momentous’ occasion. Excerpts… FOR the benefit of younger readers, please give us an insight about yourself… My name is Bishop (Dr.) Idah Peterside. I pastor here in South Africa at the Christ Ambassadors Church. I played in South Africa for Tembisa Classic FC and Moroka Swallows. Prior to that, I played for a whole lot of teams in Nigeria, among them Enyimba, Sharks, Udoji United, BCC Lions, Iwuanyanwu Nationale (now Heartland FC) before I travelled out in 1998. I was in Israel with the intent of joining a team called Maccabi Hezilia, but the deal fell through. Shortly after I found myself in South Africa, and after trying out in a number of teams, I joined Tembisa Classic eventually. I played professional football here for close to four years before I started my ministry, so it’s been a very long journey. Later I became media officer of Nigeria Super Eagles. I was in that position for four years, then I quit to return to focus on my pastoral work because my ministry was growing; we were doing well and I needed to focus. I am also a soccer pundit, and actually the first Nigerian on DSTV; I personally brought DSTV to Nigeria. It was myself, Thomas Mlambo, Emeka Enyadike who was based in Nigeria then, and Daniel Amokachi was our guest from Nigeria. So it’s been a long journey. I’ve been in South Africa for 21 years now, and God has been faithful; I’m happily married, so yeah, that’s a brief story of my life. That’s very interesting. Now can you tell us about your transition from football to Christian ministration? It wasn’t difficult because I’d been a Christian even when I was playing in Nigeria. I gave my life to Christ in 1996 while playing for Iwuanyanwu Nationale (now Heartland FC), and that’s where it all started. That same year I attended a bible school (Word of Faith Bible College) where I graduated with a diploma, but I continued to play because I felt it was not time to jump into the ministry so since then I’ve been serving God in my own little way, contributing to the Kingdom of God; so the transition wasn’t tough at all. I remember in 2002 (I was playing for Moroka Swallows then), I had this nudge, you know, I was supposed to go to the World Cup I did all the qualifiers, played two games or thereabout. I was a reserve goalkeeper to Ike Shorunmu for about eight or nine of the games, so I was in the team all through the campaign, but then came the unfortunate incident where I broke my knee. And if you remember, there was a transition then when they brought Adegboye Onigbinde to come and take over the national team. From then I couldn’t play anymore. My knee was so damaged and I did not recover for the World Cup. After that, I went to SuperSport where I started my career as a TV pundit during the World Cup in Korea-Japan. From the period when I didn’t go to the World Cup they asked me to come and analyse the tournament, get involved in the preparation for the World Cup, and that’s how I started doing television, and, as I said, I’m the first Nigerian to be on DSTV, and I’m very proud of that. That’s a good one…now if I remember correctly, Taribo West was one of the trail-blazers when he founded his ministry some years ago. Was this one of your motivating factors? No, actually, I’m not sure Taribo was the first because what he did when he was playing, he had a ministry, and the kind of ministry he had was like a Home of Compassion where he was busy looking after the homeless and the less privileged; his wasn’t really a preaching ministry. I think the first Nigerian player that really started the preaching ministry was Chidi Nwanu who played in the 1994 World Cup team, and if you remember he was in Belgium then. If you remember he just faded out, and nobody heard anything about Chidi again. But the truth is that Chidi started before us, and after Chidi, it should be I, because we started this ministry 17 years ago. Then, of course, we later had Taribo, then Alloy Agu jumped in. So only a few of us have been active in the Christian ministry. Was it difficult adapting to life in South Africa in your first couple of years here? Laughs…you should know; yes it was, obviously. I went through hell. It was very difficult to have survived in South Africa at that time. At some point I wanted to leave. I’d packed my bags and wanted to go because it wasn’t easy at all. I was looking for a team here for close to eight to 12 months. I remember sleeping on the bare floor in my friend Muisi  Ajao’s house who was playing for Sundowns at that time. He fed me for that period, and if I got five rand or 10 rand pocket money it was a miracle! I also remember going to Jomo Cosmos for trials; I did a training session there, and I was so good at that session that Jomo came to me and said, ‘you’re very good but I don’t know why I’ll not sign you.’ It was as simple as that. So I continued going from one team to the other…Orlando Pirates, Mamelodi Sundowns, Hellenic FC, African Wanderers, Ria Stars (about seven or eight teams in total), but none of them signed me. I was very frustrated, until I got a call one night from William Okpara (who was playing for Pirates then), that there’s a new team that gained promotion to PSL (Tembisa Classic), and they were looking for a goalkeeper, and he had already told them about me. I went there, and as God would have it, the first week they signed me and paid me a lot of money (200,000 rand) as my sign-on fee, and offered me 7,000 rand as salary. From then on my life changed completely. I remember then you could go to the bank to buy a house, and I bought a house obviously. I had to pay gradually, but I had the money. I remember they demanded 40,000 rand as deposit for the house, and it cost R200,000  then. And my monthly bond was just 1,200 rand, so it was easy to pay. Who was the greatest influence on your career? I cannot really point to one particular person, that would be wrong of me. But my elder sister gave me massive support. I’d never forget her because I remember my parents never wanted me to play football, they wanted me to study law. I’d gotten admission at the University of Uyo. I went there, stayed there for a few days and then Sharks FC came, that they wanted me to play for them, and without thinking twice about it, I left school. My father was livid, my mom was angry, and my father said something that changed my life forever. He said: “Make sure you’re not a liability to your brothers. Promise me.” Somehow I did not understand the word ‘liability’ until I checked the dictionary. So I promised my parents that I was going to survive and I’ve kept my promise! And in football, I’ll mention Monday Sinclair, he was my first professional coach at Sharks of Port Harcourt; he taught me the ropes. There’s also another coach, his name is Walter but we called him 4-2-4, until I met Shaibu Amodu. Shaibu became like an elder brother to me because he was friends with my brother. He invited me to come play for BCC Lions, and once I got there, everything changed absolutely and I came into national prominence. Remember, BCC won the Africa Cup Winners’ Cup then, and we had five of the best goalkeepers in the land then…it was David Ngodigha, Andrew Aikhomogbe, Lemmy Isa, Sam Addingi and I. Imagine, and we were all in one team! My move to BCC changed everything about me and I improved tremendously. From there I went to the national team. How do you cope with your dual role as a pastor and TV pundit? It’s not easy…what I’ve told myself is that I’ve been able to separate both in my head. I’ve told myself that my job is pastoring, then my leisure is TV. It has helped me a lot in the sense that I give so much to the church, then I want to unwind, I do football (Soccer Africa) on DSTV. I used to be very frequent on sports TV but the truth is that I don’t have that time anymore. I have too many things to do, if you come here on my counselling day we may have asked you to go home, and you were here in the church today and you witnessed the pressure. And the kind of ministry God called me into is a power ministry, and most times I stand in the auditorium from 9am to 3pm, and for over six hours standing and preaching…this is my life and God has been kind to me. So how did you get the calling to be a servant of God, and what influenced the name – Christ Ambassadors Church? Wow…that’s a good question. I knew it from a very tender age. My parents are pastors of Assemblies of God Church, and they influenced me a whole lot; so as a young person, I was ministering in the youth, and the youth then in Assemblies was called CAY (Christ Ambassadors Youth), so it stuck in my heart. I became a youth leader in church and I was ministering as a young lad of 11. At a point, I used to lead the youth choir as well, and somehow I knew this was going to be my life, beyond every reasonable doubt. Let’s go back to your football career now…you did not get a chance to play in Europe during your active days. Do you regret it? Without a shred of doubt, I regret it. You know, when I look back now, I thought I should have done more, because the benefits now far supersede what we had in the past. You see, nowadays when there’s a FIFA event, they invite Jay-Jay Okocha, Nwankwo Kanu, Daniel Amokachi, Sunday Oliseh. These were my teammates. And all of a sudden, it’s dawning on me that what they achieved while playing is now paying off for them. I’m enjoying a little bit of it, but not as I’d have loved to. For now, I’m not in any CAF or FIFA committee, but that wouldn’t be the case if I’d given my more in the game as a player. If I’d pushed more, I’d have left Nigeria a long time before I did eventually. But at that time we didn’t really have that kind of desire, and for a goalkeeper, because, remember, those days it used to be strikers who got that chance to travel out, and every goalkeeper ‘died’ as a professional in Nigeria; then started inviting defenders, then midfielders, then the keepers. Rufai, Agbonivbare, Agu, Shorunmu started travelling as well. With all modesty, I know I was one of the best then, so if I’d pushed a little bit more, perhaps my story would have been different today. And again I regret not playing at the World Cup; that must be my biggest regret. I played against Sierra Leone in my first international game for Nigeria and was also in goal in Zambia, then assisted Ike Shorunmu in all the other qualifying matches leading to the World Cup in 2002, so I was part of that team until three months to the tournament when I got injured in a league game against Ajax Cape Town and had my dreams dashed. It was our last game of the season. We were 4-0 up in the game, with only two minutes left to play, then somebody pushed me and I landed and twisted my knee but all things worked together for good; maybe I’d have gone to that World Cup and kept goal for Nigeria, and perhaps gone to play somewhere in Europe, and I wouldn’t be doing what am doing right now, so I look back and I thank God for my life. Some months back, you took to social media to welcome your baby girl after 10 years of waiting. How was the experience like? (Laughs) It was a wonderful experience, I mean, to become a father after so long calls for celebration. We give God all the glory. But the waiting game was frustrating and crazy, you know. You get married and you expect a baby to come, obviously. I have lived a clean life, you know, I never had a girlfriend, never touched a woman. Remember, I was a pastor, so I was clean; absolutely clean. So, I won’t say it was because I was living in sin. I did not even kiss my wife before we got married. That’s the extent to which I kept myself pure and holy before matrimony. So we lived a life of purity, and people think it’s impossible, but it is possible. She was working in the bank, and I was a TV star, so I could have given any reason because there are women everywhere. But frankly I never touched a woman, even till today,  I never touch a woman that I’m not married to.  I’ve always lived a chaste life, so we expected things to happen, but after two to three years, nothing. But in between that time, my wife fell sick, she was very sick; she had a life-threatening disease whereby she was paralysed for 15 months, and she started taking heavy drugs. In taking those drugs, it affected her womb and the doctors said her womb had collapsed, and I was also struggling with low sperm count. So, realistically, there was no reason why we should have kids at that time but so we just waited, kept waiting and waiting…one year to two years to three years, five years, eight years. But by the 10th year she called me one day and said ‘I just did a home pregnancy test and….’. The rest is history; the joy was unbelievable, out of this world! When I carried the baby at the hospital I just broke down and wept; it was an unbelievable feeling, to see my child in my arms after all these years? Would you say there was divine intervention in all of these? It must have been a miracle. As I said, I gave two instances why we couldn’t have children, and the doctor said I had a very low sperm count, and my wife’s womb had collapsed. But we believed God, we trusted God, we prayed, we fasted, we gave, we sowed seeds, we did everything to get God’s attention, and God indeed remembered us. You’ve been talking sports on cable TV for 17 years now; how has it been for you? It’s been glorious. SuperSport has opened tremendous doors for me. I’ve met presidents; you can imagine that I went to see Goodluck Jonathan some years ago. I walked in and Goodluck looked at me…someone already told him: ‘A pastor needs to come and pray for you, because I went to one church the power of God hit the place…like what I’m doing here.’ A lady called me saying I needed to come and pray for somebody then, I asked who? Please come with me, she insisted. But I was adamant…if you don’t tell me whom you’re taking me to, I’m going nowhere,’ I responded. Then she went and told the guy that invited me, so the guy came to me and pleaded: ‘Please you need to go, it’s very important.’ So we drove into the government house, I was looking at where we were going…we were going into Aso Rock. We went into Aso Rock, they said, ‘wait here’. Two minutes later, they took me in. The president came out and said, ‘Idah, how now?’ And I responded, ‘Ah, your Excellency!’ He said, ‘how is South Africa? I dey watch your programme. ‘ It’s beautiful to know, and to see. I was also able to meet Nelson Mandela. Yeah, I’ve met leaders, heads of states, former governors, just like that…you know, being on TV has opened up tremendous doors for me, and I’m grateful to SuperSport for the opportunity. At this time what are your short- and long-term plans going forward? Well, I own a cable TV station, it’s called Ambassador TV (ATV). We started it six years ago, and we intend to push it to reach a global audience. But it’s a Christian TV station, it’s on DSTV in South Africa as well, but in Nigeria you can watch on the free-to-air channel, the strong decoder. So we’re trying to push it to DSTV and broaden its reach. I also have plans to start a school, and we’ve already applied for a license in Nigeria to start a radio station, so I have a whole lot of things in my mind that I’m dreaming of. I have a right to dream. I think football is leisure to me; people say why are you still doing football when you’re a bishop and a pastor? But it’s my life too; it’s my passion, so I do it just to relax. And I tell them: ‘If I don’t do TV, I watch it.’ If Nigeria is playing South Africa, I’ll watch it for 90 minutes, so why can’t I be in the studio for that 90 minutes and get paid? Makes more sense, abi? Since you’re so passionate about the game, have you thought about becoming an administrator at some point? Well, I was media officer for the Super Eagles some years ago. You see, it’s not easy combining both, especially the church, but somebody once asked me, ‘what if you’re asked to be a Commissioner for Sports in Rivers State, or asked to be a Minister of Sports?’ Of course I’ll take it. Would that not interfere with your ministerial work? No, it would not. What I’ll do is that I’ll take a sabbatical. I have a lot of pastors that I can hand over to, because everything is all about service; whether you are in church you’re serving, whether you’re a governor or minister you’re serving. The greatest blessing is being a blessing to people. So if I’m called to serve, I think I’ll bring righteousness to any kind of department I am offered. The point is, I’m not a politician, and I don’t know whether Wike would agree to appoint me or APC people would agree to appoint me. I’m a Rivers son, and I’m a sports person. There’s no way I cannot run sports in Nigeria if I’m given the opportunity – be it at national level or state. I think I have the experience and ability to run sports, but they’ll tell you you’re not in our party, you see that’s the thing. I’m not in any party, and I refuse to be partisan. I am just a Nigerian that loves my Rivers State and loves Nigeria. What’s your most prized possession, and why? Life. If you don’t have life you don’t have anything. I wouldn’t even say my child or my wife. I’m not moved by worldly things or material things. The bible says: ‘What will it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose his soul?’  What are the things that make you happy and sad? What really makes me happy is internal, not external, because external things are temporary. And if I put my mind on external things and they don’t work for me or somebody takes them away or I lose them, then those things judge me, those things determine my peace and my joy. That’s why what makes me happy is me, my joy inside, and I decide to be happy, nobody makes me happy, nobody makes me angry. I make up my mind not to be angry because being angry is giving somebody the power to control you. Back to football now, how do you rate Nigeria’s chances at the Africa Cup of Nations coming up in Egypt this month? I have picked six teams as my favourite to lift the trophy, and among my chosen six is the Super Eagles. The others are Egypt, Morocco, Cote d’Ivoire, Senegal and Ghana. I’d rate Egypt highest not just because of Mohamed Salah but because they are playing at home and they are good enough, they have the best teams even playing in the CAF Champions League so I consider them a very tough side. South Africa are one of the outsiders though they can’t handle pressure. Can you relive some of your experiences while playing for the Super Eagles? They are huge. As I said, my greatest joy was when I wore the Nigerian jersey for the first time. It was an emotional moment for me, and I cried. I still have that photo; it was in Ethiopia. And I still remember the name of the hotel we stayed (Wabashabalah); that shows how unique the occasion was for me. We had the likes of Uche Okechukwu, the late Uche Okafor, Friday Ekpo, Finidi George, Ike Shorunmu, Precious Monye, Ben Iroha…we were all in that team. It was quite an experience for me, but a whole lot of other things happened. Just being in that team and wearing the Nigerian jersey was just electric for me. I was there when Sunday Oliseh, Nwankwo Kanu and Jay-Jay Okocha first came to the camp. How do you compare your football career in Nigeria and South Africa? I think Nigeria was tougher because when I started my career there it wasn’t easy to break through and in those days we had massive teams. Shooting Stars, Sharks, Rangers International, Iwuanyanwu Nationale, Bendel Insurance, Stationery Stores,Ranchers Bees, Kano Pillars, BCC Lions, El-Kanemi Warriors, ACB, Julius Berger, and if you did well against any of these teams you stood a chance of a national team call up. So when I came to South Africa I was a little bit older, so it was easier for me to adjust, and I was good enough. They saw that I had that experience, and I was in Israel too. Although it didn’t work out for me in Israel, it gave me a lot of exposure. Do you think Nigeria ex-internationals are given sufficient opportunity to serve at administrative level of the game? No, I don’t think we should be given! Nobody should give us, we should go take it. That’s what I think. It’s ridiculous to see lawyers, retired military officers doing football. We deserve to be in the system…and a lot of people have been complaining about this. We must make ourselves available; nobody gives you anything for free. If you want to be an administrator, show yourself, start from your local government, anywhere you are, build from there…people will see that you’re significant. There’s been a backlash over Nigeria’s poor outing at the recent FIFA U-20 World Cup in Poland, with allegations of bribery levied against coaches and officials of the Flying Eagles. What’s your take on this? These are not just allegations…they are obvious. Sometimes the coaches don’t come directly, they use agents and third parties to perpetrate these acts of corruption. These things must be wiped out; we need to clean up the system. And not just that, I’ve heard a lot of reports about the bribery in the league, the amount of money clubs spend just to pay referees. It is absurd, it is wrong. The giver and receiver are both guilty in these instances. You have to refuse to give; they say if you don’t give they’ll kill you…how many would they kill? If everybody refuses, then something will be done about it. We must fight corruption in our league. How do you unwind after preaching and analysing football? I watch movies. But I also travel a lot, I love to travel, I love aero planes. An aero plane is the only place where everybody is selfish, because you’re thinking either you’ll die, or live. So what I’m saying is, it’s the best place to rest. I always fly business class, and I rest a lot while travelling. Tell us about your wife, Iyenemi. How did you guys meet, and what struck you when you first met her? I went to preach in a church in Nigeria, and when I finished preaching, I came out and my younger sister said there’s a girl in the church that I needed to meet, and she was not in church that particular day. She worked in a bank. Before then, somebody had called her, telling her there’s this ex-footballer that came to preach, he tore up the place, it was awesome! As he was talking, my sister was talking to me about her, and my sister gave me her number. But before I called her somebody had already introduced me as the footballer that came to preach. However, the lady was wondering how can a pastor come to preach and be chasing after a woman? The next morning, I told her I was coming to the bank to see her at 11am. But by 9am she had gone to the church to report me that they should be careful what kind of pastors they invite to come and preach in churches, that that man that preached yesterday called her, and he’s coming to see her. Then the pastor laughed and told her I was not married. ‘He’s single, please listen to him, you don’t know what he has to say.’ Eventually we met, and got married three months later. Your experiences of muti in South African football? Huge… In my first game (Classic vs Bloem Celtic), we were in the hotel, and I was asking for our jerseys, they said we’ll get them in the dressing room. So when we got to Makhulong Stadium, there was fire on the way to the dressing room. So players were asked to jump through the fire…hahaha. They said ‘jump’, I said ‘jump where? What’s happening here?’ But they insisted, so I jumped the fire. When I got to my jersey, it was wet (the top and the short, and it had a funny smell), but I don’t wear shorts, I had my own trouser. I did it in the first game, but in the second game I swapped jerseys. There was another incident before our Rothmans Cup game against Orlando Pirates. They took us to a bush where an old man was to perform some muti rituals on us, but I refused and walked back to my car. So our coach Kabo Zondo was asked to take me out of the starting XI. He told them I had a right to my religion, and if he’s not allowed to use me in the game he would resign. So he played me, and we lost the game 3-0. I got the blame, obviously, and from then I started having problems with the team. I remember they used to call me Mfundisi (Pastor) because of my Christian background. Moroka Swallows was worse. They forced me to put things in my goalkeeper bag and put it in the post. I told them I don’t have a problem with that, but the captain should put it by the post himself.