The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) says it is set to arrest and prosecute illegal Private Guard Companies (PGC) operating within Nigeria. This is contained in a news release made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) by Soji Alabi, Media Assistant to Abdullahi Gana, Commandant General (CG) of the Corps on Monday in Abuja. The CG made the statement while addressing Helen Amakiri, Assistant Commandant -General in charge of Private Guard Companies. Gana warned that the Corps was ready to arrest, prosecute and clamp down on illegal private guard company operators and their employers. According to him, the Corps has observed with dismay, the use of unlicensed Private Security Guard Companies and in- house Private Guards by institutions and organisations in the country. “Institutions and organisations such as places of worship, Educational Institutions, Companies, Hotels, and some government establishments that recruit illegal guards are hereby warned. “ We observe they sew uniforms for them to wear in securing their premises without license or approval from NSCDC. “They are hereby informed that they are operating illegally and are advised to desist from this act and engage the services of duly registered and licensed private security companies,” he said. He said  the illegal operation of some PGCs was contrary to the provision of Section 23 of the Private Guard Companies Regulation of 2018, which stated that; “Any person or corporate entity wishing to employ more than one person for the purpose stated in Section 1 of the ACT shall engage the services of a licensed company.” He further said that the establishment of the 2018 PGC regulations was in pursuant of the corps mandate to rid  private security sector of quackery. He said that after the warning, those illegal PGC operators who would refuse to comply with the corps regulations, should be ready to face the wrath of law. NAN reports that security guard companies found with expired licences would have their offices sealed and before unsealing them, the operators would pay a fine of N200,000 for a Grade A offence and N100,000 for a Grade B offence. NAN