Newly sworn in governor hits the ground ru THE resolve of the new Zamfara State Governor, Dr. Bello Matawalle, to overhaul the security structure of the state will come as good news to many, particularly the residents of the embattled state. But there is more to the fight than acquisition of arms and ammunition. Concerned security experts believe that beyond fire power and flying fighter jets, a lot of intelligence gathering is needed if the war against the bandits who have held the state captive must be won. Besides intelligence security personnel working under cover, trusted civilians can also be recruited to serve as informants. They believe that without a chunk of the budget for the campaign against bandits invested in intelligence gathering, the campaign could continue to drag. A security analyst, who pleaded anonymity, told our reporter the the bandits’ network of informants is bigger than most people imagine, as they also have their tentacles even among the nation’s security personnel. “If that were not the case, how come that the bandits most times know when and how the security personnel will launch an attack on them? How come they know where to hide and how they could become invisible whenever there is an air surveillance? “They are not trained air men, but they are aware that when they are under a certain degree of sunlight, they would not be picked by the scanners of the fighter jets,” the analyst queried. The Matawalle initiative With his plan to end banditry in the state encapsulated in his inaugural speech, newly sworn in Governor Matawalle could make an impact. But that will be to the extent that he is able to make good his threat to end banditry in the state. If on the other hand he fails to fulfill his promise, he stands the risk of dashing the hope of millions of Zamfarans. In his inaugural speech on May 29, Governor Matawalle had sent an  eviction notice to the bandits, saying that they should vacate the state or get forced out because there was no more room for them. Last week, he met the trio of President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbanjo and the Inspector General of Police Muhammad Adamu, to brief them separately on the security situation in Zamfara State. the measures being taken by his administration to tackle the insecurity challenges facing the state. He also solicited President Buhari’s support in the effort to end the menace. The President, on his part, pledged to support the new administration’s fight against banditry and other social vices in the state and Nigeria in general. Matawalle made a similar appeal during his meeting with Vice President Osinbanjo, asking for support to end banditry and other criminal activities in the state. The Vice President, who expressed worries over the unending crisis, promised to offer his best for peace to return to the state. In the same vein, Governor Matawalle met with IGP Muhammad Adamu at the Force Headquarters to discuss extensively the recurrent security challenges facing Zamfara State. The meeting resulted in the IGP’s approval of immediate deployment of two Mobile Police Squadrons in the troubled state. Part of the two squadrons will be used in reopening the Colony-Faru-Jibia-Katsina Road, which has virtually been taken over by bandits, while others will be stationed at banditry flashpoints as may be identified by security agencies in the state. Buratai’s morale booster for troops To boost the morale of troops of the Nigerian Army 1 Brigade in helping to decimate banditry in Zamfara State, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, spent this year’s Eid-el-Fitr with troops of Operation Hadarin Daji. The COAS paid an operational visit to the headquarters of 1 Brigade and frontline troops of Operation Hadarin Daji, who are fighting kidnapping, cattle rustling, banditry and other forms of criminality in the Northwest. The Chief of Army Staff, who was represented by the Chief of Training and Operations Army, Maj-Gen. Lamidi Adeosun, delivered the goodwill message to the officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army 1 Brigade shortly after the prayers. He commended the troops for their dedication, sacrifice and loyalty to the nation, urging them to remain steadfast in the ongoing efforts to checkmate insurgency, banditry and other forms of insecurity in the country. The Chief Imam of 1 Brigade, Capt. A Kado, also offered prayers for the protection and victory of the Chief of Army Staff, officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army as well as the entire people of Nigeria. The Chief of Army Staff later proceeded to the front line on operational visit to troops deployed at the Forward Operation Base (FOB) Kauran Namoda. He seized the opportunity to interact with troops, charging them to defeat all forms of criminality in their area of responsibility (AOR). Gen. Adeosun, who read the good will message of the COAS to the troops, urged them to sustain the tempo by ensuring that the criminal elements are defeated to enable them return to their respective stations to enjoy “barrack life”. He also assured troops of enhancement in their welfare package and remuneration. The COAS later paid a courtesy visit to newly inaugurated Governor Matawalle alongside members of his entourage. The governor, who was visibly elated by the visit, showered encomiums on the Chief of Army Staff for his commitment in ensuring that the nation becomes a peaceful entity. He also pledged to support the Nigerian Army by providing the necessary logistics to ensure that the menace of armed banditry is eliminated across the state. He used the opportunity to request for more manpower to enable troops reopen the Gusau-Katsina-Sokoto Road occasionally disturbed by bandits. Matawalle unfolds plans to end menace, hits the ground running Governor Matawalle, while hosting the representative of the COAS, expressed his administration’s determination to restore the lost peace in the state and assured the Nigerian Army of his government’s total support in the ongoing fight against banditry through provision of all the necessary logistics to ensure that the menace of armed banditry is eliminated from the state. Matawalle also appealed to the authorities of the Nigerian Army to deploy more personnel to the state in order to enable him reopen the Talata-Mafara-Boko-Jibia-Katsina Road, which he said is frequently disturbed by bandits. The Director General, Press Affairs to Governor Matawalle, Malam Yusuf Idris, said more practical approaches were being put in place to arrest the menace of banditry. According to him, Governor Matawalle is confident that very soon, the bandits’ activities will come to an end and people will go about their legitimate businesses and sleep with both eyes closed. The governor also appealed to the people in the state to continue to pray for the success of the effort being put in place as well as give relevant information to security agents, which could lead to the dislodgement of the bandits. Matawalle had hit the ground running, leading a team of security chiefs in the state for an operation at bandits’ camps and hideouts near Wonaka town in Gusau Local Government Area of the state. The governor, who was on an unscheduled visit to commiserate with the people of Lilo community in Gusau Local Government Area over bandits’ attacks in the village, which resulted in the killing of eight persons while 18 others sustained various degrees of injuries, along with his security team, forced their way into the bandits’ camps. The bandits abandoned their hideouts, crossed a nearby river and took advantage of the bushes and disappeared in order to escape the gunshots of security operatives who were on the governor’s motorcade. In another symbolic move, Governor Matawalle approved the immediate suspension of the Emir of Maru, Alhaji Abubakar Chika Ibrahim, along with the district head of Kanoma, Alhaji Ahmed Lawal Kanoma, under the same emirate. The suspension of the two monarchs signifies the beginning of a clamp down on monarchs who were alleged to be aiding bandits. The two traditional rulers were suspended over their alleged association with the killer bandits. The emir was directed to immediately hand over all official vehicles and other official properties to the senior district head, while the Kanoma district head was also directed to hand over to the most senior village head in his domain. The suspension order came on the heels of an official visit to Kanoma District by the governor to sympathise with the community over a recent bandits’ attack, which claimed 16 lives. During the visit, Governor Matawalle was inundated with allegations from members of the bereaved community that the two traditional rulers had direct involvement in the menace of banditry and kidnapping in the emirate. Following the series of complains, Governor Matawalle, in swift reaction, decided to suspend the suspects and constitute a high powered committee to probe the allegation. Death penalty for bandits Governor Matawallen reiterated his desire to institute death penalty for bandits’ informants during his condolence visit to Lilo village in Gusau Local Government Area, where an attack by bandits resulted in the death of eight persons while others were injured. He said his government would not fold its arms and watch some citizens support bandits to carry out their criminal activities. “We are going to send an executive bill to the state House of Assembly immediately after their inauguration. I am giving you assurance that if they provide that bill, we are going to implement it,” he said. The governor cautioned members of the Civilian JTF to avoid taking laws into their hands, saying that his administration would not tolerate extra judicial killings He said: “As JTF members, you have no right to kill anybody. Enough is enough. As from today, government will not allow extra judicial killings. “It is very sad, so regrettable the way our people are being killed every day. It is very unfortunate we came in and met serious security challenges not only in Zamfara but also all over the country. “If you arrest any bandit, hand over the person to the authorities. This administration has made adequate arrangements to tackle the insecurity challenges facing the state. All what we need is support and prayers.” nning, unfolds plans to end menace