Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has a history of enjoying cordial relations with the legislature. The governor understands that the two critical arms of government must collaborate, irrespective of party affiliations, to ensure sustainable development of the state. That explained why Fayemi did not coerce any opposition member to join his party or try to muzzle the legislature, deny it of funds or run legislators who did not belong to his party out of town. When Fayemi first came to power on October 16, 2010, the Third Assembly had a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) member, Mr. Olatunji Odeyemi, as the Speaker. Both the PDP and the then Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) had 13 members each in the Assembly before five PDP members defected to the opposition. Fayemi did not use the enormous powers at his disposal to instigate Odeyemi’s removal. He maintained a good relationship with the ex-Speaker until the life of the Third Assembly expired in June 2011. Following his landmark victory at the polls on July 14, 2018, Fayemi inherited a PDP-dominated Fifth Assembly and worked harmoniously with the legislators. Although lawmakers had effected a change of leadership, shortly before Fayemi came into office by electing Mr. Adeniran Alagbada, who had earlier defected from the PDP to the All Progressives Congress (APC), the governor worked with the lawmakers for the good of the people. Fayemi, within the eight-month working relationship with the Fifth Assembly, Fayemi approved and sponsored a capacity building legislative tour of South Africa for the lawmakers, a privilege they did not enjoy under the government led by the PDP, the party to which majority of them belonged. Fayemi called for harmonious executive-legislative collaboration for the overall development of Ekiti State at the inauguration of the Sixth Assembly. Despite having only APC legislators, Fayemi emphasised that he does not desire a rubber stamp Assembly tied to the apron strings of the executive. He said: “Our government will continue to promote harmonious working relationship with the legislature while maintaining the institutional independence of the hallowed chamber. “You can be rest assured of our avowed commitment honouring the principle of mutual respect, mutual accountability as well as separation of powers in your day-to-day activities as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “As I told you during your retreat at Iloko Ijesa, I neither desire a rubber stamp legislature nor a cantankerous one. “The relationship between the executive and the legislature has to be continuously synergized for mutual understanding and optimal performance.” Setting agenda for the new Assembly, Fayemi said: “Our government is rebuilding Ekiti from the rubbles of yesterday. We are in a hurry to develop the state and give a new lease of life to our people. “I count on the support of the Legislature towards achieving the five pillars of this administration. As one political family and critical stakeholders in Ekiti restoration project, all the arms of government must work together to deliver dividends of democracy to our people.” But, Fayemi now has a rare privilege of working with a new Assembly which has all its twenty six legislators as members of the APC, the first time in the history of the state that the progressives would clear all the seats in the state parliament. Another feat of the sixth Assembly in Ekiti is that four of the members are women, the highest in the Southwest. Unlike the immediate past Assembly that had no returning member, the Sixth Assembly has two returning members – the new Speaker, Mr. Funminiyi Afuye (Ikere 1) and the new Majority Leader, Mr. Gboyega Aribisogan (Ikole 1), who was House Leader the last dispensation. Ekiti Assembly has experienced, exposed and tested individuals in the party administration, corporate world, among others. Other principal officers are the Deputy Speaker, Mr. Hakeem Jamiu (Irepodun/Ifelodun 2); Deputy Majority Leader, Mr. Tajudeen Akingbolu (Ekiti West 1); the Chief Whip, Mrs. Bunmi Adelugba (Emure) and the Deputy Chief Whip, Mr. Tope Ogunleye (Ilejemeje). There is no position of Minority Leader because all the 26 legislators belong to the ruling APC. Besides the Chief Whip, Mrs. Adelugba, the other three women in the Assembly are Mrs. Yemisi Ayokunle (Ekiti Southwest 1), Princess Teju Okuyiga (Gbonyin) and Mrs. Kemi Famuagun-Balogun (Ado 2). Afuye, was a committed member of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organization, Afenifere, where he was a disciple of great leaders like Chief Abraham Adesanya, Chief Olanihun Ajayi and Chief Ayo Adebanjo before venturing into full-blown partisan politics. Afuye, a lawyer, was first elected into the Third Assembly in 2007 (13-13 House) where he served as the AC Leader before he was later elected as the Majority Leader after five PDP members joined the ACN in 2011 in the early days of the first Fayemi administration. At the end of the tenure in June 2011, Afuye moved to the executive arms where he served under Fayemi as Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation and later as Commissioner for Regional Integration and Intergovernmental Affairs. Afuye thanked his colleagues for the confidence reposed in him which led to his election as the Speaker saying “I shall not take this rare honour for granted.” He also expressed gratitude to the electorate who gave all the twenty six Assembly members their mandate to make laws for the good governance in the state with quality legislation to give better life to the citizenry. The Ikere-born politician paid glowing tributes to Fayemi, whose sterling performance since coming to power in October last year, influenced the voting pattern that made the electorate voted overwhelmingly in favour of the APC giving the party the opportunity to clinch all the available Assembly seats. He also paid tributes to the first civilian governor of the state, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, whom he credited with the distinction of laying the foundation for the development of the Land of Honour. Unfolding his leadership agenda for the Sixth Assembly, Afuye promised that he and his colleagues would support good governance in the state with quality legislation to give better life to the citizenry. He further promised that the Sixth Assembly which he leads would not be a rubber stamp and lapdog to the other arms of government especially the executive. The Speaker assured that the new leadership of the state parliament would give priority to the welfare of all levels of the staff of the Assembly. Afuye stressed that “it is ludicrous for the legislature to be in unhealthy, perpetual and unnecessary struggle and opposition to the executive arm of government” adding that “it is more so in bad taste, when such opposition is from the same party members in the legislature.” He said: “The authors of the doctrine and principles of separation of powers never envisaged this unhealthy, if not destructive aberration. “While the doctrine espouses the coeval and coordinate equality of the three arms of government, for the purpose of checks and balances, its golden interpretation should be substantial intergovernmental cooperation and collaboration. “This does not mean that the legislature should be a rubber stamp and lapdog of the other arms of government, especially the executive. It is however our belief that reasoned and informed debates should reign, rather than unbridled and cantankerous opposition to the executive. “I believe as a thorough party man, the party is the platform to discuss issues in line with the manifesto of the party. The executive distills and aggregates its policy direction from this. “The outcome of such distillation forms the policy direction for the bills to the legislature to process in order to give legal backing to the policies and programmes of government. “Why should members of the same party clog each other in the name of inane opposition? In short, Mr. Governor, we shall work with your government for the good of our people.” The train of development that is already moving in Ekiti needs legislative and legal frameworks expected to be provided by the legislature to keep it going beyond 2022 when the term of the second Fayemi administration would lapse. The new lawmakers had prepared themselves for the serious business of making laws, representing their constituencies, performing oversight functions and other constitutional functions with a three-day retreat. They have an opportunity to make history like their predecessors in the APC-dominated Fourth Assembly (2011-2015) who passed landmark laws like Freedom of Information Law (first to be domesticated anywhere in Nigeria), Equal Opportunities Law, Gender Based Violence Prohibition Law and the Fifth Assembly (2015-2019) that passed Anti-Grazing Law and Anti-Land Grabbing Law, among others. The Afuye-led Assembly cannot afford to fail as expectations are high from the executive, the legislature, the ruling party, the constituents, entire people of the state and observers watching from outside Ekiti.