FROM your understanding, what is the dynamics around Islamic financing, what are the peculiarities, what makes it unique from other finance windows? Banking is driven by consumer needs and that’s the idea behind Islamic finance. There are sections of the community not comfortable with an interest-bearing bank system, in terms of savings, in terms of investment products. Islamic finance seeks to promote products in compliance with the Shahria law, Muslim products. This forum we are having today speaks to the idea that Muslim products are Sharia-friendly. As such, financial institutions and the government sector need to promote its benefits to people. So far, in Nigeria they are doing wonderful job with regards to promote non-interest banking and Islamic finance but they but they need to do more just like the rest of the world. What is the market share of Islamic finance in terms of equity in Malaysia? The numbers are difficult to pin down. In Malaysia, we say we want to be a major market for Islamic finance banking and insurance industry. I think Malaysia has already captured the Islamic finance market. If you compare what happened 15 years ago and what obtains now, a lot has been achieved.  Malaysia has finance banks control over 20% shares of the market in the banking sub-sector.  Different countries have different strength and offerings. Malaysia has got 16 banks that offer Islamic finance products and services. How will you assess the Nigeria market in terms of Islamic finance? You have sukuk product which is a fantastic benchmark. It is a fantastic way of growing the market. Not many countries have recorded the kind of success with the sukuk product as we can see from Nigeria. It is such an innovative product and a good policy by the government. People need to invest more in sukuk because of the immeasurable benefits it has. What is the sustainability of Sharia-compliant products? Of course, they are very sustainable. It is a value-based intermediation. Basically, you can grade the banks. The Central Bank in Malaysia for instance has a template through which it rates the banks.  If you are not damaging the environment and you are socially responsible, you get a good rating. But if it’s the other way round, your rate reduces. That way the banks are kept on their toes. From your experience in the countries you have covered which of the countries appear more amenable and accepting of Islamic finance services and products? Malaysia is considered the top market for Islamic finance. We understand what Islamic product entails.  Islamic finance needs to be competitive. To remain relevant Islamic finance products need to be competitive. 