Kidnappers and herdsmen abducting people in some parts of the South-West have been warned to stop their nefarious activities or risk incurring the wrath of the Oodua Peoples Congress, OPC. Giving the warning in a statement issued in Lagos, the President, Oodua Peoples Congress, OPC, Aare Prince Osibote warned kidnappers and herdsmen abducting innocent Nigerians to stop their criminal activities in the South-West or relocate elsewhere. According to Osibote who succeeded late Dr. Fredrick Faseun as OPC national leader: ‘’Enough is enough. Yoruba are peace loving and hospitable. We welcome everybody with   open arms, but OPC will not allow any individual or group to make the South-West unsafe or turn Yorubaland into a den of criminals. Time is up for these criminals abducting people. This is the final warning to them; they should stop now, or relocate   elsewhere outside the South-West. If they fail to do so, they will soon meet their waterloo’’, he declared. Assuring South-West residents not to panic, Osibote said OPC was ready to confront and flush out the kinappers, and herdsmen abducting innocent Nigerians from their hide-outs. ‘’We are watching the unfolding ugly developments with keen interests. Yoruba and other residents in the South-West should not panic. We are however calling on the Federal government to quickly address this insecurity problem before it further degenerates.OPC leaders will not watch helplessly or fold their hands  while some criminals are making life difficult  for people, and are behaving as if they are above the law’’, he declared. While   saying that OPC as an organization was committed to unity, peace, and harmony among Nigerians, Osibote however decried a situation where some criminals have constituted themselves into  menace against innocent citizens. ‘’OPC is for peace but we are also against injustice and oppression. We want these criminals to be brought to book. We want security agencies to neutralize them. Nigerians know what OPC can do. We can’t only bark but can also bite, and this is why we are appealing to the Federal government to find ways to tackle the insecurity challenge now. Expressing OPC’s readiness to join hands with government to tackle the insecurity problem, Osibote said the organization as a stakeholder in the nation’s polity will be willing to offer useful tips and advise on how to tackle the scourge. ‘’OPC is ready to collaborate   and partner with the government, especially the South-West governors in tackling the security challenge. We are close to the grass-root, and as patriots, we are ready to assist government in tackling the problem’’, he added. 