The traditional rulers in Anambra state are having sleepless nights over the menace of herdsmen and review of the customs and traditions in the state with regards to funerals, weddings and other traditional activities. As a result, the monarchs are devoting their time to producing position papers for the consideration of the state government on the issues. At the same time, the state Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, has charged the monarchs to root out criminals and Cultists in their dormains to ensure safety of the citizenry. He told them that hard times now await hoodlums, Miscreants and thieves that are still hiding in all the nooks and crannies of the state. The traditional rulers and Obiano came up with their decisions at the weekend during the 8th Anambra state Traditional Ruler’s Seminar, 2019 at the Council Hall, government house, Awka The Seminar was equally attended by the Chairmen of traditional rulers councils from Bayelsa, Cross River, Akwa -ibom, Rivers Abia,  Ebonyi, Enugu and IMO states. Addressing the monarchs, the Chairman, Anambra state and Southeast traditional rulers Council, and the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Nnaemeka Achebe, said the herdsmen menace had become an embarrassment in the South and Middle belt regions of the country. Other issues according to Achebe, were a review of the Constitutions of the all Autonomous Communities in the state to achieve some consistency and comprehensiveness without compromising the unique cultural norms and practices of respective Communities. Again, a review of the customs and traditions in the state with regards to funerals, weddings and other traditional activities with a view to proffering amendments to the recent legislation by the state House of Assembly which was promulgated without the input of the custodians of custom and tradition in the state. Achebe, also, said there was need for proposal for a law on Town Union Government as a fourth tier of governance in the state, some amendment of the state Chieftaincy law and its codes of conduct for traditional rulers of Anambra state. He said most of the detailed works on the above subjects would be carried out through their four standing Committees (security, Conflict resolution, Welfare and infrastructural Development) among other things. While addressing the monarchs, Obiano expressed Satisfaction with the theme of the seminar tagged (Igbo Nwelu Eze ! Perspective on the Traditional Institution in Ani Igbo) and remarked that indeed that igbos had king. The Governor,  urged the traditional rulers, presidents general and Umuadas’ to put hands on deck in  bringing criminals and Miscreants in their various communities to book to ensure that Ndi Anambra would  continue to enjoy the relative peace the state was known for. He also reminded them the need to abolish ‘Osu cast’ system in the state, explaining that some communities had abolished it, while some had not, while harping on the need   to guard against slavery in Igbo land. Obiano,equally  appreciated the monarchs  for making judicious use of the 20 Million Naira Choose your Community projects intiatives . He promised to release money for the third phase, but made it known that those who did not conclude their second phase would not benefit. The Governor, however, advised them to shun ruling their subjects from a distance for the interest of their subjects.