The ‘June 12’ battle was very tough. It was not for men of frail will. On the battle field were great fighters and soldiers of democracy who dared the military. These democratic forces were scattered at home and abroad. They endured the pains of separation from families and loved ones. Many lost their lives and property. When the fight became hotter, they did not develop cold feet. They did not betray the cause and they did not desert the battle. Instead, they were resolute. They endured the heat and fought to the end. Their arsenal were their power of ideas, intellect, strong will and determination. When civil rule was restored in 1999, some of them were outside the power calculus. Their consolation was that military rule ended, but democracy is still a far cry. Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU writes on the heroes and martyrs of the titanic struggle, whose persistent agitations heralded the new dawn in 1999. Many underrated him because he was a businessman. He was not perceived as a rugged politician. But, he surprised his detractors. The symbol of the struggle was the late Chief Moshood Abiola, the billionaire businessman, Basorun of Ibadanland and Aare Ona Kankanfo of Yorubaland, who wanted to use power to abolish poverty in Nigeria. He was a kind man, a philanthropist who always extended a duty of care to the poor. Before he joined the race, he had established himself as a friend of top military brass. But, the poor adored him as a cheerful giver. Apparently, the ruling military class underrated him as a presidential material, until it was too late. His credential was highly intimidating. Largely perceived as the liberator of the people from the military cage, Abiola received massive support, beating his rival, National Republican Convention (NRC) candidate Bashir Tofa in his native Kano State. He pulled 8,341,309 votes, representing 58.36 percent of total votes. When former Military President Ibrahim Babangida annulled the election, there was sporadic protest. The ghost of the cruel annulment still hunts the General till today. Abiola declared himself president-elect at Epetedo, Lagos Island. He was later arrested and detained by the Abacha regime for five years. His businesses were crippled by the state. But, he refused to surrender. He fought on until he die in detention under Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar, who succeeded Abacha. The circumstances surrounding his death have remained in the realm of conjecture. Kudirat Abiola was a great polygamist. The late Alhaja Kudirat Abiola was one of his numerous wives. She was bold and brace. The annulment forced Kudirat into the pro-democracy movement. She developed a steely determination that dared military bullets. When her husband was in solitary confinement for claiming his presidential mandate, Kudirat confronted military dictators.  Her leadership motivated other pro-democracy groups to spring up and seek the actualisation of the election. Kudirat and the late Chief Alfred Rewane funded the pro-democracy activities, which unsettled the military. It became their undoing. When protesters were detained, the Amazon would promptly visit police stations to secure their release. Kudirat knew that danger was lurking. She was planning to process her visa to leave the shores of Nigeria before she was killed. On June 4, 1996, a few days to the third anniversary of the June 12 election, Kudirat was shot dead by assassins in Oregun, Lagos State. Ajasin The late Chief Adekunle Ajasin, former governor of Ondo State, was the most principled politician and most respected moral voice in post-Awolowo era. He doubled as Afenifere and NADECO leader. He was a fighter in at the twilight of life who offered inspiration to the democratic forces. Despite the threat to his health and safety, the old man never wavered. The Owo-born Action Grpuper had objected to the participation of progressives in Abacha government. But, Abiola, in his naivety, prevailed on him to give his consent. He had counselled that the second 11 should be sent to Abacha as ministers. His advise was ignored. His bedroom was invaded by former Military Governor Ibe Onyearugbulem, who had the mandate from Abacha to make Ondo State uncomfortable for the NADECO forces. In June 1995, he was arrested by the military alongside others for holding a meeting, but was released 24 hours later. Eventually, he passed on when the battle was still hot. Pa Ajasin always asked: ‘How is Moshudi in detention? ‘ The NADECO members based in Ondo State were very active. Prominent among the members of the group were Chief Segun Adegoke, a lawyer and Awoist, the late Chief Adebayo Adefarati, who later became governor, Senator Remi Okunrinboye, Mrs. Bolaji Osomo before she joined Abacha cabinet, and Bishop Bolanle Gbonigi, who was nicknamed Nadeco Bishop, because of his principled position on June 12. He decried the injustice from the pulpit and offered moral and spiritual support to the pro-democracy agitators. When the late military governor, Onyearugbulem, and some soldiers invaded the Owo country home of Ajasin, an encounter ensued between the governor and Adefarati. The governor asked Adefarati whether he was a NADECO member. Adefarati, beating his chests three times, answered in the affirmative. The soldiers could not arrest him in Ajasin’s room. It was reminiscent of the late sixties when he and his friend, Mojisoluwa Akinfenwa organised students of Atakumosa Grammar School to boo and jeer at the visiting Premier Ladoke Akintola in the days of hot regional politics. Rewane Those who killed Pa Alfred Rewane will definitely be troubled by their conscience for life. During the dark days, the Itsekiri leader used his pen and money to fight the military to a standstill. He was a pillar of financial support for NADECO and many human rights crusaders. His motive was the de-annulment of the June 12 election. He also personally campaigned against official graft in high places, lack of accountability and gross violation of human rights by the military. But, on October 6, 1995, he was murdered in curious circumstances, which elicited wide outcry. The killers are still at large. He was 79. Adesanya The history of Afenifere and NADECO will be incomplete without a chapter on the elder statesman, lawyer and former senator, Chief Abraham Adesanya. He became the leader of Afenifere after the death of Ajasin. His Personal Assistant was Rev. Tunji Adebiyi. Adesanya’s compatriots in the Afenifere, the pan-Yoruba socio-political group, who also fought the military were Afenifere Deputy Leader Chief Bola Ige, the late Chief Ganiyu Dawodu, the late Alhaji Lam Adesina, Chief Olu Falae, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, the late Sir Olaniwun Ajayi, Solanke Onasanya, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, Kofoworola Akerele-Buknor, Dr. Femi Okunrounmu, Chief Olabiyi Durojaye, and Chief Cornelius Adebayo. Some of them suffered bruises. Adesina and Comrade Ola Oni was taken as a prisoner of war at Ibadan during a protest by military Governor Ahmed Usman. Dawodu nearly lost his sight in detention. Osoba escaped assassination. Rev. Adebiyi was bearing a letter from NADECO leaders in Lagos to Ajasin at Owo when he was arrested at 10 pm at Maryland by the police. Persistent pleas by Kudirat secured his release. Durojaye, Adebanjo and Dawodu were detained. Assassins were also trailing Aremo Segun Osoba. He escaped been hit by bullets by whiskers. Death came calling in January 1997, but Adesanya miraculously escaped assassin’s bullets, thereby earning the appellation, Apamaku. He remained undaunted to the end. Under his leadership, Afenifere intensified the battle for promoting the virtues of minority rights, equality, restructuring and true federalism. Enahoro The late Chief Anthony Enahoro, nationalist and elder statesman, was the chairman of NADECO’s Steering Committee. In 1995, he was detained for almost three months without any charge by Abacha. Before he escaped abroad, he was a torn in the flesh of the military. He also chaired the Movement for National Reformation (MNR) and the Pro-National Conference Organisation (PRONACO). Enahoro was actually the leader of NADECO abroad. Fawehinmi (SAN) The late Chief Fawehinmi was an outstanding lawyer and world-acclaimed human rights crusader. He was an advocate of de-annulment. For daring the military, he was detained for a long period by the military government.  He provided legal, moral and financial support for freedom fighters. Fawehinmi was a honest and sincere agitator who was not looking for any personal gain. He challenged the military rulers to a duel, claiming that soldiers in barracks voted for Abiola. He dare the military to declare army voting. He was a target of liquidation by the military. Many Nigerians have applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for giving him the award of the Grand Commander of the Order of Niger (GCON). Fasehun Dr. Fredrick Fasehun, a former SDP presidential aspirant, founded the Oodua Peoples Congress to press for the de-annulment of the election. He was one of the leaders of NADECO. He was detained for a long time by the military. At that time, a prominent member of the group, Gani Adams, who is now the coordinator and Aare Ona Kankanfo of Yorubaland, was always visible during protests. Musa Second Republic governor of Kaduna State Alhaji Balarabe Musa is a nationalist to the core who did not perceive the struggle as a regional fight. To him, Abiola got a pan-Nigerian mandate. He has always contributed ideas to the sustenance of the struggle, which he believes, was foisted on the pro-democracy forces by a military cabal that was reluctant to accept the outcome of the transition programme it set up. Musa refused to join the bandwagon of tribal egoists. He believed that June 12 offered a redemptive option to the country in its quest for legitimate leadership. In his view, the annulment was a national calamity and the struggle was not a sectional affair as wrongly projected by military spin doctors. Tahir Dr. Ibrahim Tahir, spoke forcefully against Babangida regime for foisting an avoidable crisis on the country. To the old teacher and astute politician, the military had no option than to restore the mandate to Abiola. When the struggle intensified under the Abacha regime, he challenged the military Head of State to a duel, saying that he has conveyed the impression that the war of liberation cannot be won without people taking up arms against the government. Soyinka Professor Wole Soyinka, playwright, poet, novelist, and implacable critic, is the first black African to bag the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1986. He was the founder of National Liberation Committee (NALICON). The former university don was one of the brains behind Radio Kudirat. Other frontline activists behind the opposition radio were Enahoro and Dr.Kayode Fayemi, who made broadcasts leaking plans by the soldiers to wipe out freedom fighters from Nigeria. It was the radio that alerted people to the plot to assassinate Ajasin and Adesanya. The Nobel Laureate was not new to prison walls through his activism. In 1994, Soyinka lived in exile in the United States and France after leaving Nigeria. When the June 12 election was annulled, he played a key role in mounting pressure on Abacha to rescind his decision. Deploying his influence, he mounted a strong international campaign against Abacha’s dictatorial regime. In 1997 he was tried in absentia with other opposition members for a phony charge of bomb attacks against army. The Abacha regime sentenced Soyinka to death in absentia. He still lives to tell the tale. Akinyemi Among those who offered intellectual support for NADECO activities were Professors Akinyemi, former Foreign Affairs Minister, Segun Gbadegesin, Ropo Sekoni, Prof. Banjo Dr. Olatunji Dare, and Adebayo Williams. They wrote numerous incisive articles denouncing the annulment, elongation of military rule and rights violation. They were targets of attacks by the military. Prof Banjo, who recently died, had purchased 3,000 riffles to launch a guerrilla war against Abacha. He was caught and detained before he escaped to Ghana. Akinyemi, whose wife is from the Western world, was chosen to anchor diplomatic campaigns against the military. If the asylum proposed by the Ijesa-born scholar had been accepted, Abiola may not have been killed. But, the symbol of the epic struggle rejected the asylum, saying that the President-elect of the most populous nation in Africa could not be seeking asylum in American Embassy. Kokori Kokori was the hero of the unprecedented oil workers strike that rattled Abacha. He was  a fearless labour leader and former Secretary-General of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG). In 1994, the pro-democracy activist sustained the anti-annulment strike, leading to the paralysis of the social and economic lives, to the embarrassment of Abacha’s junta. He was arrested on August 20 by security operatives and moved round different prisons, mostly in the northern part of the country. Carrington An American diplomat, who served as United States Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Nigeria between 1993 and 1997, Walter Carrington, lent support to the fight for democracy in Nigeria. His wife, Arese, hails from Edo State. He stood resolutely with pro-democracy activists during the pro-June 12 agitation. He condemned Babangida for annulling the election widely adjudged free and fair. He expressed great concern over the abuse of human rights and the steady descent of Nigeria into a police state under the military. His remarks were weighty and they influenced America to mount pressure on military to vacate power. Adebanjo Adebanjo is a fearless politician who does not hide his principled views, no matter whose ox is gorged.  He was staunch member of NADECO who has played opposition politics for many decades. Despite the threat to his life and property, he was resolute in the fight for the restoration of Abiola’s mandate. It was ironic, because Abiola and his political leader, Awolowo, were politically opposed to one another. Adebanjo has often called for the immortalisation of Abiola. Dosunmu and ‘Epetedo forces’ Former Minister of Housing and Environment, the late Dr. Wahab Dosunmu, was a close associate of Abiola from the NPN days. He was involved in the activities of NADECO from the scratch. He and Olufemi Lanlehin were instructed by their group, Primose, which later became Lagos Justice Forum, to attend the inaugural meeting of the group in Gen. Adeyinka Adebayo’s Ikeja residence. He was a signatory to the memorandum submitted by Afenifere at the formative stage of the association. Dosunmu, Prince Ademola Adeniji-Adele, Tokunbo Afikuyomi, Omotilewa Aro-Lambo, Senator Ajayi from Ekiti, Hon. Adesina from Abeokuta,  and Rasheed Shitta-Bey were also involved in the presidential declaration arrangement at Epetedo, Lagos Island. At a meeting of Abiola supporters in his Jabita Hotel, Ikeja, Rasheed Shitta-Bey jumped from the fourth floor to escape arrest by security operatives who stormed the hotel. However, opinion was divided on whether the declaration was worth it. In his memoir, the late Oba Olatunji Hamzat recalled that many supporters of Abiola doubted the prospects of a successful declaration. Opadokun Ayo Opadokun was the General Secretary of the Afenifere and NADECO. He fought the military for democracy to flourish in Nigeria. For five years, he was in detention. By the time he was released, he had become a poor man. It is painful to him that, after the restoration of the civil rule, charlatans, military apologists and collaborators became the beneficiaries of the battle in 1999. Oshun Olawale Osun is a former Chief Whip of House of Representatives. When the IBB regime cancelled the election, he was among the legislators who denounced the criminal act. He was one of the few people that planned the ‘Epetedo Declaration’ for Abiola. When Opadokun was seized by the military, he became NADECO secretary. He was later released, after which he fled abroad to continue the fight. He wrote his book, ‘Clapping with one hand’, in detention. Ukiwe Ukiwe, a retired Navy Commodore and Chief of General Staff from 1985 to 1986, was one of the notable actors in the pro-democracy struggle in the beginning. Most Nigerians believe that Ukiwe lost his post due to his principled nature. Knowing that Ukiwe could not pushed around, Babangida replaced him with Augustus Aikhomu. However, Ukiwe reduced his participation when his life was on line. Kanu The former governor of Imo and Lagos states joined the democracy group in retirement. He was in the forefront of the agitation for the actualisation of the mandate. Abacha was particularly worried at his involvement in the agitation to halt his inglorious rule. He once told him to deck his khaki and face him with his gun, instead of joining forces with civilians to rubbish him. When he persisted in his NADECO activities, his businesses were crippled by the military. His private residence was searched by security agents. He was accused of planning to importing arms and ammunitions. Nwankwo Among the organisations that formed NADECO was the Eastern Mandate Union (EMU), led by the irrepressible advocate of human rights and good governance, Nwankwo. He shared that virtue of consistency and bravery with Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife and Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, who were prominent NADECO chieftains. A fierce speaker and prolific writer, Nwankwo was never afraid of detention camps. Sulaiman A gallant soldier, Sulaiman, a former Minister of Communications, joined the democratic forces in decrying the annulment and incarceration of the symbol of the struggle. When the military was after his life, he fled abroad to continue the onslaught against the military. Ige The Cicero of Esa-Oke had shunned the IBB transition programme, following Awo’s admonition to his followers to learn to dine with the devil with a long spoon. However, the entry of the late Chief Bola Ige, after the expiration of ‘siddon look’ period, inspired the pro-democracy agitators to fight on. He was a leading fighter under NADECO and Afenifere, where he was deputy leader. Ige had a caustic tongue, which he used to bite the Abacha regime. It was he who described the five political parties of that period as five fingers of a leprous hand. He was detained at Epe. Umar As military governor of Kaduna State, he had shown the tendency of a radical. The political scientist was of the view that the military had overstayed in power to the detriment of democracy. Col. Abubakar Umar Dangiwa (rtd) spoke forcefully in defense of Abiola. To him, the symbol was not the main issue, but the seizure of the nation’s collective passport for a genuine flight to the horizon of democratic progress. He sacrificed his career in the Army. Tinubu: In the Third Republic, Asiwaju Bola was a senator. In the Upper Chamber, he was the rallying point for senators seeking an end to military rule. He challenged IBB to a duel. When the military leader annulled the poll, he demanded for explanations. Tinubu dared the military, urging the masses to resist the brutal act. After escaping abroad, he became one of the leaders and financial pillars of NADECO abroad. Tinubu became governor of Lagos State in 1999. He was the first governor to declare June 12 as ‘Democracy Day’ and a public holiday. Tinubu and his colleagues in the Senate decried the brutal annulment. It was a risky venture to dare the military, but they were determined. They rejected the interim government and demanded for the declaration of the election results. Instructively, Tinubu had stepped down as aspirant for Senate President since the presidency was also zoned to the Southwest. After the annulment, he had drafted his mother, the late Alhaja Abibat Mogaji, to Abuja to plead with Babangida to de-annul the poll. Three months after the setting up of ING, Gen. Sani Abacha sacked the ING and set up a full military regime, after tricking and cajoling the political class to stabilise his regime. The military broke into Tinubu’s mother’s home, broke her soak-away, thinking that Tinubu kept guns there. They carted away her generating set and cut her telephone line. As the clamour for the de-annulment of June 12 intensified, Tinubu and other compatriots-Prof. Wole Soyinka, Anthony Enahoro, Gen. Alani Akinrinade, Commodore Dan Suleiman, Chief Raph Obiorah, Dr. Amos Akingba and Wale Oshun, fled abroad. From there, they continued to fire salvos at the Abacha government. Tinubu was a pillar of financial support for Afenifere and the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) in their consistent campaigns for the revalidation of the election results. Before he fled abroad, Tinubu’s life was on the line. He was declared wanted by the military. His international passport had been impounded. He had to go underground. On October 9, 1993, his house on Victoria Island, Lagos was petrol-bombed. He also received threats on the telephone. He had to disguise as a ‘mallam’ on a motorbike to escape from the country through the ‘NADECO route’ to Benin Republic. Falae The former Secretary to the Federal Military Government and Finance Minister was very active in Afenifere and NADECO. He was one of the ardent supporters of Abiola during the battle for the revalidation of the annulled results. Other Afenifere leaders who were active during the struggle included Senator Ayo Fasanmi, who resigned from the Constitutional Conference Commission set up by Abacha, Pa Sholanke Onasanya, Niyi Owolola, Chief Supo Sonibare, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, the late Baba Omojola, the late Chief Rafiu Jafojo, and  Chief S.K. Babalola. Before they joined Abacha government, the duo of Alhaji Lateef Jakande and Chief Ebenezer Babatope were also at the forefront of the clamour for the de-annulment of the election. However, when Afenifere recalled them from the federal cabinet, it was difficult for them to resign. Akinrinade: Gen. Alani Akinrinade (rtd) was one of the leaders of NADECO abroad, who committed enormous time, energy and resources to the struggle for justice. His private residence at Ikeja was torched by suspected government agents. The same tribulation befell his compatriot, Dr, Amos Akingba, a former university don.  His residence was also attacked in Lagos. Justice Akinsanya Justice Dolapo Akinsanya  of the Lagos High Court, in her historic judgment, declared that the Interim National Government (ING) of Chief Ernest Shonekan was a contraption, unconstitutional, null and void. The verdict was a tonic for the pro-democracy forces to insist on the declaration of Abiola as president-elect. Tofa Alhaji Bashir Tofa of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) lost the election to Abiola. To his credit, he did not contest the outcome. Nwosu The National Electoral Commission (NEC) chairman, Prof. Humphrey Nwosu, conducted the most credible election in history. The agency later lost its independence. In fact, the hand of the military was heavy on the umpire, who was directed to stop further announcement of the results. June 12 casualties The casualties of the struggle are too numerous to mention. Oshun, who is now the leader of the Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), recalled that many protesters were shot along Ikorodu road by soldiers. Many activists were detained. Many lost their property. Businesses were ruined. Families were dislocated. Media houses were closed down. Labour, right groups and media: Human rights leaders-Dr Beko Ransom-Kuti, his brother, Prof. Olikoye Ransom-Kuti, Femi Falana, Femi Aborisade, Chima Ubani, Joe Igbokwe,  Olisa Agbakoba,  Ayo Obe, Bishop Mathew Kukah, Ebun Adegoruwa, Clement Nwankwo, Osagie Obajuawana, Felix Tuodolo, Debo Adeniran, Ima Niboro, Dapo Olorunyomi, Babafemi Ojudu, Bayo Onanuga, Akinola Orisagbemi, who was Personal Assistant to Mrs. Kudirat Abiola, Innocent Chukwuma, Bunmi Aborisade, and numerous activists under the banners of the Nigeria Bar Association, Nigeria Medical Association, the divided Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), NUJ, PENGASSAN, NUPENG, Radio Kudirat, Lagos Justice Forum, June 12 Collective, the media, and NANS made invaluable contributions to the struggle.