The 2019 edition of BUDX has been announced to be a show for top notch celebrities in the Nigeria entertainment industry. Music lovers, artists and fashion enthusiasts will be ushered into a world of fun, excitement, mingling, partying with their favourite stars at the showpiece. BUDX is the only event that unites both fans and artists in a collaborative way, a platform that amplifies the voices and stories of rising artists to seize new, energising opportunities, encouraging all culture creators to ‘Rise up and Be a King’, while providing them with the opportunity to interact with like minds and an audience to appreciate their artistry. Mixmag in partnership with Budweiser have packaged the global program that connects and spotlights creative minds in music and pop culture from around the world.  Focusing on exciting emerging scenes – from Tokyo, Lagos, Ho Chi Minh and beyond – BUDX presents the absolute best that these cities have to offer across cultural hot points including music, art, technology, fashion, film and entertainment. Split into Day Time Programming and Night Time Programming, participants are guaranteed a blend of mind boggling experiences come June 26, 27 and 28. Last year, BUDX Lagos themed “Uncategorized with Chi Modu”, was a two-day exhilarating event tackling electronic music which featured photo exhibitions, workshops, Q and A sessions and master classes with the legendary hip-hop photographer, Chi Modu.  This year, BUDX has taken things up a notch by inviting home grown artists who will be sharing insights on several topics around music, fashion, Nigerian culture, Nollywood and women thriving in entertainment via carefully curated sessions. To be paneled by some of Nigeria’s best including Teni the Entertainer, Kemi Adetiba, Tokyo James, Banky W, the Day Time Programming promises to be highly educative, interesting and exciting as panelists explore intriguing subjects that will put participants on the right paths as they strive to better their craft. Not only would participants be sharing and learning under the tutelage of some of Nigeria’s greatest star acts, they also get a chance to party with them during the Night Time Programming, as they are ushered into a world of fun and play with performances from the biggest, best and newest talents from around the world. Expect performances from Teni, Dj Obi, Runtown, Mayorkun, Zlatan, Jillionaire, Distruction Boyz and a lot more.      Wondering just how much this would cost? It’s absolutely free. Yes, you read right. All you have to do is RSVP at https://budxlagos.splashthat.com/ before the event and ensure you are there on time to guarantee a spot. For three days, the Day Time Programming will begin by 5pm with the master-classes, while the Night Time Programming kicks in immediately after. Each day will feature new topics to be unpacked by different panelists with new and exciting performances specially packaged to provide a once-in-a-lifetime experience.  You do not want to miss this. .