The Ekiti State Police Command has arrested four suspects for alleged murder and armed robbery. A 33-year-old man, Kazeem Babalola, was arrested for allegedly killing three persons in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. His victims, the police said, include a man identified simply as Soji, as well as two others, Adeola Adebayo and Tope Gana, at different locations last year and fled the town. Police Commissioner Asuquo Amba paraded the suspects on Monday in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. The police chief said at 10 p.m on May 28, the suspect, who confessed to be a member of the Eiye Confraternity, was arrested in Ado-Ekiti by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, following a tip-off from some residents. He said: “The suspect was alleged to have been involved in the killing of Soji (M) at Orita Blessing Area, Okeila, Ado-Ekiti, sometime in December, last year, and Tope Gana at Atikankan Area, Ado-Ekiti in January, 2019. “The suspect is also alleged to belong to the group of armed men who shot at Adebayo Adeola at Yahooze barbing shop at Okeila, Ado-Ekiti in 2018. “On May 28, at about 7.30 p.m, based on the antecedent of the suspect, who was known by his victim, he attacked the complainant, stripped her naked and damaged her Itel handset in order to destroy evidence of his criminal antecedents.” Amba added that on May 2, his officers and men arrested Omotoyinbo Samuel, a suspected notorious armed robber, after being tracked to the home of Ajewole Peter at Ilesa, Osun State. He said: “On arrival of the command’s operatives on the scene, Ajewole Peter was arrested while Omotoyinbo Samuel escaped. “The arrested suspect led the operatives to Iyin-Ekiti where a locally-made single-barrelled gun, one of the guns they used for armed robbery, was recovered. “Investigation revealed that the suspects have committed series of armed robbery in Ekiti State and its environs. Investigation is still in progress.” Amba said the police also arrested Theddeaus Diala after he and his gang members trailed Fasanmi Gabriel from a popular bank in Ado-Ekiti, where he collected N2 million. The police chief said Fasanmi alerted the command, leading to the arrest of the suspect. “Upon investigation, the arrested suspect confessed that himself and two other members of the group, namely: Eze Ikechukwu and Okechukwu (second name unknown and currently on the run) wanted to rob Fasanmi Gabriel. “Investigation was intensified and another member of the gang, Eze Ikechukwu, was arrested. Both confessed that they had robbed about 10 places within Ado-Ekiti and so many places in Akure, the Ondo State capital, and Osogbo, the Osun State capital. “Among their victims in Ado-Ekiti are Fasanmi Gabriel and Esan Abiodun,” he said. Amba said exhibits recovered from the suspects include one master key, which they used to force open vehicles of their victims, and one Toyota Camry car with registration number RRT 09NZ, suspected to have been stolen. He said the suspects further confessed that they were robbing in Ghana before they returned to Nigeria and that their group had nine men who are currently on the run. The police chief added that the suspects will be charged to court after the conclusion of investigations.