The Lagos State Deputy Governor Dr Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat has said the Sanwo-Olu administration would be seeking greater collaboration with the churches, mosques and other religious organizations to sell the its programmes and policies to the people. He said the government will take this route because of the known fact that the masses believe their religious leaders more than any other person. He spoke at the special inter-denominational prayers held for his late father His Royal Majesty Oba Mufutau Olatunji Hamzat, the Olu of Afowowa, by the APC stakeholders in collaboration with the Nigeria Inter-Religious Commission (NIREC), Ifako-Ijaiye branch. He said among other programmes that would be brought to religious organizations to help disseminate to the people is waste disposal, adding that the government would shortly come up with its waste recycling programme, which it would want Lagosians to adopt. He said: “Soon, we shall be unveiling our programme on waste and we want everyone to embrace waste sorting even right from your kitchen. We know it is religious bodies that can help push this down to the grassroots and we shall soon come back to you to help the government get the ears of your worshippers.” Speaking on the honour done to his father, the deputy governor on behalf of the children and family of the late monarch thanked the entire people of Ifako Ijaiye, the religious leaders and the stakeholders for deeming it fit to accord his father a befitting honour and prayer. “We are happy that this kind of gathering can be taking place in memory of our father. We are also happy that both Christians and Muslims came together to pray for the repose and also for the children. We are happy to see this kind of unity happening in the local government and we would want other local governments to copy what you are doing here,” he said. Earlier, the council chairman Apostle Oloruntoba Oke said the LTE monarch deserve all the honour and accolades as a man who stool for the truth, for justice and the progress of the people of Lagos. “We his children both biological and political children will continue to carry on his progressive ideals, his humility, his transparency, loyalty and desire for justice,” he said. He said the idea behind the event was that of the APC Stakeholders in collaboration with the Christian Muslim bodies under NIREC to accord the memory of the late icon a befitting celebration. He told the gathering, which had the Deputy Governor Dr Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat, his wife, Oluremi, the late monarch’s first son Ganiu and the Vice Chairman of Ifakoi Ijaiye Local Government Usman Akanbi Hamzat  as well as other notable leaders of the APC led by its Ifako Ijaiye chairman Deacon Banjo, the emeritus chairman Mr Fadayomi, and the Iya Oja, Chief Doyin Coker Ogunbiyi that the Lagos and indeed Southwest will continue to draw strength from the life and times of the great dead politician. Prayers were offered for the family, the local government, the state and Nigeria, with Sheikh Ismail Alih and Bishop Dare taking turns to pray both for Muslim and Christians. Among those at the event are the two NIREC Grand Patrons in the local government Revd JSA Oladele, who also double as thr grand patron of tbr Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), and Alhaji Abdullazeez Yunus, the Grand patron of the Muslim community. Others are the President Muslim Community and co chairman of NIREC, Alhaji Abdulkadiri Oyedeji, Co-chairman Bishop Michael O. Dare, the chief missioner of the local government Adebisi Mohammed Yasin, Ex-chairman Ifako Ijaiye Local Government  Demola Doherty, member House of Representatives Hon Olaitan Akinwunmi, member representing Ifako Ijaiye constituency 1, Hon Dayo Saka Fafunmi, his successor in the House of Assembly Temitope Adewale, former special Adviser Mr Adebayo Salvador and hordes of other top notch politicians in Ifako Ijaiye and Ojokoro local governments. Also in attendance are the two traditional rulers the Oniju of Iju-Ishaga Oba A bass Amole Ajibode. And Onifako of Ifako Oba Taofeek Fatusi, the Leader of the House, Abiodun Akinola, his deputy Victor Onifade, the CDC Chairman Alhaji Kamoru Onifade, party faithful and other workers of the local government.