For the lack of space, we did not attend in the last edition to the last of reader Khaleed’s responses to the light exercise set in the previous column. So, we begin this edition with his usage of few/a few. Few/a few: In his response to the exercise in reference, he used few/a few as below: “Few students attended the lecture;” and “Only a few dignitaries graced the swearing-in of Senator Otokoja.” Khaleed’s usages of both few and a few are correct, unlike the wrong usage of few in the following sentence: He was shoved off the chair few months after the party’s National Executive Committee passed a vote of no confidence in him. Our concern here is the correct usage of the terms few, a few and the related term the few. We are so concerned because these seemingly simple terms are often misused, thereby distorting meaning and impeding effective communication. A good example is the sentence above in which a few should have been used “instead of few to modify the noun months.” The rule of correct usage in this context is that a few is “usually used with plural nouns and a plural verb to mean small number, some” (Murthy, cited in “Pop” Errors in English: Writers Beware, which has been our guide in this column). To be sure, “that is the sense in which the writer has applied the adjective in the sentence” (ibid.). And it is important to note that, that usage “has a positive meaning” (ibid.). Conversely, the adjective few should normally be used to mean “not many (hardly any),” and “it has a negative meaning,” as in Khaleed’s entry: “Few students attended the lecture.” Murphy defines the few as “not many (but all that is available),” illustrating with: “The few Indians in America are well educated” (ibid.). Similarly, when you say the few students who attended the lecture enjoyed it thoroughly, what you should mean by the few is all who attended, though not many. First time: Everywhere you turn, you encounter wrong usages such as: This is the first time since 1978 that the building is renovated; that is the first time of my meeting him; and that was the first time of my meeting him. Respectively, correct usage is as follows: This is the first time since 1978 that the building has been renovated; That is the first time I have met him; and That was the first time I had met him. You may be wondering why the expressions described as wrong usage are so characterized, in spite seeing them in highly respected columns and such important writings. A gentle reminder here: correct usage is no respecter of status, but accepted English standard expressions, which the tutored writer must always comply with. Fledgling: Some writers have almost written this word out of existence, judging by how recklessly they mutilate it. Yes, the spelling of the word is somewhat awkward and tongue-twisting, hence the usual confusion and replacement with the bizarre neologism: fledging. A good example of such careless lexical mannerism is: Thus, local patrons and fledging elites embarked upon cacophonous allegations of discrimination. Let it be noted that the word fledging in the sentence above is alien to the English language. Fledgling is the word required in the sentence, not fledging. Our writers’ companion advises that “The noun fledgling is used before another noun to mean “usually a person, an organization or a system that is new and without experience” (citing Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary). Used to modify elites, it would mean elites just emerging and yet to learn the ropes.” To make ourselves clear, we remove the alien word fledging and replace it with fledgling, the appropriate word, thus: Thus, local patrons and fledgling elites embarked upon cacophonous allegations of discrimination. Gamut: For many writers, it is hip, fashionable, contemporary and even stylistic to write expressions like the whole gamut, the entire gamut, the complete gamut. There is nothing hip in all of such; they are wrong usage. We use the following specimen error to expose the redundancy and lexical waywardness and hubris in such expressions. Delinquency now pervades the entire gamut of the normative order. Our writers’ companion posits: ‘By definition, gamut should not take the modifier entire. According to Oxford Dictionary of English/AmazonKindle, gamut means “the complete range or scope of something, entire or whole.” So, it is repetitive and superfluous to write entire gamut.’ So, we take out the adjective entire from the sentence, because we do not need it. Here is the way to use gamut in the full sense of its meaning: Delinquency now pervades the gamut of the normative order. Grass roots/Grassroots: We need to highlight here the difference btween these two words, as many writers do not often mind this. Here are two interesting examples of such mindlessness: (a)…The party maintains overwhelming control on power to keep those at the grassroots scrambling for the crumbs. (b)…Grassroots’ Governance and Autonomy: a Review You would do well to note that grass roots is the noun, and that should apply in (a) above, while grassroots is the adjective, which is the requirement in (b). The apostrophe in (b), purporting to make grassroots a possessive adjective is simply comical, because, unaided, grassroots is a complete adjective. See the highly nuanced difference between grass roots and grassroots demonstrated succinctly in the construction below: WFP has adopted a grassroots (adjective) approach to ensure the food gets to the grass roots (noun – that is, the ordinary people) in the conflict-affected communities South Sudan.