The son of former Kogi State Governor Abubakar Audu, Mohammed, is warming up for the November 16 governorship poll in the Confluence State, it was learnt at the weekend. Many indigenes, including traditional rulers, All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains, businessmen, women and youths are rooting for him, a source said. A key factor in his ambition is the poor perception of many Kogites about the performance of Governor Yahaya Bello, who has been swimming in the pool of controversy in the last three and half years. No fewer then 42 aspirants are fighting for the ticket on the platform of the APC. All of them, except the governor, are calling for the adoption of direct primary for the shadow poll. Mohammed, said the source, has a reserviour of goodwill among the people who felt that death robbed his father of the crown in 2015 when he was coasting home to victory. Although the election has been nearly concluded, the announcement of the winner was put on hold, following Audu’s sudden passage. Audu’s running mate, House of Representatives member, James Faleke, who should have been declared governor-elect was also denied in favour of a former aspirant, Bello, who never worked for the party during the election. While many Kogites were disposed to the emergence of Mohammed as running mate to Faleke, it never happened. Following his emergence as governor, Bello has consistently sidelined Faleke and Mohammed, to the consternation of the Kogi APC family. A Kogi politician said Mohammed is fit for governor. “His father’s structure is still intact. It is a formidable structure. Also, Mohammed  has conducted himself as a well-educated and highly-responsible person. He is as hardworking as his father,” he added. Mohammed is of the Igala ethnic stock, which accounts for 49 per cent of the population. The ethnic group is still aggrived about the post-Audu drama, characterised by serious manipulations and schemings. Mohammed has not declared any intention. But, many are anticipating his declaration, which may take place, following the conclusion of consultations. According to the source: “We know that he is a good candidate, a candidate to beat, if he agrees to run. The opinion in the state is that the governor should not be given a second term. Many believe that Mohammed will be a credible replacement to ward off the threats by the PDP in the state.”