Last week Tuesday night was another opportunity for the high and mighty in the country to take time off tight schedules and listen to rib-cracking jokes. The occasion was the dinner and gala night for the maiden June 12 Democracy Day celebration at the old Banquet Hall of the State House, Abuja. The hall, arranged to seat 500 guests, was filled to the brim about an hour to the start of the dinner. What made the occasion more special was that it was attended by world leaders, who were in Abuja for the main Democracy Day celebration billed for the following day. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, was at his best and didn’t fail to thrill the guests. His jokes, when the dinner was drawing to an end, made the guests, including the world leaders, to laugh intermittently. The laughter in the well-decorated hall was almost out of control as some guests not yet through with their meals, almost choked. Some of them immediately had dampened red eyes due to the impact of the jokes. Osinbajo’s jokes started when he was asked to propose a toast to the President and the Federal Republic of Nigeria. When he got to the podium, he first took his time to observe protocol and recognise the special invited guests in the hall. When he finished that, most guests in the hall who expected him to go straight to the assignment of proposing the toast, were disappointed as some of them had started picking up their glasses filled with soft drinks. Osinbajo veered off by first delivering rib-cracking jokes that could rival, if not better, those of big names in Nigeria’s humour and entertainment business. His jokes centred on the major ethnicity in Nigeria, including Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba and Edo. He said, “Let me tell you a story about an Edo man, who invited his friends to the burial of his mother. After lowering the coffin into the grave, the family members then put some yams, some rice and some meats into the coffin in line with tradition. “His Hausa friend from Zamfara State asked him why did he do that, saying: ‘Why did you put food into the coffin?’ ”And the Edo man said: ‘According to our tradition, the dead go on a long journey and they need all the food that they can get on that long journey.’ “The Hausa man from Zamfara State was very impressed, so he brought out a N100 from his pocket and put it inside the coffin and said: ‘When the food finish, buy some more.’ The hall immediately erupted in laughter. Osinbajo went on: “But listening right behind him was a Yoruba man, who saw what the Hausa brother has done. “He took out N50 and said: ‘Mama,  have this in case the N100 is not enough’. The guests in the hall again started another round of laughter. Not done with the jokes, Osinbajo said “Then Okechukwu, their Igbo friend, came out and brought out his cheque book. The didn’t wait for Osinbajo to finish the joke before bursting out in laughter. But the Vice President went on by saying “And he wrote a generous cheque of N200,000. “He dropped it in the coffin and then took the N150 in cash as change. Another loud round of laughter erupted as the guests kept clapping for the Vice President. Osinbajo added “Then he said: ‘Nwanne, withdraw when you reach there. You know say na dangerous journey. When you meet armed robbers, them no go take your cheque. Travel well ooo,  Mama.’ The guests again burst out laughing and clapping for the Vice President at the same time. (2) Waiting game There appears to be an ongoing waiting game for the list of the next Federal cabinet members to be made public. President Muhammadu Buhari had directed ministers in the last cabinet to submit their handover notes to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, latest 28th of May, 2019. Since inauguration of the second term tenure on the 29th of May  2019, not a few Nigerians have been expecting constitution of a new cabinet. It is also on record that some state governors, who ended their tenures last month, just like some ex-ministers, have been abroad cooling off and thanking God for ending their tenures well. But some ex-ministers have continued to be regular faces in the Villa and all functions of government as if in a sort of waiting game. There is also no doubt that some of the ex-ministers and cabinet members had great roles to play in the 29th May 2019 Presidential inauguration and the June 12th Democracy Day celebrations and had to remain visible around the government. But others appeared to be hanging around the corridor of power waiting and praying to be in the next cabinet list. One of them was even quoted to have declared in an interview his optimism of making it to the next cabinet. He may be in for a surprise as most leaders are full of surprises and don’t like their actions and decisions to be preempted by anybody. This set of the ex-cabinet members may also have to wait a bit longer to realize their ambitions as the Senate and House of Representatives have embarked on recess till 2nd of July, 2019. Unless there is a special arrangement, these ex-ministers would have to wait for the next three weeks to know if they would be in the next cabinet as the Senate usually screens and confirms ministerial appointments. But surely, the waiting game will soon come to an end and everybody can rest.