An international non-governmental organisation, Save the Children, has said about 867 schools in Borno State are non-functional and inaccessibility as a result of insecurity. It noted that 2.2 million school-aged children and teachers needed immediate education in emergency support in the Northeast. Save the Children Nigeria’s Country Director Benjamin Foot said this yesterday during the centenary celebration and launch of three reports by the organisation in Abuja, the nation’s capital. He said: “Education is a key concern in the conflict of Northeast Nigeria. The Humanitarian Needs Overview estimates that there were 2.2 million school-aged children and teachers in the Northeast who need immediate education in emergency support. “Eight hundred and sixty-seven schools primarily in Borno State are still non-functional mainly due to inaccessibility as a result of insecurity. “More than two million girls, boys and caregivers need psychosocial support services due to severe distress, hardship and displacement in Northeast Nigeria. In addition, 770,000 children and caregivers remain at risk of injury and loss of life from explosive remnants of war.” Foot noted that the conflict in the region had exposed children to different forms of violence, making them vulnerable to abuse, neglect and exploitation. The Country Director said the organisation would continue to fight for children by making sure they get protection when they are in danger and have the chance to learn. He called on government at all levels, communities and families to provide a conducive environment for children to learn, to enable them to be protected and grow up strong. “We will continue to fight for children every single day. We will do whatever it takes to make sure they survive, get protection when they are in danger, and have the chance to learn, because every child should be able to make their mark on their world and help to build a better future for all. “We would like to ask all actors to review their commitment and join forces to create a conducive environment for children to learn, be protected and grow up healthy,” he said. Foot welcomed the recent bold step taken by the Federal Government in ratifying the “Safe School Declaration”. He said the declaration will be instrumental in ensuring that the schools will be safe zones for children to learn.