Less than 24 hours to resumption from a two-week break after the 11th June inauguration, cracks seemed to have appeared within the caucus of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House of Representatives over alleged zoning of the remaining principal offices. According to a National Assembly source, the party leadership is said to have zoned House Leader’s position to Kano with the contest between Aminu Suleiman and Alhassan Ado Doguwa. Also, it was gathered other principal officers picked include Deputy Leader Nkeiruka Onyejeocha (Southeast); Chief Whip Peter Akpatason (South-South) and Mohammad Monguno (Northeast). However, the decision of the party on the principal officers has not gone down well with some members. “This is already creating serious crisis within our caucus (APC) because the issue of fairness and equity and reward for loyalty is not lost on us, that’s what our Party stands for. “For instance, look at what Monguno is being rewarded with, despite all his efforts to keep the party going in the House. “Monguno is a fifth term member of the House. He always obey party directives in the House in spite of all the intimidation to be given the position of Deputy Chief Whip to serve under a second/third term member doesn’t look like justice to me.  “This is someone that was picked by the party to be the Deputy Speaker in 2015 alongside the current Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, who was picked to be the Number 4 Citizen four years ago,” the source, who pleaded not to be named, said. Some APC lawmakers from the Northeast argued the position of Chief Whip should not go to Edo State as it would appear the APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, who is from the same State as Akpatason used his influence to foist him (Akpatason) on the caucus. “It is not out of place if Northeast lawmakers wondered why South South that has only about six APC members in the House would be favoured to take the position of Chief Whip against the Northeast, which has over 33 APC Reps. “I can tell you that if the APC national leadership insists on the list of those picked as it is, Monguno would not accept the position of Deputy Chief Whip but will rather remain out of the body of principal officers. “This is a man that has been a very loyal member of the party. He was to be Deputy Speaker in 2015, and he was even picked by the party for that position. But look at what they’re trying to do. “Despite what happened four years ago, he remained a loyal party member. As a matter of fact, he’s one of the most ranking members of the House as a fifth term lawmaker. “How can they take the position of Chief Whip to the same state that the National Chairman of the party comes from? We in the Northeast have over 33 members but how many does the South South have? Just about six. Is that fair? Not at all,” she added. Meanwhile, the House has denied rumors that late payment of allowances to members would affect resumption of legislative activities from tomorrow. There were reports that logistics challenge over non-payment of allowances and delivery of office equipment and furniture is creating rancour among members. Members were yet to receive bank alert of allowance payment as at the time of compiling this report. Chairman, as hoc Committee on Media, Khadijah Bukar Abba-Ibrahim over the weekend in Abuja however said members were not perturbed by the development. Abba-Ibrahim said: “We are prepared for resumption and begin our legislative work in earnest. The Chamber is ready. The ad hoc Committees on Welfare and Selection handling various duties are almost done. Everything is set. “The resumption on Tuesdays is not threatened by anything whatsoever. The Committees have substantially completed their work; those that have to do with putting in place the logistics that will ensure we have a smooth resumption, have done their job. “Even if our office furniture hasn’t been fixed, we are aware that it would be sorted out as soon possible because members are aware of their office allocations already. “On allowances, that cannot stop up from performing job as well. Everything is set, this is the age of internet, anything can happen between now and Tuesday. “I don’t think that will really affect the determination of members to come in and do the job that they need to do. Everybody’s ready to work”. A member, who confirmed that he has his office allocation already but yet to get a payment alert for the allowance, however assured that members are enthusiastic about the work ahead of them. “We are elected to come and represent our people here and that is exactly what I am here for, a view which majority of my colleagues share. “Yes, I am a new member, I don’t have a house here before now, but I’m mindful of that fact and arrangements have been made for my comfort before now. “So, what is being insinuated as a challenge is not a challenge at all because that must be sorted out sooner than later. “Many of us are prepared to do the work we are sent here to do and with dedication,” he said.   