Lagos State lawmaker representing Ojo Constituency I, Hon Akande Victor, has stated why the All Progressives Congress members across Nigeria must be ready to take up challenges and fulfil promises made during the 2019 election campaigns. Victor, who returned to the House of Assembly on the platform of All Progressives Congress, having served his first term in the House as PDP member in 2015, believes that Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has the mechanism to make Lagos State thrive again and willing to make the difference. He also spoke on the leadership of Hon Mudashiru Obasa in the Assembly, why he was re-elected as Speaker unopposed and other sundry issues, reports Samson Oti On his return as second time lawmaker I thank God who is the Alpha and Omega of everything; he made it possible for me. And to the people of my constituency who stood firm by me during the election, I must be very honest with you that it was not an easy task for me as a person, but at the end, it was a victory for the people of Ojo Constituency I as a whole for giving me that opportunity to serve them again. On his achievements in the constituency before now I wouldn’t like to speak for myself but for the record, God has been wonderful, by the grace of God I have been able to live up to expectation by my people; of course, there are still more to come. Whatever you are doing, always do it right and let people speak for you, and that’s what happened during the election. During my first term, I was able to provide desktop computers for the 38 schools in my constituency and give each to the schools; I was able to provide 12 boreholes, dig it and gave them generator to power them so that there will be source of water for the people living in the communities. Again, I embarked on youth empowerment programmes where we engaged over 450 youths on ICT and computer programmes and at the end of the programme, the best 50 students were given laptops. In the same vein, I was able to provide two buses for the student to support the education system. The buses take the students to and fro for free. Each of the buses transports 150 students on daily basis, etc. That is why I was able to get their votes and confidence to return. Projects to embark on as returnee lawmaker Yeah, 70% of what I will be doing is basically youth oriented programme and that’s one of my campaign programme and I must fulfill it because the level of unemployment in my constituency is very high and that drove me more to embark on youth empowerment programmes to the best of my ability. His defection from PDP to APC Joining parties is all about objectives and my objective is for the masses, for the people in my constituency who have been supporting my political ambition, and they have always been supportive. People of like minds flock together. But one thing people don’t know about me is that before I joined APC, I used to be a progressive; in the days of AD, I was part of it. So, one reason or the other I went to PDP to attain the same ambition but when I noticed that ‘PDP has fallen apart and the centre can no longer hold even up till now they cannot still find their levels, there is still acrimony in the party; I decided to join APC and still on the same objectives. The truth is that there’s no party of that level that does not have crises but one thing I learnt about APC is that they know how to manage their crises, there’s no perfect person but when issues come up at any time in APC, there are people who stick out their necks to make peace and that’s what PDP is lacking. APC has peace making machineries and if a party can quickly resolves its party crises at any level, which means the party has come to stay and we have to appreciate the people behind the progressives, people like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. You could see his ideology. These are the people who know what the people in the street want, and making a progress to reach to the masses by encouraging people in the government to give their best and make people happy at all cost. I joined APC because of their programme, people oriented programmes and that’s what I believe in also. And as a matter of fact, I have been reaping in the dividends of democracy. I made very serious consultation before I embarked on the journey and funny enough some people didn’t know I made consultations. I have respect for my followers, my leaders and everybody that has been supporting me; so, I consulted with all; the artisans, the royal fathers, the market women, religious leaders and most especially, with Ndigbo in the constituency. I told them my story and why I am leaving PDP and all of them blessed my move and gave me their support. And by the grace of God, I have the grace to be on ground as grassroots man. Attempt to impeach Akinwunmi Ambode There was no truth in the reports, there was never an attempt to impeach Ambode; of course he might have his own shortcomings but we never considered that. And again, I am not in the position to talk about that. Did you see the House joining issue with anybody? We don’t take decisions that will affect the party structure, and like I told you, the Speaker considered many things while making some decisions. Igbos and their limitations I am in good relationship with everybody; as a politician, you don’t just need one arm, you need everybody and they are my people and so they have to accept me. And I must be honest with you in some things going about Lagos and the Igbos, the Igbos know their limitations and they are not dragging anything beyond their limitations. They are not dragging anything with us as regards who owns the land. And you see what they cannot take they cannot give. And there’s an adage that says: ‘what the head of the house doesn’t eat, the mother must not cook’. Lagos lawmakers and Gov. Sanwo Olu Governor Sanwo-Olu is a proactive governor. He has foreseen things ahead of time; he knows the task before him even before he assumed office. Apparently, he’s going to move the state forward and by the grace of God; we will give him all the respect and support to make it happen. People with bad advisers will surely see the bad results and if you see good advisers, you will see you are progressive. Everything we are doing now, there’s blue print and that’s why Lagos will always keep talking about Asiwaju. Any governor that comes should follow the blue print because there is a dream and you can only come to add to that dream not to deviate from it. General Hospital, Ojo In my constituency, he has started working already; he has just done the handing over of General Hospital in Ojo; he has mobilized contractors back to Badagry road and the first project he is going to commission is going to be the General Hospital; he’s a proactive governor. As big as Ojo Local Government is, there is no General Hospital but the governor has taken it as his responsibility to make it happen even when we have already included the project in the 2017-2018 budgets and nothing was done. APC platform and race for 2023 The party has an agenda and everybody that is elected on the platform of APC must have the agenda of the party at the forefront. For example, Sanwo-Olu as Lagos State Governor, the party has given him its agenda and for us as lawmakers, we are to support him for the fact that we are all rooting for the agenda of the party and to make sure that he’s able to achieve the set goals and objectives of the party. The same thing should apply to every other member and state. The only way we can achieve lots of goals in this party is for everybody on the platform of APC to work in the same direction and that is the dream of the party leaders. In Lagos, we will back Sanwo-Olu to achieve his dreams. Without the party, we cannot be here and that’s why the governor and everybody on the platform of the party must respect the motives and integrity of the party. Our template is there and easy, only if it’s followed accordingly and that’s just the secret. By the time every member works towards the dream of the party without self-greed, 2023 will be easy for the party and a member working against the party is an enemy of progressives. On the leadership of Mudashiru Obasa Obasa has demonstrated good leadership quality over time and that’s the reason he returned as the Speaker of the House unopposed. This man has been so amazing in so many ways; he’s a leader that listens and proffers solutions to everybody’s need and of course, he’s a product of the progressives. Grassroots and motivations I have been honest with my people, I tried as much as I can to carry them along, I give them feedback on any delayed project and they always give me their trust. I think I have been able to establish a work and trust relationship with them. And I tried as much possible to reach out to them directly or indirectly. But my legacy is doing your best and leaving the rest for God. Though, don’t forget that you cannot satisfy everybody, but once you search your conscience and you are cleared, you leave the remaining ones to God. Next political ambition Let us leave everything to God Almighty. I don’t want to be over ambitious; this is politics and you might say you have the crowd to win an election before the election year and you have everything working for you but the prayer is that God will not let it boomerang. I believe in God and I always leave everything for him to decide after I have done my own assignment right. From education to politics Going by my background, I am a man of many parts; I am an educationist, a lawyer, an administrator and that has help my background, and equally I am a team player. I listen to people and my background as a legal practitioner enhances my legislative duties in the House. Having served in many meetings has given me the insight of how to manage people.