Burrow pit owners in Avbiama community and environs in Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area of Edo State now work in fear following the demand of monthly payment of ransom by kidnappers. Four burrow pit owners operating in Avbiama, including a relation of former Edo Deputy Governor Dr. Pius Odubu, have been abducted within the last three months. They were released after huge ransoms were paid. The National President of Road Transport Employers Association of Nigerian (RTEAN), Comrade Osakpamwan Eriyo, who owns a burrow pit in the area, is said to be the target of kidnappers. A burrow pit owner, who spoke in confidence, said he was asked to make some monthly payment to avoid being kidnapped. Besides the burrow pit owners, clerics, workers of NSIK Engineering, the firm carrying out the construction of St. Saviour Road, a native doctor and many others have been abducted. The abduction of construction workers has stalled work on the road project. It was gathered that the kidnappers usually stormed the burrow pits and Avbiama community through the Ikpoba River and took their victims through the river to their hideout. A top worker of NSIK Engineering, who confirmed the abduction, said their workers had been released but refused to disclose how much ransom was paid. Sources said the chairman of tipper drivers was chased to his home and narrowly escaped abduction. The source said he has increased private security guard at his home. Also, the Bénin branch of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has condemned attempted kidnap of its former Chairman Solomon Odiase. A statement by its spokesman Douglas Ogbankwa said Odiase managed to escape from his abductors but the kidnappers made away with his Toyota Camry saloon car with registration number (Edo) USL330EL. The statement said continuous target of lawyers by armed robbers and kidnappers validated the position of the Benin NBA for boycotting kidnapping and armed robbery cases in court and police formations. It called for the rejigging of the state’s security architecture to provide a safe security corridor for the residents. Police spokesman Chidi Nwabuzor, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), promised to speak today on the matter after getting an official report. 