RECENTLY, a close neighbour of ours could not wait to show us his new car. “Come Madam,” he said, “I want to show you something”. As I followed him, he took me straight to the car park, pointing towards the car. I must admit the car was quite a very clean one, but it was not the car that got the better part of my attention; it was the excitement on his face. He just could not hide it. He was beaming from ear to ear. Just by looking at his face, you could tell that the car was just his dream come true.  Just as we were still admiring the car, a thought suddenly crossed my mind. In all my years on planet earth, never have I seen a man this happy or excited showing off his wife and I am like, what is it with men and cars. Are wives not supposed to be prized far above rubies (the virtous ones, I mean)? I do not think it is fair to us woman, if a mere car should get more attention from the man then us. A cousin of mine claims that her man spends a fortune to maintain his cars, but when she dares to ask for an increment in her allowances, he questions her and then complains that the economy is bad. Call this a protest if you like, but some wives simply can’t recall the last time their man showed them off to either friends or co-workers. In order, not to be seen as one-sided, I decided to speak with some respondents on why the wife and the car have to be in competition in the first place. Their responses are as varied as their names and faces are. Sola: “I don’t know, I have never really thought about it. I think I spend more money on my wife. In my opinion, I feel a woman is more expensive than a car, although in a way, a wife is comparable to a car because she is something you acquired and then you are under obligation to take care of her. Your wife is a part of your life and often times you are more conscious of your wife than your car”. Yemi: “My wife is far more useful to me than my car. You see, I can afford to park my car, if it will make my wife happy because before the car came, my wife had been there, and after the car, my wife will still be there. So in the light of this, I would rather pay more attention or spend more on my wife than my car. Muyiwa: “My wife comes before the car. The reason is that if I don’t maintain my wife, she would not last in my house. I can afford to buy a car today and discard it tomorrow, but I cannot do same with my wife. In the first instance, my wife is a human being, and, as such, he is far more valuable than my car; although on the other hand, one needs to maintain the car to keep the family mobile”. Ben: “My wife will kill me, if she reads this, but faithfully speaking, I spend more money on my car than I do on my wife. The car is also meant to ease her outings and the kids. Instead of her hopping from one bus to the other, the car will be a better deal for the whole family. Leke: “In fact, one’s car is considered to be person’s first wife. For instance, if one is always seen with a car and he is suddenly seen trekking, the first thing he will be asked is about his car and perhaps later his wife. When a car breaks down, one cannot afford to leave or dump it, even if there is no money, one must borrow to get the car back on the road.