WITH the plethora of in-form attackers in his 25-man provisional team list for the AFCON, Super Eagles’ coach Gernot Rohr says it would not be an easy task to drop at least one of the strikers in the final 23-man list for the Total Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) Egypt 2019. Last month, Rohr listed 10 exciting strikers including established China-based Odion Ighalo who was top scorer with seven goals during the AFCON qualifying tournament as well as co-captain Ahmed Musa of Al Nassar FC and the duo of Alexander Iwobi of Arsenal and Kelechi Iheanacho of Leicester City. Others on the list are new elements like Moses Simon of Levante who missed out of the roster to Russia 2018 World Cup due to injury; Samuel Kalu of Girondins Bordeaux; Henry Onyekuru of Galatasaray; Paul Onuachu of FC Midtjylland, Samuel Chukwueze of Villarreal FC, Spain and Victor Osimhen who scored an impressive 20 goals for his Belgian side Royal Charleroi SC. “It is always great to have these great players to work with,” the 65-year-old Rohr told The Nation. “But the sleepless night for me would come between the night of 8th June and the morning of 9thJune in Asaba after the friendly match against Zimbabwe when I have to drop two players from the 25-man provisional list. “It’s always a hard thing to do but it has to be done because I would have to leave out at least one of the strikers. “But we are going to put a lot of things into consideration especially their performance after one week of training and performance in the friendly match against Zimbabwe before taking a final decision.” Meanwhile, Rohr has yet cleared the air on circumstances behind the exemption of Iheanacho from the Super Eagles squad for last March double header against Seychelles and Egypt. Rohr explained:“I actually gave an honest answer about Kelechi because I was asked why he was not around but he’s still a good striker and he has the chance to show us that he’s committed and serious in this coming week. He has an equal chance like every other player in the team to make the final 23-man list by showing us what he can do in Asaba.” 