Sir: One of the major issues that cause civil unrest leading to protracted crisis in most parts of Nigeria, and the north especially, is religious (mis)demeanour. This is so because the region is home to the two dominant religions, Muslim majority and Christian minority in some states and vice versa. Nigerians in their culture respect religious leaders.  Recently, some say Nigeria houses the highest number of religious worship centres, both Christian and Muslim. Conversely, however, that didn’t bring the peace Nigeria has been yearning for, for several years. The issue of Maitatsine In Kano back in the 1980s and the recurring Kaduna religious crisis were signs of bad approach to what I call extremist scholars’ preaching. This indeed remains the continuous challenge in most of the northern states. Boko Haram’s genesis was Muhammad Yusuf’s extremism aided by the free and open preaching without any regulation from the authorities was allowed to fester because of what many deemed freedom of speech and freedom to practice religion of every individual’s choice. Admittedly, that led us to where we are- seriously on our knees and battling with insurgency for several years with little or unappreciative level of progress. So many scholars knowingly or unknowingly have uttered statements that are inciting and capable of causing war between the die-hard followers of the two major religions in Nigeria. This can be traced back to the fact that they might not be that professional to preach, since preaching in Nigeria is not regarded as a profession as many who have no deep knowledge about the teachings of either of the religions claim to be Imams or Pastors without proper certification. As a journalist and someone who studied Islamic studies, I have been looking forward to a law that can regulate preaching or an agency overseeing the affairs of both Islam and Christianity that can be registering and regulating scholars just like other professional bodies such as  medicine, law, engineering etc, where one can’t practice without following a laid down  procedure and securing duly recognised licence. With this, the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs should either have a committee that will have record of Islamic Studies graduates and will be having an interface with them, or should sponsor a bill to the National Assembly for a professional agency on Islamic scholars not only those that went universities but those that have the knowledge of the religion through “Malaman Zaure” at times have more knowledge of the religion then the university graduates.  