Cross Rivers State Governor Ben Ayade has declared he would function actively as project manager in his second term. The deputy governor, he said, will act in his stead while he focuses on project management. He spoke to newsmen at the Rice Seedling and Seed Multiplication Factory located along Goodluck Ebele Jonathan Bypass in Calabar. On his new position as a Projects Manager of the state, the governor said: “Immediately I took the oath of office for my second term, I downgraded my position to that of a project manager while my deputy will be acting as governor. “So, indeed, I have also given him approval limit up to N1 billion. He will do that without recourse to me. “He is a professor and more experienced than me and I strongly believe that he’s got the capacity to run government to allow me bring my energy to bear in the various industries we have set up.” Continuing, he said: “As you can see, I started so many projects, most of which are at 80 to 90 percent completion level. “So, I’m just struggling to ensure that all the factories and our industrial clusters start rolling out products into the market.” On how he intends to function, Ayade said: “As a project manager, I will be spending most of my time in Ikom Local Government Area to allow me properly monitor all my developmental projects in the central senatorial district including the cocoa processing plant and the superhighway projects as well as the ultra- modern vitaminized rice processing plant in Ogoja, amongst others. “So, I will be shuttling between Ogoja and Ikom. For this reason, I am taking delivery of a mobile house soon to allow me a working space anywhere I will be going across the state.” He said he will dedicate the next four years to “projects management to get all projects into finalization. You will not see me again in the office except during executive council meetings or I’m receiving investors or federal government delegations. I want to ensure that we deliver on all our projects and in good time. “I want to prove a point to the world that it is not all black men that think from their stomach. I use my brain and I want to say that money is not everything otherwise, Cross River State would have collapsed. “Cross River State is trying to take a lead but with almost zero allocation relative to our overhead costs, but that is where the joy lies because if the governor’s job is to sit down and receive allocations, award contracts and approve payment then, any Tom, Dick and Harry can be a governor. “The beauty of a governor comes when there is creativity, where the intellect comes to play and you take decisions that will affect the populace positively. “I see the prosperity ahead and I feel a sense of pride that today, we are industrializing with visible factories and companies already employing our teeming youths. “So, I can’t achieve these by sitting down in an air-conditioned office, I must move to the field.” Challenging Cross Riverians to judge him after eight years, the governor said: “After eight years, when you look back at the income of the state and where I would have taken the state to, even if you are the son of a devil, you will say Ayade has done well. At that time, even my most ardent critic will say he was wrong.”