The Federal High Court in Abuja has faulted the decision by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to withhold the Certificate of Return due to the immediate-past governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, who was declared winner of the last election in Imo West Senatorial District. In a judgment on Friday, Justice Okon Abiday ordered INEC to immediately issue Okorocha with the Certificate of Return. The judgment was on a suit by Okorocha, in which he challenged the propriety of the decision by INEC to withhold the Certificate of Return even after the Returning Officer for the election declared Okorcha winner of the February 23, 2019 election. Justice Abang, who upheld the argument by Okorocha’s lawyer, Kehinde Ogunwumiju (SAN), that since his client was declared winner of the election, INEC lacked the power or legal authority to review the declaration, described INEC’s action as lawless and arbitrary. The judge faulted INEC’s claim that it withheld the Certificate of Return on the grounds that its Returning Officer, who announced the result, complained that he declared the election results under duress. Justice Abang said it is only an election tribunal that has the power to review whether the results were declared under duress. The judge added: ”Once a declaration of the results has been made, that decision is final and can only be reviewed by the election petition tribunal and not by INEC. “Therefore, it is mandatory for INEC to include the name of the plaintiff as the winner of the election to the Orlu Senatorial District. “Once the declaration is made under section 68(c) of the Electoral Act, INEC has become functus officio (has completed its responsibility) and INEC has no lawful authority to withhold the Certificate of Return for any reason whatsoever. “Therefore the issue of duress is unknown to both the Electoral Act and the Constitution “The court can see clearly, in the plaintiff’s Exhibit C, the reason why the 1st defendant (INEC) refused to publish the name of the plaintiff on its website as one of the winners of the senatorial elections held on February 23, 2019. “It is unlawful for INEC that was supposed to be neutral and independent as its name suggests, to sit in judgment in its own case and come to the conclusion that that the Returning Officer declared the results under duress and refused to issue him the Certificate of Return. “Neither the 1999 Constitution, the Electoral Act 2010 nor any other law for that matter confers judicial power on INEC to come to the conclusion that the plaintiff was declared under duress. “Under section 68 of the Electoral Act, once a declaration is made, the declaration becomes final and can only be reviewed by the election petition tribunal. “INEC has no lawful authority under the  Constitution or the Electoral Act to withhold the plaintiff’s Certificate of Return after it has declared him the winner of the election. “If indeed, it is true that the Returning Officer made the declaration under duress, it is not for the defendants who lost in the election to proceed to the election tribunal to challenge the election under section 138 of the Electoral Act. “Under the Electoral Act, INEC has no authority to decide to withhold the Certificate of Return on the basis that the results were declared under duress. “It is only the tribunal that will hear all parties and based on evidence before it will come to its conclusion,” the judge said. Justice Abang was also of the view that Okorocha remained elected,  subject to the outcome of the ongoing proceedings of the election tribunal, where the election outcome was being challenged. He said: ”It is not lawful for INEC to take the law into its hands by refusing to issue Certificate of Return to the plaintiff. There is no law that supports the unlawful decision of INEC. “INEC ought not to have been personal in the matter. In this country, INEC has men and women of integrity, I am surprised that they acted in this manner. “The plaintiff was declared the winner of the election. INEC has not, in his counter-affidavit, suggested that the plaintiff did not win the election. “INEC did not declare the election as inconclusive. INEC did not declare that the election was won by any other person. “There will be constitutional crisis if INEC’s decision is allowed to stand. There can be no vacuum on the seat of the Imo West Senatorial District in the Senate. “INEC shall forthwith publish and circulate the name of the plaintiff as the senator-elect representing Orlu Imo West Senatorial District. “It is hereby ordered that INEC shall forthwith issue certificate of return as the senator-elect representing representing Orlu/Imo West Senatorial District,” the judge said. Justice Abang ordered INEC to pay Okorocha N200,000 as cost, while the other seven defendants in the case are to also pay Okorocha N100,000 each. Earlier in the judgment, Justice Abang rejected the objection INEC and the other defendants raised against the suit.  