Olajide Ojuko is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State. He has served in different capacities in different dispensations. Apart from being a Director at Gateway Hotels when Chief Bisi Onabanjo was the governor of Ogun State, he was also the Commissioner for Commerce, Cooperative and Tourism under Chief Segun Osoba. He was also a chieftain of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Ogun State. In this interview with Gbenga Aderanti, the immediate past Ogun State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs talks about why local governments should be financially independent, the challenges of running the office of chieftaincy affairs, among other issues. Excerpts How have been managing the ministry, especially chieftaincy affairs? Well, like any other office there will be challenges. It is the ministry of local government and chieftaincy affairs and by that implication, I handle affairs concerning the local government in the entire state. When I came in, it was 20 local governments, today it is 57, so you can see the scope of the assignment. I’m also in charge of chieftaincy matters in the state and of course, I’m in charge of all the obas and baales and anything tradition in Ogun State. We have the paramount rulers, the first class obas, the second class obas and baales. We also came and met an organisation under the ministry, vigilante services. The organisation was in disarray when we came. We thank God we have reorganised the organisation and by the grace of God, the House of Assembly has passed and the governor has assented the bill. It is now a full fledge security outfit. We also embarked on ministry’s projects monitoring/inspection in the 20 local government areas, focused on major capital projects and other infrastructural facilities which have improved the socio-economic wellbeing of people in line with the principles of transparency and accountability. Like I told you, we have challenges; one of them is in the area of funding, what is coming from the Federal Allocation has not been enough to take care of our local governments. That is a major challenge because whatever comes to local government, that is where we are going to pay the primary school teachers of the local government. If for example we have an allocation of 2.1billion naira for a local government, in most cases, primary school would have taken 1.8 or 1.9 and at the end of the day we’re left with 100 or 200 million naira to take care of the office of political office holders, local government staff, pensioners, gratuities are there. As for chieftaincy department, our problem is naturally dealing with human beings and we expect some problems to come up. One of the problems we have is the issue of authority. Our Obas do not know where their area of authority is. And because of this, there was confusion. We had to deal with that one first, particularly the paramount rulers, to let them know their areas of authorities. We’ve not gotten to where we’re going but we are solving that gradually. Federal government is now trying to make sure that local government get their allocations directly, but some of the governments have been kicking, what do you see to this? Yes, there is nothing bad in financial autonomy for local governments but if you want to send a child to school, you must be able to provide for all his needs otherwise that child will go to school and became a dullard or at the end of the day he doesn’t do well in the school. If they want financial autonomy for these local governments as they are trying to do now; good, they must be ready to increase their funding, more money should be pumped into local government. The quantum of money they are being given now cannot solve the problem unless they will be creating more confusion. I’m very sure if they do not increase the amount of money, local government will first of all pay their salaries and the salaries of their staff and political office holders and they may not attend to teachers and that will start creating problems in the local government. So, I want to advocate and appeal to the federal government to examine the revenue allocation formula. If you were given the opportunity to serve again, especially the new dispensation, would you prefer to come back? Actually, in the dispensation of this 2019 in the election that has just been concluded, my intention was to pick a ticket for Senate but for one reason or the other, I had to drop the ambition. If any reason I have another opportunity to serve, I think I would serve at the national level. In any case by now, my own politics should go national. I’ve done more than enough at the state level. I’ve been commissioner twice. I’ve been board director at state level, secretary of a party. I’ve been these and that; I think I have to move up. The state of insecurity in Nigeria is gradually becoming worrisome, what is your take on this? It is very unfortunate the state we are now. I must confess to you, it is because you and me are here, war is going on in Nigeria, those who are in the Northeast and northwest, they know that Nigeria is in the state of war and they may not be able to sit the way we are sitting because of Boko Haram, kidnapping and so many state of insecurity in the upper north. I think the security situation in the country should be addressed by our president. When President Buhari came into the office, I was so hopeful that this insurgency would be controlled or curtained because of his background as a military man, but the situation has become so complex, as you stop one, millions rear their heads. The political class should examine itself. I can see some elements of political undertone in the state of insecurity situation in Nigeria today. My advice to the president is to look inwards and arrest those behind underground sponsors of terrorism or insurgency of Boko Haram. Our security system is very fragile and God will help us.