The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) has said about 25 million refuges across the world travel two billion kilometres annually to get to their first point of safety. UNHCR’s Head of Sub-office in Cross River State, Mr Mulugeta Zewdie, stated this during a one-kilometre walk in collaboration with State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and other partners in solidarity with the sufferings of refugees around the world. The walk, with the theme: Step With Refugees, took place in Ogoja Local Government Area. Zewdie said UNHCR traced the journeys of refugees around the world and calculated that collectively, people forced to flee travel approximately two billion kilometres every year to reach their first point of safety. According to him, in 2016, Syrian refugees travelled 240 kilometres to reach Turkey, while South Sudan refugees travelled more than 640 kilometres to reach Kenya and Rohingya refuges in Myanmar travelled approximately 80 kilometres to reach Bangladesh. UNHCR officer explained that the walk was held in Ogoja because the local government hosts the highest number of Cameroonian refugees in Cross River State. He said: “UNHCR had traced the journeys of refugees around the world and calculated that collectively, people forced to flee travel approximately 2 billion kilometres every year to reach the first point of safety. “The two billion kilometres to safety campaign invites people to act in solidarity and run, walk or cycle to achieve a cumulative total of two billion kilometres. “The two billion kilometres to safety campaign will encourage people to support refugees by championing individual act of solidarity. These acts, when taken together, acknowledge the resilience and strength of refugees.” SEMA’s Acting Director General Princewill Ayim said the one kilometre walk was held in solidarity with the long distance trek undertaken by refugees in search of safety in other countries. Ayim said most refugees were displaced as a result of violence or crises which drove them from their ancestral homes. He said Cross River was hosting over 27,000 refugees, adding that the state was among those hosting the largest number of refugees in the world. Ayim added: “People should always stand up for refugees by giving them the support, care and love. We have violence cases all over the world and the Cameroonian refugees we fine here today are victims of such crises. “Governor Ben Ayade places premium on the welfare and security of Cameroonian refugees in the state. His desire is to see that they are well catered for.” The Leader of the Cameroonian refugees in Ogoja settlement, Mr Etakwa Etakwa Etienne, who hailed the UNHCR and the state government for their care, welfare and accommodation, said the refugees would continue to conduct themselves well.