The Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO), Professor Francis Eze, has challenged the Federal Government to fund researches in Nigerian universities and see the ingenuity of Nigerian students and the academia. Eze who was speaking on the backdrop of the statement by President Muhammadu Buhari that Nigerian Universities are slow in the area of research, noted that researches in any field, are capital intensive and takes time to mature. The Vice Chancellor who spoke during a media parley to mark his third anniversary in office, attributed the slow pace of research as observed by the President to lack of funding, adding that funding is a critical aspect of research programmes. According to him, “the Federal Government should establish functional research laboratories in the universities and see the ingenuity of our people. We have the best brains but we are hampered by lack of funding”. He however observed that “research is not something you expect the result immediately, you have to invest in research, it is a long term project”. The Vice Chancellor disclosed that the University within the last three years has made remarkable breakthrough in academics, inventions and other core areas within its mandate, “we developed a tricycle that is powered with solar energy, we have tried to assemble a car, among several other inventions, we have great potentials but we have limitations because of funding”. He listed other achievements recorded by the University to include, “the selection of FUTO as Africa Centre of Excellence in Future Energies and Electrochemical Systems (ACE-FUELS) by World Bank to run an International Master’s Degree Programmes in Electrochemical Technology, Future Energies, Nanotechnology and Corrosion Technology. “Endowment of a Professional Chair by Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) worth N20 million per annum in the Department of Information Technology. The Chair is to enhance research activities that will foster ICT growth for sustainable development and social advancement while supporting capacity building among academics”, among others.