A Professor of African Studies at the University of Texas, Austin, United State of America, Toyin Falola has underscored the symbiotic relationship between faith and knowledge needed for human development. He said both cannot be separated as they have historically been linked to human civilization. Historically, he explained that religion supplied ideas that spurred innovations in Architecture, philosophy, politics and organisations of communities and nations, adding that religion accelerated the popularity of science and scientific engagements. Delivering his lecture titled “Faith, fact and fiction” at the  17th undergraduate and eighth postgraduate convocation of Babcock University,  Falola said the benefits of combining faith and fact offered by science and technology were imperative for the progress of the society. “Globalisation in its current form, would make it easy for everyone to think that Faith is unnecessary in the contemporary activities of man, but a mind that understands how transient the nature of things is will not fail to acknowledge the need to remain steadfast in one’s faith, because when all chips are down, it boils down to hope.  It remains that faith does not interfere with our knowledge of science and the world, rather, it reinforces it.” With significant roles to play in development, Falola called on all stakeholders to rescue the seemingly intellectual regression of youths caused by faulty education which makes them not well grounded to explore their capacities. Of the 62 First Class students produced in the 2018 academic session, Edafe Bawa-Dogo of Business Education department emerged overall best with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.97. The mother of two who also works as the School Officer, School of Computing and   Engineering, Babcock was grateful that she pulled through the challenges of work, family and education. She said she was inspired to follow her mother’s footsteps into the teaching profession. She said her determination to reach for her goal was not compromised by her marital status.  Though she had not always been the best at primary and secondary school levels, she said her reliance on God’s grace and her own effort helped her succeed. “It is not as if I have always been at the top of the class ever since, but at a point in my life, God turned everything around. I am not the type that easily grabs what is taught in class, I go through my books over and over again.   As a mother of two, I would say God did it for me.  Honestly, I did not know how to go about it; I just had a desire and wanted to do it.  When the results rolled out, I just surrendered to God that everything that happened was according to his will; nothing super about me. “My family has been cooperative and my husband has been a great partner.  He helps out whenever I cannot meet up and he is always there.  Through it all, it has been God because waking up in the night to read and prepare for work in the morning would have been in n vain without God. She thanked her lecturers and classmates who contributed to her success. A total of 1, 926 undergraduates and 372 postgraduate students graduated at the event.