On your first visit to your in-law’s place, you have to ensure that you are at your best to make them love and accept you. Remember what is being said about the first impression? Yes, first impressions last longer. Here’s how to navigate those first delicate in-law encounters: ·       Avoid overdressing: As much as you want your fiancée’ siblings to know that you are a trendy lady,  you should try to keep it simple. Overdressing may turn them off and give them the impression that you are a gold digger who got attracted to their son because of his wealth or prospects. For the men too, you also have to check your outfit if you are visiting your in-law’s place. Be moderate with everything so as not to appear as a clown or as a gangster. ·       Do not pretend:  While you should be in your best behaviour, avoid lying or pretending to be someone you are not. You can avoid giving out details of things you are not proud of instead of having to lie. Try to be as free as possible without being forward. Their assessment of you starts from the moment you step in. Be wise. ·        Do not wear so much makeup: Before you embark on the journey to your in-law’s place, you should ask your partner about what they like and what they do not like. If you end up painting your face like a masquerade to their place knowing fully well that your in-laws are church leaders, you will be shooting yourself in the leg. While it is not compulsory for you to conform to their ways of life, you should strike them as someone who is flexible and not an extremist. ·       Do not wash plates there: Ladies!! It is understandable that you need their approval and would do anything to make them accept you as their daughter-in-law, you should never stoop so low to achieve that. No one is asking you to be proud and saucy, but do not start what you cannot finish. If you wash plates on your first visit and iron your mother in-law’s clothes in order for them to like you, you have to keep up with the trend. The moment you stop doing those things when you have gained access, you will become a bad person. ·       Keep your appetite in check: Do not let your in-laws know you have a voracious appetite. Eating moderately will not kill you that day. Do not let your in-laws see you as someone who is always hungry. They will make inferences from the situation and make the guy feel bad about you.