The Ikeja Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association (CAPDAN) President, Mr Ojikutu Adeniyi, has called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to rid the market of street trading and illegal activities. In an  interview, Adeniyi said the problems had affected the market’s reputation and its profit generation as patronage was decreasing. Known as a hub for Information Communication and Technology (ICT) accessories, Adeniyi is worried that the illegal businesses have gone beyond control and if not tamed, will continue to have an adverse effect not only on Lagos, but the whole country. “We cannot fight this without the aid of the government. We want the government to take proactive measures to tame this. We need an enabling environment in the market. Street trading is a menace to the growth of the market. The market is so overcrowded you cannot trace some people to any address. They just hang around and execute illegal businesses. ‘‘People will not want to come to the market because they are afraid they would fall into wrong hands.  We cannot tackle the situation alone. We urge the government of Lagos State and its enforcement agencies to assist us so that anybody who wants to do business in the market will know that there is a place where they can lodge their complaints,  if the need arises.” He also urged the government to establish an ICT hub, where its members would be trained, adding that the government should provide soft loans for marketers to boost their businesses. On the April protest by the dealers against the installation of leaders (Iyaloja and Babaloja) in the market, by the President-General of the commodity Market Women and Men of Nigeria, Mrs Folashade Tinubu-Ojo,  Adeniyi said such leaders did not befit the market as the biggest technology hub in West Africa. Adeniyi said the marketers would hold a meeting with Mrs Tinubu-Ojo on the issue soon. “At present, the Iyaloja-general has promised to have a meeting with us.  We are holding on for that meeting. Before now, we had written to the government, so they are aware of the situation. To the best of our  knowledge,  Iyaloja and Babaloja  are chieftaincy titles  which do not have anything to do with the day-to- day running of the market. ‘‘The bottom line is: ‘we do not want it in the market’. Virtually all the marketers are against it.  For instance, how do you use an Iyaloja to regulate professional and registered bodies, technicians, programmers and others in the market, or Chinese investors who want to do business with us? These are questions that need answers. The crisis is going to linger. So, everybody should sheathe his swords until the meeting holds,” he said.