BARRING any unforeseen circumstance, Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila will emerge  leaders of the Ninth Senate and House of Representatives which will be inaugurated today. No fewer  than 107 senators-elect will pick the senate  president 359 of the 360 elected members of the House will  choose the Speaker Other presiding offices to be contested for are deputy senate president and deputy House Speaker. The 360th member-elect of the House died before today’s inauguration, Two senatorial seats, including that of ex-Governor Rochas Okorocha, have not been resolved by the court and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The principal offices will be filled by the parties’ caucuses in both chambers. Those of the Senate are  Majority Leader;  Deputy Majority Leader;  Minority Leader;  Deputy Minority Leader; Senate Chief Whip;  Senate Deputy Chief Whip in the House are Majority Leader; Deputy Majority Leader; Minority Leader;  Deputy Minority Leader; Chief Whip;  Deputy Chief Whip; Minority Whip and Deputy Minority Whip. Ali Ndume is in the Senate President’s race with Lawan. Ovie Omo-Agege, Francis Alimikhena, Adamu Aliero, Orji Uzor Kalu and Kabiru Gaya will vie for Deputy Senate President. Gbajabiamila will slug it out with Mohammed Umaru Bago, Olatunbosun Olajide and John Dyegh for Speaker. Idris Wase is for Deputy Speaker. Security has been tightened at the National complex to ensure smooth inauguration The lawmakers-elect were screened to prevent impostors from accessing the complex. “All these steps are normal procedures and we expect the public to bear with us”, A director in the National Assembly  told The Nation last night. A top source in APC gave insights into last minutes politicking on some of the posts. The source said: “The only challenge at hand in the Senate is the intrigues on the Deputy President of the Senate. The President and the APC have agreed to zone the office to South-South but some stakeholders from the North-West and the South-East have kicked against it. This is why ex-Governors Orji Uzor Kalu, Adamu Aliero and Kabiru Gaya are agitating for their zones. “While low votes for APC during the last general election are counting against the South-East, most stakeholders were surprised by the sudden interest of the North-West in the office. With President Muhammadu Buhari from the North-West and the Senate presidency zoned to the North-East, there will be ethnic animosity if the North-West gets Deputy President of the Senate. “Some PDP elements do not want the APC candidate for the office of deputy Senate president, Sen. Ovie Omo- Agege because he was seen as Buhari’s attack dog in the Senate when PDP’s candidate, Dr. Bukola Saraki was Senate President.” Responding to a question, the source added: “As for the Speaker, some loyalists of the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara are hell-bent on stopping  Femi Gbajabiamila from emerging. “Instead, they had been working for Mohammed Umaru Bago from Niger State. But Gbajabiamila’s luck this time around was the choice of Idris Ahmed Wase as his deputy. Wase has a solid support base. “Also, the fact that most of the members-elect are new has assisted to oil the campaign of Gbajabiamila.” Another source said: “The election of principal officers in the National Assembly is a battle of supremacy by both the APC and the PDP. The APC wants a clean sweep of the available offices, the PDP demands to be accommodated. “For the first time, President Muhammadu Buhari has been involved in crucial talks with all stakeholders. “But the PDP does not have the number to cause any upset. They tried to recruit Sen. Danjuma Goje and Wase but they failed. They also fought proxy wars through the court with seven cases against Gbajabiamila, they failed.” How they’ll vote The National Assembly management has perfected arrangements set machinery in place last night for a smooth election of the presiding officers. According to the Senate Standing Orders 2015, a candidate can emerge as President of the Senate or Deputy President of the Senate with a simple majority of the lawful votes cast by senators-elect. But in the House, a Speaker or Deputy Speaker must garner about 181 of the lawful votes cast. Section 3  of the Senate Standing Orders 2015 reads in part: “ A Senator-elect may before taking the Oaths prescribed in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, take part in the election of the President and Deputy President of the Senate. “Nomination of Senators to serve as Presiding officers  and appointments of Principal Officers and other Officers of the Senate or on any Parliamentary delegations shall be in accordance with the ranking of Senators. In determining ranking, the following order shall apply “The appointment of Senators as Chairmen and Members at Committees shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect the six geo-political l zones of the country and there shall be no predominance of Senators from a few geo-political zones. “Election shall be (i) by electronic voting; or (ii) voting by secret ballot which shall be conducted by the CIerks-at-Table using the list of the Senators-elect of the Senate, who shall each be given a ballot paper to cast his vote, with the proposers and seconder as Teller. “The Clerk of the Senate shall submit the result of the voting to the Clerk of the National Assembly who shall then declare the Senator-elect who has received the highest number of votes as Senate President-elect. “When more than two Senators-elect are nominated and seconded to be Senate President, the division shall be conducted in the manner prescribed in Order 3(3)(e)(ii) herein and the Senator-elect who has received the highest number of votes shall be declared the Senate President elect. ‘In the event of two or more Senators-elect receiving highest but equal number of votes, the name of the candidate having the smallest number of votes shaIl be excluded from subsequent divisions. “A further division shall take place. This voting shall continue until one candidate receives a simple majority of votes of the Senators-elect. Such person will then be declared Senate President-elect.” The same procedure applies to the election of Deputy President of the Senate.  APC adopts Omo-Agege, Wase All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC)  has endorsed Ovie Omo-Agege and Idris Wase for deputy Senate president and deputy speaker of the House of Representatives Delta central, Senator for the position. In  a statement yesterday, National Publicity Secretary Lanre Issa-Onilu said the decision was taken after a two-day emergency meeting held between June. They were adopted following consultations in the President Muhammadu Buhari, APC governors and the stakeholders The governors endorsed Lawan and Gbajabiamila for the National Assembly leadership. The statement reads: “You would recall that the party had earlier announced the duo of Senator Lawan and Hon. Gbajabiamila as the party’s candidates for the positions of Senate President and Speaker of House Representatives respectively. “ All elected APC members of the Senate and House of Representatives are hereby directed to fully mobilise as a united force behind the party’s choice. “Members who have earlier signified interests in these positions are urged to support the party’s decisions as loyal and committed members of APC by working with other members to ensure the emergence of the adopted candidates.’ Oshiomhole: we’re still talking with Ndume More aspirants yesterday withdrew from the National Assembly leadership race, setting the stage for Ahmad Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila to emerge Senate President and House Speaker today. All Progressives Congress (APC) chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole told reporters in Abuja yesterday after a meeting of the National Working Committee (NWC), the party of governors and elected National Assembly members that the aspirants stepped down for the party’s candidates Ahmed Lawan, Femi Gbajabiamila, Ovie Omo-Agege and Idris Waseare the party’s candidates for House president, Speaker, deputy senate president and Deputy Speaker. Senator Francis Alimikhena, Senator Kabiru Gaya Senator-elect, Orji Uzor Kalu, who are interested in the deputy senate president seat were not present at the meeting. He said the party was still discussing with senate president aspirant, Senator Ali Ndume,who he described as a democrat, to accept the party’s wish in the national interest and as a mark of respect for the President, the party’s leader of the party. Oshiomhole said: “We were all unanimous to adopt. We are very proud that alot of APC senators and members of the House of Representatives decided to step down and accept the party’s position inspite of the fact that they are eminently qualified for any of these positions. They have all decided to step down in order to preserve the unity of the APC. “We want to appreciate Senator Danjuma Goje who voluntarily stepped down for Senator Lawan. Yesterday, I had a conversation with Senator Alimikhena who also assured me that he is stepping down for Senator Omo-Agege as deputy Senate president. “We have Nkiru who stepped down for Gbajabiamila and others stepping down for Hon Wase for the position of deputy Speaker. We also have Hon. Namdas who also offered to stepped down and Hon. Babangida Ibrahim also stepped down. Hon Odebunmi also stepped down. Senator Boroffice also stepped down from the position of deputy Senate president. Hon. Yusuf Buba also stepped down. “What is interesting is that all those who stepped down, whether you say by ranking or exposure or by whatever critieria, they are all eminently qualified to contest any of these offices. But in the interest of the party and as a mark of respect for the President and leaders of the APC, these honourable men and women offered to step down. “We are also particularly appreciative of the role that was played by all the APC governors. We have had conversation and are all unanimous on these gentlemen as the APC candidates for these positions. “It has been a wonderful show of solidarity and I believe that it is for the good of the country. Let me also use this opportunity to say that we are also impressed that the effort of Senator Lawan and Hon. Gbajabiamila to go round the states has also helped them to build some support base. “We are very appreciative of those PDP senators and members of the House of Representatives who have agreed that for the purpose of leadership, we should have a bipartisan leadership. We are very appreciative and i believe that together, we will take Nigeria to the next level. “For now, we are still trying to talk to Senator Ali Ndume and I believe that he is a democrat and understand that in a  democracy, it is important that you listen to the voice of the majority and accept the decision of the majority. It is all about sacrifice. “I don’t know of anybody who has been elected into the Senate who is not qualified to be Senate president and the Senators are equal. Those who have stepped down have done that in recognition of the fact that in this type of contest, only one person can win. “I believe that my dear friend, Senator Ali Ndume will not be a lone ranger and will abide by the decision of the party and will respect our overall leader who is the President of the country. So, I don’t have any fear and I believe that Senator Ndume will abide by the decision of the majority.”  APC denies PDP’s coercion claim Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chairman Prince Uche Secondus, yesterday accused the Presidency and the rulling All Progressives Congress (APC) to muzzle the National Assembly. Secondus’ allegation is coming ahead of today’s inauguration of the Ninth National Assembly, in Abuja. He accused President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC leadership of direct involvement in the election of the principal officers. In a statement by his media adviser, Ike Abonyi, Secondus said the doctrine of separation of powers must be respected and guided to avoid dictatorship. According to the PDP chair, intelligence available to the party indicated that the Presidency and the APC have concluded plans to use intimidation and coercion against legislators not ready to do their bidding in the plot to foist a leadership on the lawmakers. The Presidency and the APC, Secondus alleged, have been arm-twisting the National Assembly bureaucracy, in a bid to fashion out favourable rules that would enable the party have its way. Reacting, APC National Publicity Secretary Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu said the PDP was just too ashamed to acknowledge what the ruling party was doing to broaden democracy. Onilu told The Nation on phone that what the APC has done was try to build consensus and make all its members stakeholders in the affairs of the party and the nation. He said: “Do they also want to help us run our own party?  Why can’t they mind their business? They don’t know how democracy works and now, we are showing them. They are ashamed to see us as the ruling party building consensus among our members. This is what is done in advanced democracy. “Let them learn from this. Even if they won’t form the Federal Government again, the state they are now,  they should replicate what we are doing and learn from it that what you do is to make every member a stakeholder. What they should also learn to do is to build consensus and that is what we have been doing. We are telling them that in the 16 years of democracy under them, they didn’t learn anything. Now, they have the opportunity of seeing it play out and I am sure they are too ashamed to even acknowledge it”  ‘Step down now’ From the main opposition camp yesterday came a piece of advice for three All Progressives Congress (APC) elected members of the House of Representatives: stand by your party’s choice for Speaker. The House will elect its speaker and deputy during its inauguration in Abuja today Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila and Idris Wase are APC’s candidates for speaker and deputy speaker. But Umar Bago, John Dyegh and Jide Olatunbosun also indicated interest in the three of the speakership. Two others, Segun Odebunmi and Nkiruka Onyejachoa, withdrew from the race on Sunday. Calling  on the three to obey  their  party, 72 Peoples Democractic Party (PDP) elected lawmakers urged them to withdraw from the race in line with best legislative practice worldwide. In a statement issued in Abuja by its leader, Oluwole Oke, the Progressive Group though it was the trio’s constitutional right to vie for Speaker. “the main contender,  Hon Femi Gbajabiamila stands a better chance in view of his cognate experience in his previous roles as minority leader  and Leader of the House in the 7th and 8th Assembly respectively.” The group added: “Other factors identified by us in favour of Hon Gbajabiamila are readiness to work through a broad coalition of parties represented in the House of Representatives, level headedness, and ability to sustain  meaningful engagement with the Executive arm of government in the overall interest of the country.” The lawmakers said since APC is the majority in the House to be inaugurated today, “Hon Bago and others  will be well positioned to play other leading roles if they step down from the speakership contest and align with the popular wish of their party and majority of non-APC members-elect. “  Gaya, Kalu adamant Former Kabiru Gaya and Senator-elect Orji Kalu yesterday insisted  on contesting for deputy senate president despite  his party’s  pick of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for the job. The ruling All Progressives Congress  (APC) has chosen Ahmed Lawan and Omo-Agege for Senate president and deputy senate president. But Gaya, a returning Senator and Kalu said the endorsement would not stop them from contesting. In a statement  by his media office, Kalu denied withdrawing from the race, saying he was only aware of President Muhammadu Buhari’s endorsement of Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila as Senate president and House Speaker. Anyone, Kalu said was free  to contest for  other position, stressing as a staunch supporter of President Buhari and a loyal and committed member, he would always abide by the decisions of the President and the National Working Committee (NWC). He described the endorsement of Omo-Agege as, the handiwork of selfish elements in APC. The statement reads: “Ahead of tomorrow’s (today’s) inauguration of the Ninth National Assembly and election of principal officers, politicians have started deploying different antics to satisfy their ambitions. “One of such is a statement credited to National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mallam Lanre Onilu claiming that President Muhammadu Buhari and the NWC of the party have formally adopted Senator Omo-Agege as the party’s candidate for the position of Deputy Senate President. “I hold the President in high esteem as well as the National Chairman of our great party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and other members of the NWC and as such, I will not disobey any formal pronouncement by them. “However, I am still in the race to become Deputy Senate President because the President and the NWC have not adopted any candidate and as such the contest is open to all members of the party, who have the capability.” Gaya told reporters in Abuja that he was still in the race for the exalted position. He said his chances of emerging as deputy Senate president was bright, adding: “This is not my first time of contesting election. Tomorrow (today) will make it the fourth time and by the grace of God, it will be peaceful. “I’m still in the race. I will contest with whoever that would also contest the position . “Democracy is actually a game of numbers. Whoever has the highest number would win.” Deputy Minority Leader, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha  said PDP Senators would speak on the Senate floor today.