The Edo State House of Assembly was on Tuesday overtaken by security personnel to prevent a possible breakdown of law and order following Monday’s inauguration of nine of the 24 members of the seventh Assembly. Government officials said the lawmakers were inaugurated about 3pm on Monday but anti-Obaseki lawmakers-elect said the event held at night. A top government official said the inauguration held when the 19 lawmakers-elect were addressing reporters on the need for Governor Godwin Obaseki to transmit a proclamation letter to the Clerk. Suspected thugs and youths were seen around the assembly complex. The letter of proclamation addressed, to the Clerk of the Assembly and dated on June 14, slated the inauguration for June 17. Meanwhile, the newly sworn in lawmakers received their official vehicles and other paraphernalia of office. The Speaker, Frank Okiye, said the seventh Assembly would work to deliver dividends of democracy to the people. Okiye said Obaseki deserved the lawmakers’ support to put the state in the right economic perspective. He said: “We are determined and in high spirit to hit the ground running. The job we are doing will not be completed without the complementation of the executive. “I subscribe to the fact that the governor is doing well, and we will partner with him to do better “We will get the government closer to the people; we will create think tank among ourselves and associates and invite him to be part of us to do the good job. The betterment of Edo State in terms of economic and security is our focal point, and we intend to address this headlong.” But the 16 lawmakers-elect insisted that they were not invited to the inauguration. Their spokesman, Washinton Osifo, said they would have been present at the inauguration if they were invited. According to Osifo, the Clerk called them at about 5:30pm that he had been called from the Government House, and they were happy that the news conference has pricked the Governor to do what the constitution demands. He said: “The Clerk told us he will call back 30 minutes later but we didn’t hear from him again. Some of our brothers who were supposed to be at a meeting with us were absent. We called them and they were not picking their calls. “At 9:30pm, photographs began to filter into our phones suggesting that a kangaroo Assembly was being inaugurated. We were disappointed. One of us was spotted with a short and slippers taking oath of office. That was an offence in the hallowed chamber. They humiliated him.”