About 700 public primary schools in Ondo State have undergone massive renovation. This is coming two years after Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) assumed office on February 24. He had vowed to promote quality and sustainable education that will ensure technological growth never, experienced in the state. “Unless we take the issue of education seriously, our quest for development will not only be unrealisable but, regrettably, laughable,” he said, lamenting the state he met the education sector. “This is a deplorable process which, regrettably, culminates in the award of varying shades of certificates to individuals who lack capacity to apply knowledge to solve problems,”he added. Since the beginning of the Akeredolu-led administration, the Ondo State government has paid N3.7 billion as its counterpart funding for basic education, which was matched by the Federal Government through the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) to revamp the primary education sector. The government also constructed toilet facilities in about 300 of the primary schools that have been renovated. Among the benefitting schools are St Jude’s Primary School, Obinehin; Don Bosco School, Ondo and St Andrew’s Primary School, Elegbeka. Many educators and parents, while seeking more attention on public schools, have praised the Akeredolu-led administration for its efforts so far. They said the schools would have been much better if previous administrations had paid similar attention to education in the state. A retired Head teacher in IIe-Oluji who spoke in confidence said: “You will agree with me that most of our schools would have been in a lot better shape if other administration had paid better or similar attention to education in Ondo State. “However, I would love to see the government extend its programme to other schools needing attention in the state. “This move is beginning to yield results and life is gradually returning into the state-owned primary schools” The Chairman, Ondo State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB), Princess Oladunni  Odu told The Nation that new construction were still being constructed,  along with supply of furniture, provision of boreholes and other facilities. Mrs Odu said another 314 projects would be awarded very soon in various primary schools including agricultural materials, sporting equipment and 77 containerised toilets. “We want to make education attractive through functional system with training and re-training of teachers, parents are now satisfied with public schools, there are more qualified teachers, adequate security and conducive environment,” she said. In order to boost the morale of the teachers, the state government recently rolled out promotion letters for 1,800 primary school teachers in the state. They were promoted after a rigorous screening exercise carried out by SUBEB. The promoted teachers were said to have scored high marks in characters and performed well in the examination and interview conducted for them. This is in addition to the recruitment of more primary schools teachers, which the SUBEB Chair said is happening for the first time since 2006. The Chairman, Nigeria Union of Teachers, (NUT), Ondo State chapter, Mr. Victor Amoko, lauded the state government for the kind gesture. Amoko said the promotion would motivate the teachers. He urged them to reciprocate the kind gesture of the state government by putting in their best in impacting knowledge on the pupils. Also speaking on the progress in the education sector, the Chief Imam of Akure, Alhaji Akorede, lauded Akeredolu for resuscitating Akure Muslim school. “For a long time, the Muslims community in Akure watched as the school went in ruins, as many parents took their children to other schools. “We appreciate Akeredolu even without being a Muslim; he ordered the reconstruction of the school with fortified fence for security purpose.” In order to breathe life into state-owned four tertiary institutions, Akeredolu, in March 2018, inaugurated the Governing Councils of the institutions. At the occasion he said: “It is our expectation that all the Governing Councils will give the desired directions and develop appropriate policies that will ensure academic excellence in the institutions.” The people’s expectations from the governing councils are high – their schools should not remain same! They are expected to implement the recommendations of the Education Summit; study and implement the report of the visitation panels to their respective institutions.