Catholic Diocese of Ilorin, Kwara State has urged Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq to fulfill his promises to the people. The church also urged the new administration to translate its Otoge (enough is enough) mantra to reality in the lives of Kwarans. The Co-adjutor of the Ilorin Catholic Diocese, Most Rev. Paul Olawoore spoke in Ilorin, the state capital, at the World Communication Day. The clergyman said: “The new administration should address frontally all those things Kwarans are lacking which they had promised to provide. They should be true to their electoral promises. Thank God we have a means of comparison now, those who were there before what people expected to do and they did not do led to the slogan of Otoge (enough is enough). Now that a new government has come in we want to see the difference not just hear it, because if they say that there is no good road for people to pass we want to see that good road during their own tenure. “We don’t want excuses. They should not head blames on the former government for none performance. We want them in action providing those things that people are complaining of. And that even starts from the security of life. People are being killed on daily basis. “The governor being the chief security officer of the state should map out strategies of how he will secure his people. Even if the Federal Government fails to act, he should ensure security of lives and property in the state. He should make Kwara state no go area for kidnapping, herdsmen/farmers clashes and other violent attacks. It is then we will know that indeed, it is Otoge.” Also, group known as ‘The Original Women’ also stressed the need for the new administration to empower women economically. The Convener of the group and an entrepreneur Hajia Aisha Ahman-Pategi, called for capacity building for women in the state. This, according to her would enable the women tackle multifaceted challenges facing them and reduce poverty in the society. Ahman-Pategi, who is also an All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, urged  AbdulRazaq to give more women appointment to engage them effectively in policy making. She spoke with reporters in Ilorin on the challenges before the administration. She advocated appointment of more women into political positions to enable them contribute their quota to the growth and development of the society. Ahman-Pategi said women are  marginalised, adding that the society will be better, if they are properly engaged. She said: “Kwara women are suffering, women are bedrock of the society, if they get it right, society will get it right because they are the one that raise the future leaders. I am not against women being in position of power, a woman can aspire to be governor or president but they must accept their roles by nature by standing by men, it shouldn’t be about struggling with men”. Hajia Ahman-Pategi stressed the need to have a paradigm shift in the state by changing women’s perspective, ensuring accurate thinking and information for women for them to look into the same direction of changing the society for better and raising the future leaders of the country in the best way.