Dear Ma, I’ve been a regular reader of your articles since last year and I must say God has been using you to reach so many lost ones the devil has put into captivity. May God bless and strengthen your effort. By the grace of God ma, I’m still a virgin at the age 22 and I have said a lot of times that I doubt I’ll meet the right person to settle down with in marriage. Please I need more understanding on this. Sarah, Edo State My darling Sarah, Blessed are you among young women! The best thing that can happen to any human being is to choose God above all the pleasures of life! I understand your experience so far! I imagine the number of guys with good prospects and rich men who would have come your way and the number of times people around you would have made snide remarks about your state of life especially if you’ve had to suffer lack. However, I have good news for you- even if you turned down the world’s richest man because you didn’t want to get deflowered before your wedding night, I tell you, his master’s master is coming for your hand in marriage! It’s all up to you. You have the power to attract a man ten times better than the men you turned down especially if you have the power of God activated in you! You’re certainly ripe for marriage but if I were you, I’d develop myself in every way possible and spiritually too so you can naturally magnetise the best things in life to yourself. May God arise for your sake and give you what no one in your generation can boast of in Jesus mighty name! Dear Mum, In recent times, I lost my virginity because I wanted to purchase a JAMB form. My parents are dead and I don’t have anyone to assist me in pursuing a tertiary education. It appeared I didn’t have a choice but I know I was deceived by the devil. I don’t feel good at all. Please help me! Miss A. 20 My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters, I empathise with Miss A. and can only pray she retraces her steps real quick and holds on tight to God! I know a lot of you would have remained virgins and be sexually pure but for your financial incapacity and uncountable overtures from men. The world has gone so bad that an average man thinks every female lady can be bought with money so they slam their sexual overtures in your faces and are so quick to move on to another lady if you refuse because quite frankly most girls would gladly exchange their bodies for money/favour.  What a destructive transaction! What a dreadful waste! What a shameful depraved world! Every sexual intercourse carries a heavy spiritual significance and the very first is even weightier and could practically determine how a life would go. It not only involves some blood-shed through the piercing of the hymen, it opens up the gate of your life- your entire existence in the supernatural. Now, who are you opening it up to? Why are you opening it? For money? Money and enormous wealth of which you are a harbinger? I’m sorry but I must let you know any girl who breaks her virginity for money/favour is signing away her birthright/goodness to the devil and becomes his slave! Why do you think prostitutes are stuck to their trade? The more you fornicate, the more you sink in the devil’s abyss! Can you imagine how much you’d light and goodness your destiny would lose when in the devil’s captivity? Why go through that? May you not fall into ruin, destruction, perdition in Jesus name! Dear Miss A, Please ask God to forgive and destroy the stronghold stupid, bad, devil has established in your life!  He will surprise you! He knows what you need right away! He is bound to send help if you are genuinely repentant because His word says He’s faithful to those who are faithful to Him! God bless you my dear! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.