The 26th anniversary of the June 12, 1993 presidential election marks a turning point in the political history of Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari has declared that henceforth, June 12 will be celebrated as Democracy Day in commemoration of the annulled presidential election. The National Assembly has given it legal backing by passing the Public Holiday (Amendment) Act. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN revisits the struggle that led to the recognition of the election and the winner, Abiola,  by the Federal Government. He also examines the lessons of the historic event. Today, June 12, 2019 is the 26th anniversary of the June 12, 1993 presidential poll, which is widely regarded as the freest and fairest election in Nigeria’s political history. Millions of Nigerians who trooped out to cast their ballots on that day demonstrated to the world that they are united. The fact that the flag bearer of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP), Moshood Kashimawo Abiola and his running mate, Babagana Kingibe were both Muslims did not matter to them. Their ethnic background was also not a factor during the election. The major concern of the electorates was the programmes of the SDP and the personality of the candidates. The election was peaceful nationwide without any hitch or disturbance. While the vote count was on, with Abiola comfortably leading, the self-styled military President, General Ibrahim Babangida struck. He ordered the electoral body – National Electoral Commission (NEC)- to stop further announcement of the results and on June 23, 1993, he annulled the election. Abiola and Kingibe scored 58 per cent of the votes in a country almost equally divided between Christians and Muslims. They defeated Bashir Tofa of the National Republic Convention (NRC), despite NRC’s choice of a southern Christian vice presidential candidate, Sylvester Ugoh, in an apparent balancing act between the different ethno-religious tendencies in the country. But Nigerians rejected what they deemed an unnecessary balancing. They voted for hope of transformational leadership. Unfortunately, the will of the people was aborted through the annulment of the election by Gen Babangida. A chain of tragedies followed the annulment of that election. Abiola died on July 7, 1998 under questionable circumstances in the custody of Gen Abdulsalami Abubakar who took over the rein of power following the death of Gen Sani Abacha. Abacha had taken over from the Interim National Government (ING) of Earnest Shonekan whom Babangida hurriedly handed over to when he “stepped aside” on August 26, 1993. Abiola’s wife, Kudirat was assassinated in 1996 by alleged killer squad of the Abacha jaunta. Others who lost their lives in the course of the struggle for the restoration of the June 12 mandate include Pa Alfred Rewane, Alhaja Suliat Adedeji, the Iyalode of Egba land, Chief (Mrs Bisoye Tejuoso, Bagauda Kaltho, Toyin Onagoruwa among others. Indeed, the argument had ranged among Nigerians for so long: between May 29 and June 12, which day is more appropriate as Nigeria’s Democracy Day? The fourth Republic was flagged off on May 29, 1999. The day was dubbed Democracy Day by the Olusegun Obasanjo regime. On the other hand, states in the Southwest have always declared June 12 as public holiday to celebrate the historic event. For 16 years PDP was in power, they simply played the ostrich and ignored the historic event of June 12 until they were voted out of office in 2015. However, the controversy was laid to rest on June 8, 2018 when President Muhammadu Buhari took a bold step by proposing to declare June 12 as the nation’s  Democracy Day  as against the May 29 date that had been celebrated since 1999 . He also invested Abiola, the presumed winner of the June 12 presidential poll posthumously with the nation’s highest national honour, the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR). Both the executive and the legislative are on the same page on this issue as the National Assembly had passed the bill to make June 12 Democracy Day. Explaining the rationale behind making June 12 Democracy Day, Buhari said: “For the past 18 years, Nigerians have been celebrating May 29, as Democracy Day. That was the date when for the second time in our history, an elected civilian administration took over from a military government. The first time this happened was on October 1, 1979. But in the view of Nigerians, as shared by this administration, June 12, 1993 was far more symbolic of Democracy in the Nigerian context than May 29 or even the October 1. “June 12, 1993 was the day Nigerians in millions expressed their democratic will in what was undisputedly the freest, fairest and most peaceful election since our independence. The fact that the outcome of the election was not upheld by the then military government does not distract from the democratic credentials of that process. “Accordingly, after due consultations, the Federal Government has decided that, henceforth, June 12 will be celebrated as Democracy Day. Therefore, Government has decided to award posthumously the highest honour of the land, GCFR, to late Chief MKO Abiola, the presumed winner of the June 12 canceeled elections. His running mate as Vice President, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, is also to be invested with a GCON. Furthermore, the tireless fighter for human rights and the actualisation of June 12 elections and indeed for democracy in general, the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi (SAN) is to be awarded GCON”. Nobel Laureate Professor Wole Soyinka had insisted that June 12 should be celebrated every year as Democracy Day and not May 29. According to him, what June 12 possesses is exactly what May 29 or any other day lacks. The former was a spirit of unified purposes, the latter simply an egotistical appropriation of the gift of the former”. He said “June 12 embodies unity of purpose, equity and justice and the manifestation of sovereign will of a people. Those who tried to substitute June 12 with May 29 played the same unprincipled game of substitution that they had carried even to subsequent elections, substituting names of the rightful winners of elections with others who were never even in contention.” Civil rights activist, Comrade Mashood Erubami, has commended President Buhari for his bravery and patriotism in reversing the years of injustices that are inherent in the evil annulment of the June 12 presidential election Erubami, who is the President of the Nigeria Voters Assembly (VOTAS), regretted that that the annulment which had been on for 26 years was not considered for de-annulment by all governments that came to power after it , until when President Buhari recently did the needful. He said the President must have recounted in a semblance of showing regards for the overwhelming victory of the principal, Abiola and the various principles that accompanied the election when taking the decision. The right activist who described President Buhari as a great leader suggested other ways of giving complete recognition to Abiola so as to build a new Nigeria on the principles inherent in the June 12 election namely that of unity, fairness, equity and electoral legitimacy. He reiterated that to give the country a new direction the best way to fully immortalise  Abiola in the context of the change mantra under President Buhari is to ensure that the principle inherent in June 12 presidential election manifest and reaffirmed in the changes too be driven by the All Progressives Congress (APC). He stated that Abiola helped to lay the foundation for the current democratic dispensation saying without the sacrifice made by Abiola there would be no democracy in this country today in which all political office holders are beneficiaries. The election of President Buhari too, Erubami added was also a gain from the sacrifice made by Abiola who taught Nigerians as the rightful symbol of democracy that politics and democracy is worth living and dying for. Second Republic Governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa said the observation of June 12 as Democracy Day has given Nigerians renewed hope. According to him, the recognition of June 12 by the Federal Government is a land mark in Nigeria’s history. Musa said: “President Buhari’s action with regards to declaration of June 12 as democracy day and award of the highest honour to late Chief MKO Abiola are relevant, just, courageous and patriotic. The action gives hope that President Buhari can do the right thing and correct wrongs before it’s too late for him and for the nation.” He noted that there has not been qualitative achievement since June 12 1993. The state of the nation has remained backward because of injustice over June 12 presidential election, we shall get it right now that the June 12 has been settled, the elder state man stated. To a feminine activist, Joe Okei-Odumakin, the June 12 victory was appropriate for democracy as well Abiola, whom she said paid the supreme sacrifice for the freedom of all. “Since 1999 when May 29 was declared Democracy Day, we had been kicking against it. The Federal Government decision to make June 12 Democracy Day is highly noted and accepted. It would even be better appreciated if President Buhari could declare Abiola a former president. “Although Abiola won the election, he was never sworn in as president or so formerly declared. We want a posthumous declaration of Mr Abiola as a former President of Nigeria and want his portrait to be lined amongst past presidents of Nigeria”. She noted that several presidents since the turn of civil rule in 199 have failed to declare June 12 Democracy Day despite frantic and regular agitations, neither did they confer Mr Abiola with GCFR, which, although might not be an affirmation of his status as a former president, puts him in the same category of all president’s in Nigeria’s history. Erubami also suggested that in the spirit of reconciliation, the Buhari administration should organise a special posthumous installation ceremony where the late Abiola would be officially recognised as a former President, in conjunction with the family of the late Abiola and members of the human rights and pro-democracy community that fought gallantly for the de-annulment of that election and it should be witnessed by all governors of the states and other guests from across the nation and the world . “Beyond the posthumous National Honour and Award already granted to Chief MKO Abiola by President Buhari, he must also be officially pronounced as the winner of that election. This should be followed by the inclusion of his names and photograph in the list of former Heads of State that have been in power in Nigeria”. He added that patriots like the late Pa Adekunle Ajasin, the late Pa Alfred Rewane, the late Pa Anthony Enahoro, the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, the late Dr Beko Ransome Kuti, the late Professor Olikoye Ransome Kuti, the late Comrade Ola Oni, the late Comrade Chima Ubani, the late Baba Omojola should also be immortalised as people who have worked and died for democracy. Beyond the declaration of June 12 as a national holiday and the ideal Democracy Day, observers say June 12 should serve as a new beginning for Nigeria politically and that the bitter experience and the sacrifice of men like Abiola should infuse a sense of equity, fairness and justice, as well as other ideals of democracy such as ballot integrity and freedom of choice which would have brought in its wake the reduction of poverty and the enhancement of security of lives and properties of Nigerians.