Almost everyone wants to get their business online and rightly so. It is after all, a digital age we live in. However, many fail to understand that getting your business online does not automatic guarantee results. Only those who understand the intricacies of social media can succeed. Below are tips on how to build your business on social media. Have a plan It is appropriate to say that without a plan, failure is certain. The same applies for using social media for business growth. Set social media goals, create a social media calendar, research your online competition and plan accordingly. Choose the right platform Do not assume that all social media platforms are for you. You must know where your audience spend their time and focus on them. Depending on what the business is about, decide which is platform is appropriate for your audience- Facebook, Instagram or Twitter. However, bear in mind that you can use different social media channels to reach different audience or to meet business goals. Know your audience Understand and know who your audience is. You can do this by having a knowledge of social media analytics. From the analytics you, can know for sure who and who are interested in your business and eventually adjust your strategy to reach more similar people. Build relationships Do not just open a business account on social media and forget about it. There are a lot of businesses online and one of the ways to stand out is to actively interact with your customers. You can interact by replying to messages on time and building communities. Quality over quantity This means that all social post must be relevant and goal-oriented. It is better to have posts that offer value than to flood your account with valueless posts. It is also important that you post honest, accurate and truthful posts. Lying about your business could cost you dearly in the long run. Employ appropriate social media tools. Learn how to make use of social media tools to help boost your productivity and reduce stress on your part. Tools such as HootSuite, Hubspot, Google Analytics, Canva, Buffer, Pexel etct will help with Analytics, social media management, graphics, pictures etc. Be flexible Living in a digital age means technology changes quite quickly. Keep an eye out for new ways to reach more people and make adjustments where needed. Evaluate your performance It is imperative that you evaluate all you have done from time to time. It will help you know what you are doing right and what you need to adjust to achieve better results. Above all, remain focused and dedicated and your business  flourish. 