Kidnapping has been on the rise in the Southwest, which was hitherto considered out of harm’s way. The police and other security agencies are throwing everything into the fight against the menace. In this report, BISI OLADELE, PRECIOUS IGBONWELUNDU (Lagos), DAMISI OJO (Akure) and RAZAQ IBRAHIM (Ado-Ekiti) x-ray the situation. Ayo Oladele did not prepare for what happened that Saturday. As the Secretary-General of Christ’s School Alumni Association, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, he was conversant with the state. But,  he  got the shock of his life when he was whisked away two Saturdays ago at Efon-Alaye by gunmen. The day after on the same road, Ibadan-based twins Kehinde and Taiwo Olowoafara were also abducted by a gang which demanded N22million ransom. In April, Lagos Fire Service Director Musibau Rasaki and other commuters on the Ikorodu-Epe Road fell victim to another kidnap gang. From Lagos to Ondo, Abeokuta to Ekiti, Ibadan to Osogbo, kidnappers are on the prowl. Gone are the days when people moved safely from one town or community to another in the Southwest.  Hitherto, motorists and commuters looked forward to such journeys and some of the delicacies enjoyed on the road. Such delicacies  Dodo Ikire (peculiar fried plantain known with Ikire), akara Osu (bean cake), Ogbomoso mangoes, Ondo pounded yam, freshly tapped palm wine accompanied by bush meat and plenty of fresh fruits including walnuts, freshly cooked maize which is thrust into vehicle windows by hawkers to entice motorists and commuters. The thought of these items increased interest in the journeys those days while the highway trading boosted the economy of such towns and communities. But not any longer. Things have changed completely. Today’s realities include high-security challenges, including kidnapping and armed robbery. For many residents in the region today, only journeys that cannot be avoided are undertaken due to the high risks. Though the security challenges are not peculiar to the Southwest alone, the menace has reached an alarming rate in the region in recent times. Kidnappers, who thrived in Southsouth and Southeast Nigeria some years ago, seem to have either relocated to Southwest or those who learnt from them have relocated to Southwest to perform the evil enterprise. In the current kidnap misery, traditional rulers, lecturers, businessmen and women, civil servants as well as ordinary citizens are being abducted regularly on inter-town roads with their families coughing out huge sums of money to ransom them. They are humiliated and made to trek long distances on barefoot. Some victims lose their lives in kidnappers’ den while those who survive to narrate chilling experiences. The attention of the world shifted to Osun State lately with the kidnapping of traditional rulers and a lecturer at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Ile-Ife, Prof. Olayinka Adegbehingbe. The lecturer was abducted around Ikoyi/Apomu junction of the Ibadan-Ife expressway in Ikire, a border town between Osun and Oyo states while returning from a journey to Lagos. He was with his wife, Bernice, on the journey. Their vehicle was intercepted at about 6:30 pm by the armed bandits who were reportedly shooting to force motorists plying the busy road to stop. The lecturer’s wife, who is the Dean, Faculty of Clinical Sciences, OAU, slumped and was left behind while her husband was whisked away into the bush. According to Adegbehingbe, he trekked in the forest for about six hours with the hoodlums armed with Mark 4 guns and ammunition. The news of his kidnap spread like a wildfire, causing anger in many residents across the region. His family coughed out N5 million to secure his release. Recounting his ordeal, Adegbehingbe said: “Those who abducted me were Fulani herdsmen and they had four guns and multiple rounds of ammunition as well as different dangerous weapons. Before settling for N5.04 million after serious negotiation, they first demanded N30 million ransom.” The state has witnessed a number of kidnaps in the last one year, making it the latest hotbed of kidnappers. Some inter-state roads have been identified as flashpoints. For instance, kidnappers regularly strike on Iwo-Osogbo Road, the Akure-Ilesa Road via Ondo State, Ijebu-Jesa/Esa Oke/Erio/Aramoko Road from Ekiti State and a number of other deserted roads within Osun State including Osogbo-Ibokun-Ada Road. Also, few cases of kidnap have been recorded recently in Ikirun, Inisa and Okuku communities along the highway leading to Kwara State. Most of the victims described their abductors as fierce-looking, armed and of Hausa-Fulani extraction. Narrating his ordeal to the Southwest Reports, a traditional ruler in Atakunkosa West Local Government Area of the state, the Atagunmodi of Itagunmodi, Oba Michael Famadewa-Kosile, said he was accosted a few kilometres from his domain while returning from a ceremony at Ilesa around 9.30 pm on May 30, last year. According to him, the hoodlums shot at his Toyota Highlander Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), forced him to a halt and led him into the bush. He recalled that the gunmen forced him to trek for about three hours inside a forest. The monarch, who is a septuagenarian, said he was made to lie down and given several lashes. But fortune smiled on him when, according to him, his abductors fell asleep. He quickly escaped before they woke up. However, he lost about N600,000 which he had in his vehicle to the bandits. In his view, criminal activities in his domain could be linked to illegal mining of gold, which he said is predominantly carried out by the Hausa who are in search of economic fortune from the discoveries of mineral resources in the area. Oba Famadewa-Kosile, therefore, advised the Osun State Government to ban mining in the area. Similarly, a 60-year old traditional chief in Ibokun, the headquarters of Obokun Local Government Area of Osun State, Dunsin Amusa, was kidnapped about three weeks ago. He spent two nights with his abductors before his release. Amusa, who is the head of hunters in the area and the Tirimi of Ibokun,  with a woman simply identified as Tayo, were abducted along the Ilare/Esa Odo Road in Ilara around 10.00 pm. Their abductors collected N1m ransom contributed by groups and individuals in Ibokun before the victims regained their freedom. The kidnappers reportedly seized the mobile phone and motorcycle of the man who went to deliver the ransom to them at an agreed point in the bush. The man, who took the ransom on a motorcycle to Oke Imesi junction, was said to have entered the forest around Oye River area in Imesi Ile and had to travel several kilometres into the forest to meet the bandits. In another incident about a month ago, three regular marshalls of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) in Osun State was abducted by a gang of gunmen at Erin-Ijesa area of Akure/Ilesa highway. They were travelling late in the afternoon on the road when the armed bandits intercepted their vehicles. Two of the victims, identified as Abioye and Bayeguni were released after paying an unspecified amount of money as ransom while unidentified their person died of exhaustion in the custody of the kidnappers. Religious leaders are not spared in the nefarious act. About three months ago, some armed hoodlums kidnapped a Methodist Presbyter in Osun State, Very Rev Kayode Akande, and two other church leaders along the Iwo-Osogbo Road. The victims were forcefully taken away by the gunmen around 7.00pm. They were said to be returning to Osogbo from Ile Ogbo after a meeting to celebrate Father’s Day when they were abducted. They also paid an unspecified ransom before they were released. Very pathetic was a case of one staff of the Osun State College of Technology, Esa-Oke, who was killed while trying to escape from kidnappers who laid an ambush for them between Esa-Oke and Ijebu-Jesa about four months ago.  Six of his colleagues were kidnapped on that fateful day. They were returning after the closing of work when the incident happened. Two students of the institution were also kidnapped by the gunmen in that operation. The unlucky victim, Olaniyi Temitope, was a Registry staff of the institution, who would have bagged his PhD degree a few days after the incident. The kidnapped staff, Olaleye Olalekan, Adeyeoluwa Bankole, Jesuola Ajibola, Adenreti Chukwu and Rachael Onyinocha Akinboboye gained their freedom a few days after paying some ransom. Continue in Page 2