With barely a year to the next governorship election in Edo State, these are interesting times for political observers with keen interest in the politics of the state. With the rumour rife that all is not well between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the former governor of the state and National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, every move in the camps of the two politicians is bound to provoke interest. Such is the above picture of Obaseki and a chieftain of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Pastor Osagie-Ize-Iyamu, at the birthday thanksgiving service in honour of Pastor Ize-Iyamu and his wife in Benin City yesterday. Considering that the two were bitter foes in the 2016 governorship contest with Obaseki as the candidate of APC and Ize-Iyamu flying the flag of PDP, one cannot but wonder what discussion the two statesmen are so engrossed in that they can hardly afford to bat an eyelid. Could they be reviewing the poll? Could they be previewing a possible re-match? Obaseki has said he would seek a second term, but Pastor, as Ize-Iyamu is called by his admirers, is yet to throw his hat in the ring. Will he try a second time? Could they also be reviewing the situation in the state, particularly the crisis rocking the APC in the state? Obaseki has said he would not share the state’s money with anybody, a statement interpreted in enlightened quarters as a jab at Oshiomhole, his estranged godfather and former governor of the state. In the 2016 election, Pastor was at the receiving end of Oshiomhole who accused him of fronting for the godfathers that he (Oshiomhole) had retired. Could they have been discussing godfatherism, its relevance in the politics of the state and the merits and demerits of the phenomenon? Would Obaseki have visited Pastor two years ago when he was in the good books of the comrade ex-governor? What is this telling us about 2020? Is this a sign that there could be a realignment of forces in the state as we inch towards 2020? Will Pastor queue behind the governor to try and retire the comrade ex-governor from the state’s politics like the latter says he did to those elders the pastor kowtows to? Is he telling Obaseki “l’m coming to retire you and your godfather?” The unfolding drama in Edo is indeed interesting.