The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) has said Nigeria is currently hosting over 36,000 Cameroonian refugees in Cross River, Benue, Akwa Ibom and Taraba States. Head of UNHCR Sub Office in Cross River Mr. Mulugeta Zwedie spoke yesterday in Ogoja Local Government Area during a celebration of the 2019 World Refugees Day. Zwedie said Cross River alone hosts 75 per cent of the refugees, adding that the host communities in the state have been exemplary in their response to the refugees’ influx. According to him, UNHCR intervened by providing shelter, food, clean water and medicare for the comfort of the refugees. He explained that the World Refugees Day was to show solidarity with the refugees, appreciate the effort of host communities and the Federal Government in welcoming and assisting Cameroonian refugees. Zwedie said: “UNHCR is troubled by an anti-foreigner, anti-refugee narrative taking root in some countries. This narrative runs counter to democratic values, social stability and peace. “However, there is an alternative; a positive narrative that embraces inclusion, diversity and shared values. This narrative is backed by millions of acts of solidarity. These actions help ease tension, build resilience and sustain peace. “In fact, we know that in thousands of communities around the world, individuals are making a difference. Global grassroots solidarity for people forced to flee is helping turn intolerance into tolerance and toxicity into positive.” The Acting Director-General of Cross River State Emergency Management Agency, Princewill Ayim, said the government had provided adequate security at the refugees’ settlement in Ogoja. Ayim, who was represented by Andy Akpafu-Adeshi, a Director in the agency, said the government had slashed the school fees of Cameroonian students in primary and secondary schools to encourage their education. Vice Chairman of the Cameroonian refugees settlement camp in Adagom, Ogoja, Ako Allan, thanked the government and UNHCR for their humanitarian service and security. Allan, who said they had maintained peaceful co-existence since the fled Southern Cameroon, promised that they will continue to be law abiding.