The Police Command in Bauchi have apprehended four armed robbery suspects and recovered a 2007 Lexus Jeep which was allegedly stolen at the Kofar Gombe area of Bauchi metropolis. The suspects were reportedly arrested by the Command tactical team of Operations Puff Adder, who acted on credible intelligence. The members of the gang are: 29 year old Audu Daniel of Gboko Local government area in Benue State and 22 year old John Samuel age of Olu Local Government Area, LGA, in Imo State. The duo were arrested at Kofar Gombe area of Bauchi metropolis on June 2. The other gang members are;  Ikenna Okoronko (28) of Janta Local Government in Jos Plateau State and  Solomon Ijika (32) of Federal Lowcost  who were arrested on June 3 in connection with the crime, also at the Bauchi metropolis. Discrete investigation was said to have led to their arrest on the said date. Confirming their arrest on Wednesday,   The force Police Public Relation Officer  , DSP Kamal Datti Abubakar said the suspects were arrested as part of a sustained efforts by the State Commissioner of Police,  CP Habu Sani Ahmadu, to rid the state of criminals. He said “The Command tactical team of Operations Puff Adder, acting on credible intelligence, arrested the suspected armed robbers at Kofar Gombe area of Bauchi metropolis and recovered one motor vehicle, Lexus Jeep RX 350, model 2007, ash in color,  with chassis number 2T2GK31U37100 and registration number EPE 734 EU valued at (four million Naira) N4,000,000” He said further that the suspects freely confessed to have robbed the vehicle with three others at large on June 2 from a woman, at a Forest, along Abuja – Jos highway. Other items recovered from the robbery suspects are;  infinix phone belonging to the robbed victim,  photocopy of the vehicle invoice bearing one Linda Onyinye Anakwe of No. 51 Rukuba Jos Plateau State, pair of clothes and 7 necklaces with other documents. Meanwhile, the police have also arrested 60 thugs popularly known as Sara-suka (a notorious cult group) in the state. Abubakar said the thugs  were arrested between June 2 and June 4 as a result of an intelligence-led raids  carried out by  the combined efforts of the Command’s Puff Adder team of Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Anti Kidnapping Unit (AKU), State Intelligence Bureau (SIB), ‘A’ Division and Volunteer Members in identified criminal hotspots in the Bauchi metropolis. Exhibits recovered from the sara-suka thugs include: 2 Knives, 11 Machetes and 8 sachets of assorted illicit drugs. Abubakar said the case is under investigation after which the all the suspects will be charged to court.