Not even as an unbeliever would my husband rape anyone – Pastor Fatoyinbo’s wife I have the most blessed church, if I am not heading it, I’ll be glad to be a member – Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo With carefully orchestrated moves at its unusually brief worship service on Sunday morning, members of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) headquarters in Abuja resoundingly celebrated their embattled Senior Pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo. However, the church has cancelled invitations for popularly known clerics to attend it’s ‘Seven Days of Glory’s fasting and prayer programme scheduled to run through the first week of July, with Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo explaining that he ‘won’t like to put invited guests through the sort of thing that was happening outside’. Protesters massed about half a kilometre from the church from 8 noam till after congregants departed while armed policemen, DSS, NSCDC and a few masked men in black and others with Strike Force inscribed on their jackets formed a barrier. Church service began with songs of victory, with the choir singing: “I see it, I feel it, testimony’s all around, I’m in d middle of it” with loud support by congregants. At 10 21, Pastor Omodele Fatoyinbo walked up the altar, welcomed with tumultuous shouts of joy and clapping. “Right in the middle of what God is doing, that is where we are!” she said, telling worshippers not to give any thought to the ‘enemy’. “You better be sensitive, some will receive their testimony today, an exquisitely dressed Pastor Omodele stated before leading the entire church in recital of verses from 2 Samuel chapter 22, verses 1- 7. At exactly 10,34, an extremely rapturous welcome, Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo walked up the altar, and spoke for six minutes, following which he blessed the church and twice moved to stop his wife from making further comments as service ended. Just before then, his wife said: “Not even as an unbeliever would my husband rape anyone,”. Earlier, several testimonies, including that of one Sodipo Jacob whose fees were miraculously University of Abuja, .Alford Mapeyo, who miraculously got healing and sweated out a disease after attending a COZA church service featured Then, as if in direct response to Mrs. Bisola Dakolo who made rape allegations against Pastor Fatoyinbo, eight women in their thirties, mostly clad in tight jeans came one after another, to speak on the ‘COZA TESTIMONY’. Using various perspectives, all of them narrated how the singular experience of starting to attend COZA between 2003 and 2013 marked a profound turnaround, catapulting them from obscurity to directorship of companies, ownership of businesses and having a great marital life. 