GLOBAL workers participating in the ongoing 108th session of the International Labour Conference (ILC) on the platform of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) are demanding a new social contract from world leaders and employers of labour across the globe. Led by Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President Ayuba Wabba, the workers staged a peaceful rally in front of the United Nations (UN) building in Geneva, Switzerland. They insisted that as the world moves into the digital age and technology threatens job security, workers deserve to get a new social order that will protect them and their jobs across the world. Wabba, who is also the President of ITUC, said the protest became necessary because workers across the world were not treated with dignity. He said: “The rally today by workers, under the auspices of the International Trade Union Confederation, represents 207 million workers from all the continents of the world – from 163 countries. They are to make the point that workers need a new social contract that will address the issue of inequality and poverty around the world. “So, going forward is to demand for a new social contract that will guarantee universal workers’ rights that will guarantee strikes, guarantee freedom of association, guarantee the rights to collective bargain and that will guarantee social protection. “As we speak today, over 1 billion people around the world do not have social protection; they do not have pensions and they do not have any means of social protection. So, when they get aged, they become a liability to the society.” According to him, the demands from workers globally have become imperative to address inadequate pay, pensions, corruption and their general wellbeing. Wabba noted that the best time to bring the demand to the fore is at a global labour event like the ILC, where over 40 world leaders are billed to address the conference. He said: “Workers are working; yet, workers cannot have anything to show to take care of their families. The essence of this is also to look at the global economy. Despite the fact that the global economy has more than tripled, wealth is still being concentrated in the hands of a few. Therefore, the majority are in poverty. “We have seen in all countries that there is an issue of increased militarisation, where budgeting for military is increasing and social spending is reducing. We believe that the foundation of ILO is to address the fact that poverty and inequality anywhere is a threat to prosperity. Therefore, we thought we need to make the point here as well as other issues.” The NLC president stressed that the rally was to protest against corrupt officers globally and sensitise workers on their rights to social protection, among others. According to him, wherever those corrupt officers go to, labour will shame them around the world because most of them carry their money around the globe and “it is important we get our workers around the world sensitised”. Wabba added: “You cannot commit atrocity in one country and run to another country. When you do so, we can use our network to track you wherever you are. Workers are now united and in solidarity with one another. We have realised that the issue of divide-and-rule certainly cannot succeed. “I think it is to make better use of this opportunity of the ILO100 years to say that workers should not be treated like commodities. “Workers should be treated with dignity because we create the wealth of the world. This is where we are, so that our leaders listen to those views and they can go back home and try to make some amends.” Also, the Director of International Department of AFL-CIO, America’s Union and Deputy President ITUC, Ms Cathy Feingold, said workers’ issues are all the same. “From Nigeria to the United States (U.S), workers are facing the same challenges of precarious work failure of having a vibrant social contract. “We are here to say we are going to reinvigorate the issue of social contract so that all workers have the right and dignified social protection. We are here to demand of the governments, employers of labour, of the world that we are here to get a new contract to work with them and make sure it is implemented in all of our country,” she said.