Former Deputy Speaker of Ogun State House of Assembly Kunle Taiwo Oluomo has been elected the Speaker of the state’s All Progressives Congress (APC)-dominated Ninth Legislative Assembly. The 26-member legislators at their maiden sitting presided over by Oluomo has also passed four motions, including two which empowered the Assembly to “move with utmost severity against anybody”, who gives “false  evidence” on any matter being investigated by it. The assembly has also resolved to treat as “high  crime” and “move with severity against anybody that attempts to obstruct or interfere with witness” in matters before it. Oluomo, an APC lawmaker, is representing Ifo 1 State Constituency for the third term. He was nominated by Olakunle Sobukunola from Ikenne State Constituency and supported by Adegoke Adeyanju. Oluomo’s nomination was unopposed by his 25 other colleagues and the Deputy Clerk of the House, who earlier reads Governor Adedapo Abiodun’s proclamation notice dissolving the eight legislative Assembly as well as authorising the inauguration of the 9th one, declared Oluomo returned as Speaker. Oludare Kadiri (APC)  from Ijebu North 2 State Constituency was also declared as Deputy Speaker, having been nominated unopposed by same Olakunle Sobunkola and Adegoke Adeyanju of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), representing Egbado North State Constituency. The Nation learnt that the Oluomo’s popularity, experience in the House, goodwill and support from old and new colleagues coupled with the backing of Governor Abiodun made it easier for the decision-makers in APC and  external interests to reach last hour consensus on his choice. However, Oluomo, at the maiden sitting of the 9th legislature, announced the following principal officers – Yusuff Sheriff Abiodun (APC, Majority Leader), Bashir Oladunjoye ((APC, Deputy Majority Leader), Atinuke Bello (APC, Chief Whip),  Ganiyu Oyedeji of the Allied People’s Movement (APM, Minority Leader) among two others. The Assembly, at its maiden plenary, equally passed two other motions bordering on calls on the police to provide adequate security for the lawmakers and properties during sitting. It also banned obstruction and disorderly conduct in all access ways and passages to the Assembly chamber. The four motions were moved separately by Atinuke Bello (APC, Odogbolu State Constituency),  Module Mujota (APM, Abeokuta North), Bolanle Lateefat Ajayi (APM, Yewa South), Adejojo Yusuf Temitope (APC, Abeokuta South) and Sobunkola Olakunle (APC, Ikenne State Constituency) and seconded by four other lawmakers. When put to voice vote by the Speaker, the four motions sailed through. The ninth Legislative Assembly comprises 15 APC lawmakers, seven APM lawmakers, three ADC legislators and one Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) legislator. However, the House has since adjourned till Thursday, June 13,  for next sitting. Abiodun  has congratulated the Assembly on its successful inauguration and exemplary conduct in electing  leaders. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Kunle Somorin, hailed the members on their maturity and peaceful conduct during yesterday’s historic inauguration, which saw to the election of Oluomo  as the Speaker  in a unanimous vote , as well as the emergence of other principal officers in a democratic and rancour-free manner. The governor  described the conduct of the lawmakers as a “confirmation of the leading position of Ogun State in all field of  human endeavours and  as a showcase of the state being a  model of democratic ideal, especially coming on the eve of the formal recognition and celebration  of June 12 as  democracy  day in Nigeria”.