The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has backed stance of the leadership of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) over intimidation of judges and state of insecurity in the country. The NBA had, on Thursday, raised the alarm over what it described as the government’s attempts to intimidate judges handling various cases in which the government has interest. The Association also knocked the government for its poor handling of the spate of insecurity and violent crimes in various parts of the country. In a statement Sunday by his media adviser, Ike Abonyi, the PDP chair said the All Progressives Congress (APC) led federal government has been using devious means to obstruct justice from the nation’s courts. The NBA, through its National President, Paul Usoro, had in a speech on Thursday, alerted the nation to what he described as the level of insecurity in the country and the attack on the independence of the judiciary and the legal profession. The trend, according to Usoro, constituted a threat to the rule of law and by extension the country’s democracy. Usoro had also said that the climate of fear instilled by the Federal Government undermined the independence of the judiciary and the ability of Judges to act confidently without fear or favour in dispensing justice. The NBA boss further alleged threats, intimidation and blackmail mostly by the executive arm of government and its agencies at federal and state levels. The PDP chairman said that the alarm raised by the NBA merely confirmed the position of the PDP that the APC administration was shrinking the doctrine of separation of powers to entrench a full blown dictatorship in the country. He noted that by their calling, judges cannot speak out publicly even if they were under pains, except through the bar as has been eloquently and timely done by the NBA. Calling on stakeholders in the democratic project to note the concerns raised by the NBA, Secondus said the PDP has been raising similar concerns over the years. The party chair said that the opposition has remained resolute in crying out against harassment of those with opposing views. The trend, he said, signals the danger of concentration of power in one hand, especially with a leader who has no history of appreciating and respecting democratic tenets and principles. 