Chief Gbenga Awoyale is the President-General of Orisun Igbomina, a socio-cultural association for the people of Kwara State and a Chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC). In this interview with Abdulgafar Alabelewe, he said arrogance and insensitivity to people’s plight brought down Saraki’s dynasty in the 2019 General Elections. Excerpts HOW would you describe the outcome of the 2019 General Election? I am not in any way surprised with the outcome of the general elections because the situation had actually sent signals to Nigerians even before we went to the poll. As per the presidential election, President Muhammadu Buhari has won the heart of majority of Nigerians due to his laudable performances across the nation. He stood out tall as a disciplined leader with zero tolerance for corruption and misappropriation of government funds. He faced reconstruction and rehabilitation of bad federal roads such as Ilorin-Jebba-Mokwa road, Ilorin-Ajasse Ipo road, Lagos-Ibadan and second Niger Bridge in the Eastern part, improvement on the railway system, recognition of June 12 in honour of the acclaimed winner of the 1993 Presidential Election, Bashorun Moshood Abiola, among other heartwarming policies capable of driving the nation’s economy to fruition. This is the first in the history of Nigeria that two former governors would be convicted over corrupt acts while in office. In fact, the PDP Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, had, during his campaign told Nigerians that he would sell some of the nation’s treasures. How then do you expect him to win with such an irrational proposition? Also, this is the first time that a serving Chief Justice of Nigeria was suspended and later removed over several misconducts, among others. So, Nigerians don’t have any better alternative for Baba Buhari for now. He has demonstrated that he has the love and interest of Nigerians at heart. With the emergence of Senator Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila; who can really regard as party men, as the leaders of the National Assembly, there is no doubt that there would be harmonious working synergy with the executive arm and Mr. President will also find it easy to get some of his lofty programmes and policies done with the support of lawmakers. What will you say played out in Kwara State that brought down the political dynasty of Saraki? When you look at the entire scenario, you will discover that the leadership style of Senator Bukola Saraki is nothing to write home about. People were already tired of him, so I am not surprised about the result. The local government election in the state was the starting point for the roadmap to the exit of Bukola Saraki in Kwara politics. Kwarans have demonstrated that the key to Government House is in their hands and they are the one to determine who occupies it. Therefore, with the outcome of the last general elections in Kwara, it is crystal clear that government belongs to the people through the ballot box. And you will remember vividly that we have on several occasions tried our best to ensure that we guide the immediate past administration by bringing to their notice the plights of the people but their interest was to build a political empire and not political institution where men and women of goodwill would contribute lofty ideas that will precipitate the desired growth and development of the state. Unfortunately, they showed high level of insensitivity to the demands of the good people of Kwara State. They were arrogant. All they wanted was to be imposing governors on us in Kwara whose loyalty and accountability will be to kingmakers/political godfathers alone at the detriment of the masses. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was totally demystified without any stress and to the glory of God; no life was lost during the exercise. I hereby congratulate Kwarans for the show of courage and liberation. You have been so silent for some time in the media especially on issues affecting Kwara State, why? Despite my series of interventions in making sure that the immediate past administration succeeds by challenging them on sundry issues of humanitarian concern, unfortunately, they tend to misinterpret and misunderstand my moves, so they summoned the traditional ruler of my town, His Royal Majesty Kabiyesi Alaran of Arandun to Government House in Ilorin and began to threaten him. They ordered him to go and talk to me to stop complaining about them. They believed there was no other way to silence me because I was not a government employee, neither was I on their payroll for any monetary benefit. When the matter became obvious that they were humiliating him up to the point of asking him to sign an undertaking, I decided to stop my agitation. Since my concern was for good governance for the good people of Kwara State and not anything personal, I ensured that the stool of Alaran of Arandun is not affected by my constant guidance of the administration. Was there any move to settle with you then? Yes, Senator Saraki made several attempts to settle with me. He sent emissaries to me and invited me. I turned down his invitations on several occasions and he later sent the Chairman of Irepodun Local Government to me because he was aware of our closeness then. When the Chairman came to me, he pleaded with me that I should honour him by responding to Saraki’s invitation. On getting to Saraki, he explained to me at length and tried all his efforts to convince me but I made him to understand that there was no going back because he cannot change. I told him that I had made up my mind not on personal ground but for the collective interest of the people of the state whose mandate they are enjoying. What about the former governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed? Of course, he did, he sent the former Commissioner for Information and Communications, Alhaji Raheem Adedoyin. Since I cut-off my relationship with them, I always ensure that I don’t go to them alone because of posterity. I told former Governor Ahmed clear and loud that I can’t keep any relationship although, there is every possibility that we may not win the election but that my conscience would be clear at least, for the sake of posterity. I told him that with the style of their governance, they cannot end well. His arrogance has led to his political failure. But, there was gang up against you by some indigenes of Igbomina; what was the reason? I don’t have any issue with any of them other than the fact that I supported Bukola Saraki to run for second term as the Kwara State Governor in 2007. Our people believed that it was the turn of Kwara South stressing that late Governor Mohammed Lawal had ruled for four years between 1999 and 2003. I tried to explain to them that Lawal ruled under All Peoples Party (APP) while Bukola Saraki came to power on the platform of PDP. I told them to allow him complete his second term. Saraki also promised to handover to an Igbomina after his tenure and to the glory of God, he brought Abdulfatah Ahmed who had served him as Commissioner for eight years. Unfortunately, Saraki didn’t allow Ahmed to perform; he gave him close marking, understanding the fact that all the members of the State House of Assembly were loyal to him (Saraki) as well as all the political structures in the state. It was very easy to checkmate former Governor Ahmed. Kwarans would have enjoyed Ahmed if not for Saraki’s factor. The money used to prosecute the Code of Conduct Tribunal’s case is enough to transform Kwara State cutting across the three senatorial districts. 