The Benjamin Olowojobutu Foundation (BOF), a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that helps indigent women to get rid of fibroid tumor and other medical cases has ended its week-long medical outreach in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. During the event, no fewer than 146 people benefited from the free medical programme which took place at the State Model Primary Health care Centre at Mgbosimini community of Obio/Akpor Local Government Area. Some of the cases the team of medical experts took handled were fibroid, breast lumps, lipoma, hernia, ovarian cyst, appendicitis as well as caesarean section. On what motivated him to establish the medical outreach, the founder of the NGO, Dr. Benjamin Owolojebutu said: “It all began when I had an auto crash in 2016. I was on my way home when a drunk driver rammed into my car. My car was smashed and I fractures in three places on my right leg. I was rushed to a hospital in Lagos and for three and half hours, I was left in the pool of my own blood and intense pains. No one attended to me during those hours. “It was in that quagmire of suffering and pain that I got express instructions from God that I must turn my pain into charity, helping poor people in Nigeria and Africa. “In my accepting God’s instruction, I equally reasoned that if I could be so abandoned by people of my own profession in a hospital such as this, what happens to members of the public who are neither in the medical field nor have the money to access health care. I quickly agreed to do as God had instructed me. “Again, my late father was also my idol when it comes to the issue of showing love and spreading happiness. While he was alive, he would always tell me that love is the only thing that does not depreciate in value, but instead increases. His belief was that love shown to a person today will have ripple effect in the future. “My upbringing was all about sharing love to all, especially those that can be hardly loved, the poor. The sincere prayers they make from their sincere hearts go a long way in presenting us and what we are doing to God for more protection, while we go from place to place, including the surgical operations we carry out in the theatre, among others. “Since the inception of the outreach, we have not recorded a single death either in theatre or in the process of recovery, despite that we are not carrying the exercise in the best of facilities. This can only be done by God,” he said. Speaking to reporters at the event the Executive Director of the foundation, who is also the leader of the team said: “The team is focused to tackle four main diseases in each of the outreaches. The diseases are fibroid, lipoma, hernia, breast lump and hydroceles. “We visit rural communities in the country to identify those who are poor and are suffering from the diseases listed above so as to provide free medical care for them. “What we do is driven by love and compassion. We believe that love is contagious, and when someone is helped, especially in the very area he or she is completely helpless and lost, he will be able to render a sought of help to someone else somewhere. And the next person helps someone again and so on. In this way, love will continue to spread and will not stop until the world if filled with love.” On the Rivers State outreach, the Executive Director revealed that the team spent one week in the state carrying out the intervention. This was because of the huge number of people that turned out for the outreach for various forms of ailment. “We came into the state on May 19 and we were there till May 27. We initially prepared to carry out the surgery on 50 people. However, on getting here, we saw very large number of people who came for various forms of ailments to be attended to. We ended up carrying out surgical operations on 146 people, including a caesarean section (CS), which was not part of our schedules of intervention,” he said. The statistics of the surgery carried out during the outreach in Rivers State are as follows: fibroid 45, breast lumps 31, lipoma 23, hernia 38, ovarian cyst 5, appendicitis 3 and one caesarean section (CS). All added up to 146 surgeries. Already nine of the 36 states have been covered, with over 1, 500 free surgeries carried out by the team in eight months since the foundation began the rural health care intervention. The states so far visited are Benue, Akwa Ibom, Imo, Lagos, Edo,, Ondo, Cross River and Rivers. “This has, without doubt, given credence to our love story. Hopes are being restored; lives changed, and so on. “One of the most touching cases we have so far experienced in the course of the outreach was the case of a woman who has been under the torture of fibroid for 18 years. She had literally lost all hopes. To the glory of God, she was one of the beneficiaries of the medical outreach. The size of the fibroid mass removed from her weighed 6.5 kg, which is equal to the weight of three babies. Today, she has regained her life back and happy. Her children and family are also happy and she is recovering very fast. “This is the joy we derive as it propels us to push on, even in the face of difficulty.  The exercise is highly capital intensive. This is one of the challenges that possibly slow us down, because we will need to sit back after each outreach to work out funds again before we can plan for another outreach. But as for the passion we have, if the resources are readily available, we will be planning three or four trips from one place to the other at a stretch, because people are suffering so much from diseases that can easily be cured,” he said. Some of the beneficiaries who spoke to Niger Delta Report narrated their ordeals and how doctors’ outrageous charges prevented them from accessing medical attention. They expressed their gratitude to the NGO for its intervention. One of the beneficiaries simply identified as Nkechi told Niger Delta Report: “I suffered the problem of fibroid for nine years. I have been to many places to access treatment, but everywhere I went to, they prescribed surgery. “A particular hospital I went to initially charged N450, 000 to perform the operation. I do not have the money. I went back to the hospital; they now said they will no longer accept the earlier N450, 000 but N1.5 million. “After much pleading, they said they could only take N1 million or nothing. They also said before I will be taken to the theatre, I would sign an undertaking that my womb should be taken off if possible, because according to them, the chances is 50/50. “We were thinking of how to get the money for the surgery when I learnt that there would be this medical outreach. Since I have been following them on the social media, I quickly registered online as requested and went ahead to do all the medical tests required. They later reached out to me via SMS, telling me the venue and date of arrival and I came and here I am recuperating from the surgery carried out completely free, and my womb was not taken off. “I cannot believe that these kinds of people exist in Nigeria. Dr. Ben and his team of experienced and highly skilled medical practitioners are too good to be real.” In the same manner, Mrs. Osilem, a civil servant and mother of two said: “I am a junior civil servant and suffered from fibroid for 10 years. I noticed the problem when I was pregnant with my first child. It was during delivery it was discovered that there was a growth that prevented the baby from being pushed out. But I was delivered of my baby after much suffering. “I lost several pregnancies thereafter. My health deteriorated; my husband and I began to go from hospital to hospital to seek a way out. But the charges were so much and we do not have the money. “It was last week that my husband called me from Awka, Anambra State to inform me of the programme by BOF in Port Harcourt. He gave me the details and I came straight to this place. Since I did not know about them earlier and did not register online, they gave me a list of tests to run. I did the tests and brought the result to them and they booked me for surgery on Saturday (May 25, 2019). “I pray that God Almighty who sent them on this mission to affect the lives of the poor and weak will bless them beyond human comprehension.” The foundation, which was registered last year, had its first medical outreach in Benue State on July 18, last year, during which 30 surgeries were carried out in one week. Later, the outreach was in Akwa Ibom State where 62 indigent women were attended to. From then, the team of medical workers has been moving from state to state, to touch lives in the most excellent way. At the last count, a total of nine states, including Rivers, have been covered, with over 1,500 surgeries mostly fibroid, lipoma and breast pumps removed in eight months. The founder, who is the Chief Surgeon, bears about 80 per cent of the expenses while the rest of members of the team share the remaining 20 per cent among them. Nonetheless, the team leader and his members are not deterred, neither distracted, but have vowed never to rest until every woman in Nigeria and Africa is delivered from the torture of the hydra-headed ailment. Members of the team plan to cover all the six geo-political zones of the country before the end of the year, by visiting at least one state in each zone before the first anniversary of the outreach, and the entire 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the years ahead. They are equally planning to make a foray to other African countries before the end of the year with a visit to Kampala Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camp. Obviously the services rendered to the poor by the NGO keep expanding without a commensurate level of assistance or sponsorship for the group to enable it to continually reach out to the poorest of the poor. In the circumstances, members of the medical team are appealing to well-meaning Nigerians, philanthropists federal, state and local governments, corporate bodies, including multinational companies that really want to touch lives of those living in their host communities and politicians to assist them so that they can bring succour to the suffering, indigent people.