Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson has outlawed the practice of engaging casual workers in the state’s civil service. The governor immediately approved the employment of existing 838 casual workers in all the ministries, departments and agencies, (MDAs). The decision to stop casualisation was taken at the 108 State Executive Council (SEC) meeting, which held in Government House, Yenagoa. Speaking after the meeting, the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson commended Dickson for fully employing the causal workers, who had spent about 20 years working for the state. He said the affected workers would undergo screening for confirmation of their appointments, which would take effect from July 1, 2019. In his remarks, the Chairman Civil Service Commission, Dr. Peter Singabele thanked Dickson for the gesture, saying the approval would help to address unemployment. He asked the beneficiaries to appear for screening with their academic qualifications, birth certificates and other relevant documents. But he said following extant public service rules, applicants above 40 years were excluded from the offer. “We commend Dickson for proscribing casualisation because he believes that the practice is criminal. A verification of educational certificates, age declaration of the casual workers will be carried out soon and those above the age of 40 are disqualified”, he said. On the burial activities of the late literary icon, Pa Gabriel Okara, the Commissioner for Information said the state would be mobilised to bid a befitting farewell to honour him. He called on all traditional, political, opinion and community leaders, including the three arms of government, to be present at the funeral. He said massive attendance was the only way to honour and appreciate the late Pa Okara’s contributions to Bayelsa State, Ijaw nation, Nigeria and the world at large. Also, the Commissioner for Labour, Employment and Productivity, Chief Collins Cocodia said the approval for the employment of 838 casual workers was the third employment exercise by the state government. On his part, the Head of Service, Mr. Luka Wellington-Obiri, described as cheering the outlawing of casualisation. He assured Dickson that the civil service would do its best to be better positioned to deliver on its core mandate of carrying out government programmes and policies. He advised the beneficiaries to take advantage of the opportunity by being diligent, hardworking and present at all times at their duty posts so as to contribute their quota to the development of the state. 