Young men and women are being empowered to find new jobs through emerging technologies, such as blockchain. Blockchain, which is described as an online ledger, is seen as a safe and secure way for transaction. It is gaining traction, DANIEL ESSIET reports. The blockchain is an ‘open ledger’ which records and manages transactions. Each record is called a ‘block’ and contains details of the transaction timestamp along with a link to the previous block. This protects the data from being manipulated retrospectively. Since each transaction is recorded over a distributed ledger in an encrypted manner, the technology is designed to be secure. Blockchain duplicates data across an open network so all parties in the blockchain see updates simultaneously, and all updates are validated through a public verification process that ensures accuracy without the need for a central authority, like a bank. Founder, Blockchain Nigeria Users Group, Chuta Chimezie said  no  forward looking organisation can operate today without thinking about block chain technology. This is because it records information in decentralised ledgers that all parties can access at the same time, eliminating the need for intermediary institutions and accelerating the transfer of data and money. He said blockchain helps to protect government and private digital assets and transactions, preventing tampering by outsiders or even government insiders. Also, it is almost impossible to hack, corrupt or destroy it. Companies are leveraging the   technology to create better financial services for consumers and businesses. These include companies operating in insurance, payments, asset management and personal finance. He said the technology holds the promise of business transformation, adding that it is providing jobs and creating entrepreneurial opportunities. He said  blockchain is one of the fastest growing segments in the digital world, as evidenced by the explosive growth in job openings within the sector. For candidates with the right skill set, there are a variety of career opportunities related to blockchain. Chimezie said blockchain has opened several new career opportunities such as developers and designers. According to him, there are jobs for developers to help companies create blockchain payment solutions and earn good money. Openings are emerging for blockchain attorney for companies who need their legal expertise while launching blockchain technologies to understand the implications of how business and finance are managed, besides tracking and confirming transactions platforms. According to him, the technology is poised to revolutionise many businesses. Employers and job candidates are investigating how cryptocurrency-related positions could be of use to their business. Chimezie said the technology has created opportunities for Nigerians to monetise their skills and talents as it becomes a mainstream technology in banking, finance and other sectors. There would be need for a lot of people who can write codes. There are jobs for software engineers, engineers, product managers,  data scientists, bitcoin full-stack developer among others. With cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin and ethereum becoming more and more engrained within society, he said interest in blockchain has risen. He said organisations willing to embrace blockchain are now on the lookout for developers and experts with skills and experience in blockchain to help them do it. Chimezie said the group is encouraging young people to learn skills associated with blockchain with openings as companies are looking for people that can build applications in the areas. Internationally, the demand for workers with skills in the use of blockchain technology is rising. This is because big-name corporations such as Microsoft and IBM have embraced the technology, which they use for their own internal processes. The President, Fintech Association of Nigeria, Dr  Segun Aina, said   there is future for distributed ledger technology such as blockchain in Nigeria as increasing demand across all industries. He said blockchain’s seamless transaction potential can unify banking networks and ease the hassle of remittance payments. According to him, the association identified major benefits that  blockchain has to offer, including multitude of opportunities for people to develop solutions across all fields of industry from finance to agriculture. He urged youths to take advantage of this to make a living for them. Aina said the association is cooperating with organisations to offer courses in financial technology (fintech) to professionals in the domestic financial industry. The programme, according to him, teaches participants about fintech and its impact on traditional banking and finance.