Power changed hands in Imo State, resulting in the pendulum effect. Governor Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) wasn’t expected to continue on the path of former governor Rochas Okorocha of the All Progressives Congress (APC), even though it is said that government is a continuum. Indeed, the Ihedioha administration’s move to probe the Okorocha administration demonstrates discontinuity. It is curious that  the eight-member committee set up to investigate Okorocha’s performance in his two terms as governor between 2011 and 2019 is expected to “ascertain and document the locations of and balances on all bank accounts operated by Imo State government, its Ministries, Departments and Agencies as at May 29, 2019.” This suggests that the Okorocha administration failed to provide such information before it exited. Ihedioha’s media aide, Steve Osuji, said: “That there was no formal handover was made plain at the inauguration of the Secretary of the Imo State Government recently…Governor Emeka Ihedioha had called up the sitting Permanent Secretary of Government House who was the most senior official left to take the in-coming members of the new administration round the offices. He was asked about the status of formal handing over. The Principal Secretary had told the audience in the hall that no handover had been put to effect…It must be noted that there was no formal meeting between the governor-elect and the sitting governor in Imo State since the election was won and lost.” It is unclear why the Okorocha administration had exited in such an untidy manner. By failing to provide such necessary information, the administration showed that it had learnt nothing about proper process. Such unwillingness to play by the rules exposed a government that didn’t understand how not to leave the stage. The investigative panel is also expected to ”review all financial transactions and where necessary, a forensic audit with a view to ascertaining sources of funds and the application of same;  review such   disbursements/applications of state resources to ascertain the propriety of charges levied on accounts, interest payment on loans and deposits where applicable, authorisation, etc; and review the operations of the Imo State Board of Internal Revenue (BIR) with a view to recommending appropriate strategies to reposition the agency for better performance and sustained growth and to conduct governance/financial reviews of key agencies of government with a view to documenting all revenues generated or subventions/allocations between 2011 -2019.” Perhaps the probe would show that the Okorocha administration had something to hide; perhaps not. Ihedioha’s inaugural speech on May 29 gave an insight into the need for a probe.  ”Pensioners are owed for over 77 months, accruing fifty-seven (57) billion naira in Pension liability alone,” he said.  ”Eight years of bad governance led to a mind-boggling decay of critical public infrastructure; a crippling debt burden without any meaningful infrastructural or institutional developments to show for such a humongous debt.” Ihedioha added: “In the light of recent revelations by interest groups, various institutions and agencies of state, many have asked what becomes of those who recklessly plundered our commonwealth. My answer is simple: They will be held accountable. While this administration will be forward looking and not embark on any witch-hunting, those who have held positions of authority must prepare to render account of their stewardship to the people because our resolve to hold their feet to the fire of probity and accountability is iron-clad.” When a new governor probes his predecessor’s administration, particularly when they are members of opposing parties, there is a public tendency to attribute such investigation simply to a malicious desire to rubbish the target of the probe. But such perspective is simplistic. There may well be good reasons for such investigation. Okorocha had displayed desperation to determine his successor. He had desperately wanted his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, to succeed him. Nwosu had defected to Action Alliance (AA) from APC after failing to get what he wanted.  In a display of crude godfatherism, Okorocha had shamelessly supported Nwosu who was the governorship candidate of a political party different from his in the March 9 governorship election. Okorocha clearly carried godfatherism too far. It wasn’t surprising that his party decided to punish him. His party’s National Working Committee (NWC), on March 1, suspended him “for anti-party activities.” In a statement, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said the NWC “has also taken a decision to recommend the expulsion of the suspended individuals to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party.” Also suspended was then Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, who had similarly backed another party’s governorship candidate whom he desperately wanted to succeed him. The APC statement stated that “the NWC had earlier written to the suspended governors on their anti-party activities, and several other steps were taken to ensure they desist from taking actions that are inimical to the interests of our party and candidates. Notably, these individuals have not shown any remorse and actually stepped up their actions.”  The party accused the suspended governors of “serial anti-party activities,” and “noted how the suspended members have continued to campaign openly for other parties and candidates that are unknown to our great party. They have in fact constituted themselves as opposition to APC candidates in their respective states.”  Interestingly, both men are now APC senators-elect.  It is a cause for concern that they will sit in the Red Chamber pretending to be men of honour. If things had worked out according to Okorocha’s plan and Nwosu had succeeded him, there would have been no question of a probe.  Not surprisingly, Nwosu advised that Ihedioha “should rather consolidate on the achievements of his predecessor.” Nwosu’s words: “If I were the governor today, I would face the business of governance knowing that there is job to do.” But Nwosu is not the governor, and the governor’s job involves determining the extent of alleged bad governance by the previous government. Good governance implies exposing past bad governance, while carrying out the business of governance. Since a probe can only uncover things that are covered up, Okorocha has no reason to fret about the probe of his administration if there had been no cover-up.  This development is a lesson to people in power.  A pendulum swing counters the old ways, and brings trouble to those who had governed without a sense of good governance.