At 52, Nasiru Sule is not ready to quit the stage. The four-time Paralympian is aiming for another appearance at the Paralympics Games having featured at the 1992 Barcelona, Atlanta 1996, Sydney 2000 and Beijing 2008. The icing on the cake came for the Nigeria national honour holder in 1996, when he became the first and only Nigerian para table tennis player to win a medal at the games with a bronze medal to his credit in the men’s class five. Doubling as a national player and coach, Nasiru Sule believes as long as his body can still carry him, he would continue to romance the sport that has paid way for him in life. Despite suffering polio in his left leg, Nasiru Sule is a role model for Nigeria’s one-time Paralympian – Ahmed Koleosho. “All my life has revolved round table tennis and the sport has added value to my life and at present I remain the only table tennis star in Nigeria to have received the Nigeria’s national honour – Member of the Order of Niger (MON) following my good outing at Atlanta 1996 in United States. The sport has opened doors for me in life and it has created job for me. So quitting the sport now is not in my plan and I am hoping and believing that I will make it Tokyo 2020 in Japan,” Nasiru Sule said. As the oldest member of the Nigeria team to the Africa PTT Championships in Egypt, Nasiru Sule admitted that missing the last two Paralympics Games in London and Rio has not helped his career but he is ready to restore his lost years by clinching the ticket in Egypt. “Competing at the Paralympics Games is the dream of every player and not taking part in the last two editions has been challenging particularly knowing fully well that you have the ability to make it there. But I had put that behind me and focusing on returning to the big stage in Tokyo,” he added. The quarterfinalist in Barcelona 1992, Sydney 2000 and  Beijing 2000 is not ready to miss out in the big party in Japan as he had already featured at the Jordan Open earlier this year when he finished on the podium.