TEDxIkeja, a Technology, Entertainment, Design (TED) New York licensed conference that is organised to tell stimulating stories and showcase unusual ideas to inspire people to change their lives, communities and their world, was held in Lagos, DANIEL ESSIET reports. Yearly, TEDxIkeja brings  together speakers to share their knowledge, insights, and experience, ranging from building successul businesses to quality education. This year’s edition, which held in Lagos, was titled:  “Tongues and crescent”. Chief Reading Coach and co-founder, Readland Leadership Centre for Children, Mrs Temiloluwa Adeshina, spoke at the forum. She works with children and spends time teaching them. She said teaching children to read better through her club makes her happy. She had wanted to work in the bank, but realised that she could make the world a better place by  teaching children to read  books and live with the right values. Through her reading club, Mrs Adeshina realised how important it was to help kids build their confidence, self-esteem, innovation and creativity. She feels fulfilled. Another speaker was Lagos-based sculptor, Ernest Nkwocha, who turn used tyres into art. Nkwocha, a graduate of Auchi Polytechnic, uses old tyres  to create artworks. Today, his sculpture is being celebrated in Lagos. This is evident in how his works sell at exhibitions. Marketing and Communications Manager, Stanbic IBTC, Usman Imanah narrated his experience of making it to the top of Kilimanjaro mountain. He described the adventure as challenging and would have taken his life. His words: “I nearly lost my life.” For him, it was a gruelling  seven-day event climbing Africa’s highest mountain. But  for  his resolve, Imanah  said he wouldn’t have been alive to tell his  friends the story, to  inspire others to tackle the world’s highest free-standing mountain. He  was delighted he endured  en route to Uhuru Peak, 19,340ft above the level more commonly associated with holidays. There were parties on the way down that thrown up, gave up, and not wanting to go. At the end, he made it to the top. He described the experience as incredible and inspiring. Other speakers were Spoken-Word Artist, Benny Finisher; Director, Brian Reuben Advisory, Dr Brian Reuben and Head, Sustainability, Access Bank Plc, Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan. The Event Curator, Ademola Adeshola, said TEDxIkeja was organised to support the spread of innovative new ideas that can drive change and inspire everyone to make a positive impact on the world. According to him, there was need to encourage innovative thinking and find real-world solutions to the most pressing issues we face. 