The Most Rev Dr Peter Olonade has just been installed as the new President and Archbishop of the Gospel Baptist Conference in Nigeria and Overseas (GBCN&O). He spoke with Sunday Oguntola on his vision and plans for the church. Excerpts:  For those who might not know, who is Bishop Peter Olonade? Well, I am a medical doctor by background, I received the call of God as early as the age of 13 and since then I have been affecting lives positively across denominations. I have been deputy to the arch-bishop for the past four years. In a conference session in 2015, I was given the mandate and since that time, I have been handling most of the presidential and administrative responsibilities. So it is the third generation leadership of the church It is actually the fourth. After Baba Atilade, there was Baba Salako and Archbishop Magnus Atilade. Then, I am stepping in. In many churches, this kind of succession does not happen smoothly. There might be rancor and disagreements. How did the church navigate the troubled waters of succession? Well, I believe that we are just enjoying the mercy of God coupled with fact that we have been praying ceaselessly. Then the Bible says that the gift of a man makes room for him. So, generally, I think that it is a welcome development to us and our members because overtime, we try to impact their lives with sound teaching and good leadership So what will change, with you coming on board since every leadership is different? I think that the number one thing is to make every member a leader and to make the church more focused than before, in terms of missionary activities and empowerment. It is almost impossible for people to believe that professionals like you are in this church. People have always seen the church as one for middle cadre people. Where have you been hiding? I have not been hiding. Like I told you, I have been available at different levels of my life. Right from my days in the then University of Ife, I was the President of the Evangelical Christian Union, the largest gathering of Christian students in those days. And it was actually from there that the Lord prepared my mind for missionary works. Coming into Gospel Baptist Conference in Nigeria and Overseas (GBCNO), I have been here. The Lord has used us tremendously. For instance, we have brought in a lot of developmental teachings to the conference where people are enlightened about the word of God. Every December, we converge at our Covenant campground for our programme. Why does the church add the word overseas when you don’t have a church overseas? We have churches overseas. That is our primary focus for now. We have churches in Benin Republic and we are working towards another in Cote d’Ivoire. The vision and focus of an organisation may not be actualised in one day.  We may not have actualised that fully but that is our major focus. The perception is the church is Yoruba- speaking. Is that right? Well, it used to be. We started as a Yoruba- speaking church but we now have branches in various places and most of our services are conducted in English. But the local dialect of the area the church is comes into play during the service. As you can see, I am more comfortable with English than Yoruba and so many people like that. What should we look forward to in this new administration? We are looking forward to creating dynamism in the membership. We are looking at sound knowledge of the word of God, propagation of the gospel, extension of the church, especially outside the country and empowerment of the members to be able to enjoy kingdom provisions here on earth, and also show forth the glory of God by impacting the society. All these will happen by good leadership What part of medicine did you study? Psychological medicine, stress management There is also the perception the church is an Atilade’s church. How do you intend to change this? I think it will be wrong to label the church with a name the church does not bear. Every founder in every organization has a far-reaching impact in the organization but there is no God-ordained vision that is limited to the founder. The God-ordained vision goes beyond the founder. The church used to be part of the Nigeria Baptist Convention (NBC). Why do you still use some nomenclatures for societies and organisations like Lydia and Royal Ambassadors that were originated by the NBC? Genetically speaking, every individual is influenced by the culture of his origin. The gene of an African man is different from that of a white man. So the origin of any denomination will be there but the important thing is that it should not be a limiting mark under any circumstance To what extent will you remain faithful to the doctrines and ideals of the church? Well faithfulness is a character and culture that does not just come by over-night promises. It is something that God would have built in an individual overtime. Like I told you, the great teacher himself has been my teacher since I gave my life to Christ as a young boy. So I believe that the one that has been faithful in time past will still remain faithful till the coming of Christ. What did you learn from your predecessor, the late Archbishop Atilade? He was a man that loved the Lord and walked tirelessly with the Lord, especially in the area of evangelism. He was a very loving man and he also had the unique quality of identifying and respecting qualities in other people, which he encourages and enhances. We are going to miss him a lot for his love for the people of God and the growth of the church.