The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), Filippo Grandi, has said over 70 million people have globally been displaced by war, violence, sometimes combined with poverty or climate change. Grandi, who spoke at a special forum at the ongoing 108 session of the International Labour Conference in Geneva, Switzerland, noted that as a result of their displacement, such persons have become fundamentally and often excluded from the transformations that others benefit from in the world of work. Labour experts participating in the 108th session of the International Labour Conference have said advances in technology, such as artificial intelligence, automation and robotics, will create new jobs. They concluded that workers must adjust to the challenges created in the world of work. Grandi said: “Eighty five per cent of refugees who are displaced – stateless people – are in poor and middle income countries. Most of their access to work is informal. Their exclusion is multiple and has a lot of impact on their ability to work. They have no documentation, and often no freedom of movement. They are excluded from financial services and the digital gap is particularly big, and education is a remote opportunity.” The experts concluded that some people will have to manage the changes collectively to ensure that the social safety net enables them to manage this transition successfully. The participants, who discussed transformations sweeping through the world of work, including technology, climate change and demographic shifts, include representatives of workers, employers and governments, the private sector and international organisations. They agreed that such challenges make it necessary to continually re skill and up skill over the life course. Jobs will be needed for many young workers in developing economies, they said. The Deputy Director-General for Field Operations and Partnerships, Moussa Oumarou, who set the tone for the discussion, stressed the need to urgently tackle mounting challenges in the world of work. He said: “Advances in technology – artificial intelligence, automation and robotics – are all going to create new jobs, but some people will have to adapt, and it’s up to us to work collectively to ensure that the social safety net enables them to manage this transition successfully. Skills are part of the picture. Today’s skills will not match the jobs of tomorrow, and recently acquired know-how risks being quickly outdated.” The Secretary General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Jose Angel Gurría Trevino, expressed the belief that the forces of digitalisation, globalisation and demographic change provide great potential to improve lives and that four out of 10 jobs created in OECD countries are in digital-intensive sectors. Trevino said: “But at the same time, 14 per cent of the workforce today is highly exposed to being displaced by technology, an additional 32 per cent being disrupted by technology. So, about half the workforce altogether is impacted by technology; about half the workforce is not prepared for operating in highly technological work environments. “Those who need training most are the ones who have the least access to it.” Also, Deputy Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), Mario Cimoli, said: “There is an enormous gap between middle income and developing economies, and the more developed ones, because it is clear that, for example, in countries like Germany, digitalisation is creating jobs. But in Latin America and other countries, digitalisation is not creating jobs and has a negative impact on informality and on small and medium firms. “In Latin America, 80 per cent of employment is in small and medium firms.” ILO’s Commissioner for Global Commission on the Future of Work, Thorben Albrecht, said: “The skills requirements for workers are changing very quickly and will be changing over the coming years. Our challenge is to make sure that no one is left behind. How do we do that?” He added: “We have to move from active policies to pro-active policies that engage with people that train them while they are still in their job but are in danger of losing it due to technological change.” 