THE Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) has expressed dissatisfaction with late payment of tuition by students. It made this known during an interactive session between the university management and students’ leaders at the school auditorium. In a document, the management  stated that as at Monday, April 29,  of the 25,513 students of the university, only 7,382 had paid. The document further stated that while 10,145 students generated invoice, but were yet to pay, 7,986 students  had neither paid nor generated invoice. Of this, students of Sokoto and Kebbi states, who are being sponsored by their governments, have the highest figure. A total of 322 and 210 students from Sokoto and Kebbi states have paid. But 3,835 and 2,066 from Sokoto and Kebbi who have generated invoice are yet to pay. Also, 4,133 and 1,573 students from Sokoto and Kebbi are yet to either generate or pay their tuition. Last session, CAMPUSLIFE recalled that the management held a similar meeting to sensitise students on  timely payment of tuition. It  spelt out penalties, such as deferment of session, among others to discourage defaulters. Nonetheless, some students have not offset the 2016/17 and 2017/18 sessions fees. The Vice Chancellor of the university Prof Abdullah Abdu Zuru bemoaned the non-chalant attitude of students to fee payment. He noted that defaulters were more. The problem, he said, had  affected the university. “We are very disappointed that this has become a tradition every session and it is not supposed to be. Many of your colleagues have neither paid nor printed invoice for payment of school fees,” Zuru lamented. On state-sponsored students, Zuru revealed that the school has received communique from state governments, which had pledged to offset the fees of their students. “We have only got a letter from the Kebbi State government to submit the list of their students, but we haven’t got any written from the Sokoto State government. “However, it is very wrong of you, if you have been given money to pay, but you’re waiting for scholarship,” he added, warning defaulters to pay up, or forfeit the forthcoming examination. “It seems that students have taken the system for granted. This information is given to you because we need to clarify the issue of registration. Your registration is not valid unless you made payment. For those who have neither generated their invoices nor made payment, once we put a deadline on it, you just have to apply for deferment of session.” Also, the Head, Exam and Registrations, Dr Ibrahim Magawwata, appealed to students to pay their fees  to enable the university  carrying out development projects. “People think there is another channel from which the university gets money, but there is no other except the tuition fee,’’ he said. He continued: “You have to utilise this opportunity given to you to register. The university might double your registration fee when you come for notification of result. If you’re to pay N120,000 as normal fee for result notification, you may have to pay N240,000 before you can collect your result.’’