The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) is to carry out a massive awareness campaign to increase enrolment in the Employee Compensation Scheme (ECS). At the just-concluded 108th session of the International Labour Conference (ILC) in Geneva, Switzerland, chairman of the board of the NSITF Austin Enejamo-Isire said employers, the major contributors to the fund, ought to be made aware of the advantage of enrolling their workers in the scheme. He said awareness was key to the success of the scheme, adding that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration was doing a lot to provide a fair deal for Nigerians. He said: “I have just resumed as the chairman of the NSITF board and I believe that one way to increase enrolment is to create awareness and I do know that if you do great things and you fail to propagate those things, nobody will recognise that. “One of the key things we are going to do to stimulate greater enrolment is awareness creation. We must let them be aware that there are great benefits in enrolling in the social security work of the government.” He noted that a lot has been done by the government and they are still doing that in trying to provide decent work for the populace. “For example, looking at it from the angle of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund, we are basically out to provide a fair guarantee system for all those who are affected by occupational hazard and bring succour to them. “It is sad when two things happen to a man and that is when a breadwinner is gone and the bread itself is gone. That is why the NSITF is out to ensure that beneficiaries of those who suffer death as a result of being in active service are adequately rewarded. “We have a way of bringing succour to those who suffer disability up to covering their medical expenses. All these are being done to ensure that a decent environment is created. The drive and the vision of President Muhammadu Buhari is particularly in the area of social investment and a whole lot is being done. “Poverty alleviation comes from there, training and awareness are galvanised to provide very decent work for Nigerian workers.  This is a step in the right direction and in line with the ILO yearning for decent work,”  he said. He said just as prevention is better than cure, same applies to occupational hazard prevention, which is very key in the world of work. The NSITF boss said surveys were being done in the health and safety department and he has gone ahead to encourage them to include occupational hazard to the extent of asking for fire extinguishers. He stated further: “Awareness is being done in all areas and that is better than being a reactive person. If we are proactive in addressing all the issues, you will have safety and good work environment. At NSITF, we have a full department handling this area and we are trying to see how we can change the narratives.”