An advocacy group, Africa Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistic of Nigeria (APFFLON) has called on the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to as a matter of urgency put an end to the spate of insecurity on Lagos roads and extortion of money from patients in all the general hospitals in the state. This call was made by the national president of the Association, Otunba Frank Ogunojemite, during a press briefing in Lagos over the weekend. He said it is no longer news that hoodlums seize every opportunity to dispossess motorist of their belongings especially when they are stuck in the traffic. Ogunojemite also noted that the stress and inhuman conditions patients in government hospitals are subjected to should be looked into. While commending Sanwo-Olu for the giant steps his administration has taken in less than twenty days in office as governor, APFFLON however said security and health remains paramount. “Important steps like the executive order on waste management, zero tolerance on pot holes, the riot act on traffic management, and above all, your urgent intervention in the perennial Apapa gridlock which has brought so much pains to port users and residents, these are indeed noble steps sir.” It however said concerning security that “Commuters are being molested on a daily basis even in the full glare of the public and nothing happens. Therefore, it is very imperative to address the insecurity issue so as to have a safer Lagos. “Besides, the Rapid Response Squad must rise to their responsibilities, they should as a matter of urgency, take up frontally, the insecurity challenge on our roads as molestations and robberies have become the order of the day.” Ogunojemite suggested that more LASTMA officials be recruited to ensure efficiency in traffic management as the current number cannot effectively control Lagos traffic. Ogunojemite also appealed to the state governor to ensure that motorcyclist be routinely checked to ensure they are mentally stable and drug free and above all, professionally qualified to carry out such service so as to ensure safety of lives. He said motorcyclists are not trained to even understand road signs, and this outright ignorance has caused a lot of families their bread winners. “Outright ignorance has caused a lot of families their bread winners”, adding that motorcyclist should be tested and licenses issued to those qualified, that way, multiple deaths caused by operators will be minimised. According to him, most health workers have no modicum of regards for patients, saying the difficulties they go through before medical attention is highly demoralising. “To see doctors in these government hospitals become very difficult due to systemic corruption, in most cases only those that offer them bribes are made to go in first for consultation while those who have no money are made to see the doctor last. “We urge you as a matter of urgency to set up measures to address the issue of extortion and misconduct as the system has been out rightly polluted due to corruption and high handedness” he said.