Perhaps one day,” I signed off on my column “Abiola, the martyr they would not honour” published in this space on July 11, 2017, “the feckless beneficiaries of the struggle that had cost Abiola his life will rouse themselves to accord him posthumous recognition as President-elect, with all the rights and privileges of that position going back to 1993. “Therein lies the path of honour.” President Muhammadu Buhari did not go that far. But he surprised tenacious “June Twelvers” and confounded its entrenched opponents when he proclaimed June 12 the new Democracy Day, and announcing that he would be conferring the nation’s highest award, the GCFR, on Abiola and honouring his family and some of those whose pivotal contributions had, against formidable odds, cemented that historic day in the public memory. One year later, the declaration has almost attained the status of a constitutional writ.  A Senate that would not even permit a formal debate on the matter has since backed it with a unanimous vote.  And all the symbols and observances that formally attached to the former misbegotten anniversary of May 29 are now consecrated in June 12. Whatever his motives or motivations, Buhari did the right thing, with uncommon courage. It remains for his Administration to complete Abiola’s restitution and honour other valiant contributors to the historic struggle. Having now established June 12 firmly in our national iconology, it is the time for Buhari, himself a product of the June 12 spirit, the spirit that animated his election in 2015 and his re-election in 2019, to embrace that spirit.  That is the spirit with which and in which he must govern Nigeria henceforth. But what is the Spirit of June 12? Grant me the indulgence to preface my answer to the question with the following excerpt from my remarks at the launch of my book on Nigeria’s failed democratic transition, “Diary of a Debacle”. “On August 19, 1993, as military president was flailing and threshing to find a formula to seal his annulment of the presidential election and keep him in office and in power, a prominent member of the Nigerian Senate made the following comment on the floor in the course of a debate “Distinguished Senators, we have a situation today that suggests that the abortion of the June 12 election is another coup d’état.  My question is:  When are we going to top tolerating injustices, coups and abuse by people on whom we have invested much resources – the public funds of this country. “The largest portion of Nigeria’s annual budgets since independence has been invested on the military, from their barracks to the ammunition provided for them and up to their uniforms.  The oath of office taken by the military is to protect the citizens and the sovereignty of the country. “Should we therefore continue to tolerate situation where the military turn that investment against us, to abuse and restrict and prevent justice taking place? “Yes, it is true that we have a crisis, but to every action there is a reaction.  This is a self-inflicted crisis because without the annulment of the June 12 election, there would be no crisis like this. “We have a government that made laws and abused its own laws.  Therefore, the present military administration by virtue of the abrogation and violation of its own decree has committed a crime.” End of quote. The Senator who uttered these historic and courageous words on the floor, who insisted on justice and refused to take refuge in opportunist compromise, the Senator who defended the sovereign right of the people to choose their own rulers is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who went on to serve as a two-term governor of Lagos State following the termination of military rule and has remained to date a pillar of the coalition of democrats and progressives in Nigeria. The book was dedicated to the memory of Bashorun MKO Abiola, winner of the historic June 12 1993 presidential election, who would have been 73 years that day and to “The spirit of June 12.” What, then, is the spirit of June 12? As I see it, the spirit of June 12 is the spirit of service and sacrifice.  It exalts keeping faith with the sovereign electorate above consideration of personal gain and comfort, over self-preservation even. That was the spirit that impelled Bashorun Abiola to hold fast to his historic mandate even when the cost of doing so was nothing less than his freedom, his sprawling business empire and possibly his life; to reject compromises that would have made a mockery of the right of the people to choose their own rulers. It was the spirit that led Kudirat Abiola to reject appeasement, to carry on the struggle after Abiola was taken into captivity, and for which she paid the ultimate price. It was the spirit that sustained the discreetly but deeply engaged members of the Abiola household –             Dr Doyinsola Abiola and Hajiya Bisi Abiola. That same spirit animated Hafsat Abiola who lost her mother to Sani Abacha’s goons while she was still in her teens, and her father to the machinations of the “international community” and their local proxies well before she could settle into a life of her own. The spirit of June 12 is the spirit of firm resolve, of never counting the cost, of going the distance, the spirit of resistance to, and defiance of, arbitrary power. It was the spirit that sustained many in our midst today and thousands across the country even as they were jailed, tortured, dispossessed and subjected to all manner of privations just because they stood for justice, for democracy, and for the rule of law. The June 12 spirit is the spirit of inclusiveness.  It reaches out and is not averse to compromise.  But it insists that compromise for the sake of compromise is barren, and that fundamental principles must not be sacrificed on the altar of compromise. It was the spirit that led hundreds of our politically engaged compatriots to abandon kin and kith and  home and hearth to relocate to distant and not always welcoming lands, there to continue the struggle for justice in their homeland. The June 12 spirit holds that fundamental rights belong to everyone, that they cannot be saved for some and denied to others.  Thus, the spirit of June 12 defends those rights without equivocation wherever it finds them abused, even if, or rather, especially when the victims are sworn enemies of the June 12. It is the Spirit of June12 that kept alive, against formidable odds, the long, dogged struggle to reclaim the stolen mandate of the people in Oyinlola’s Osun, Oni’s Ekiti, and the restoration of the popular mandate in Osunbor’s Edo and Agagu’s Ondo The spirit of June 12 is not merely the struggle for democracy and justice, however.  In a practical              sense, it is also about the delivery of goods and services. It is about improving the human condition.  In this practical dimension of the June 12 spirit, our host Governor Babatunde Fashola (SAN) stands as an exemplar. The June 12 spirit enjoins us to forgive, to find in ourselves that charity and empathy on which the just society ultimately must be founded. To the end of his days, Bashorun Abiola lived and breathed the spirit of June 12 in his private and public life.  Today, that spirit finds its most robust manifestation in the tireless exertions, at home and abroad, of our Chief Host, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. President Buhari and all who hold the levers of power in Nigeria today will do well to imbibe the Spirit of June 12. 