The Federal Government has expressed concern over the growing prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS among the country’s adolescents. Besides, the government said the level of viral suppression is still a challenge ahead of the 2020 target. Countries are expected to ensure that 90 percent of their population know their status, that also 90 percent of those tested positive are placed on treatment and 90 percent of those on treatment have their viral load suppressed by 2020. From the recent national HIV/AIDS survey, 1.9 million Nigerians are living with the virus with just over one million on treatment, leaving the country with a gap of about 800,000. To actualize the 2020 target, Dr. Bolanle Oyeledun, Chief Executive Officer of Centre for Integrated Health Programme (CIHP), said all agencies and organisations working on HIV/AIDS must come together and share experiences. Speaking at the Scientific Roundtable series organised by the centre, she said harnessing of all ideas will help the country in a big way in addressing rising new infections. Speaking on how to raise the needed fund to place the remaining 800,000 Nigerians living with HIV/AIDS on treatment, Oyeledun said the country must look inward rather than waiting for partners and donor agencies. The Federal Government is not comfortable with the increasing number of youths living with the virus, Mr. Araoye Segilola, National Coordinator, HIV/AIDS Division, Federal Ministry of Health, noted. Segilola who also spoke at the roundtable series said the government was equally concerned about the level of viral suppression, which according to him is still a challenge. He commended all partners who have been of great support to the country’s efforts at addressing HIV in the country. Speaking on the 2020 target, Mr. Mukhtar Mohammed, the technical aide to the Director-General of National Agency for Control of AIDS (NACA), said the agency is still analyzing the country’s information. Mohammed also assured the country that the result will be out by Augusts this year. The 2020 target is to help the country access the impact which “is for us to have 90 percent of all that are HIV positive know their status; second target is that 90 percent of all those who know their status should be on treatment and 90 percent of all on treatment should have achieved viral load suppression.” 