The Kaduna State Cycling Association has commended Kaduna State Government for the decision to construct bicycle lanes on urban road to encourage the use of bicycle in the state. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works, Housing and Transport, Muratala Dabo, on Monday in Kaduna announced plans by the state government to construct bicycle lanes in urban roads. Dabo, who made the disclosure during World Bicycle Day, said the measure was to encourage the use of non-motorised means of transportation in the state. The Chief Coach of the association in the state, Samaila Usman, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna on Thursday, that the decision was a welcome development for cyclers and commuters in the state. Usman, who is also one of the National Coaches of Nigerian Cycling Federation, urged the state government to keep to their promise. He expressed the confidence that Gov. Nasir El-Rufai would make it happen in no distant time, adding that the cycling association would be on ground to give all the necessary support where necessary. He said that the step would not only encourage cycling in the state but would equally help in curbing climate change due to its non-gaseous emission and environmentally friendly status. “Cycling is a good sport that keeps people healthy, physically and mentally fit and helps to keep the environment clean. “Bicycle is a simple, affordable, reliable, clean and sustainable means of transportation for both the young and the old and reduces traffic congestion, pollution and urban noise. “Not only that, due to its light weight, bicycle elongates the lifespan of our roads, which will save government huge resources spent on road renovation and reconstruction,” he said. NAN reports that the Kaduna Sector Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) had in June 2018, urged the Kaduna State Government to construct bicycle lanes in its urban roads and other cycling facilities at traffic intersections. This is in line with the United Nations declaration of June 3 as World Bicycle Day to recognise the uniqueness, longevity and versatility of bicycle as a simple, affordable, reliable and environmentally friendly sustainable means of transportation.