The All Progressive Congress (APC) in Kogi on Wednesday urged the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to disqualify some identifiable aspirants seeking the governorship ticket for the November 16 poll on grounds of alleged anti-party activities. The decision was arrived at by the state executive committee of the party and made available to newsmen in a statement by the party’s State Publicity Secretary, Malam Jibril Abu on Wednesday in Abuja. Abu gave the names of the alleged violators of the party’s Constitution to include Sen. Alex Kadiri, Vice Adm. Jibrin Usman, Mohammed Audu, and Prof. Seidu Ogah The publicity secretary said that the recommendation of the above names for disqualification from contesting the governorship primaries hinged on their resolve to join force with a major opposition political party to displace APC in the November 16 election. Abu had therefore described the persons as moles working for the opposition with the sole aim of destabilizing the party in the state. He explained that these identified aspirants had continued to run down the image of the party and Gov. Yayaya Bello of the state by trying to force on the party a particular method of primary election to adopt. “We have fingered Sen. Alex Kadiri, Vice Admiral Jibrin Usman, Mohammed Audu, Professor Seidu Mohammed Ogah and others as the nucleus of the alleged subversion plot. “The party sees the views of the alleged plotters reported in the media on June 18 as part of the script written for them by the highly influenced Kogi East Elders Council (KEEC). “The party also discovers that individuals including new entrants who are not yet properly rooted have chosen to dictate terms without recourse to the stance of the party’s leadership. “Such people would be making a grave mistake if they try to undermine the decision of the state working committee of the party which had since adopted the indirect mode of primary to pick the party’s standard bearer in the state. “The state executive of the party has found out that the fingered aspirants are apparently on a mission to spoil the chances of the APC in the upcoming election. “In the circumstance, the state chapter of the party is urging the National Working Committee (NWC) to immediately disqualify for anti-party activities,’’ Abu said. Abu said: “ the insistence by few persons that the APC in the state must use direct primaries to choose its governorship candidate, against the indirect method approved for the state by the APC leadership, was an indication that they had ulterior motives’’. The statement reads in parts: “our attention has been drawn to the anti-party activities of some new entrants into the governorship race in our dear state on the platform of our great party, the APC.
Continue on Page 2