Senator Oluremi Tinubu has been inducted into the Nigerian Women Hall of Fame at the Women Development Centre, Abuja. Joke Jacobs, who highlighted the significance of the event, extols the virtues of the senator representing Lagos Central in the Red Chamber of the National Assembly. THE is endowed with beauty and brain. Senator Oluremi Tinubu is a third term senator representing Lagos Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Abuja on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). An epitome of great leadership, she is following the footsteps of other renowned women leaders elsewhere in the world, like Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan, former President of Liberia, Mrs. Eileen Johnson-Sirleaf, Mrs. Funmilayo Ransome Kuti, who was the first woman to drive a car in Nigeria and several others who have excelled in various fields of human endeavour. Senator Oluremi Tinubu, an educationist of note and great politician, was on Monday June 10, 2019 inducted into the Nigerian Women Hall of Fame at the Women Development Centre, Abuja. This is due to her numerous achievements in the society. She is the first woman in the national history to be elected into the Senate for three consecutive times. She is admired and loved by all and sundry. Graceful and elegant, Senator Tinubu was inducted into the Hall of Fame along with 22 other women who have excelled in various fields of human endeavour. Some of the inductees are Mrs. Aisha Buhari, the First Lady of Nigeria, Dr. Stella Adadevoh, Professor Adenike Osofisan, Chief (Mrs.) Folorunsho Alakija, Senator Binta Garba, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa and the late Professor Dora Akinyuli. Senator Tinubu was born on September 21, 1960. She attended St. Annes’ Secondary School Ibadan, Oyo State and proceeded to Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo, Ondo State, where she bagged a National Certificate of Education (NCE). Senator Tinubu did not relent in her efforts for further studies; she gained admission into University of Ife, now known as the Obafemi Awolowo University, Osun State, where she obtained a degree in Education. Her antecedents as the dynamic First lady of Lagos State speak for itself. Senator Oluremi Tinubu who is happily married to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a former senator on the platform of Social Democratic Party, a former Governor of Lagos State (1999 to 2003) and presently APC National Leader kept the home-front aglow when she was the First Lady. She set up New Era Foundation, people-oriented foundation geared towards building the capacity of children, who as leaders of tomorrow, are encouraged to develop leadership traits through the Spelling Bee Competition. The first prize winner is allowed to act in capacity of the state governor for one day. The great idea has produced students who have taken their turns as acting governors. New Era Foundation sensitizes the people to engage in voluntary community service in nation-building and encourages public awareness on environmental health issues. The foundation has established vocational centres for school drop-outs. Resident camps were also established to train girls to be well mannered and responsible. New Era Foundation equally organized workshops on HIV/AIDS and participation in politics. Senator Oluremi Tinubu is quite hardworking, resolute, humble and unassuming. She provided a shoulder to lean on during her husband, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s two term tenure as the Governor of Lagos State. She was the Rock of Gilbratar. She played the role of a dutiful wife and good mother when her husband was on exile abroad during the struggle for the actualization of June 12 Mandate in 1993 after the late Bashorun Moshood Kashimawo Abiola, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) presidential candidate was massively voted for by Nigerians. Senator Oluremi Tinubu has been a pillar of support. She persevered during her husband’s travails. A man of courage and vision, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and others like the late Chief Adekunle Ajasin (former Governor of Ondo State), the late Pa Alfred Rewane, the late Chief Anthony Enahoro, Professor Wole Soyinka, Chief Frank Kokori, Professor Bolaji Akinyemi, Chief Alani Akinrinade, Chief Olu Falae and several other members of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) are heroes of the struggle. Complementing her husband’s efforts at restoring democratic values for the nation during this year Democracy Day celebration, she urged Nigerians to rededicate themselves to the cause of democracy. She says: “I felicitate with all lovers of democracy in Nigeria and in particular, the trail-blazing tenacious and law-abiding citizens of the Lagos Central Senatorial District who along with other Lagosians played such courageous and significant role in the events that made June 12, 1993 historic and consequential. It has taken twenty six years to witness the very first observance of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day.” She said it was on June 12, 1993 that Nigerians from all tribes, walks of life and religious affiliations indicated their clear and resolute preference for democracy and all its ideals. Senator Tinubu recognize and salute the man who personified everything lofty and laudable that June 12 now represents Bashorun M.K.O. Abiola of blessed memory. The quintessential female leader claims: “I honour the men and women who sacrificed their freedom, resources, safety and properties in the struggle for the actualization of the mandate of Bashorun M.K.O. Abiola which was freely given on June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy day.” Commending President Muhammadu Buhari whose government deemed it fit to recognize June 12 as the date that truly deserve recognition as Nigeria’s rightful Democracy Day. She says the nation cannot but recall and honour the memory of those who paid the ultimate price in the struggle. A patriot and firm believer of democratic values, she called on all Nigerians and all political office holders to be challenged by the sacrifice of Nigeria’s heroes past and use the occasion of the first observance of June 12 as Democracy Day. She urged them to rededicate themselves to the ideals of unity, peace and progress on which our nation is founded. Senator Tinubu is a force to reckon with in the senate. In the 7th and 8th National Assembly, she moved a motion in 2018 on the grid-lock along Apapa-Oshodi Expressway in Lagos State. On her motion for special economic assistance and special status for Lagos State she says: “Special economic assistance came from the point that Lagos state gives a lot through taxes and Value Added Tax to the federal government. Special economic assistance is requesting that even if it is one percent of money that is being taken to Lagos state which can help things like the grid-lock and infrastructure damage we are experiencing. According to her, the money is supposed to be used to augment most of the projects in the state be it education, health or roads. The National Assembly she says will determine the percentage to be channeled back to Lagos State and the State Assembly will appropriate for the money for state use. She campaigned vigorously in the 2019 election in a bid to return to clinch the Lagos Central Senatorial ticket for the third time thus warming her way into the hearts of the electorate. Senator Tinubu was voted for en – masse by the electorate. One of the secrets of her victory is that she emulated the door-to-door campaign style of former American President, Barrack Obama, by engaging her foot soldiers. In the words of Oliver Wendell Holmes, ‘Every calling is great when greatly pursued’. A strong advocate of women emancipation, she believes that the sky is the limit for women who want to hold public office. She said: “I have always canvassed for women to be in elective positions, but most women would rather opt for appointments. “She attributed the apathy among women who run for elective political positions to a number of reasons and urged President Muhammad Buhari to display magnanimity, by appointing many women into his cabinet. During her induction into the Hall of Fame at the Women Development Centre, Abuja on Monday, June 10, 2019, she noted that the award would encourage the coming generation, adding: “I hardly do award ceremonies but this one is quite different in the sense that it is like raising the bar higher for the younger generation that if God can allow me achieve this feat, then they can do better in a world where you hardly see women getting into elective positions.” She shares in the belief of John D. Rockefeller Jnr. who says: “The secret of success is to do the common things uncommonly well”. Women, she says, should be able to strive to reach their goal and also contribute to the development of the nation. Senator Tinubu affirms that she is a source of encouragement to the younger generation. Her words: “I am in the Senate to encourage the younger generation to reach for the sky. It has been seven or eight women in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is turning into exclusively a gentleman’s club and I think that is what it will turn out to be and it is quite sad.” Worried by the dominance of men in politics and clamouring for women to strive to be at the helm of affairs, she gave the recipe: “I think women have to start raising boys that is gender friendly, the coming generation should begin to raise men that would not feel threatened by women who are in top positions.” She advised women not to rest on their oars and that they should be ready to serve and make the necessary sacrifice. In the words of Samuel Johnson: “Perseverance is a great element of success. Clear your mind of cant.” Women in public office, she advised, should be honest, hardworking and transparent. A philanthropist, who is also a role model to the younger generation, built a skill acquisition and drug rehabilitation centre in her senatorial district. Through various empowerment programmes that she organised she gave out vehicles, tricycles, offered scholarships, organised town hall meetings and engaged in other programmes to alleviate the suffering of the needy. She supported many indigent ones and offset medical bills. She has touched the lives of several people. Due to her tireless and selfless service to humanity, Senator Tinubu’s name has been immortalized through the inauguration of a Primary Health Care centre that is named after her by the Ikoyi-Obalende Local Council Development Area Chairman, Mr. Fuad Atanda Lawal, who said Senator Tinubu was honoured because of her humanitarian gesture. According to him, the facility is named after a godly, tireless, hardworking woman who has spent the better part of her life to serve humanity. Senator Tinubu has dedicated her life to sustainable humanitarian projects he claimed. In recognition of her various contributions to the development of the nation, she was bestowed with National Award (OON) by the Federal Government of Nigeria. This writer first came across Senator Tinubu when has husband, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was aspiring to contest for the Senate in 1993. I had gone to their Victoria Island residence to interview Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu ahead of the senatorial election when I was the Woman Editor of Today’s Choice Magazine. Senator Oluremi Tinubu welcomed me into their cosy home with open arms. She was warm and hospitable. She cut the picture of a perfect hostess. Later, I became a regular visitor in her home. She inspired me greatly in my pen profession. I can remember how she counseled me to take publishing a serious venture. In fact, this inspired me greatly and since then I have been writing books. I still reminiscence the day she gave me a jolly ride in her red sports car from Victoria Island. I was heading to Ikeja, she dropped me off at Ojuelegba bus stop and gave me a handsome cash gift. With nostalgic feeling, I remember her grace, tenderness and kindness. The Chairman of the Editorial Board of The Nation Newspapers, Sam Omatseye, in his widely read column IN TOUCH published on Monday June17, 2019 praised the laudable efforts of this rare gem. Quoting from the column, “Her Hall of Fame status is kudos to an elegant woman with a heart for gender, the dispossessed and the generation in the bud”. 