Fourteen teams will feature in the Eko Basketball League which will begin on Sunday at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. According to the organisers of the League, Lagos State Basketball Association, eight male and six female teams, will take part in the league, which is expected to run for three months on a home and away format. Multiple national league champions, First Bank basketball Club, Dolphins Basketball Club, Raptors, IGP Queens, First Deepwater and Mountain of Fire (MFM) will compete for honours in the female category. The men’s category has Police Bombers, VGC, Flames, Raptors, HoopsnReads, NAF, Dodan Warriors and Nigeria Customs. Chairman of the association, Barbara Harper said that basketball is being rejuvenated in Lagos with the rebranding of the league, which will encourage players, coaches, technical officials and other stakeholders in the game. She also stated that the board members were poised to take the game to the nooks and crannies of state despite the paucity of funds and expressed hope that the success of the league would help attract sponsors. “We have rebranded the league, which will take place for three months on home and away basis. We hope to conclude this edition unlike the last one organised by the last board, which was inconclusive. We also added the female category for gender balance,” she added. Former D’Tigers captain, Olumide Oyedeji, a board member of the association and the Technical coordinator of the league, said that the league is being packaged to make it attractive to sponsors. He also stated that eight elite teams were participating in the league, a development, which will boost the image of the championship. He said the logistics for the hosting of the game is being handled by the association as most of the teams do not have home courts, He, however, assured that as the competition progresses with sponsorship, the teams would get financial backing from the association. Oyedeji noted that each team would play two games a week with the opening games coming up at the Teslim Balogun Stadium on Sunday.