The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, William Alo, has urged Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), not to forget the family of its late president, Comrade Francis Olabode Johnson. Speaking when he led a delegation of the management staff of the Ministry on a condolence visit to the office of PENGASSAN in Abuja, the Permanent Secretary pledged that government would sustain the industrial peace and harmony he fought for. He enjoined those he left behind to bear the death of the Comrade with fortitude and be consoled by the numerous testimonies about the good life he lived. Commending the late Johnson on his achievements in the Petroleum and Natural Gas sector, Alo said: “The late PENGASSAN President employed his wealth of experience and administrative ingenuity in bringing about good industrial relation that has stabilised the sector.” He expressed shock, deep sorrow and pain over the death of the President, Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), Comrade Francis Olabode Johnson. He paid tribute to the departed comrade, describing him as a dependable ally of the Ministry, whose support and contribution assisted the Ministry in achieving its mandate of maintaining industrial peace and harmony in the country. In a response, the Acting President of PENGASSAN, Frank Esanubi, described the late Johnson as a great and humble man, who was versed in the ability to maintain relationships. He disclosed that PENGASSAN, in collaboration with social partners, would set up a Trust Fund for the education of the children of its late President, adding that details of that would be made known to the social partners in due course. In a related event, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Dr. Folashade Yemi-Esan, condoled with PENGASSAN over the sad death of its National President, Francis Olabode Johnson. Dr. Esan said in a statement that the Johnson-led PENGASSAN and the Ministry enjoyed a very cordial relationship with the entire rank and file of PENGASSAN for the growth of the Oil and Gas Sector in particular and the advancement of the nation in general. “The Ministry will greatly miss his cool head, calm disposition and great grasp of the trends and understanding of policy directions of government. Our sympathies also go to the wife and children of Mr. Johnson and prayed to God to grant him and the rest of the Johnson’s Family the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss, Amen,” the statement said. 