Rev Peter Adewuyi, who was arrested two weeks ago for faking his kidnap with some miscreants to extort money from church members and relations, planned his moves for months, his wife has disclosed. Adewuyi was the officiating priest of Methodist Church of Nigeria Ijan road Diocese in Ekiti until he faked his kidnap with some miscreants. His wife, Mrs. Rebecca Adewuyi, told church members upon interrogation that the priest had been toying with idea for over two months before carrying out the act. Head of youths in the church, Mrs. Idowu Atofarati, told our reporter on Sunday the leadership of the church confronted Adewuyi’s wife over the issue “because we were very confused about it.” She said: “The leadership of the church had to go to her maybe she would have some explanations and what she told us was shocking”. According to her, Mrs. Adewuyi confessed her husband had been toying with the idea of arranging with kidnappers to extort money from people and friends for about two months. She reportedly said: “I had always been stopping him from doing that in the past”. She attributed her inability to stop him to the fact that “it’s the work of the devil”. During service on Sunday, the church was still in shock over the development with members discussing it in hushed tones. There was consternation within the pulpit and pews. The new officiating minister, Revd Michael Olugbemi, expressed grave concerns over the issue, saying the erring priest had been known to him for over 15 years. “I’m as surprised as any other person here why this has happened at this time,” Olugbemi stated. He admonished members not to be distracted by the development. “People of God you should not be moved by this unfortunate event. Please do not disgrace yourself because of what you would eat. Please don’t forget the instructions of God,” he added. Mr. Kolawole Emmanuel, another member of the church, said the behaviour of Revd Adewuyi is very alien to the practice of Methodist Church. “The rules and regulations of Methodist Church forbid such wicked and dishonest acts. Our church and members frown at such. He should be made to face the law,” he declared. An elder, Mr. Seun Ojo, said the church cannot and would not stop the law from taking its course. “Doing so would amount to condoning evil and becoming an accessory after the fact. We don’t condone evil in Methodist Church,” he stated.