Kelechi Uhegwu is a multi-talented lady who decided to conquer her world in spite of her disability. In this encounter with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about obtaining a degree in Zoology, her challenges, conquests, passion and mingling with some Nigerian celebrities who admire her guts. When Kelechi Uhegwu’s parents gave birth to her about 33 years ago, they had big dreams for their beautiful daughter. Unfortunately, those dreams were punctured at infancy, as the eldest of their three children became paralysed. The deadly polio virus ate into her system and confined her to the wheelchair and crutches. But this has not deterred her from pursuing her dreams and passion. Putting up with a disability can be really difficult to handle, especially in a third world environment such as ours, but Kelechi has trudged on like a Trojan horse. Her disability became one of the richest classrooms for her, and instead of seeing a gloomy face, what you see is a pretty and ever-smiling face. Now, you want to know how it all happened and sadly she takes you down memory lane, talking about her memories of early life. “My memories are loads but I remember writing down somewhere someone’s quote in paraphrase: ‘I am not one to boast as I am really a humble and modest person, but the name Kelechi Ruth Uhegwu would be popular and all the world would want to read about me.’ I wasn’t sure then of what I wanted exactly but I wanted people to read and hear about me and leap for joy.” “I had poliomyelitis when I was a toddler.” Kelechi continued her story. “My parents had travelled to Lagos, leaving me with my grandma in Agbor, Delta State. I fell ill and my grandma took me to the hospital where I was misdiagnosed and I was treated for malaria with several injections. My lower limbs got paralysed. I had paralytic scoliosis, which worsened to a curve of 58.8 degrees that required urgent surgery.” It was tough but her determination to succeed took the Amazon through the different phases of life, never giving up. Looking back, Kelechi’s recollections depict a journey that was torturous and rough but she bulldozed her way through. This included going to and from school while other kids stared at her continuously, imitating her body movement, thinking it was fun while she was sweating it out. But that and the many odds that came her way did not deter her at all. Instead, her mind was fixed on the laurels and plaques that awaited her in future. “My childhood was an eclectic mix of the bitter and the sweet. I was always in the hospital for treatment; physiotherapy and all that. It was a very painful experience. Of course, there were other times that I went to school, church and returned home like other children. I was not allowed to play all the time because my parents thought I was fragile.” Any parent in their shoes would have done the same. Reason: “I had a minimum of two visits a week to the hospital and each visit was hell. I mean ‘physiotherapy’.  I had my treatment at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos. The experience wasn’t an interesting one, trust me.” Surviving the odds was easy because she had parents who loved and cared for her. “My highest moment in my growing up years was when I could ask for ‘anything’ from my parents and they didn’t say ‘No’. Everything in the world seemed to be at my beck and call.” Unfortunately, that source of joy was halved when she lost her father and things fell apart in the family. “My lowest moment was on the 8th of March, 2000, when my dad passed on due to renal failure. It was the final year of my secondary school and that was when I understood the meaning of the word ‘responsibility’. This probably should have been the end of her dreams. But, again, Kelechi fastened her belt, determined to get educated against all odds. “I have a Bachelor’s degree in Zoology from the University of Lagos in 2008.” Interestingly, her entry into the university was a miracle. Burning the midnight oil, she had battled with JAMB examinations for two years without luck. Then one year, she struggled and bought a diploma form of the University of Lagos. She passed the entrance examination but there was a snag. Poor Kelechi did not have the money to pay the school fees. But that was not the only hurdle. Kelechi had to contend with the tough task of shuttling to and from school – from Satellite town to Akoka. UNILAG diploma students weren’t given accommodation on campus. Then one day Kelechi met the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academics) and told him about her challenges. “He was pleased with my zeal to be educated despite my physical and financial challenges and gave me an approval to write the (entrance) examination. I eventually wrote the exam and came out with good grades with which I gained admission by direct entry to study for a degree in Zoology. My debt in the diploma course was also erased. To tell the truth, how I made it through diploma was amazingly miraculous.” Just before graduation, a life-changing experience came her way. One of her friends, Jane Ogbe, wrote a story about Kelechi and she was nominated for the ‘Survival Against All Odds Awards,’ by the Aart of Life Foundation in 2006. “My story was featured on-air; people voted for me and it was a really exhilarating feeling. I emerged 1st runner-up eventually. It also helped me become a stronger person because people kept stopping me to say they watched the programme and they were inspired by my story. I felt good that I was an inspiration to someone.” Somehow, you wonder how she manages to pull herself through life in spite of the odds and her reply was instructive: “Life itself is my greatest inspiration. Each moment I live is a great opportunity despite my health challenges. My experience generally is my own Inspiration.” A lab scientist, make-up artist, writer, poet and much more, Kelechi certainly has her hands in many pies. How does she get the energy to do all these things? She enthuses: “I love to multi-task. It is innate; maybe because I am a woman. The energy comes from the fact that things have to be done. If I don’t do them, nobody would do them for me. Therein lies my driving force.” Of all the things that she does, which is her greatest passion or which does she considers her best? You ask. Her words: “All what I do have a way of relating with life, people, well-being, etc. I would not consider any one as my best because they are all intertwined. I have different moods and circumstances that would make me pick one over the other at a given time.”  To survive, Kelechi walked on leg braces and crutches for years and later opted for the wheelchair when it became inconvenient.  “I am first a human and I go through the regular rigours of being that. Secondly, I am physically challenged and have to go through the stress of coping in Nigeria, where accessibility is almost impossible for a wheelchair user. Thirdly, I am experiencing a worsening case of severe scoliosis as a result of the poliomyelitis I suffered as a toddler. But our health system here in Nigeria cannot take care of that, including the expenses of going for my spinal surgeries in Nottingham, England, where I have been referred. So, I have only one choice – to keep a positive attitude in all till I am able to find help eventually.” What exactly will be done to bring the desired change for Kelechi in England?  “The corrective surgery is an anterior surgical release and posterior stabilisation with rods and screw, as well as fusion of the spine with a 2-stage procedure, to have an opportunity to walk unaided again. It costs way more than what I can afford as an individual, considering my present financial status,” she informs. Sound Sultan, Nikky Laoye, Janelia and a couple of wonderful celebrities got involved in helping to raise funds for the surgery. A fund raising concert was held. “It was successful because all the invited celebrities came and we had fun but the aim wasn’t exactly achieved, as not many people attended. We made back about the money that was put in. I got a bit of fame, which made it a lot easier to reach some other people. We’ve been able to raise some money from the public so far but we still have some way to go. Promises have been made and I’m hoping for the best and I pray that this phase gets over soon.” Life for this queen of the wheelchair is a walk, and she would rather keep walking, than lose hope. Some of her achievements in life therefore inspire and motivate her to keep pushing on, as well as inspiring others along the line. “I am a lab scientist and I graduated from the University of Lagos, Akoka. I once worked at the Nigerian Naval Reference Hospital in Navy Town, Ojo, and later at NAFDAC in Yaba.” Kelechi’s inspiration knows no boundaries. From the scientific world, she swings over to the arts and she is as prolific anywhere and everywhere. A Jack or ‘Jackyln’ of all, and master of all.  “I am a poet and also a makeup artist. I graduated from the House of Tara make up school. I am also a public speaker and for this, I graduated from the Nigerian Broadcast Academy in Ikeja.” Having proved her mettle, Kelechi has garnered a number of awards and recognitions. “I have been awarded several awards from Rotary Club, The Aart of Life Foundation and many more. I may not remember all my achievements in details but one thing is sure, I bring joy and smiles to the faces of people that have met me.” Sharing in happy moments, meeting people and touching lives are some of the things that keep her going, as well as bring new opportunities her way. “I have many memorable moments but I would give credit to my humble beginnings when I was given the Against All Odds Awards in 2006; as the 1st runner-up by the Aart of Life Foundation. A documentary was done on me; people watched and cast their votes for me. The most exciting part of it was that people kept stopping to talk to me about seeing me on television and how much they were inspired by my story. It did mean a lot to me and it encouraged me to be a better person and is one of the reasons I am who I am today.” Kelechi adds: “The Rotary Club of District 9140 awarded me the ‘Outstanding Award’ for my resilience as a polio survivor in 2016. The Enugu State University (ESUT) honoured me with an Award of Excellence in 2015. The Aart of Life Foundation gave me the ‘Survival Against all Odds Awards in 2006. And I was Miss Social in the Miss Wheelchair Nigeria 2010.” Now you want to know if she would like to be a talk show host and she replies: “I haven’t anchored a particular show as a presenter on television or radio but I have been a guest on a lot of shows like ‘Moments with Mo’, ‘Who Wants To Be A Millionaire’, etc. My message is the same: having a positive attitude towards life no matter the circumstances. It is very important to upgrade yourself each moment as much as you can and just breathe.” Scroll down memory lane and she tells you about the people who have inspired, challenged and helped her get to where she is today. “I admire and respect a lot of people from various walks of life. I Love my late dad, Mr. Onyebuchi Uhegwu, for imbibing in me the character I have in all ramifications. I adore my mum for teaching me hygiene, which was very beneficial to me as a lab scientist. I respect Nelson Mandela for the kind of heart he had towards ‘forgiveness’ after the opportunity he had to pay back his oppressors. I hope to have that kind of heart.” Still counting her many blessings, Kelechi adds: “I also supported the 2face #VoteNotFight Initiative for a peaceful election. I go out a lot. I love to have fun. During my alone moments, I read books, write poems, listen to music.” Relationship?  That is a no-go area, as she replies. “My relationship is the same as any regular girl. But I’d rather keep it private for now.”  Interestingly, there are so many other exciting parts that make up this wonderful personality. The beautiful lady who has been empowered through skills in make-up artistry unveils this aspect of her life, telling you about her admiration for one of the best hands in the industry. “I regard Tara Durotoye, who came up with a new concept of entrepreneurship in the makeup business, which I had the opportunity to benefit from and hope to carve such niche for myself in.” As a make-up artiste, Kelechi’s passion for creativity is let loose and her clients are happy each time she gives them a facelift. Apart from the make-up sector, she strongly believes that Nigeria’s designers are doing a great job and deserve to be encouraged.  “As for me, my style is simple, beautiful and classy. Nigerian designers are doing a great job, I must say.” For Kelechi, being disabled is not just about receiving from others; you should be able to touch lives and give back to the society in your own way. “I respect my small friend Oluchi Anekwe, a fire accident survivor, who is making life happen in her own way. She does say I mentor her but she is an amazingly strong person, from whom I draw strength. The world is waiting for her.” Is there something that she considers as the greatest influence in her life? “My experiences are my greatest influencers, they carve out how I reason at different times,” she answers. If Kelechi had to advise young people, what would she tell them? “I would say keep dreaming. Don’t be afraid if your dreams are so big and overwhelming, they would eventually come to pass without you realising it, fortunately.” Unfortunately, a lot of young people in the society today have stopped dreaming because the circumstances around them don’t seem right.