The Middle Belt Forum (MBF) yesterday condemned the insecurity and killings across the country. MBF, which advised President Muhammadu Buhari to shun religious bigotry, supported the position of the Nigerian Christian Elders’ Forum (NCEF) on religious tolerance. The group criticised the Middle Belt Conscience Guard (MBCG) for  its moves to “rubbish the former Minister of Defence, General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma (rtd) and former military governor of old Rivers state, Gen. Zamani Lekwot (rtd), over their written submission to the United Kingdom Parliament on the killings in the Middle Belt and other parts of Nigeria.” MBF said: “There are many proofs to back up the NCEF’s assertion  that there is a collusion between herdsmen and the Federal Government in advancing this campaign. In the past four years of the Buhari administration, tens of thousands of Nigerians have been decimated, with several thousands killed on account of Fulani herdsmen terrorist invasion of peaceful communitues across the country.  Despite the troubling death toll, none of the culprits has been arrested or brought to book.” In a statement in Abuja, the National President of MBF, Dr. Bitrus Pogu said: “The attention of the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has been drawn to a statement credited to an amorphous group that calls itself the Middle Belt Conscience Guard (MBCG). “In its press statement that was purportedly  signed by its president, bearing the name, Prince Raymond Enejo, the group chided the NCEF  for its publication in which it accused the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration of pursuing ethnic and religious agenda. In its submission, the so-called group led by Enejo claimed that the NCEF’s statement amounted to a deliberate act of provocation against the country, aimed at encouraging Christians and Middle Belters to rise against the present government. “Ordinarily, our Forum would not have bothered to respond to a publication that is baseless and outrightly mischievous. We are, however, constrained to observe that as an umbrella  body for all groups in the Middle Belt Region, we are totally unaware of the existence of this Middle Belt Conscience Guard. Our Forum, being a multi-ethnic, multi-religious, multi-cultural and non-partisan organisation, is obliged to respond and clarified on issues raised by the conscience group that is out to mislead members of the public. “Though we believe that the NCEF is capable of responding  to all accusations raised against it by the  group, we need not be its mouth piece. However, for the mere fact that two illustrious sons of the Middle Belt Region,  who are also members of the NCEF were deliberately and mischieviously targeted for attack, this response has become unavoidably necessary. “The Forum considers the position of the so-called Conscience Group as a deliberate falsehood that is aimed at misleading the unsuspecting public through foisting diversionary plot to draw the attention of the public away  from the heinous genocide being perpetrated by herdsmen terrorists across the Middle Belt and other parts of the country. “Considering the inordinate reaction of the group to the position of the NCEF, it is either the Conscience Group is non-existent or may be just a mercenary group  hired by its paymasters who are the real sponsors of the heinous pogrom in our communities and ‘Fulanisation’ agenda in the country. “The Forum wishes to align itself completely with the position of the NCEF over the ceaseless bloodshed that is deliberately founded on the orchestrated plans  to annihilate and disposses the peoples of the Middle Belt and Southern Nigerians of their ancestral lands and hand over same to marauding herdsmen terrorists. This plan to subjugate and conquer our people and Southern Nigeria will be vehemently resisted.” “Noting that the the government is combating the Boko Haram in the North-east zone, the group said: “the present administration has been demonstrating attempts at battling rampaging terrorists whose bloodthirsty disposition has brought devastation and anguish on our people. “For avoidance of doubt, we wish to inform Nigerians and the international community that the Middle Belt people are now victims of a conspiracy to subjugate them and disinherit them of their ancestral lands. We are calling on men and women of good conscience to spare no efforts in exposing the ongoing heinous crimes against humanity in a bid to unveil the dark spot of human conscience surrounding the massacres of Nigerians and destruction of communities in the Middle Belt Region and other parts of the country.”