A curious supremacy crisis is brewing between Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki and All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole over the control of the party in the state. Correspondent OTABOR OSAGIE examines the implications of the conflict on the party ahead of next year’s governorship poll. LAST month, Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki told his opponents within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) that he was not a weakling. He said his humane disposition should not be mistaken for weakness. Describing himself as an unwilling serpent, he said he can sting and strike. Governor Obaseki who is known as “Mr. Wake and See” lived up to his reputation when Edo people woke up to see the much awaited 7th Edo State House of Assembly already inaugurated. The upper cut action dealt a blow to his opponents. The euphoria that greeted the victory of the Edo State APC in the House of Assembly elections in which it won all the 24 seats did not last long. It was a sweet victory, especially when it came after the party lost the presidential election, two senatorial seats and managed to win five seats in the National Assembly. In the House of Assembly election, the APC won all the available 24 seats; a feat it has not achieved since it came out power in 2008. Those who emerged victorious at the polls are: Chris Okaeben (Oredo West), Crosby Eribo (Egor), Henry Okhuarobo (Ikpoba-Okha), Roland Asoro (Orhionmwon West), Nosayaba Okunbor (Orhionmwon East), Uyi Ekhosuehi (Oredo East), Washington Osifo (Uhunmwode), Ugiagbe Dumez (Ovia North East 1), Vincent Uwadiae (Ovia North East 11), Sunday Aghedo (Ovia South West), and Francis Okiye (Esan North East 1). The others are: Emmanuel Agbaje (Akoko-Edo 11), Yekini Idaiye (Akoko-Edo 11), Eric Okaka (Owan East), Michael Ohio-Ezo (Owan West), Oshoma Ahmed (Estako Central), Kingsley Ugabi (Estako East), Emmanuel Okoduwa (Esan North East 11), Victor Edoror (Esan Central), Sunday Ojiezele (Esan South East), Marcus Onobun (Esan West), Ephraim Aluebhosele (Igueben), Ganiyu Audu (Estako West 1) and Seid Oshiomhole (Estako West 11). Out of the 24 elected lawmakers, 14 are new members elected for the first time to the house, eight are returning members of the immediate past assembly that were re-elected and two are former members of the house who lost their re-election bid in 2011 and 2015. In spite of the good showing in the election, sharing the spoils of electoral victory has however caused ripples within the party. The general expectation of Edo people was that the APC would find it easy to control the lawmakers, in terms of picking the house leadership. But, that was not the case, as the elected lawmakers were caught between the alleged cold war between Governor Obaseki and former governor and National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Some of the lawmakers were seen as ‘Oshiomhole loyalists’, while others were perceived as ‘Obaseki boys’. Leading contenders for the position of Speaker were a former Majority Leader, Frank Okiye (Esan North East 1), Emmanuel Okoduwa (Esan North East II) and Victor Edoror (Esan Central). Obaseki, sources said, preferred Okiye, while Oshiomhole rooted for Edoror. Last year when Edoror was impeached as Deputy Speaker over alleged corruption and engaging in acts capable of causing division in the assembly, it was rumoured that it was because he was being used by Oshiomhole to destabilise the Obaseki administration. Edoror denied the allegation saying he has not met with Oshiomhole for a long time. His words: “I don’t want to believe that Obaseki and Oshiomhole have issues. For anybody to say Oshiomhole is using me is a fool. They are lying. Obaseki is my friend. How can I be the one to destabilise a working government?” As both men lobbied to be Speaker, the leadership of the Edo APC stepped in and briefed the 24-lawmakers elect the position of the party. After a series of meetings, which failed to convince the lawmakers-elect to see reason, the party opted to zone the Speakership seat to Edo Central, while the Deputy Speakership seat and that of the Deputy Whip were zoned to Owan Federal Constituency. The position of Chief Whip was also zoned to Edo South. But, the lawmakers-elect supporting Edoror rejected the proposal of the Edo APC, even when they were given options of meeting with leaders in each zone to pick the house leadership. They said they should be given the choice of picking their leaders during plenary and vowed that they would not allow Governor Obaseki pick their leaders for them. At a meeting with Governor Obaseki, the lawmakers-elect made some fresh demands before they would adhere to the party’s zoning arrangement. The demands, party sources said, is for the governor to give them the yearly N36m for constituency projects, instead of executing the projects on their behalf, payment of all allowances owed old members, restoration of traveling allowances and other payments stopped by Obaseki. On the action of the lawmakers-elect, State Chairman of the APC, Mr. Anselm Ojezua, warned of repercussions if they do not comply with the decision of the party. He said: “There are legitimate claims. The party has nothing against them making those claims, if they are legitimate. I think the governor is open to discussions, so long as there is dialogue. They are not threatening anybody. They are just asking for what they believe will enhance service delivery to their constituencies. “There is a way we can go into it. If there are projects they have interest, they can make input into the budget and the state will implement. There is nothing wrong if a legislature ensure a project goes to his constituency so that he can have something to show. “The party is keeping to its own obligations and we have taken the steps we need to take. The Governor has prerogative to write the proclamation letter. We don’t need to put him under pressure. He knows the importance of the parliament in a democratic system. He will do what is needful. “There is nothing like any lawmaker being an Oshiomhole or an Obaseki boy. Obaseki is Oshiomhole’s boy. There can be no other Oshiomhole or Obaseki boy. If people should give themselves name, it does not make sense to me, because all of us are Oshiomhole’s product.” On Monday, 19-lawmakers elect presented themselves before reporters, demanding Governor Obaseki to immediately send proclamation letter to the Clerk of the Assembly. Washington who spoke on behalf of the lawmakers-elect said they would not be intimidated by Governor Obaseki to pick leadership of his choice. Osifo said Governor Obaseki was attempting to truncate democracy, by refusing to send the proclamation letter. He said the governor, no matter how powerful, could not impose individuals, either as Speaker or Deputy Speaker, on the legislature, but could only lobby for his preferred candidate as witnessed at the National Assembly. What the 19 lawmakers-elect did not know was that at the time they were addressing reporters, other lawmakers were already at the assembly complex waiting to be sworn-in. They also did not know that four of the lawmakers-elect were moles. Pictures later emerged of the Clerk, Alhaji Audu Yahaya Omagbai, performing the inauguration of nine new lawmakers after which Okiye and Idiaye emerged Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively. There were claims that the inauguration took place at night, but government officials said it was around 3pm; the same time the 19-lawmakers were addressing reporters at a different venue. Explaining the legality of the action, a top government official said the 19-lawmakers elect failed to do the proper thing before rushing to the press to embarrass Governor Obaseki. The official said:  “The constitution says after the swearing in of the governor, he shall issue a proclamation. Was the governor sworn in on May 29? So, how will you now apply what is happening in another state to Edo State? This is a sitting governor when the lawmakers were elected. Did the constitution provide for such a situation?” On the issue of whether a quorum was formed, he said Section 96 does not specify whether the quorum should be at plenary or committee level. He accused the other 15 members-elect who were absent, of failing to do the needful by approaching the Code of Conduct Bureau to obtain forms for declaration of assets and submit, and then report to the clerk of the house with the documents for inauguration. He added: “Why must people now import what is not into the constitution to justify their ignorance? After every election there are processes. First, INEC must give you Certificate of Return; you go to the Code of Conduct Bureau and present yourself to the Clerk of the house. These are the procedure at both state and the National Assembly. Ask them how many of them have done this, and presented themselves to the clerk afterwards to say, these are my documents? “The constitution says the governor shall issue a proclamation and send it to the clerk; not to the Oba or the Chief Judge. And that he shall read it to members who present themselves. It is the governor who fixes the date on which he wants to proclaim the house.” However, Osifo countered that the law requires the inauguration of the entire members and not a few at odd hours. He insisted that they were not invited to the inauguration ceremony by the Clerk. His words: “The Clerk told us he will call back 30 minutes later, but we didn’t hear from him again. Some of our brothers who were supposed to be at a meeting with us were absent. We called them and they were not picking their calls. “At 9:30pm, photographs began to filter into our phones suggesting that a kangaroo assembly was being inaugurated. We were disappointed. One of us was spotted with a short and slippers taking oath of office. That was an offence in the hallowed chamber. They humiliated him. “Two of them were also kidnapped to make up the nine members they believe they needed, because they lack understanding of what a quorum could mean. There can be no quorum until the house is properly inaugurated.  What the law requires is inauguration of the entire members. They got four and said they have a quorum. It was for the Clerk to announce or cause invitation to be sent to us. That was missing. They gave information of the inauguration only to those they wanted to be there. We would have been there. “We have done the needful. We want to encourage Edo people to defend democracy and stand up for the right of men. We have 16 members present here. Others that are not here are still in shock after they were kidnapped. Two of them are still in shock. They are receiving treatment, because their blood pressure went up.” Eric Okaka (Owan East) and Nosa Okunbor (Orhionmwon East) who spoke to reporters said they were forcefully taken to the hallowed chamber for the inauguration. Okaka said: “I didn’t know where they brought a suit from for me to wear. The oath taking at the chamber was an illegal one. I am a child of the Light. “The inauguration was done under duress. I didn’t collect any money, even though there was an attempt to offer me money, but I refused.” Oshiomhole has continued to maintain sealed lips on his alleged fallout with Obaseki. This, some analysts said, are what many politicians and the lawmakers-elect might be hanging to pledge loyalty to Oshiomhole. How the game will end is uncertain, but Governor Obaseki has delivered his sucker punch.