OF COURSE, everyone falls short now and then. Maybe you had to cancel the trip to the zoo because you hadn’t really thought through all the other things you had to do that week. Acknowledge to your children that dependability—or whatever character quality trait you failed to live up to—is still important to you. Otherwise, they may get the idea that the reason you didn’t say or do certain things is because these things really don’t matter that much to you. When you fall short with your children, not only do you need to acknowledge your mistake, you also need to tell them you’re sorry. This shows them that you value and respect their thoughts, perspectives and feelings. You’re also modeling an important way to show respect to others, and how to accept responsibility for your mistakes. It’s a lesson Janet of Oakland, California, had to learn one day. “I had just found out that the car repair I thought was going to cost $200 was going to be $2,000 and I was really upset,” Janet related. “Then my daughter came home from school and told me she got a failing grade on her math quiz. That was it. I started screaming at her and sent her up to her room.” A few minutes later, Janet felt horrible. She knew she had overreacted and taken her frustrations out on her daughter. She also knew she needed to apologize. “I’m sorry,” Janet told her daughter. “I shouldn’t have yelled at you like I did.” Her daughter’s look of relief told Janet she’d done the right thing. Several days later, Janet’s daughter was playing a board game with her brother. When she started losing, she threw the game board into the air and stormed out of the room. Several minutes later she reappeared to tell her brother she was sorry. “I don’t know if she would have been so quick to apologize if I hadn’t apologized to her a few days earlier,” says Janet. When you apologize to your children, you instill a desire in them to do the same when they make mistakes. Almost every day something happens that can provide you with an opportunity to teach your children about values. Use these incidents as conversation starters. It could be an incident you hear about in the news, something you or your children do or something you and they observe someone else do. These can make great on-the-spot lessons. If you read an article in the newspaper about someone’s heroic deed, you might ask your children, “What would you have done if you had been in the same situation?” If you’re waiting in a long line at the post office with your kids and you observe a customer and the clerk arguing with each other, afterwards you could say to your children, “What did you think about the way that customer talked to the postal clerk?” Try to ask open-ended questions that will get them thinking about values. You will find a lot to comment on within your family. For example, let’s say you overhear your daughter teasing your son about his new haircut. This can be a natural transition into having a discussion with your daughter about the values of kindness and respect. If your children are with you at the grocery store and the cashier hands you a $10 bill for change when it should have been a $1 bill and you let him or her know, that’s the ideal time to discuss the value of honesty. Even if you’re not always the best example, you can use that to tell your children, “Well, I shouldn’t have gotten so upset when that other driver took my parking space.” True, it might sound a little awkward at first to have these kinds of conversations. However, the more you do it, the more natural it becomes. Plan some Bible studies with your children, each exploring a different moral virtue. You might do a study one week on honesty or gratitude, and then the next week read what Scripture has to say on compassion, gentleness or generosity. •Source:www.ucg.org •Continued Next Week