Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, has hinted that his list of commissioners will be ready within 10 days from now. He gave the hint while featuring on a television programme to mark his first 30 days in office at the weekend. Makinde said he would have constituted his cabinet had the outgone administration cooperated with his team for a smooth transition after he won the March 9 election. According to him, his efforts to achieve a smooth transition was frustrated by the alleged negative attitude of the last administration. He said his administration would have hit the ground running after his swearing-in if he got the cooperation he sought. He, however, assured that his list of commissioners will be ready within 10 days, stressing that efforts on it were being finalized. He said: “Within the next 10-14 days we should have the cabinet formed and other things in place.” Makinde also explained that the need for balancing and inclusiveness informed his decision to appoint a female technocrat, Mrs Olubamiwo Adeosun, as the Secretary to the State Government (SSG). She is the first female SSG in the state. Until her appointment, Mrs Adeosun was the Country Implementation Lead of the Shell Business Operations (SBO), Nigeria. The governor explained that the move was simply meant to balance his cabinet along gender and religious considerations aside her eminent qualification. His words: “While I was campaigning, I promised to ensure that my cabinet is balanced when it comes to gender and religion and zonal consideration. I, the governor, am male and Christian; the Deputy Governor is a male and Muslim. The Chief of Staff is male and Muslim. So, we felt that the Secretary to State Government, which is a very important position in the Executive, should automatically be a woman and a Christian.” He assured of continuous balancing in his appointments in line with his firm belief in inclusiveness and diversity in government. Makinde also added that it is a thing of pride that the both the current Head of Service (HoS) and the SSG in the state are women. Adeosun’s appointment had shocked politicians, especially members of the alliance that worked for Makinde’s victory in the election. They expected that the governor would appoint one of them since all professionals are found among politicians. 