Former Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, Prof. Adigun Agbaje, has charged to nation’s universities to make their post graduate programmes be effective. Speaking at a 2-day the Redeemer’s University’s inaugural post graduate conference 2019 with the theme: “Inter Disciplinary and Methodology Issues in Post Graduate Studies and Research, “Prof. Agbaje said Nigerian university authorities must improve on institutional framework for effectiveness of post graduate studies. According to him, universities should put proper value in place and make needed facilities available to enhance learning efficiency in order to encourage post graduate education in the country. Charging universities to redouble their efforts on income generation which can be used to cater for some of their needs, Prof. Agbaje said enhancing post graduate education required collective efforts, adding that the government cannot do it alone. Prof. Agbaje, who lamented that Africa is the least in the area of research globally, said all hands must be on deck to prepare the next generation of scholars for a life study and research. Speaking, the Dean, College of Post Graduate Studies of the Redeemer’s University, Prof. G.A. Kolawole, who said Post Graduate Colleges should not perform as a robber stamp, also tasked the students to embark on comprehensive literature works to identify past researches people in order find loopholes and make significant contributions. According to him, any post graduate study that cannot add to knowledge is not is a good project. He disclosed that the Redeemer’s University had admitted the number of post graduate students it can manage to avoid a “copy of information and paste.” He assured that the university will expose its students, nationally and internationally to be the best that serve the world. He said: “Since our post graduate programmes started about six years ago at the Redeemer’s University, we have produced four doctoral and a number of graduates at master’s level. “We organize the interdisciplinary conference to bring the post graduate students across Nigeria together for cross fertilization of ideas. We encourage the participants to move away from areas of their specialization to other fields of study to listen to what other people are doing.” In his welcome address, the organizer of the conference, Prof. Anthony Enisan Akinlo of the Redeemer’s University, said that the institution’s post graduate students have received quality and world standard training to make them succeed and contribute to modern civilisation.