AFTER a first term punctuated by controversies, confusion and hesitations, the All Progressives Congress (APC) is finally primed to kick-start its second term at the helm of Nigerian affairs fairly more confidently and more resolutely. In the parliament, its preferred principal officers have been elected with pluralities they can boast about: a crushing 79 to 28 in favour of their candidate, Ahmed Lawan; and an anticlimactic but no less satisfying victory of 281 votes for the favoured Femi Gbajabiamila to 76 votes for Umar Bago. The victories were emphatic, prompting the feisty and elated party chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to describe that comprehensive victory as the party’s finest hour. He often indulges in hyperbole in the heat of battle, or in the first flush of victory; this time, it must be conceded to him, he has more than enough reason to luxuriate in the uncharacteristic victory he and his men plotted and secured. If this was the APC’s finest hour, despite winning a presidential election just a few months ago, it must be that for a man many have described as candid and polemical, his Freudian slip may be an indication of his true assessment of the prevailing electoral realities. More crucially, for a man against whom party insurrectionists had recently brought out the knives, this may be the first undiluted victory he would mastermind against the run of play. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had regained its strength, as demonstrated by its electoral performance in the states, and is thus not incapable of still springing surprises to wrest control of the parliament. A few weeks ago, party rebels, inspired by the cheerless former chairman, John Odigie-Oyegun, were determined to cut Mr Oshiomhole to size, and had begun to stir up trouble for him. It was in the midst of these troubles that the former labour unionist, helped no doubt by party leaders, turned what looked like a difficult and anxious situation into a sweeping victory. Mr Oshiomhole can now exult as much as he wants, and Senator Lawan and Honourable Gbajabiamila can finally exhale after so many tortuous years of hankering after the principal legislative positions. They have finally won the big prizes. The victory may be tempered by the inexplicable election of the rabble-rousing Delta State senator Ovie Omo-Agege and the rather undisguised involvement of the president — after he had sworn himself to dignified neutrality — in pushing the candidacies of the two leading APC lawmakers, but at least they now seem to have a clean slate upon which to write their agenda, prepare their legacies, and lay a solid foundation for 2023. Now completely shorn of excuses, considering that they still have 20 APC states in their kitty and dominate the legislature implacably, their competence or otherwise in governing the country, not to say their ideology, will be far easier to evaluate than they imagine. Their predecessor in office, the PDP, ruled for a meagre 16 years and floundered badly. Apart from leaving the treasury doors ajar for all manner of journeymen to gorge themselves on Nigeria’s wealth, they were nevertheless a fairly cohesive and inclusive political party, a party that no czar seemed to dominate, a party unencumbered by principles and ethics, a party so ideologically fluid within the conservative spectrum that it made no one to suffer pangs of conscience. The APC, particularly the president, if not Mr Oshiomhole himself, has sometimes given the impression that its rules and regulations are interchangeable with the most exacting of liturgies. The PDP, on the other hand, was loosely run, made no pretence to holiness, but was fairly effective. The APC was until now never really run as a political organisation, but it has consistently aspired to be run like a disciplined body. If it can find the balance between the permissiveness of the PDP and the choking regimentation inspired by the president, the party may yet have a lasting impact on the country. Imposing discipline in the APC is, however, a tall order. The party is fortunate to have Mr Oshiomhole who is naturally imperious and well suited to leftist regimentation. Assuming he can be restrained from turning party members into a goose-stepping army of pragmatists, with Cuban and North Korean overtones, he can be trusted to persevere in instituting the jarring changes indispensable to the running and survival of the party. He will have to contend with members of the Governors Forum who are themselves uncomfortable with taking orders from anyone but themselves, and he will have to battle the cabal who will keep whispering paranoia into the president’s ears. But if he can stay the course, if he can master the art of giving and taking, sometimes punishing and sometimes placating the enemy, he stands a good chance of beating his party’s drawn swords into ploughshares. Nothing guarantees success in that difficult endeavour, for those who appear to be holding the short end of the stick today appear determined to give the party chairman the fight of his life. Now that the APC controls the legislature very firmly, it will be clear whether their problem was a National Assembly (NASS) subverted and compromised by former Senate President Bukola Saraki and to a lesser extent by former Speaker Yakubu Dogara. The president’s awkward approach to lawmaking and his even more gauche approach to socially relating with opponents and critics led him to experience a difficult relationship with the legislature. Sen Saraki might be a difficult and pompous lawmaker, a politician who was grasping, didactic and contemptuous of both his inferiors and betters, but he was not impossible to mould by a brilliant and diplomatic president, nor difficult to relate with or control by those described in urban parlance as his Kryptonites. Hon Dogara was more level-headed and not as obsessed with position as Sen Saraki. Noblesse oblige, however, made him join forces with the former senate president in the 8th NASS. With their total control of NASS, neither the APC as a party nor the president has any more excuse for sloppy budgeting and lawmaking. The legislature will not ennoble an executive that proved in the last four years to be peculiarly tardy, plebeian and complaisant. The president has promised to assemble a better team, and perhaps too a kitchen cabinet that passes muster. If he lives up to his promise, he will complement the 9th NASS, assuming that the new lawmakers can also rise to the stature of their boasts and the expectations of a wary populace. As expected, the new NASS will try to find its feet in how to relate with the executive and justify the yearnings of the electorate. The principal officers have hungered for their positions for so long; they must now decide just what their approach to lawmaking will be: whether it will follow the constitution or pander to the caprices of the executive. Indeed, the most difficult task the 9th NASS will face in the months and years ahead is whether they can truly be independent of the executive without being unduly confrontational. The party is exulting over its control of the parliament, having fought tooth and nail to enthrone its favoured sons as principal officers. Whether those sons can look their mentors and sponsors in the face and tell them to go stuff the constitution down their throats is another thing entirely. The grovelling Sen Omo-Agege, who was alleged to have masterminded the snatching of the mace from the Senate last March, has been elected deputy senate president. He is naturally subservient. No one is sure how both Sen Lawan and Hon Gbajabiamila will stand when the chips are down, whether they will call their souls their own or produce a masterful display of legislative competence, independence and wizardry. There are whispers suggesting they may not be what they are cracked up to be. Time will, however, tell. After all, who knew Chief Odigie-Oyegun would genuflect before governors and party leaders when he was party chairman? And who knew the moralising ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo would seek third term? Soon, despite seizing control of the executive and the legislature, and after, in the opinion of many, virtually taking control of the judiciary in ways that may be inimical to the rule of law, the APC may finally discover that all its gains can be negated by a lack of ideology. Mr Oshiomhole is pragmatic; the president is conservative, perhaps an archconservative; most of the party’s governors and lawmakers are either safely ideologically noncommittal or at best welfarist; and the rest, party leaders and members alike, are apostles of ad hocism, sometimes hunting with the hound or running with the hare depending on the expediency of the moment. With such fluidity, how does the party hope to weld together a disciplined political party eager to pursue great ideals or die for something? For the past 20 years, Nigeria’s ruling parties have been lax in everything, including their policies, extremely eclectic in their methods, and aggressively practical. Ideologies exert pressures on them in ways they are unwilling to endure, let alone implement. Without an inner core made of steel, where will the party find the fulcrum upon which to balance their government and their legacies? It was easy for President Buhari to blame Sen Saraki and Hon Dogara for the confusion and retrogression of the past four years. His diagnosis is of course wrong, for the blame lies squarely with him. It was also easy for APC members to blame their lack of cohesion on fifth columnists and an indecisive chairman. Now, the party has a chairman who knows what he wants and how to get it. But that is only if they let him, and if he proves capable of moderating his verbal aggression and learning from his own mistakes. The jury is out on whether the party can restore the cohesion that helped them overthrow the 16-year tyranny of the PDP. If the president can somehow put together a great ministerial team and kitchen cabinet, if Mr Oshiomhole can nudge his party into crystallising an ideology out of their amorphous and sometimes infantile worldviews and projecting the right leadership that gives that ideology life and meaning, and if party members themselves have the common sense to unite around a great and common long-term cause, perhaps their takeover of the legislature on the terms they claim to be comfortable with, not to say the restoration of the Buhari monarchy that gives the party the latitude it desires, may yet avail the party and the country much. But here again the jury is still out, for as everyone knows, greatness is not necessarily hewed out of flowing with the river but often flowing against it. 