INFORMATION minister, Lai Mohammed, presidential spokesmen, Femi Adesina and Garba Shehu, and to some extent the president himself, Muhammadu Buhari, constitute the main public face of the federal government. The national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, now and again also blurts out statements and sprouts philosophies on behalf of the government to indicate he belongs to the same league. Each is a part of the rich facial tapestry of the government, and all of them are ardent spokesmen of the government in one form (and severity) or the other. However, all of them have managed to define their concepts and terms in ways that puzzle, agitate or sometimes amuse the citizenry. In September 2017, to the bemusement of the whole world, but convinced it was doing the right thing, the federal government declared the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) a terrorist organisation. It was clear that the government had a different but possibly pragmatic definition of terrorism from the rest of the world. They knew they were treading on quicksand, and would draw aggressive and unrelenting flak, but they proceeded nevertheless to redefine the term, terrorism. Here is how they did it using IPOB as the guinea pig: “The acts and utterances of IPOB were acts and utterances of terrorists. For instance, Nnamdi Kanu, the IPOB leader was caught on tape saying that they want Biafra and not peacefully, but by force. He declared that if they did not get Biafra, Somalia would be a paradise with the kind of mayhem they would unleash on Nigeria. The group openly embraced arms and ammunition and the leader set up Biafra National Guard, Biafra Secret Service and openly attacked army formations.” This engaging definition of terrorism was offered on a BBC Focus on Africa programme in September 2017. Even the anchor of the programme was gobsmacked. He asked why other militant groups like the Fulani herdsmen were not declared terrorists. The Information minister deadpanned: “Acts of criminality should not be confused with terrorism acts.” With his parallels neatly drawn, and indifferent to any other person’s perspectives, the minister gave the impression that the government was not afraid to defy the world in the use of English. But dismayed by the sweeping use of a term that has clearly become a major security concern all over the world, the governments of France, United Kingdom and the European Union (EU) threw back the definition of terrorism in the face of Nigeria. Herdsmen, they chorused, were terrorists, and IPOB was not. Defining herdsmen as terrorists had been a tough and long struggle, with many top northern leaders insisting that the Fulani were being unnecessarily stigmatised, despite the inexorable link between the ethnic group and the violent methods of herding cattle in Nigeria. In the same vein they had many years ago stubbornly resisted defining Boko Haram as a terrorist organisation, believing that it was a ploy both to restrict and stereotype the northern part of Nigeria and to put a general obstacle in the path of innocent Nigerians who might want to travel abroad. Nigerians would be subjected to additional scrutiny at international borders, they cautioned. Up till today, the government has waffled considerably in delineating Boko Haram. They are just criminals, they say, and are not even Islamic, they smirk. Mr Shehu, one of the president’s spokesmen, caused an uproar early this month when he likened the umbrella body of herdsmen, Miyetti Allah, to some southern-based socio-cultural organisations like the Yoruba Afenifere and Igbo Ohanaeze. It did not occur to him that both southern groups and others like them have nothing to do with the economic activities of their people, nor ever openly agitated for a break-up of the country, nor sanctioned violent migratory practices, nor even promoted ethnic supremacy. Indeed, after Mr Shehu spoke, it finally became clear to many observers that nothing could make the government declare herdsmen as terrorists, as it continues to regard their often militant approach to herding cattle as a minor misunderstanding over grazing lands and practices. As a matter of fact, many government officials, including security chiefs, have refused to denounce the herdsmen’s violent approach to grazing. But the government’s definitional puzzles are not limited to hard issues like herdsmen and IPOB. The president himself, on his return to Nigeria in May after a ‘private visit’ to the UK, equated efficiency with weight. There was neither scientific nor philosophical underpinning to what is clearly a puzzling definition. For the 10-day period the president was away, during which the country witnessed some horrendous attacks by bandits, Boko Haram insurgents and herdsmen, it became urgent for Nigerians to find a solution to their security nightmares. The president knew he was expected to offer something drastic, particularly, as some suggested, replacing his security chiefs who were considered a little tired. But suborning the concept of efficiency to the argument, the president mused that the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, who was standing before him as he disembarked from the presidential plane, had lost weight, an indication of how hard the police boss was working to regain control of the country’s security situation. Many were appalled by the unorthodox equation, but the presidency simply moved on. The government had given an insight into the definition of the term, and was satisfied with it, even if in the government’s cynical opinion some Nigerians bespattered it with politics. If the president meant equating efficiency with weight as a joke, critics said, it was both bizarre and misplaced. But the trouble is that no one else these days seems to know when the president is joking or serious, especially given the gravity of some of the issues confronting him and the country he presides over. Topics like mass murders and frequent abductions, everyone seems to agree, do not admit of jokes of any kind. So, according to some of the president’s critics, he was probably serious in the deployment of that definitional cocktail. Whether the IGP took the definition both seriously and as a compliment or not, no one knows, for Mr Adamu is so taciturn that there does not seem to be a light side to him. But no definition took the biscuit quite like the president’s view of the rule of law. Speaking during an inappropriate dinner with senior members of the judiciary, the president pledged to abide by all judicial decisions. “I respect the institution”, he intoned. “I came before you three times before I got here on the fourth run for the office. Your word is the last word on any given issue.” Even though this is the first time he would indicate that he was pleased with serially litigating his defeats, partly because he eventually won without litigation, his previous position had been that the third arm of government was irredeemably corrupt. Does this unusual definition of the rule of law — that their word is the last on any issue — mean that he will henceforth abide by judicial decisions, seeing that he now proclaims an epiphanic respect for that institution? Or does it mean he in fact truly believes that he had always understood the concept, without needing to redefine it, and always obeyed court judgements? It is hard to say. What is, however, clear is that until now, and in line with his redefinition of the rule of law, he had always chosen what court judgements to obey, as evidenced by Sambo Dasuki V. Federal Government, and El-Zakzaky and ors V. Federal Government. If he chooses to obey court decisions now, could it not be interpreted as resoluteness consequent upon his achieving or contriving the desired leadership of the judiciary? Whatever the case, his definition is suspect and untested until his government comes face to face with adversarial judgements, especially those that strike at the root of his government or question the legitimacy of his actions and policies. Having immersed itself in a deep definitional quandary in the past three years and more, the present government will encourage the Information minister, Mr Mohamed, to continue to pick up the broken pieces of its non-sequiturs and mop the sodden floors of its policy and primordial biases, especially if he is retained in the cabinet, as indeed seems plausible. For only Mr Mohammed, quite unlike many Information ministers that preceded him, appears capable of arguing two contrasting and contending positions with detached plausibility. No one holds the candle to him, not even Tom Ikimi, nor Uche Chukwumerije. But Mr Shehu is hard on his heels.