HOUSE of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila on Monday assured Lagosians and Nigerians that the House will not let them down in the discharge of its duties. Gbajabiamila spoke at a thanksgiving service organised by the House of Representatives member from Kosofe Constituency, Prince Rotimi Agunsoye, at the Victory Parish of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Magodo. The service officiated by Pastors Toyin Olamilekan and Charles Kpandei was witnessed by the Lagos State governor’s wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, Deputy Governor’s wife Oluremi, Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora, House of Representatives members Jimi Benson, Ademorin Kuye and Dr. Samuel Adejare, Chief Tunde Temionu, Lagos white cap chiefs and other All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains. Thanking God for Agunsoye’s re-election, Gbajabiamila described him as a rock that had been consistent in his support for his aspiration. He reflected on the battle for the number four citizen, thanking Lagosians for standing by him since 2015 when he nursed the ambition. The Speaker, who thanked Lagosians, especially Surulere Constituency, for electing him for the fifth time, promised to always live up to expectation. Agunsoye said he had made it a tradition to come before God for thanksgiving after achieving any political leap. Accompanied by his wife, Yinka, the former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs said he would not compromise his position as a public officer. Agunsoye stressed: “I declare again that, today, June 23, 2019, I will never in any way compromise my service to God. I will not miss anything with serving God. If I do that, He should not answer my prayers. “I will not compromise my position in moving this nation forward.” Agunsoye noted that he had requested the pastors to pray for the nation and those that would emerge after the primaries and general elections. He added: “I said if Abuja will not be possible, God, don’t let them take Lagos from us. I thank God. Governor Sanwo-Olu has always come to this church to thank God for me when I became Special Adviser on Urban and Physical Planning, Commissioner and when I first won election into the House of Representatives.” 