Gunmen on Monday killed a personnel of the military Special Task Force (STF), maintaining peace on the Plateau, and three other persons at Tubun-Rong village in Ganawuri District of Riyom Local Government Area of the state. Mr Timothy Datong, member representing Riyom Constituency in the Plateau State House of Assembly, who disclosed this at Tuesday’s plenary, described the persistent killings in his constituency as “scary”. Datong made the disclosure while making contribution on a matter of urgent public importance brought by Mr Amurudu Usain (Bokkos/APC). Usain’s presentation had focused on the spate of insecurity in the state. Datong further disclosed that 54 houses were completely razed down by the attackers, leaving many villagers homeless “The state of insecurity and spate of killings in communities across the state is alarming. “Yesterday, at about 12 noon, Tubun Rong, a village in Ganawuri District in my constituency, was attacked and three persons, including a soldier, was killed. “Fifty-four houses were also burnt down and farmlands destroyed by the attackers,” he said. The lawmaker said that many people were displaced and were currently taking refuge in various camps, and called on the government to beef up security in the affected community. Datong decried the inability of the local government council to respond to the needs of the displaced, urging the state government to provide succour to cushion the effect of the attacks on the affected people. Mr Isaac Akinmoyede, the Police Commissioner in the state, who confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said that the identity of the attackers had not been ascertained as yet. He confirmed that a personnel of the STF was killed during a face-off with the attackers. “Though the villagers claimed that the attackers are Fulani herdsmen, we have not yet established that. “Investigation is ongoing to unravel the identity of the attackers. Once we can get them, they will be made to face the full wrath of the law, ” he said. The commissioner said that a combined team of security personnel had been deployed to the area to avert future attacks and forestall a breakdown of law and order. He called on residents of the area to remain calm and be law abiding, adding that security agencies would leave no stone unturned in the efforts to bring the perpetrators to book. (NAN)