Justice Sybil Nwaka of an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court yesterday fixed Friday for the hearing of a fresh bail application of Chrisland School Supervisor, Adegboyega Adenekan standing trial for allegedly defiling a two-year-old pupil of the school Justice Nwaka had on Tuesday temporarily revoked the earlier bail granted Adenekan by a Magistrate court at the commencement of his trial at the lower court. At resumed proceedings yesterday, the trial judge again declined the request by defence counsel, Olatunde Adejuyigbe (SAN) to allow Adenekan to continue to enjoy the bail granted by the lower court. The judge insisted that the defendant shall remain in Kirikiri Prisons pending the hearing of his bail application tomorrow and advised the defence to file a formal application for bail. Adenekan under cross-examination by the prosecution, B.T Boye, said it was incorrect to say that his victim was able to describe and locate his office because he once took her there. He said he disagreed with the result of the polygraph test conducted on him because he believed it was fabricated by the mother of the victim. He told the court that he does not know his victim despite a remark he made in her respect that “she is active, brilliant and better than her classmates”, stressing that his knowledge of her was not peculiar to him but common knowledge in the school. Adenekan said he was not aware that it was the doctor at the school’s clinic where his victim was taken to that asked her to draw his manhood. He insisted that nobody told him what transpired in the clinic. The defendant claimed that he was not aware that the police made several attempts to locate him or that the matter was transferred to the Gender Desk of the Lagos State Police Command, Ikeja. Asked where he was while the Police were looking for him for about ten days after a formal complaint was filed against him, he said he was in Opebi branch of the school before he was instructed to proceed to Ladipo Oluwole branch by the school’s management. He insisted that there was no connivance between him and the school authority to stay away. He said the school placed him on suspension without pay indefinitely until the conclusion of the on-going trial. Justice Nwaka adjourned till October 18.