The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Uhunmwode local government area of Edo State has suspended Hon. Washington Osifo for breach of article 21 (A) of the party’s constitution. Osifo is one of the 13 lawmakers-elect allegedly backed by former Governor Adams Oshiomhole accused of refusing to present themselves for inauguration as a member of the Edo State House of Assembly. Some party leaders in Uhunmwode had last week issued ultimatum to Osifo to present himself before Speaker Frank Okiye to be sworn-in, arguing that the constituency could not afford its representative to be absent at plenary. A communiqué issued at the end of an enlarged meeting of APC in Uhunmwode and signed by 35 party executives and leaders said that Barr. Osifo was suspended over actions that clearly violated Article 21 (a), (iii) and (iv) of the Constitution of the APC 2014, as amended. “We the concerned executives of the party hereby referred to the meeting held on June 8th, 2019, advised Barr. Washington Osa Osifo not to go against the rules of our party constitution. We have looked into the activities of Barr. Washington Osa Osifo, which were a clear violation of Article 21(A), (III) and (IV) of the constitution of All Progressives Congress (APC) 2014 as amended, the local government and ward executives considered the chairman’s brief based on the committee’s report. Reacting to the suspension, Osifo said the leaders that signed the communiqué have earlier been suspended by a majority of party members. According to the lawmaker, Mr. Charles Idahosa who convened the meeting was not a member of the APC, having stepped aside from APC activities in 2017. “I have not seen where Charles Idahosa said he has returned to the APC. The suspension is laughable because it cannot stand. They think it is their prerogative to own the APC. I challenge them to state what they have done for Uhunmwode people. I will never boot lick. What exactly have I done? Is it my courage to speak truth to power and reject minority rule in the Edo State House of Assembly,” he said. 