The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) on Thursday threw more light on why President Muhammadu Buhari relieved the present Group Managing Director, Dr. Maikanti Baru of the responsibility. The corporation in a statement that the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu issued in Abuja on Friday said that Baru is due for statutorily retire on July 7, 2019, on the ground of attainment of 60 years retirement age. According to the statement, “A follow-up release on the new appointments by the NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, informed that the new Group Managing Director, Mr. Mele Kolo Kyari, who takes over from a current occupier of the office, Dr. Maikanti Baru, effectively on 8th July 2019, is until his new appointment the Group General Manager, Crude Oil Marketing Division of NNPC. Dr. Baru would retire statutorily on July 7, 2019.” NNPC said that Mr. Kyari doubled, since 13th May, 2018, as Nigeria’s National Representative to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). The NNPC spokesperson said Kyari would be bringing to his new appointment more than 27 years of experience in the various value chains of the Petroleum Industry. According to him, Roland Onoriode Ewubare who hails from the South-South region of the Country and is appointed Chief Operating Officer, Upstream, was until his new appointment Group General Manager, National Petroleum Investments and Management Services, a Corporate Services (NAPIMS) unit of the corporation headquartered in Lagos. Before his NAPIMS’ appointment, he was Managing Director of the Integrated Data Services Limited (IDSL), a seismic data acquisition company of NNPC based in Benin. The statement noted that Engr. Mustapha Yinusa Yakubu hails from North Central region of the Country and is newly appointed as Chief Operating Officer, Refining and Petrochemicals. Until his new appointment, he was the Managing Director of National Engineering and Technical Company Limited (NETCO). Continuing, NNPC said that “Engr. Yusuf Usman hails from North East and is Chief Operating Officer, Gas and Power. Until his new appointment, Engr. Usman was Senior Technical Assistant to the Group Managing Director of the corporation. “Ms. Lawrencia Nwadiabuwa Ndupu, from South East, is newly appointed as Chief Operating Officer, Ventures. She, until her new appointment was the Group General Manager, NNPC Oil Field Services, established to provide technical services to players in the Industry. “Mr. Umar Isa Ajiya, from North West region of the Country who holds the new position of Chief Financial Officer, was until his recent appointment, the Managing Director of Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) of NNPC, a Downstream arm of the corporation. Prior to holding the position as the Managing Director of PPMC, he was the corporation’s Group General Manager Corporate Planning and Strategy (CP&S). “Engr. Adeyemi Adetunji, who is from the South West region of the Country, holding the new appointment of Chief Operating Officer, Downstream, was until his new appointment the Managing Director of NNPC Retail Limited, a Downstream Marketing Company of NNPC. Prior to his position as the MD of the Downstream Marketing Company, he was General Manager, Transformation Department, a Think-thank unit of the corporation. “Mr. Farouk Garba Said who hails from North West and holds the new position of Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Services, was Group General Manager, Engineering and Technology Division of NNPC. Mr. Said would be taking over from the present occupier of the office who retires statutorily on 28th June, 2019. “The new appointees have been directed to work with the current occupiers of the various offices by President Buhari till 7th July, 2019 to ensure a smooth transition on 8th July 2019 when their appointments would take effect.”