Luminous Inverter Systems distributor Simba Group has launched Luminous DeLite, an affordable power backup solution. The new product boasts the same high-level quality that has helped the brand to reach and sustain its leadership position in the industry. The inverter system, offered as a package, has a 900VA Inverter at the core of its offering, coupled with a 150AH Tubular battery that is optimally designed to work with this inverter. Along with a battery trolley that helps to further entice customers, Simba said it is offering the Luminous DeLite at an introductory price of N99,000. Speaking at the launch of Luminous DeLite in Lagos, Mr. Ravi Srivastava of Simba Group, said the company worked closely with the research and development team of Luminous Power, which is a Schneider Electric company, to develop an inverter and battery combo that is specifically designed for Nigerian power conditions. He said apart from making the product available at an introductory price point of below N100, 000, it still retains everything that people love about Luminous namely, reliability, service and performance. “The package has been under development by teams in India and Nigeria, for close to a year now, and we are very excited to bring this offering to the market. The trolley, which houses the inverter and battery, is just the cherry on top,” Srivastava said. The company’s Managing Director, Chief Vinay Grover,  added: “At the core of our vision is a desire to Enrich Nigerian Lives and for over 30 years now, we have been offering innovative products, which help people in their daily lives. “And for 10 years, this has also been through the deployment of inverter systems which help people overcome the challenges of intermittent power supply by delivering Always-On Power without the need for polluting and expensive diesel, and with the comfort and easy of automatic changeover.” Grover stated that whilst the company’s solutions delivered this promise to ‘many’, “We now extend our offering to ‘most’ by introducing the DeLite – an inverter and battery package which can deliver standby power to a small private home not only at a price range which is more affordable, but with an inverter and battery package which is tailor made for the market.” Luminous has won multiple awards including ‘Best Inverter Brand,’ conferred by the Institute of Brand Management in Nigeria, the International Brand Management Association and the African Institute of Brand Management. Internationally, the brand has been deemed a ‘Superbrand’ and been recognised by Frost and Sullivan for the technology it employs. Simba was the first to launch a branded inverter solution in Nigeria, and the combination of first-class quality products, backed by equally first-class service from Simba Service, has helped the company to win the hearts and minds of the Nigerian consumer. The Simba Group is one of the country’s most respected business groups, and has been in operation in Nigeria for over 30 years. It has contributed greatly to the  economy, and its portfolio of widely recognised brands, continue to dominate industries in which Simba operates. 