•Change of orientation, proper funding key to success of the change of name THE Senate has passed a bill sponsored by Senator Gbenga Ashafa for conversion of Yaba College of Tech-  nology in Lagos to City University of Technology. A related bill to establish a federal polytechnic in Iwerekun, Ibeju-Lekki in Lagos State, also sponsored by Ashafa, was  passed. We find giving Yaba Tech the full status of a technological university a progressive development. In terms of the country’s tradition of controversy in relation to allocation of value to vocational education and general education, converting Yaba Tech and other technical colleges to technical universities marks a major change in the education system. Yaba College of Technology and Kaduna College of Technology represent a model of education bequeathed to Nigeria by the British colonial masters in the century of colonisation. Such model of technical education has changed and is still changing, not only in the United Kingdom but also in many other countries. For decades after independence in 1960, the country has been embroiled in controversy about which knowledge is superior and deserves higher remuneration between vocational and general education. It is, therefore, logical that the Senate’s passing of the bill to turn Yaba Tech into City University seems to bring into sync the earlier decision of the Federal Executive Council to give equal status to vocational and general education. Such policy is bound to change the attitude of citizens to vocational and technical education and to end the ‘winners and losers’ syndrome that has been a source of friction and tension regarding the role of skills learning and cognitive learning in national development. However, it is not clear why the bill focused only on Yaba Tech. Although Yaba Tech is the oldest technical college in the country, having succeeded Yaba Higher College since 1937, Kaduna Polytechnic is also one of the many technical colleges that deserve consideration, especially in view of the fact that the policy announced by the FEC last year called for conversion of both colleges to the status of universities. Undoubtedly, Yaba Tech has the longest experience in technical education in the country. Nevertheless, it is, like other colleges and universities, noticeably affected by underfunding. For example, just last year, the rector of the college complained about lack of equipment for teaching 21st century skills, and inadequate teaching staff to teach over 15,000 students of the college. The conversion to university must go beyond the symbolism of name change. It must include proper funding for the new City University of Technology to achieve the goals of positioning Nigeria favourably for effective participation in a competitive global economy driven by technology, and of which it is a part. Furthermore, a point raised by the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, that 70% of the enrolment of Yaba Tech is constituted by people in non-technical fields needs to be addressed during the transition of Yaba Tech to a full-fledged university of technology. It is instructive that many institutions licensed by the National Universities Commission (NUC) since the beginning of the 4th Republic have been converted to general universities because of lack of students with requisite preparation for technical training or lack of resources for sustaining credible technical education.  Yaba City University of Technology and other polytechnics joining the league of universities should be saved from the problems of technical universities across the country that have been compelled to move away from the goals for which they were originally approved. In addition, the resources of the new City University must not be overstretched by running a second campus in Epe, especially that a new college of technology may be coming to Ibeju-Lekki. We consider the rise in the number of technical universities a challenge for the country to reform its primary and secondary education in relation to stimulating the culture of high technical skills and innovative spirit. This can be considered in relation to new approaches in other countries to the teaching of science, technology, and mathematics (STEM) at the primary and secondary levels. Such early intervention in preparation of young boys and girls for the country’s old and new universities of technology is vital to delivering sustainable growth and prosperity in the country. 