NIGERIANS are gifted with gallows humour! On social media some have taken to describing the raft of stern traffic regulations rolled out by the new Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, as another re-enactment of the military’s Decree Two. First, this is a false equivalence as the infamous decree targeted freedom of expression, while the traffic rules in Lagos are more of a life-saving intervention. I have always argued that impunity on Lagos roads has reached crisis levels and requires drastic action. It is laudable that the governor has recognised the seriousness of the situation and set about tackling the menace in a very bold way. One of the major criticisms of the fines so far announced by the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) is that they are too steep. My question would be what is an appropriate fine or sanction for driving without a license or against traffic? No one can say. We make light of traffic offences but they can be life-threatening. Multiple crashes which claimed lives have been caused by people driving against traffic. A crazed driver hurtling down the wrong way is not just on a joyride: he’s actually a weapon of mass destruction if his stupidity triggers a fatal accident. People miss the point when they go on about the ‘harsh’ fines. It is all about deterrence. Something that is convenient doesn’t deter. There are many people in Lagos who can afford to lose N10, 000 for the pleasure of driving against traffic. But a large fine will stop you in your tracks and make you think again. The fear of impoundment would make you ask ‘is it worth losing my car because I want to gain five minutes?’ The vast majority of road users in the city are law-abiding. However, there is a lunatic fringe that needs to be isolated and dealt with for the health of the larger population. For these diehard offenders, punishment would lose its essence if it isn’t painful. That said, some of the criticisms are valid and deserve to be looked at by the government. For instance, the bulk of offences like driving against traffic and impeding movement are committed by commercial bus drivers and people in uniforms. But they are hardly ever arrested. Some of the vehicles they drive are a danger to the lives of others road users. Many are without lights, brakes or wipers. The amount of fumes emanating from their exhaust can poison a neighbourhood. Yet they ply the roads daily unmolested because of corruption and compromise of those who should check them. It is only reasonable that people raise the alarm over blatant selective enforcement of the laws. For the new regime to gain greater acceptance the government must ensure that all animals are treated equally.