Early exposure of youths to emerging technologies remain one of the surest way to tap into the fourth industrial revolution, Vodacom Business Nigeria has said. Its Managing Director, Wale Odeyem, who spoke in Lagos at the end of the firm’s second yearly Inter-School Robotics Training Workshop for students across nine Lagos secondary schools, said the firm remained committed to ensuring that the country kept pace with the evolution of telecoms technologies. Odeyemi said: “As an organisation, our aim is to help empower the next generation, with relevant technical skills in order to drive positive change in the economy through the use of communications technologies. “As the world progresses further into the Fourth Industrial Revolution, there has never been a better time to infuse some much-needed STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) training in the education sector through such initiatives as the annual Inter-School Robotics Training initiative. This initiative further demonstrates Vodacom’s support for education at the grass root level to encourage further budding of aspiring youths who are interested in participating in the digital revolution.” Among the schools that participated in the workshop were Dansol High School, Avi-Cenna, Holy Child College, Edgewood College, and Adrao International School. Others were Rainbow College, Greensprings International School, D-Ivy College, Halifield College and Chrisland College. The participating students, between 12 and 15, had firsthand opportunities to immerse themselves in the complexities that surround the Internet of Things (IoT) and how these will shape society in the near future. As part of the programme, students were taught how to build, programme, and control various kinds of robots which are being used to perform numerous functions in today’s world. This demonstrated the essential use cases of such technologies in everyday life, ranging from manufacturing to transportation, as far as securing lives and property. The workshop provided participants the opportunity to explore various ways in which technology is shaping the world. The training covered areas, such as Robotics, Artificial Intelligence (AI), the Iternet of Things (IoT) and Virtual Reality (V.R.). The students were also equipped with useful mechanical and programming skills, which can be honed and developed as they progress through the various levels of education. Edgewood College, Lekki came top in the competition that took place after the training. Holy Child College Obalende and ADRAO International School, Victoria Island were first and second runners-up.