Coalition of Buhari/Osinbajo Movement (COBOM) has said the All Progressives Congress must build on its victory at the 2019 general elections ahead of 2023. The group said the party would need to look inward, reorganise, re-strategise and come up with new ideas on how to convince Nigerians to vote for the party in 2023. Chief Convener of Bulama Support Group, Ibrahim Waziri, stated this at a briefing on Thursday in Abuja, the nation’s capital. He said: “APC has been a very lucky party from 2015. For the 2015 and 2019 elections, we are lucky to have a very popular candidate that flew the flag of the party. However, in 2023, we are not going to have President Muhammadu Buhari on the ticket. What do we do next as a party? We have to look inward, reorganize, re-strategise, and come up with new ideas on how to convince Nigerians and make the party popular. “From all indications, we see that the APC needs to inject in new blood because of what happened in 2019 election. The party is still popular nation-wide because we had the largest mandate in the history of Nigeria.” Waziri said the group is backing Waziri Bulama to occupy the position of the National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Currently, the office of the secretary is very reserved because we had very competent people that occupied the office before. By the time we have a person like Arc Waziri Bulama in to work with the current team in the national secretariat, I’m sure the sky will be our stepping stone. “We invite all our members across the country and go to the National Secretariat and present our position and we continue with advocacy of meeting the leaders of the party from the North-East and the nation at large, so that we can have a competent hand to occupy the office of the National Secretary. “Arc. Waziri Bulama has contributed more than enough to this party from the inception, merger; there is a structural position that he initiated and inserted in the constitution, that is, the polling unit structure of the APC. “He used his initiative, responsibility, capacity and contact to make sure that it was incorporated into the constitution of APC,” he added.  