As the 9th National Assembly is inaugurated, is there a chance the members will return to a constitutionally approved income bracket, or are they going to remain recalcitrant like their predecessors? The previous assemblies, particularly the 8th assembly, led by Senator Bukola Saraki treated the national treasury like a bazaar sales, open for raid by the fittest. From their vantage position as federal lawmakers, they maximally looted our common patrimony, through budget padding, unconscionable allowances and sundry extortion of the exchequer. All warnings by well-meaning Nigerians, that a legislative assembly operating as an outlaw is an anathema and because of its vantage position casts aspersion on the very foundation of constitutional democracy, fell on deaf ears. They treated with disdain section 70 of the 1999 constitution (as amended), which provides without equivocation that: “A member of the Senate or of the House of Representative shall receive such salary and other allowances as the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission may determine.” That mandatory provision has been treated with ignominy by majority of past National Assemblies, yet section 153 of the constitution created the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) as a federal executive body to determine the remuneration of certain public officers. Under its Third Schedule Part 1N (paragraphs31 and 32), itprovides the composition and powers of the RMAFC. By paragraph 32 (d): “The commission shall have power to: determine the remuneration appropriate for political office holders, including the president, vice president, governors, deputy governors, ministers, commissioners, special advisers, legislators and the holders of the offices mentioned in section 84 and 124 of this constitution”. Why our federal lawmakers choose to ignore a clear provision of the constitution is strange. But even stranger is the condoning of this illegality all these years. Between the executive and the legislature there appears aconsensusad idem to allow the breach in the spirit of brinkmanship. Even such a concordat will be unconstitutional, for the Supreme Court in A. G.Bendel State vs A. G. Federation (2001) F.W.L.R. Pt. 65 page 504 unequivocally held: “Neither a state nor an individual can contract out of the provisions of the constitution. The reason for this is that contract to do a thing which cannot be done without a violation of the law is void.” Any agreement between the executive and the legislature to allow the payment of any form of remuneration beyond the contemplation of the constitution is therefore void. Even when the previous legislators have unconstitutionally engaged in what amounts to self-help, ‘such arrangement’ can not estop a return to constitutionality. In the A.G. Bendel’s case (supra), the court held: “There can be no estoppel against the assertion of the supremacy of the constitution.” No doubt, the constitution has imbued the national assembly with enormous powers over the consolidated revenue of the federation. These powers are contained in the provisions of sections 80-84 of the 1999 constitution. But as humongous as the powers are, there is no provision for self-help with respect to the remuneration of members of the federal legislature by whatever name called. So the clear remonstration of the Supreme Court in Military Governor of Lagos State vsOjukwu 1 ACLC pg. 392 is apt, if the incoming federal legislature gives a damn about the rule of law. In that case, the learned Justices held: “The Nigerian constitution is founded on the rule of law, the primary meaning of which is that everything must be done according to law. It means also that government should be conducted within the framework of recognised rules and principles which restrict discretionary powers….” The 9th national assembly must resist the temptation to sustain the aberration of self-help, as practised by their predecessors in a constitutional democracy. Such strange behaviour was unequivocally deprecated by the Supreme Court in theOjukwu’s case aforesaid. In the words of the Supreme Court Justices: “In the area where ruleof law operates, the rule of self-help by force is abandoned. Nigeria, being one of the countries in the world, even in the third world which profess loudly to follow the rule of law, gives no room for the rule of self-help by force to operate.” There is no gain saying that the 1999 constitution operates on tripod, made up of the legislature, the executive and the judiciary. The fine essence of such distribution of powers is to ensure checks and balances, without which democracy will slip into autocracy. The makers of the constitution knows that if the executive is left to raise the money and singularly determine how to share same, such enormous powers will be abused. In the same manner, since the legislature has the powers to legislate who gets what, their income cannot be left for them to also determine. The same principle is applicable to the judiciary and executive whose remuneration is not left by the constitution in their own hands. In the case of A. G. Federation vs Guardian Newspaper Ltd (2001) F.W.L.R. Pt. 32at pg. 87, the Supreme Court, despite the aberration of a military dictatorship held: “Under 1979 constitution (which is inparimateria with the 1999 constitution), the principle of separation of powers operated with the division of functions of government between the executive, legislature and the judiciary under Decree 107 of 1993.” Despite public opinion, formernational legislatorsunconstitutionally appropriated humongous allowances and other remunerations to pooh pooh the 1999 constitution, since the advent of the current republic. Going forward, the nation will see whether members of the 9th national assembly are possessed with the same genes as their predecessors, or whether they are children of constitutional order. If they persist in the error, the federal government under President Muhammadu Buhari owe a duty to test the constitutionality of the legislature interpreting the law as it suits its whims and caprices. After all, by the provisions of section 6(6)(b) of the constitution, it is the prerogative of the courts, to determine any dispute as to the interpretation of the laws of the country. That section provides: “The judicial powers vested in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section: shall extend to all matter between persons, or between government or authority and to any person in Nigeria, and to all actions and proceedings relating thereto, for the determination of nay question as to the civil rights and obligations of that person.” Since the courts have been circumspect about who has the locus standi to institute an action to deal with this perennial challenge, despite public outcry, the next Attorney General must accept the gauntlet in public interest, should the 9th national assembly persist in the unconstitutional conduct of determining what its members earn.