Alhaji Musa Ibrahim alleged to have raised false alarm leading to the death of three persons has denied instigating the mob action. The police arrested Ibrahim for raising false alarm that his sureties who came looking for from Lagos were kidnappers, which led to mob action and death of three persons. According to the Police: “Alhaji Musa Ibrahim who deals in oil business has a problem with one of his business partners and was reported to the Lagos State Police command. He was invited and later detained. “From information available to us, his friend went to secure his bail and he was released to them and they became his sureties. But after appearing at the Police station on two occasions he disappeared. “The sureties were later invited and asked to produce him. It was then that they informed the Police that they know his residence in Kaduna and they promised to take the Police there. “When they arrived Kaduna, they went straight to his house, while the Police were still perfecting their documents at the Command’s headquarters. “When he sighted them, he sensed their mission and quickly jumped into his car and drove off. “The sureties followed him in their car and blocked him before Kawo Flyover Bridge. He (Alhaji Musa) jumped out of his car and raised false alarm that people running after him are kidnappers. “You know that Kawo flyover is a flash point. Before you know, the mobs descended on the sureties believing that they are kidnappers. “That is when we got the distressed call and we moved straight to the spot, we were able to rescue three sureties but the driver was burnt alongside with the vehicle.” Ibrahim, who was paraded alongside 71 other suspects at the Police Command Headquarters said: “I never raised any false alarm. “On that day, I just saw some people trailing me with a car. Before I know it they crossed my car and dragged me into their own vehicle. “It was people who were passing bye that suspected they might be kidnappers and then they raised alarm and blocked the vehicle. But I never called them kidnappers.” When asked why he didn’t tell the mob they were his sureties, Ibrahim said: “It was later I saw people I know among them. “The people that actually dragged me into the vehicle, I didn’t know them. That is why I couldn’t defend them that they were not kidnappers”. The Police however said Ibrahim and others will be charged to court upon completion of investigation.