Water is one of the most essential elements for staying healthy in life. To prevent dehydration and ensure survival, it is essential that the body should have a specific drought management system in place. Research has it that, more than-two-third of the human body weight is made up of water molecules. The human brain is composed of more than 90% water, the human blood about 82% and the lungs about 90%. If there is a 2% drop in the body’s water supply, it can trigger signs of dehydration, which can cause  •       Fuzzy short-term memory •       Dizziness •       Headache •       Tiredness •       Decrease urine output •       Dry skin The importance of water to the mechanics of the human body cannot be overemphasised. It serves as a lubricant to the digestive system and all other body processes. The water in our saliva helps facilitate swallowing, ensuring that food slides easily down the esophagus. It also lubricates and allows edibles to move more freely. The body cells and organs depend on water for their functioning. Without water, living things, including humans will die in a few days. The human body does not have the ability to replenish itself with water when dehydrated. That is when there is harmful reduction in the amount water in the body. A lot of people ignorantly move around dehydrated most of the time. This is because thirst is a poor indication of dehydration. Some people drink beverages instead of water when thirsty. This is quite wrong. A bottle of soda or a cold soft drink may feel so nice when you drink it at first but after a while, you will start to feel thirsty again and it does not totally replenish the body. Beverages with caffeine are not meant to be consumed either. Water serves as the best remedy for dehydration. Drinking water often helps to maintain a healthy balance. Mild dehydration can decrease one’s energy level and mental functioning and increase stress on the body while severe dehydration can have more damaging effects. To avoid dehydration drink at least eight glasses of water every day as an adult 1. It helps maintain the balance of body fluids 2. It can help control calories 3. It helps in energizing the muscles. 4. It help keep the skin looking beautiful and healthy. 5. It helps your Kidneys against diseases. 6. It helps Maintain Normal Bowel Function. 7. It lubricates the joints 8. It forms saliva and mucus 9. It will deliver oxygen throughout the body 10. It will cushion the brain, spinal cord, and other sensitive tissues 11. It will regulate body temperature 12. Digestive system depends on it 13. It will flush waste from the body 14. It will help maintain blood pressure 15. It makes minerals and nutrients accessible 16. It prevents kidney damage 17. It boosts performance during exercise 18. Weight loss 19. It will help reduce the chance of a hangover