A new set of trained traditional and natural medicine practitioners has emerged in Bayelsa State. About 25 of them graduated and were issued certificates to practice natural medicine by the National College of Natural Medicine (NCNM). They were immediately inducted into the Nigerian Council of Physicians of Natural Medicine (NCPNM). The set, when added to over 80 practitioners that graduated last year, increased the number of certified herbal doctors operating in Bayelsa. The NCPNM, coordinated in the state by Dr. Ruth Okeima has been at the forefront of ensuring best practice and eliminating quackery in the natural medicine sub-sector. The graduation ceremony was a memorable one. It had all the trappings of convocation of a typical higher institution.  The graduates were adorned in flowing gowns and headgears. The best student among them gave a valedictory speech. Okeima said the professional certificates issued to the graduates would enable them to practice natural medicine. She said they were also inducted into the council of physicians of natural medicine, adding that their activities would henceforth be monitored by the regulatory body. She said: “Nigeria Council of Physicians of Natural Medicine is the regulatory body that controls, trains and standardises the practice of natural medicine, alternative medicine and complementary medicine in the country”. She further said the graduates hail from different parts of the state, noting that they were happy to be counted among qualified traditional medicine practitioners. She said from last year when the first graduates emerged, the council has been in partnership with government agencies, including ministries of health as well as women and children. She said: “We want the government to help its citizens by training them. The number of graduates reduced this time because of economic downturn. Most of them, who are willing to come for the training, could not do so because they lacked the wherewithal. “So, they are still practising the crude way in their natural medicine practice. But this set of graduates has been taught the scientific method of carrying out their practice and that is the reason they are happy”. Okeima advised the graduates to refine their practice using knowledge they garnered at the training, adding that they should never resort to the crude method of practising natural medicine. She said: “In the case of massaging, we have taught them that they should not massage from the heart but should start from the feet towards the heart because blood flows towards the heart and any form of obstruction in that process can cause harm. “So, we have taught them the proper method and scientific method of doing things. We expect them to do the same. The task force and I will be going round to make sure that they do their job and that they are practising according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) standards” Okeima said the council was already warming up for another batch of students in August. She appealed to people in Bayelsa and Southsouth geo-political zone to embrace the coming training. She said forms were on sale for professional bachelor degree, diploma and certificate courses. In his remarks, the Southsouth Coordinator, NCPNM, Dr. Joseph Akpile, said the council has taken steps to ensure a permanent place for natural medicine in the country. He said countries such as China and India were making use of natural medicine to tackle different ailments. He said: “Natural medicine is very recognised by the country. The importance and the contribution of natural medicine cannot be swept under the carpet. Don’t look at it with disdain. A good number of people rely on it unofficially for their health remedies. “These graduates will be able to provide basic natural health care services. From this training, these students will be able to perform first aid if there is an emergency and provide natural diagnosis where they will be able to read and interpret medical conditions. “They will also be able to apply the knowledge that they have acquired to help thousands of people and by so doing the gap between the medical practitioners and the population will be bridged because right now, we have a medical doctor to 3,000 citizens and the gap is expanding. “I am so glad to see that in Bayelsa State natural medicine has taken a new order. It is a good participation from the government sector. I also pray government will give more attention to these natural medicines”. Speaking on the training, the acting Provost of the National College of Natural Medicine established by NCPNM, Prof. Ezengige Gilbert said the college embarked on training of traditional medical practitioners involved in all forms of natural medicine. “So, we are in Bayelsa and we started with a certificate course in natural medicine. We gave them training for the first step and after this, they are expected to go for diploma in natural medicine followed by higher diploma in natural medicine and after that those that are suitably qualified can go for their professional bachelor’s degree in natural medicine. “It’s been a good experience here in Bayelsa and we are happy that the Bayelsa State government is highly welcoming. We have been to the Ministry of Health; we have been to the Ministry of Labour and Productivity. “The graduates should stick to what they have been taught. They should not go beyond the scope of their training. We have taught them all the knowledge that they really required to make good practice as long as they follow our teaching and as long as they follow natural love. “We made them realise that one cannot talk about natural medicine without one talking about God that created nature. As long as one does things rightly, one will not have any problem. We have inducted them into our council,” he said. Also the Acting President, Council of Physicians and Natural Medicine, Prof. Bade Adewale, said awards of excellence were also given to individuals in the state for their contributions to the growth and development of natural medicine.