Notable African film makers are expected to storm the city of Dallas, Texas, in the United States from June 27, as this year’s edition of the prestigious The African Film Festival,TAFF, opens. Founder of African Movies Academy Award (AMAA), Peace Anyiam-Osigwe alongside Kenyan Hollywood star, Benjamin Onyango, who played a key role in “Tears of the Sun” with Bruce Willis will be honoured during the festival which ends on June 30. While Peace will be honoured with African Film Pioneer Award at the ceremony, Benjamin Onyango will smile home with African Film Legend Award. In a statement released during the week, the festival director cum founder of The African Film Festival, Mr. Kelechi Eke, said that the award will be given to Peace Anyiam-Osigwe in recognition of her immeasurable contribution towards the development of the African film sector. It’s on record that Peace established AMAA as a vertiable platform to celebrate the continent’s film makers and stars. Kelechi disclosed that the festival will climax on June 30 with an awards night. The opening, according to him, will witness a marathon of short films from across the continent. Expected at the festival is the Nollywood Travel Film Festival which will collaborate with the organizers at the African Film Symposium scheduled to hold at the Dallas City Hall on June 28. Screening of feature films will continue on June 28 and June 29 at the African American Museum, Dallas before the TAFF Awards ceremony on June 30, which will be hosted by Nollywood legend, Patience Ozokwo a,k,a Mama G. Expected at this year’s festival are Hon. Astrid Madiya Ntumba, the Democratic Republic of Congo Minister of Arts & Culture, Robert Peters, Nigerian Atlanta-based film director and Nevada Neville, Nigerian Atlanta-based producer. Others are Uche Jombo, Stella Damasus,  Ghanaian Producer, Charles Billion, Emem Isong, Billy Richardson, Stella Damasus, Cameroonian Actress/ Producer, Tiana Bibish, Congolese Actress/ Producer, Soleil Marie Diva, and founder of Nollywood Travel Film Festival, Mykel Ajaere Parish. According to Kelechi, TAFF will be introducing “Founder’s Best Story” also known as “Kelechi Eke Award” which would be based on the most compelling African story at the festival; and “ROOTFLIX Viewers Choice Award” which is the most film desired by views on our online streaming platform, ROOTFLIX.COM. The three-day event will showcase films made by Africans, as well as a few made by non-Africans about issues important to different regions of the continent.