Soft drinks and beverage manufacturing company, Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC), has reaffirmed its commitment towards a safe, clean and pollution-free environment as the company led members of its staff and representatives from Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) in a beach clean-up activity which was held to observe the 2019 World Environment Day. Speaking on the coastal beach clean-up exercise which took place at the Kids Beach Garden, Lagos, on Friday, June 7, the Public Affairs and Communications Director of Nigerian Bottling Company Limited, Mr. Ekuma Eze, described the action as part of the company’s contribution to achieve its 2025 commitments geared towards making the environment safe. Eze who spoke on the theme of this 2019 World Environment Day tagged “Beat Air Pollution” explained that current environmental challenges demand urgent attention. “Environmental sustainability has remained a major focus for us at NBC. We believe that a concerted effort is necessary to ensure that the environment is preserved for future generations. This duty cannot rest solely on the shoulders of the government, the private sector, or environmentally conscious individuals, everyone has an important role to play. We are here today to play our own part and to draw the public’s attention to the importance of preserving our environment,” he said. Also speaking at the occasion, Assistant Director, Cleaner Lagos Initiative, Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), Mr. Adewunmi Adetona, who represented the General Manger of the agency, led the team of volunteers from LAWMA in the clean-up activity and he commended the management of Nigerian Bottling Company Limited for its thoughtfulness in cleaning up the shoreline, noting that this action would go a long way to reduce the impact of flooding and other environmental hazards plaguing the area. “We sincerely appreciate the efforts of NBC and its contributions towards environmental sustainability. We urge other corporate organisations to emulate the beverage company as concerted efforts are needed to protect the environment,” he said.