Acting Registrar of the National Examination Council (NECO), Mr Abubakar Gana, has said the examination body now releases results on time, making it possible for universities to process their admissions. Gana said the establishment of NECO in 1999 as an indigenous examination body did not only break the monopoly of the West Africa Examinations Council (WAEC) but also resolved the problem of delayed admissions by tertiary institutions because of failure to release Senior Secondary School (SSS) examination results on time. The acting registrar noted that WAEC had been living up to its responsibilities since NECO was established. Gana spoke yesterday in Minna, the Niger State capital, when he received an Icon of Education Transformation Award from the leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), led by its Senate President Gambo Mohammed. He said: “Since 2000, we have been conducting examinations and one advantage I want you to understand is that we have given WAEC a wake-up call and they are now living to their responsibility. “You may recall that there were times in the past where universities and other tertiary institutions took very longer period for them to admit students. “But with our coming, we started releasing results within 90 days, which is a period between three months. We started like that, but as I am talking to you today, the last release we had was 43 days.” The acting registrar stressed that the council under his leadership had created an environment conducive for efficiency and effective service delivery by the workers. Gana said this ensured the credibility and prestige of the certificates the council issued to candidates. Gambo said the students’ body passed a vote of confidence in the Acting Registrar. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to confirm his appointment. Gambo noted that resources of the council were prudently management under Gana, resulting in the elimination of wastages and stealing. He said this led to the remittance of almost N1 billion into the Federation Account.