Segun Atho is the National Vice President, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN). In this interview with Charles Okonji, he gives fresh insights into how over one million members of his Association benefited from Anchor Borrowers Fund (ABF) vis-à-vis challenges and opportunities presented by the scheme. Excerpts: How many of your members benefited from ABF? We are part of Anchor Borrowers Fund, we have benefited immensely from the funds. We have a model. We are professionally and gradually getting to where we are aiming to be. The Fund has helped all the rice farmers in the whole country to improve and increase production. We have started producing RIFAN rice. Have you experienced any form of challenge in the arrangement? Yes, so far, the programme has benefited our members tremendously, but some of the rice processors are trying to sabotage us, so we had to device another strategy. We, the rice farmers decided to start processing our rice on our own because we have discovered that some of the rice millers have started jeopardizing our efforts. We are trying to see how we can make fresh farm rice available for consumers all over the country, starting from the 19 states in the North and the 17 states in the South.  All the members of the Association are covered by this Anchor Borrowers’ Fund. We are currently doing the distribution of farm inputs to rice farmers in the country to ensure that every farmer benefit from this programme. I can tell without mincing words that the members of Rice Farmers Association all over the country are utilising the funds. Can you tell us about the rate of compliance with regards to loan repayment? I can tell you categorically that almost all our members are complying. We have not recorded any defaulter that I know of. We have not had any recent report that is involving default by any of our members. It may have been in the past but not now because I am not aware of any. How has the programme impacted rice production? We have increased our output astronomically due to impact of the ABF, and that happened because we have enforced and monitored its utilisation strictly. The success is attributed to the fact that we designed a model that does not involve giving money but inputs, and other services. So, CBN has helped us to see that no bank disburses cash to any famer. RIFAN will provide the necessary inputs and supply to all farmers. No state of the federation is left out; every state is supplied with inputs. In our own model, we provide our members with all the required inputs needed for farming, but no cash. We have tractors of our own and we will be distributing all the inputs to all our members soon, as this is our cultivation period. How do you handle loan recovery? Our loan recovery method is in line with the model we adopted.  For instance, recently, we distributed vehicles to farmers in Abuja and environs through our efforts to make sure that we have monitoring team in every state, we have loan recovery team. This is to enable us recover through the rice-paddy or cash alternatively from the farmers. That is the arrangement that is on the ground now. Almost all our members are complying because the Bank of Agriculture also has our money in their custody. Can you actually achieve competitiveness in rice production and supply in Nigeria? Yes, before 2020, we would have flooded the Nigerian market with rice produced by Nigerians and the country will no longer have business importing or smuggling rice because our price would be competitive. We are seriously working hard to make sure that we achieve this dream because rice is the only staple food we have in this country. Is the CBN borrowers’ scheme spreading well enough among the geo-political zone? Yes. How can an individual take the advantage of this borrowers programme? You have to organise yourselves into groups before you can benefit from this scheme, then, you will write to the CBN indicating interest in  participating in the borrowers scheme. So, you have to indicate if you will like to come through our rice farmers association before you can benefit from the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme. All what it will take you is to be captured, and after which we will map your land to know the size of your land, then you will start as a small holder farmer. Your contribution as a small holder farmer starts from 0.5 hectare to the maximum of five hectare. Under the Anchor Borrowers Scheme, there are people we called the “Off Takers”. We entered into arrangement with all rice processors in the country as our Off-Takers. We signed an agreement with them in the presence of Mr. President in Also Rock Abuja. We signed an agreement with Rice Processors Association of Nigeria (RIPAN), and Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), that whatever rice we are producing as an association, they are there on standby to off take everything. We also got some banks which have opened zero-account for all the farmers in our association that produce rice. If you produce rice as a member of this association, your rice will be off-taken by RIPAN, and because it is a loan, the loan will be deducted and your balance will be paid into your account. We are working with Bank of Agriculture and Unity Bank all over the country. So, off-taking of our products isn’t a problem in our association. Can you sustain self-sufficiency rice production? Yes we can, Nigeria can feed herself if the CBN injects more money into the programme as earlier proposed in the beginning of this year, I can assure you without mincing words that our production will not only improve, but explode. Also, if all the state governments should tap into farming, especially coastal states like Lagos that have the advantage of rice-paddy due to its natural endowment, we would flood the market in no distance time. Lagos state for instance, has never captured agriculture in its budget. It only focuses on the infrastructural development, but has forgotten that it ought to invest also such areas.