THE Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) has lamented the prevalence of casual/indecent jobs in the oil and gas industry, saying that the development is appalling. Its President, Comrade Williams  Akporeha  said the development negates the expectations and premium members collectively placed on Nigeria Content Development and management board right from the various struggles for its creation. He said the increasing youths’ disenchantment and frustrations evident by the rising tide of cultism, killings, kidnapping, suicide attempt, armed banditry, advance-fee fraud, prostitution, and other social vices bedeviling the nation were derivatives of glaring failure of institutions and agencies that are responsible for the creation, protection and sustenance of decent jobs for the youths. He expressed disgust over the violation of local content laws by the international oil firms. “NUPENG, as a key stakeholder in the oil and gas industry, whose members have suffered varying infractions from the hands of different multinational companies as a result of infringement on the local content laws, have good reasons to express profound gratitude to a government that has demonstrated sensitivity and responsiveness to the plight of its citizenry and ready to bring succour. “The members of our union will not hesitate to drag out and engage any individual, institutions or agencies that attempt to frustrate this patriotic and well intentioned executive order of President Muhammadu Buhari.” He commended Buhari  for signing Executive Order 5 with the intent to improve local content in public procurement as well as in application of science, technology and innovation towards achieving the nation’s development goals across all sectors of the economy. He said: “We salute the courage and patriotism of Mr. President for prohibiting the Ministry of Interior in the Executive Order, from giving visas to foreign workers whose skills are readily available in Nigeria; and that where expertise is lacking, procuring entities will give preference to foreign companies and firms with a demonstrable and verifiable plan for indigenous development, prior to the award of such contracts. “It is indeed worthwhile to see this laudable presidential directive recommending that consideration shall only be given to a foreign professional, where it is certified by the appropriate authority that such expertise is not available in Nigeria. With no shred of doubt, this is new dawn for Nigerian workers. “While we give kudos to Mr. President for starting his second term on a good footing in tandem with his ‘Next Level’ mantra, he should however not hesitate to ensure all relevant agencies are compelled to implement to the letter the new Executive Order without any form of delay and hindrance so as to foster value creation and addition in the Nigerian human capital development and utilisation for material resources and services.”