OIL soared about six per cent higher on Thursday after Iran allegedly shot down a United States military drone. This raised fears of a military confrontation between Teheran and Washington. Brent crude, the global benchmark, was up $2.40, or 3.9 per cent, at $64.22 a barrel. U.S. WTI  crude rose $2.92, or 5.4 per cent, to $56.68 a barrel. The contract was up more than $3 a barrel earlier in the session. The N8.92 trillion budget of Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer that depends largely on oil proceeds for running her economy, has $60 oil benchmark and daily oil production of target 2.3million barrels.  Anaylsts say consistent rise in crude oil prices above the budget benchmark means cash availability to fund the budget. Brent’s premium over WTI narrowed to its lowest since April.  The move came as U.S. crude rose more quickly than Brent due to the tailwind provided by potential Federal Reserve policy, said Bob Yawger, director of futures at Mizuho in New York. Expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve could cut interest rates at its next meeting, stimulating growth in the world’s largest oil-consuming country, and a drop in U.S. crude inventories also supported prices. “It’s a confluence of events: there’s a looming easing cycle which is going to hit the dollar and prop up commodity prices and there are also the tensions with Iran,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital Management in New York. The security premium built into oil prices could rise further as tensions between the U.S. and Iran heat up, he said. U.S. President Donald Trump said Iran made “a very big mistake” by shooting down the U.S. military drone that Tehran said was on a spy mission over its territory. The drone was downed in international airspace over the Strait of Hormuz by an Iranian surface-to-air missile, a U.S. official said. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said the drone was flying over southern Iran. Tension has been rising in the Middle East, home to over 20 per cent of the world’s oil output, after attacks on two tankers near the Strait of Hormuz, a chokepoint for oil supplies. Washington blamed Tehran for the tanker attacks. Iran denied any role. Concern about slowing economic growth and a U.S.-China trade dispute has pulled oil lower in recent weeks. Brent reached a 2019 high of $75 in April. The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and allies including Russia agreed this week to meet on July between 1 and 2, ending a month of wrangling about the timing. The coalition known as OPEC+ looks set to extend a deal on cutting 1.2 million barrels per day of production. The deal expires at the end of June.