Surely, we can tap from the medicinal powers of music as individuals and more especially as a nation. If music can unify the world, then surely, this nation with more differences than the United Nations can build a national consciousness around its musical heritage which is rich, massive and oh, so beautiful. Let’s make music together…! No, no; that’s not an invitation. Oh dear, what am I saying? That is an invitation, but you’ll understand it by and by. The line is from a cartoon movie, All Dogs Go to Heaven. Have I told you I love cartoons? I’m not sure but I think that is why people call me The Cartoon Lady. That may also have to do with my looks: I have these exaggerated features that make me think I can easily spare some for people, just like in the cartoons. There’s the small, pert nose; no, can’t spare that; there’s the big mouth. Oh yes, I can definitely spare some of it; perhaps, I’ll get into less trouble. Do you know what they say about people with big mouths? They can sing! Well, clearly, I am living proof that is not true at all, for, believe it or not, I cannot carry a tune in a bucket, even in a shower. Take the shower saga. It is said that everyone, and I mean everyone, can sing in the shower, but not me! When I attempt to sing in the shower, the windows mist over, the flowing showers curdle and the dog begins to bark. Mysteriously, everything returns to normal when I stop. I can never fathom the relationship between these occurrences and my singing. Jealousy? Anyway, the world celebrated the World Music Day on June 21 and I could not help going down memory lane to rake up favourites. You know what music is, don’t you? It’s that piece of sound that people make to interrupt the flow of air around your ears and keep you from enjoying your much earned siesta because it makes you tap your feet to time, then wriggle, then jiggle, then dance! Viva la dance! Some people call music noise; others call it nuisance. You and I, because we are the professionals and amateurs that we are, know that it is called music. That is why I can talk about some pieces of music that have held me spell-bound over the years, and made me wish that I had, at the least, a shower voice. First though, I went on the internet to find out if there is such a thing as the greatest music in the world and whether it is on my list. Oh yes, I have my own list. Well, I got many interesting finds. I found many compilations by different individuals and groups and I was much perplexed that my own list of the all-time greatest was not there. Anyway, very few of the pieces on many of the compilations were in agreement. Most were as different from each other as were their compilers. It then struck me that music is indeed in the ears of the beholder. Or is it beauty that is in the eye now? Never mind. It gave me great comfort indeed, knowing that I was allowed to have a different list from yours. The important thing is that on every June 21, you and I are encouraged to drop all our worries, and join in the street celebrations of pure music! Viva la Musick! True, pure music is difficult to define. When you listen to your Fuji kings, Juju maestros, or even high life music masters, and swing to your reggae crooners, I’m sure you’re not able to sit still. Now, bring in your Apala and Waka experts and I’ll bet you have yodelled the lyrics alongside them with as much abandon as a tree owl. Wait a while. Now, if you have ever attended the operas, at home and abroad, you would have been exposed to The Voices. Don’t get me wrong; all singers have their voices. However, it’s in the operas that you have to sit still for you must not dance. You simply salute The Voice as the singer hits those high-end operatic notes that have your limbs trembling and leave your body hairs standing. There is a reason for this phenomenon: in an opera scene, it is said that when someone is shot, instead of dying, he must sing! With the right instrumentation, music obviously transports the musician and the listener to heights greater than the showers and past the bullets. According to experts, music is the world’s language. Where verbal language has dispersed the world, music has brought everyone together. Everyone alike taps to the rhythms of The Beatles’ music as readily as they do to Fela’s music. This is why many names on those compilation lists I told you about earlier contain songs that have crossed many seas. Hear more experts on music. ‘Without music, life would be a mistake,’ was said by Friedrich Nietzsche. He further said, ‘We should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once.’ Beethoven said ‘Music is … a higher revelation than all Wisdom and Philosophy.’ Goethe advised that ‘A man should hear a little music, read a little poetry, and see a fine picture   every day of his life, in order that worldly cares may not obliterate the sense of the beautiful which God has implanted in the human soul.’ Finally, ‘Music can change the world because it can change people,’ said Bono. To be honest though, there are many music pieces I just don’t get. No, I am not just talking about the off-colour ones. I’m talking about those ones, especially Nigerian, that sound more like electronic noises. Not, unexpectedly, very many of such fritter out almost as soon as they are born. The real music, those ones we are celebrating today, are the ones that have lastability. They are the ones that my grandchildren will see me wriggling uncontrollably to and will sigh with understanding patience: ‘they’re playing grandma’s song again.’ The history of my foray into music has not been smooth. The showers won’t have my yodelling voice. My attempts on the keyboard resembled jabs, so it clammed up on me. My guitar strings broke and the drums burst. So for now, I have restricted myself to springing around like a mountain goat and shouting ‘Nike, Nike…’ which is all I know of this my all-time greatest Nigerian song. Surely, we can tap from the medicinal powers of music as individuals and more especially as a nation. If music can unify the world, then surely, this nation with more differences than the United Nations can build a national consciousness around its musical heritage which is rich, massive and oh, so beautiful. What with all the Fela (my own all-time greatest artist), Ayinde, Osadebe, Maraya, etc., we have enough materials to help us understand our purpose and life as a nation better. These powerful philosophers with a combined force greater than all the AK47s can teach us a thing or two about how to run our politics, economy, and national life. This year’s celebration theme, ‘Music at the Intersections’, should help to cement together the gaps between languages, the ages and most definitely the government and me. It has also been said that music heals. Clearly, you and I and our nation need healing, beginning with our souls and bodies. We can let the soothing notes wash over us and cleanse the putrefying sores that have ravaged this national body. When we abandon ourselves to the powers and influence of music, we can change our present Frankenstein beings into something close to the humanity our maker originally planned for us to be. Good music elevates from sickness to health and sorrow to hope. That is the only thing that can change many Nigerians’ greatest tune from ‘You don get alert o, God win’, to something like ‘One love…’ Now, Let’s sing in perfect harmony…