Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has accused governors in the South East of conniving with the Fulani herders towards the establishment of vigilante body in the region. The group asked the herders under the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association Nigeria, (MACBAN) to dump such plans of providing any form of security in the South East. Miyetti Allah had called for the establishment of Fulani youth vigilante body in the South East to complement its host community counterparts and other constituted security apparatus in the zone. A statement on Friday signed by IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, the group vowed to resist the plans, describing the governors’ seeming silence on the issue as payback “for being rigged back” into offices. It noted that its earlier suggestion to set up vigilante services to be known as Biafran Security Services was one of the reasons the governors spearheaded its proscription and labelled it a terrorist group. The statement read in part, “I condemn in totality, both in letter and spirit the underhand agreement between South East governors and Fulani terrorists that led to the call by Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association for the establishment of Fulani  vigilante groups in Igboland of  Biafra. “Without much ado, I wish to state  that it is extremely shocking and shameful that at a time when Fulani cattle herders have turned to terrorists and ravaging the North, Middle Belt and Yorubaland, Southeast Governors allowed Miyetti Allah to get away with such demand on our soil. “It’s akin to telling someone in advance that you are coming to rob his house and he allowed you to just walk away, while pleading with you that you should reconsider. “Instead of ordering their immediate arrest on the spot for daring to so brazenly reveal their intention to invade Igboland, the  South East Governors appear to want to accommodate their demands. “Miyetti Allah, a mere cattle trading association, that later turned into a militant terrorist organisation is now openly threatening to conquer Igboland with the help of Igbo governors. “It defies logic that Southeast governors would care to give audience in the open in Igboland to an organisation that has been rated the fourth deadliest terrorist organisation in the world. “Did the Southeast Governors stop to consider that Biafran traders in the far North, even though law abiding, can never be given the audience and reverence that these Southeast governors have so shamefully extended to Miyetti Allah. “We are eagerly waiting for Miyetti Allah and their Fulani terror militia in Biafraland, an adventure they will regret for as long as they live.” 