Solomon Ogbonna is a man of many parts. He is an art collector, mentor to young entrepreneurs and artists, and President, Ohaneze ndi Igbo. Ogheneyoma Omaredjde had an encounter with him when the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi visited his gallery in Lagos. The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi was at your gallery today what does that mean to you? I knew him as a young man. He was someone who was dedicated to hardwork and his exploits precede his tenure as Oba. As a king in this time and age, and someone who attaches great value to culture and tradition of his people, especially in the area of artwork, you can’t but admire the Ooni. He is also a well-honoured man within and outside the shores of Nigeria. What are some of the principles that guide and inspire you? I am very flexible person, and to further break it down, I do go for what I do not need. In addition, I aspire for only things that I know that I have the capacity for. I appreciate people who are making a mark in their chosen fields and do not join the league of people who envy others in things that they know they cannot do. Besides, I know all things in this life come from God. Who or what inspired you to go into your line of business? I have a passion for arts, our culture and tradition. I want to set up a museum and that has been the motivation for the things that I do.  I have had great interest in African artworks right from a very tender age. At the moment, I have collected a lot of materials and they actually spurred me into doing more for the sector. What was it like at the beginning? People initially saw it as stress and they kept wondering what I was up to. Some people actually came to me on a number of occasions asking   what I was going to do with these ‘deities’. The interest I have for African art is something no one can explain because it is from my nature. What were you doing before you came into the sector and what was the experience like? I was a businessman and I have had different experiences. At a point, I travelled to Europe to resume my business, and then I bought properties, built them and sold them. That is a very interesting part of my life and I learnt a number of lessons in the property business that has helped me tremendously in the other things that I do. What are some of the challenges you’ve encountered? The challenges concerning African art is that they are only few people who know the value and worth of the collection, unlike other parts of the world. We need to enlighten our people about the opportunities and potentials in the sector. This way, people would be ready to invest in the sector and promote the arts. How do you relax? I relax when I close for the day. You have to work hard, achieve your dreams before thinking about relaxation. Sometimes, I give myself a break and take time off to go on holidays either here in Nigeria or abroad. If I decide to spend my vacation here In Lagos, I would look out for a good place or I could be in places like Imo or Enugu State. If you are to advice the young people about the sector in Nigeria, what will you tell them? I will tell them to choose what they are passionate about and explore the potentials there. If it is creating artworks that God has given you as a talent, then you must keep developing till you make an impact in the field. When you keep at something, it is a matter of time, before someone discovered you. The most important thing is hardwork, dedication and perseverance. If one is not knowledgeable about art, but is interested, what can such person do? There is one thing we have to know about Africa arts:  African art is like an identity to the African people. It is not just about making something and it’s only the artist that will know the meaning. Most of our artworks in the olden days are still very great and exciting to behold. Look at this piece of art (he hold up an artwork), it has a story and a message. Most time in those ancient days, there were so many unpardonable failures that we don’t have these days. A lot has changed and it is reflected in the art pieces that you see today.