SYNLAB Nigeria, a leading provider of medical diagnostic services, has opened an ultra-modern laboratory in Lagos Island, thus giving a boost to genetic testing and preventive healthcare in the country. Experts say the new wellness-focused facility will further expand and enhance the capability of the diagnostic giant to offer advanced genetic testing relating to sports medicine, nutrition and pharmacology. Speaking after the new facility was unveiled in Lagos, Dr. Tolulope Adewole, chief medical officer, SYNLAB Nigeria, reiterated his organisation’s commitment towards introducing innovative and most comprehensive advances in diagnostics services to the Nigerians. Unlike in the past where only outdated technologies and equipment were dumped in Nigeria and other African countries, he stated that SYNLAB has changed that narrative by ensuring that latest technological advancements are launched in the country at the same time they are launched in Europe and other developed parts of the world. Apart from offering advanced and more comprehensive medical test portfolio, the new laboratory spearheads three advanced genetic tests, all designed to improve precision in the practice of personalised medicine and enhance the quality of life in Nigeria. The tests are MyPGx, SportGen and NutriHealth. These tests, which are concurrently being launched in Europe, are pillars in personalised medicine and have been brought to the country in line with SYNLAB’s (formerly PathCare Laboratories) commitment to making cutting-edge laboratory testing accessible to Nigerians. Just as each person is unique with different response rates to medication, each test in the new facility has unique properties and functions. While MyPGx, which is a once-in-a-lifetime pharmacogenetic test, is designed to assist doctors streamline the treatment of patients by personalising the choice and dosage of medication that is being prescribed, MyPGx results effectively eliminate “trial and error,” having been proven to significantly decrease adverse drug reactions (ADRs). Two lifestyle genetic tests were also unveiled, including SportGen, which caters for professional athletes and individuals who regularly partake or want to partake in physical exercise. The test determines an individual’s susceptibility to tissue damage and allows for the appropriate exercise routines to be recommended according to each person’s genetic capability, forestalling breakdown or even death as a result of placing too much strain on the body. The second genetic test, NutriHealth, recommends the appropriate diet and food intake to perform optimally at work or other aspects of life. “This means that our people can have the same opportunity that people in more medically advanced countries have. We introduced these tests to address some disturbing trends in Nigeria. There are cases of Nigerians dying as a result of inappropriate exercise routines. Many Nigerians are using medicines that don’t work well with their bodies, while some just don’t know the right diet to get them to function optimally. Utilising these new tests, Nigerians will be better equipped to reach their full potential,” Adewole said. On the significance of diagnostic medicine to public health, Dr. Adenike Sobulo, who heads the new facility, said SYNLAB, which has opened other facilities in strategic locations across Nigeria in 2019 alone, will continue to emphasise and promote preventive healthcare and wellness because this is the future of medicine globally. “If practised properly, it should have a positive impact on our life expectancy. At this ‘wellness centre,’ we encourage people to take control of their health. We have always promoted health checks and screening, and have different packages to suit every pocket. However, these new specialised tests transform an individual’s ability to manage his or her wellbeing and stay healthy,” she said.