• Irritant secularists loved to hate; or abiding morsel of Islamist trouble for Egypt? Many would dismiss Mohammed Morsi (1951-2019), the Egyptian former president that on June 17 collapsed and died virtually in the dock, as an Islamic suicide that mercifully got his wish. But those in the Morsi camp (and indeed not a few neutrals or even liberals) would warn against such cavalier conclusion, given the never-forget-never-forgive ethos of Morsi’s Egypt Muslim Brotherhood; adding that the country faces testy times ahead. True, the late Morsi was a democrat’s nightmare, though he won the first truly democratic election ever in royalist Egypt turned a military redoubt.  His Freedom and Justice Party (FJP) won a wafer-thin margin. Yet Morsi interpreted that 51-49 percentage victory as robust referendum to sink what his opponents fairly thought was an Islamist claw into Egypt. His FJP clearly thought, in another macabre and tragic interpretation, it had a free and just mandate to Islamise an Egypt society proud of its secularism; and which flaunts its status as perhaps the most cosmopolitan of the Arab states. To amend Egypt constitution, and recast the country in the image of the Muslim Brotherhood, Morsi armed himself with a presidential decree to legislate without judicial oversight, a clearly undemocratic move targeted at the basically secular-minded Egypt Supreme Constitutional Court, sure to conk the constitutional manoeuvre. But the Morsi subterfuge also caused a mass protest calling for the president to resign. That protest, in which the liberals teamed up with the old reactionaries, tragically rolled back the gains of democracy that vaulted Morsi and his party to power. Though the president would lift the controversial decree, it was too late to save his presidency – as an opposition medley, headed by Morsi’s defence minister, Gen. Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, but which included opposition leader, Mohammed ElBaradei, the Grand Imam of Al Azhar, Ahmed el-Tayeb and Coptic Pope Tawadros II, ousted the president; and announced Adly Mansour, president of the Constitutional Court of Egypt, as interim president. That was on July 3, 2013, a year and a few days after he took power, on  June 30, 2012. Since then, however, has the Egyptian state been fair to Morsi and his tendencies? Hardly. Indeed, a Muslim Brotherhood protest against Morsi’s ouster was crushed in what is now known as the August 2013 Rabaa massacre. Some 817 civilians were killed, forcing opposition leader and respected international figure Elbaradei to pull out of the military-led alliance that ousted Morsi, to protest the massacre.  Egypt was back to the Hosni Mubarak era of democracy without democracy; and el-Sisi, another former army General, was shortly after, back as “elected” president. Since that time, Morsi had been in a relay of trials, one of which grossed him life gaol; the procedure of which had been declared an outrage and the life gaol shunted aside. Still, the state held on to Morsi, seldom allowing him to see his family; and even getting consultation and treatment from his choice doctors, even if it was an open secret that he suffered from hypertension and diabetes. His slump and death in the dock was during one of those marathon court appearances. Yet, Morsi was defiant all through. History would blame Morsi for his tragic inflexibility, which not only shuttered his Muslim Brotherhood’s dream of a more Islamist Egypt but also put paid to Egypt’s chance at a fresh start, on a fresh democratic slate. Indeed, a more flexible and accommodating Morsi would perhaps have ended the reign of the Egypt generals, just as the generals ended the reign of the Egypt royals. But history would also be no less harsh on the Egyptian state, particularly if things turned out for the worse.  It is unlikely Morsi and co’s fanatical bid would end with his sudden expiry in court. Indeed, there appears the possibility of a dangerous flare in Egypt’s Islamist temper; as not a few are already saying Morsi was martyred for a cause. Egypt faces testy times. But the present rulers must learn from Morsi’s fatal inflexibility; and adopt a much more flexible and conciliatory course, to navigate the looming dangerous times.