Three notorious kidnappers were among 122 suspected criminals paraded at the Bompai Police headquarters for various crimes ranging from armed robbery, car theft, burglary, scamming, drug peddling, theft, conspiracy and banditry. Addressing Reporters on Friday, Kano state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmed Iliyasu said the suspected kidnappers were arrested at Falgore Forest. He explained that the kidnappers waylaid newly married couple on the road and kidnapped bride, and vanished into Falgore Forest. Upon receiving information, a team of policemen were deployed into the Falgore Forest where 20 teenage suspects were apprehended and the woman rescued. When they were paraded, the victim was able to identify three of them, while 17 others were released. He said police will soon charge them to court for prosecution. According to him, “on June 20, 2019, the police in Kano with the help of technical intelligence at their disposal, arrested seven suspects in possession of various types of dangerous weapons and house breaking implements. “They specialized in armed robbery, extortion, house breaking and theft. They have been terrorizing Sabon Gari area of the state. Suspects confessed to the offence and they will be charged to court after investigation.” Iliyasu said that during a raid carried out on criminal hideouts within the period, 80 hoodlums popularly known as Y’andaba were arrested, adding that seven suspects were equally arrested in possession of 53 different belts used by police, army and the Immigration service. Upon investigation, it was discovered that two bags filled with uniform of police, army, and Customs officers were found in their possession. He said items recovered from them include 14 black berets cap, six jack-knives, eight pistol holders, adding that one suspect was arrested in possession of a pump action rifle and 15 rounds of live cartridges. Other items recovered from the suspected criminals include 115 live ammunition of 7.62x39mm of AK47 rifle, 53 bags of powder suspected to be cocaine, nine cartons of expired Bio-Vein injection used for insemination and hallucination. Other items include 43 knives, 10 handsets, one laptop computer, three stolen vehicles, 58 clubs, 20 dangerous weapons and breaking implements and large quantity of laptops. Iliyasu said in line with the Inspector-General of police mission on Puff Adder operation, the Kano Police Command will continue the raid throughout the state until all criminal-minded persons will either repent, relocate and leave the state completely or are arrested and brought before the law.