Nigeria High Commission in Singapore came into public focus last week. Its leadership has been celebrating the verdict of that country’s Supreme Court that freed a Nigerian who had been facing death sentence for drug related offence. The Nigerian Head of Mission in Singapore, High Commissioner Akinremi Bolaji was hilarious that, Adili Chibuike Ejike sentenced to death for importing nearly two kilograms of methamphetamine was granted an acquittal by Singapore’s Supreme Court and released with no outstanding charges. Ejike was arrested in November 2011 and had a death sentences passed on him by that country’s lower and appellate courts. But in what Bolaji described as a landmark judgment and miracle form God, the Singaporean Supreme Court while agreeing that the banned substance was found in Ejike’s luggage, ruled that the prosecution failed to establish that he knew that the drug bundles in his suitcase were in his possession. “In other words, Ejike was not guilty of willful blindness or deliberately shutting his eyes to the truth of his possession of the drugs” an elated High Commissioner asserted. The ruling centered on the claim by the accused during trials that a childhood friend of his in Nigeria gave him the bag that contained the drugs to be delivered to an unspecified person in Singapore. So the trial by that country’s apex court hinged on whether he had knowledge that the banned substances were in his luggage with the court ruling to the contrary even after agreeing that the drugs were indeed found in his suitcase. The singular fact that the Supreme Court agreed that the drugs were found in his luggage were enough to confirm the death sentence by hanging passed on him at the other levels of his trial. But surprisingly, he was discharged and acquitted. The High Commissioner was therefore right to have described the verdict as a miracle from God. It is indeed a big miracle that saved him from the hangman’s noose. But the trial raised a serious issue that requires serious awareness campaigns and sensitization of our people travelling abroad. They need sensitization on the dangers of accepting to travel with any bag or container they neither personally packaged nor subjected to thorough scrutiny. It also exposes the perilous level drug peddlers can go using unsuspecting people as conduits to transport their consignments at the risk of the lives of the possessor of such substances. Ejike should thank his God for that uncommon ruling. He may have had no knowledge of the banned substances found in his luggage. But the fact that the dangerous drugs were in his luggage made him liable for whatever consequences arising from it. Given the number of Nigerians regularly arrested for drug related offences around the world, there is everything to expect that many would have been victims of the circumstance Ejike found himself. Many may have also paid the supreme prize or suffered grave harm for offences they were roped in but for which they know nothing about. The issue is damn serious especially when we recall the recent cases of two Nigerians that were release by the Saudi authorities for drugs planted in their bags by criminals working in concert with some unscrupulous officials at the airport. About two months ago, there arose the case of a Nigerian student Zainab Aliyu and one Ibrahim Abubakar who were released by the Saudi authorities for alleged offences that bore some similarity with that of Ejike. In the case of Zainab, she had travelled to Saudi Arabia for the Lesser Hajj with her mother and sister. On arrival and after clearance by the immigration authorities of that country, they collected their luggage and proceeded to their hotel. But she was later arrested because a luggage tagged in her name contained banned substances. The young lady was subsequently hauled into incarceration for months awaiting trial for an offence that carries capital punishment in that country.  Following strident protests by her parents, the authorities in Nigeria mounted serious investigations at her point of departure, the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano. This led to the arrest of a sophisticated syndicate that specialized in injecting drug substances into the travelling suitcases of unsuspecting travelers only to have them collected by their accomplices at the arrival point. But in the case of Zainab, the bag did not belong to her but was tagged in her name by the syndicate. Due to the apparent inability of the syndicate to collect the bag at the arrival point, officials of that country became apprehensive and on close scrutiny it was found to contain banned drug substances. With the help of the name tag, Zainab was traced to her hotel and arrested. Her father cried out dissociating her daughter for the alleged offence. Those arrested were later to confirm that they were responsible for the drug substances that were found in that bag. Armed with these findings, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on the Diaspora mounted serious diplomatic negotiations with the Saudi authorities leading to the release of the innocent lady. And one Abubakar who was said to be facing similar predicament also got the same reprieve. Writing in this column then and while welcoming the release of the innocent lady, I had argued that many innocent Nigerians would have fallen victim of the unscrupulous activities of the syndicate at the nation’s airports. The issue raised then which remains germane is that but for serious campaigns mounted by the Aliyu family, their daughter may have been killed for an offence she knew nothing about. Because there is everything to indicate that the syndicate has been operating before they were exposed by the Zainab case, many innocent people would have fallen victims of their devilish enterprise. It is therefore not sufficient to arrest the syndicate. Diligent prosecution and tracing of their accomplices in Saudi Arabia is all that is required to bring a closure to the matter. It remains a thing of grave concern that after the dramatization of the arrest of the Kano syndicate, nothing has again been heard of that case. There is no reason for that case to suffer the usual delay that characterizes our judicial process. Nigerians are eager to know its outcome especially because of the high level of interest it generated. We are eager to follow the trials from the beginning to the end as it will open the eyes of the public to some of the criminal activities of some of those who provide official services to passengers at our airports. It is of immense public interest to understand how the syndicate really operates, those into it and for how long they have been in that lethal business. These disclosures which are expected to come public during the trials form part of the information travelers need to guard themselves. Moreover, they will go at length to disabuse skepticisms in some quarters on the propriety of some of the claims made in the instant case. Being about the first time Nigerian authorities acted swiftly and successfully to free two of its citizens facing capital punishment in a foreign land, the handling of the case will go at lengths to reassure our citizens that it is not an isolated case. It is also vital to avail the public of full disclosure on how the drug substances planted in the suitcases of unsuspecting travelers are collected at the entry points. This can only be carried out in liaison with the countries of destination. Before that incident, a Nigerian lady was executed in Saudi Arabia for drug peddling while more than 25 others are held for similar offences. Who knows how many of them were implicated by the activities of syndicates? It is good a thing that the activities and modus operandi of these merchants of death are increasingly being unmasked. These cases expose the dangers passengers pass through in the hands of officials at the airports and some other unscrupulous persons. Ironically, even with the Kano airport incident, we are yet to hear of measures taken by the government to rid our airports of officials who put travelers in harms’ way in a bid to satisfy their self-serving predilections. A serious government would have capitalized on that singular incident to overhaul operations in our airport system. That such has not happened says a lot about the kind of system we operate. It is hoped our government will not find itself making excuses should the type of incident in Kano airport repeat.