Experts have said for brands to survive in a fragmented business environment where customers’ attention is being scrambled for by various competing brands, premium should be placed on satisfying consumers’needs. This is moreso when it is considered that consumers give little or no attention to products, information or businesses as they are only attracted to what can  satisfy their needs. Speaking at a marketing conference themed: ‘Behind the brand’ organised by Platinum Connect, a Digital Strategist, Dotun Babatunde, explained that unlike in the past, consumers have become more demanding for brands to deliver real value. As such, businesses should be able to think like a consumer- know what informs their decision to patronise a product and ensure they communicate effectively using relevant channels that suit their buyers. According to him, the benefits of gaining buyers’ attention could not be underestimated as it promotes consumers’ affinity, trust, loyalty and yield sales. He observed that attracting customers to a brand is the most difficult problem for businesses, adding that consistency, clarity of messages, quality of products and focus on consumers’ behaviours are critical to gaining their attention. “The reality is that nobody cares about your business. They are only interested in how well your product can solve their problems. We live in an attention economy where attention is a scarce commodity. The average human attention span is about 8.5 seconds, which means you only have little seconds to make effective imprints of your brand on consumers,” Babatunde said. He emphasised that digital marketing has become a necessity in  a business environment, and warned that  businesses should understand the suitable touch points to communicate with their consumers. “Many people see digital medium as a miracle cure. It is not about the technology, it is about finding where your customers are. This involves knowing the particular digital medium to use.  It is not about being on social media, the question is, are your customers there? You need to understand the touch points to reach out to your audience,” he advised. Also, the Senior Manager, Trade Communication, MTN,   Kester Osahenye,  explained that  consumers  now dictate what a brand is as they are exposed and able to self-diagnose and share their experiences. He advised that as attention remains a scarce commodity, communication should be relevant, useful and interesting so as to attract consumers’ engagement. Platinum Connect Managing Director Atinuke Shittu said the conference was aimed at addressing the gap in marketing communications of business professionals and their consumers. 