With the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, new leaders have emerged in both the red and the green chambers. Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, takes a look at the new Sheriffs NIGERIA’S second arm of government, the legislature, comprising of the Senate and the Federal House of Representatives, on Tuesday, elected a new set of leaders to lead the 9th Nationals Assembly. For months, following the conclusion of the 2019 general elections, speculations and permutations about who will man the two chambers were rife. The National Assembly leadership was the most discussed topic within and outside the political sphere. Within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) which returned majority parliamentarians in the houses, the debate as well as the contest was stiff. Interested aspirants and their supporters campaigned on and off line. Allegations and counter allegations of imposition and marginalisation rented the air on a daily basis. Party leaders promised peace and promptly moved in to douse the tension by announcing zoning formulas. Months of vigorous campaigns followed as the nation waited on bated breath. It was a long wait but at the end of heated proceedings in both chambers last Tuesday, the members of the Senate voted in Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan, the APC Senator representing the northern senatorial district of Yobe State as the Senate President of the brand new 9th senate. Moments later, Ovie Omo-Agege, another APC Senator from Delta State in the southern part of the country, was elected as the next Deputy Senate President to complete and all APC Presidency for the senate in the new dispensation. Much later in the day, members of the House of Representatives, in an overwhelming exercise of their voting rights, settled for Femi Gbajabiamila, APC member representing Surulere, Lagos State as the next Speaker of the lower chamber. The Lagos politician defeated his rival, Mohammed Umaru Bago, another APC chieftain from Niger State, to clinch the coveted seat. Bago had refused to step down for Gbajabiamila in spite of the former being endorsed by the national leadership of the ruling party. To complete the pack, Ahmad Idris Wase (APC, Plateau) was also elected as Deputy Speaker unopposed by the lawmakers. He had wanted to be Speaker but agreed to support the choice of Gbajabiamila when prevailed upon by party leaders few weeks to the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly. Observers of the politics of the ruling party insist that his agitation got the Deputy Speaker’s position for the North-Central as it was previously zoned to another region. LAWAN On Tuesday 11 June 2019, Senator Ahmed Lawan became the President of Nigeria Senate in the 9th National Assembly. With his new position, he is the number three person in the government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and head of the National Assembly. When he arrived the senate chambers on Tuesday morning, he was just one of the 107 senators reporting to be inaugurated. But by the time he was leaving later in the evening, he left as the Senate President. A graduate of University of Maiduguri where he was admitted to study Geography in 1984, the new Senate President was born in 1959. He represents Yobe North Senatorial District as a fourth term senator. He holds a Master’s Degree as well as a Doctorate degree in Remote Sensing from Cranfied University in the United Kingdom. Between 1987 and 1997, he lectured at the University of Maiduguri, Bornu State. Earlier, he worked as an Education Officer in the Yobe State Ministry of Education. He ventured into politics at the inception of the current republic in 1999, contesting for a seat in the House of Representatives to represent Bade/Jakusko Federal Constituency of Yobe State. He won and was in the House as a prominent legislator for four years afterwards. He won re-election into the lower House again in 2003 going on to serve as chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture. Two years later in 2005, he was also appointed the chairman of the House Committee on Education. Convinced that he needed to up his political game, in 2007, Lawan contested for and won the senatorial seat to represent Yobe North Senatorial District in the National Assembly. He went ahead in dramatic ways to win re-election three times while serving in various capacities like chairman, Senate Committee on Public Accounts among others. A very outspoken ranking senator, the new Senate President has sponsored many bills and motions on various issues and needs. In 2015, Lawan was the choice of the leadership of the ruling APC in the contest for the Senate Presidency but lost to Senator Bukola Saraki, then also of the APC, in controversial manner. As part of efforts to reconcile the warring factions within the party, he later emerged as the Majority Leader of the 8th senate. Last Tuesday, 79 senators across party lines voted for him to lead the 9th senate. His opponent, Ali Ndume, scored 28 votes. While promising a better senate, he said “elections are over. It shows that we voted for a united senate and it is clear that the outcome is bipartisan. All parties, including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Young Progressives Party (YPP), voted for me and with this outcome, the 9th Senate is ready to take off as a united senate. Today means so many things. It is the commencement of another decade of our democracy and we will work to ensure best global parliamentary practice among other things.” GBAJABIAMILA It was a sweet victory for the Lagos lawmaker and his supporters as Gbajabiamila won the Speakership of the lower chamber in the 9th Assembly by a landslide, polling 283 votes to defeat Mohammed Bago, who polled 76 votes. In the weeks leading to the inauguration of the National Assembly, many pundits, relying on stories emanating from the camps of the two contestants, have predicted a close race. But the outcome attested to the known fact that Gbajabiamila was all along the preferred choice of most members-elect. The immediate past Majority Leader of the House of Representatives was born on the 25 June, 1962 into the prominent Gbajabiamila family of central Lagos. Lateef and Olufunke Gbajabiamila were his parents. He started school pretty early at the age of four. For his elementary education in Lagos, Gbajabiamila attended Mainland Preparatory School and proceeded to Igbobi College, Yaba, in 1973 for his secondary education and graduated around 1978. He had his ‘A Levels’ at the King Williams College, Isle of Man, United Kingdom, finishing at the top of his class in 1980. He returned home upon being admitted into the University of Lagos for a three-year LLB (Bachelor of Law) degree programme. He graduated with honours in 1983 and proceeded to the Nigerian Law school and was called to the Nigerian bar in 1984. He joined the prestigious law firm of Bentley, Edu and Co, in Lagos to start his law practice. Upon the return of the country to democracy in 1998, he joined the then Alliance for Democracy (AD), offering to serve the people of his constituency. In 2003, he ousted the incumbent member of the House of Representatives from Surulere Constituency 1 at the party’s primary election. He went ahead to win the general election. His pro-people stance became evident during the “third term debate” ahead of the 2007 presidential election. He led the 2007 Movement, a group that stood firm against alleged plot for a third term by the then President Olusegun Obasanjo. He was re-elected in 2007 and emerged as Action Congress (AC) leader and Minority Whip of the House. In 2011, Gbajabiamila contested for the third term on the platform of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and won. He served as Minority Leader in the House of Representatives. He filed several lawsuits against the then federal government whom he accused of operating an illegal excess crude oil account and spending tax payers’ money without appropriation. In 2011, Gbajabiamila was nominated for a high ranking National Award, Officer of the Federal Republic, (OFR). But he turned down the award on the grounds that the awards system in Nigeria was no longer achieving its original intent. He ran for a fourth term in 2015 on the platform of the APC and won a fifth term during the 2019 National Assembly elections to set in sail his remarkable journey to the Speakership of the House of Representatives. OMO AGEGE That Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, the Urhobo first term senator who in 2018, stood firm against the Bill re-ordering the sequence of elections that was allegedly targeted at President Muhammadu Buhari is now the Deputy Senate President in the National Assembly is no longer news. What many seek to know now is the man behind the mace snatching drama of that year. Born on August 3, 1963, he is the son of the late incorruptible jurist, Justice James Omo-Agege, from the famous Omo-Agege lineage of Orogun in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. Senator Omo-Agege trained as a lawyer and practiced for many years in both Nigeria and the United States of America. He later served as Executive Assistant to the then Governor of Delta State, Chief James Onanefe Ibori in 2003. He became Commissioner for Special Duties in 2005 and moved on to emerge as the Secretary to State Government (SSG) of Delta State in 2007. On two occasions, he sought to be governor of his state but lost. An unrepentant supporter of President Buhari, he was elected into the senate in 2015 on the platform of the Labour Party but defected to the APC later. He was re-elected in 2019 on the platform of the APC leading to his emergence as the new Deputy Senate President last Tuesday. WASE Born on June 1st, 1964, the new Deputy Speaker bagged a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Civil Engineering from Kaduna Polytechnic in 1995. He had earlier obtained a National Diploma in Civil Engineering from the Plateau State Polytechnic in 1986. In 2005, he was appointed as the Executive Secretary of the Plateau State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, a position he held up to 2006 before his election to the lower house under the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) in 2007. Hon Ahmed Idris Wase who emerged as the Deputy Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives in the 9th Assembly, is a chieftain of the APC and represents Wase Federal Constituency of Plateau State. He was elected unopposed by his colleagues. He had earlier aspired to become Speaker but stepped down to deputise for Gbajabiamila, the anointed candidate of the APC for the position after he was prevailed upon by the party to do so. MINORITY LEADERSHIP Former Abia State Deputy Governor, Enyinnaya Abaribe, has emerged as the Minority Leader of the Senate. Abaribe’s emergence was announced at a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leadership meeting in Abuja Thursday night. In the 8th Senate, Abaribe served as Chairman of the Committee on Power. Emmanuel Bwacha, who represents Taraba South Senatorial District, also emerged as Deputy Minority Leader. Philip Aduda, who represents the Federal Capital Territory, became the Minority Whip, while Senator Clifford Odia (PDP, Edo Central) was named the Senate Deputy Minority Whip. Abaribe was born on March 1, 1955. He earned his WASSCE from Government College Umuahia in 1974. He went on to the University of Benin, where he received a bachelor’s degree in Economics in 1979 and a master’s degree in Economics in 1982. He lectured at the Edo State University from 1982 until 1985. Abaribe became Abia State’s Deputy Governor in 1999. He was impeached twice in 2000 and in 2003. He resigned from office while facing another looming impeachment. He was elected to the Senate in 2007 on a PDP ticket. Abaribe was reelected for Abia South in the April 2011 election. He was the Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Publicity. He was re-elected again to the Nigerian 8th Senate in 2015 and in 2019 to represent the people of Abia South Senatorial District in the upper chamber paving way for his emergence as the Minority Leader of the National Assembly and Leader of the opposition in the 9th Assembly.