The International Labour Organisation (ILO) Regional Director for Africa, Cynthia Samuel-Olonjuwon, wants more participation of African countries in the Global Youth Initiative by emulating the examples of Nigeria. Samuel-Olonjuwon who spoke when the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, William Alo led the Nigerian delegation to her Office at the Palais des Nation, Geneva, Switzerland, congratulated Nigeria for being one of the five countries in the world who are members of the Global Youth Initiative that brings together about twenty United Nations Agencies to support the Global Youth Employment Agenda. She said: “I used Nigeria to encourage other African countries to be part of this initiative. It is not surprising because Nigeria being the first country where ILO physical presence was established. “It is the only country in Africa that is part of the Global Youth Initiative and not surprising that Nigeria is hosting the Global Youth Employment Forum in August, 2019. We appreciate the commitment of the President and People of Nigeria to the hosting right and wish the country a successful event”. She disclosed that the Director-General of the International Labour Organisation, Guy Ryder, would be physically present to declare open the Global Youth Forum in Abuja, adding that Nigeria, as a member of the Global Youth Initiative, would strategically use the opportunity as a country and as Africa in general. Speaking earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Mr. William Alo, said Nigeria is fully ready to host the Global Youth Employment Forum. He said “The President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari has approved the hosting of the event by Nigeria. An Inter-ministerial Committee has been set up involving all relevant government Agencies and series of meetings and planning are ongoing towards the success of the event”. Alo expressed Nigeria’s request for more collaboration with the ILO for the country to perform and deliver more on labour issues. He emphasised Nigeria’s renewed request for the upgrading of the ILO Office in Abuja and demand for the employment of more Nigerian professionals into the Office in order to bridge the under-representation of Nigeria in the ILO workforce bearing in mind Nigeria’s status and contributions to the organisation. Alo also made the request for the ILO to correct the international arrangements of reserving permanent seats for Countries of Chief Industrial Importance as ILO prepares to adopt a new Centenary Declaration based on social justice and inclusiveness.