The State Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have passed a vote of confidence in the party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. They described what they called “public disparagement of the party’s national chairman as unconscionable distraction borne out of complete misconception of the reforms and specifically, the principle of loyalty to the party.” The party’s National Deputy Chairman (North), Senator Lawal Shuaibu, had accused Oshiomhole of running a one-man show, calling on his to step aside. Shuaibu alleged that the fortune of the ruling party dipped under the watch of Oshiomhole as the chairmen and therefore no longer fit to lead. But, the state chairmen yesterday pledged their support for the former Edo State governor. In a communique at the end of a meeting between the state chairmen and the National Working Committee (NWC), the state chapter chairmen said they were opposed to calls on Oshiomhole to resign, restating their  support for the national chairman’ reformatory effort. The communique was signed by 20 state chairmen of the party, cutting across the geo-political zones. It reads: “That Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole stepped into the saddle in June last year and hit the ground running by embarking on sweeping reforms that centered on party discipline and supremacy. He galvanised and led the NWC with commitment and sharp focus on greater philosophical ideals of rebuilding the party and raising the party another notch. “In line with his credo of fairness to leadership and membership of the party, the NWC, under his leadership, ensured a level-play field in the primary elections that largely returned the party to the people (general membership). “He led the NWC with a single purpose of dismantling the culture of impunity and imposition of anointed candidates at the expense of the vast majority of party members by some overbearing state governors. “Oshiomhole provided leadership that encouraged the APC candidates to go into the 2019 general election with assurance and great hope. Realising the pains and strains that usually accompany reforms and change, we are satisfied with the level of success that our party achieved under the Oshiomhole-inspired reforms. ”We are proud with the leadership provided by the national chairman in the recent election of principal officers of the National Assembly, where he ensured the emergence of Senator Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila as Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives respectively. You said it will happen and you worked hard to achieve it. Kudos Mr. Chairman. “We believe the best is ahead of our party and that all hands must be on deck to ensure that we incrementally build on the solid foundations of reforms that have brought about discipline, party supremacy and put the party directly in the hands of the people “Flowing from the above, we consider the public disparagement of our national chairman by anyone or group as unconscionable distraction borne out of complete misconception of the reforms and specifically, the principle of loyalty to the party. “We denounce calls on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to resign; and that, we solidly support Comrade Oshiomhole’s afore-mentioned reformatory effort. We endorse Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s leadership and hereby pass a vote of confidence in him.”