Fifteen years after its jetty suffered dilapidation, the Nigerian Navy (NN) on Friday inaugurated a replacement at the NNS BEECROFT in Apapa, Lagos. Also inaugurated were the Navy’s third locally built boat, a 25-man House Boat, 26 vehicles including 10 Liberty buses and 16 Hilux trucks, as well as the remodeled Naval Dockyard Limited Apprentice School, Victoria Island. The inaugurations which were performed by the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Defence, Mrs Naratu Batagarawa, were  part of activities to celebrate the NN’s 63rd anniversary. Mrs. Batagarawa commended the NN for the strides recorded in the past four years in the areas of manpower development, availability of platforms for sustained operations and improved welfare for its personnel. She charged the navy to take adequate steps at providing needed capacity to help build the nation. “The Nigerian Navy is expected to maintain the required presence that would ensure adequate protection of our sea lines of commerce and communication which are vital to our national survival. “Specifically, the prevention or at least reduction to the barest minimum of all forms of illegal economic activities particularly crude oil theft as well as the protection of the environment from pollution also presents formidable challenges. “These for me will continue to be areas of emphasis as we move to a brighter future of economic prosperity, political stability and technological development,” she said. Earlier, the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, said the completion of the jetty and other projects were part of the navy’s broader goal encapsulated in its transformation plan 2011-2020 detailed to cover operations, fleet renewal  logistics, human resource management and administration. He said the Houseboat would be one of a series, designed to complement existing houseboats, as part of the NN choke point strategy in compliance with presidential directives. “As part of effort to enhance transportation and welfare of personnel, about 130 assorted vehicles, including trucks, buses, ambulances were procured within the past year. “I am glad to note that the NN had made giant strides in the last four years with commensurate improvement in the availability of platforms for sustained operations, manpower development and welfare, as well as notable presence in the nation’s security architecture within the Gulf of Guinea (GoG). “Our desire is to bequeath to the future generations, a navy that is operationally capable and administratively responsive in the task of securing our maritime domain and fulfilling other assigned tasks.’’ 