The Bayelsa State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, has called for unity in Ogbia Local Government Area ahead of the November 16 governorship election. Iworiso-Markson, who hails from Opume in the area, advised that his kinsmen should move in one direction to maximise their electoral value. Iworiso-Markson, who spoke when he received leaders of the Ogbia Restoration Crusaders (ORC), said the division among the people, especially the political class had dwindled the electoral fortunes of the area. He explained that in the past Ogbia was known for unity, love and peace which engendered development, even as he lamented that everything took a negative twist because of the different political interests in the kingdom. While commending the ORC for using their oneness campaign to promote unity among the people, Iworiso-Markson noted that a lot still needed to be done. He pledged to partner with them to achieve their campaign objectives. The commissioner, who thanked the group for the visit and for always galvanising support for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) advised them to ensure that the party emerged victorious in the coming local government and governorship elections. He also commended them for their overwhelming support for the Restoration Government of Governor Seriake Dickson, urging them to continue to stand with the government as it approaches the twilight of its administration. Earlier, the Chairman of the ORC Elders’ Caucus, Elabha Azibola told Iworiso-Markson that the ongoing oneness campaign was aimed at bringing about peace, development, progress and growth. He said: “The visit, which is a continuation of an ongoing process, is expected to continue in order to reach all political stakeholders in Ogbia. Let us seize the opportunity to extend our appreciation to the leadership and stakeholders of the Ogbia chapter of the PDP for organising party processes to the satisfaction of all. “We also commend Governor Dickson for being the Ogbia man that he is. We also commend him for appointing our sons and daughters to serve in his administration and for the massive development he has brought to our area.” 