The last may not have been heard about the plan by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to alter the list of its principal officers in the Senate. Members of the party in Edo State yesterday vowed to resist any attempt to swap Senator Clifford Ordia for Senator Sahabi Yau, for the position of Senate deputy minority whip. The names of the minority principal officers in the upper chamber are expected to be announced on Tuesday when the Senate is expected to resume sitting. Ordia represents Edo Central Senatorial District, while Yau represents Zamfara State. On June 14, 2019, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe (Abia South) emerged as Senate minority leader with  Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, (Taraba South) as his deputy. Senator Philip Aduda, (Federal Capital Territory) was elected Senate minority whip and Odia Senate deputy minority whip. The shadow elections to select the principal officers of the minority party in the Senate were held at the Abuja residence of the PDP Chairman, Uche Secondus. There are speculations that the PDP national chairman has concluded arrangements to drop Senator Ordia as Senate deputy minority whip in favour of Senator Sahabi Yau. The Secretary of PDP in Edo State, Mr. Felix Imoisili, said that the plan to drop Ordia from the list of minority principal officers in the Senate was in bad faith. Imoisili who spoke to reporters on the issue warned of consequences of short changing Edo State in the Senate by the national leadership of the party. The party scribe was particularly worried that with the governorship election coming up in the state, the removal of Ordia was capable of creating avoidable bad blood. He said their rejection of plot by the party’s leadership in Abuja to drop Ordia, had been communicated to Secondus and other party leaders. He said: “It is unfair to even consider taking that position from Edo state. Edo State PDP has made its position known to the national chairman of the party. We are against it and it will not stand. We reject it completely. “In Edo State, the PDP has no position and we see this position as a morale booster for our people as we prepare for the governorship election next year. To take it away is unacceptable. It will have its consequences. “During the last presidential elections, Edo State gave Atiku the votes. The PDP won the election, despite the fact that the national chairman of APC is from here. “We have an APC governor and all the local governments are manned by APC members. To take away the only position we can celebrate will be dangerous.” Other PDP leaders in Edo State who spoke in the same with the party scribe insisted that there will be repercussions if the planned decision to drop Ordia was not jettisoned. For them, the plan by the party to win the next governorship election in the state could be frustrated by aggrieved members over the planned Ordia swap It was learnt that party leaders in the state are expected to meet today, to articulate a formal petition that will be forwarded to the national secretariat of the PDP in Abuja. The National Publicity secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbodiyan, said that issues raised by the aggrieved party members would  be addressed by the party. 