In a company I once worked, a lady with a degree in Actuarial Science discovered that she earned the same salary with a far junior employee who did not complete secondary school. As a result, she resigned her employment. In justifying his actions, the chief executive of the company said he is more interested about who “gets the job done” and not about paper qualification. This was close to 15 years ago. A few weeks ago, some key players in Silicon Valley indicated that they would no longer emphasis degrees but would be more interested in talents and skills. As the world shrinks due to globalisation, new and complex challenges are emerging rapidly; these challenges need newer and sometimes radical tools to help address them. Most people agree that education, especially at the tertiary level, plays a fundamental part in addressing complex present day challenges. For us to address a critical challenge like the shrinking labour market and the rapid production of graduates yearly, we have to explore ways of making our certificates count. For those who have been opportune to sit on job interview panels, one recurring decimal is the gulf between certificates presented and applicants. How, for instance, do you reconcile a first class or second class upper degree certificate with an individual that can hardly express himself, either in writing or orally? Our tertiary education system – more than ever – has an onerous task of looking beyond the mere award of certificates to ensuring they are beneficial to individuals and the larger society. I find it strange that some undergraduates go through higher education for four, five and sometimes six years without having inkling about where the degree they are acquiring will lead them after school other than the porous hope that they will get some job and start a career somewhere. This lacuna has led to the proliferation of workshops, seminars, refresher courses and conferences bent on bridging the gap created by the quest for certificates by Nigerian graduates, a failure of our educational system in adequately preparing graduates for the future. Trust Nigerians for not missing out on opportunities. A new “industry” of motivational speakers and “life” coaches has developed with a very ripe market of “buyers” for these services in the half-baked, poorly trained and ill-exposed products of our educational system. Don’t get me wrong. This is not to imply that these workshops and conferences are not necessary, they definitely are! Without doubt, education is one of the major arbiters of socialisation but when it is reduced to mere ability to obtain a certificate by fair or foul means; it becomes a tool for underdevelopment and retrogradation, sometimes on scales hardly imagined. Our society and leadership crises on almost all fronts are pointers to this. For qualitative education to be achieved and sustained, critical value must be placed on it so that those who receive it can see beyond its “putting food on the table” and refocus on the imperative of applying the gains of education to the needs of society. In other words, education, especially at the university level, needs to be properly valued and repositioned. A look at some of the curricula in our tertiary education system seem to suggest that we are gradually being left behind as some courses have not been reviewed to fall in line with the changed times. It is sad to know that some of our lecturers are still relying on researches conducted years ago; some of these no longer fit current challenges. For instance, of what use is churning out hundreds of thousands of graduates every year without requisite entrepreneurial skills? But today, as I have argued elsewhere, teaching and scholarship has been watered down with regular research gradually becoming a rarity. Education is supposed to prepare young people for the challenges of facing the future and making the best of it. It is supposed to help students to discover themselves, nurture their innate abilities and give vent to their God-given talents. Education is not supposed to ‘put food in the hands of a hungry lad.’ It is supposed to help him learn the skills of scouting, hunting and getting food to satisfy the hunger as well as create value out of his acquisitions which can be exchanged for a store of further value which eventually translates to wealth creation. Education can therefore not be about passing examinations and getting promoted into the next grade. It cannot be about acquiring certificates or certifications that do not empower the holder to add value to society in real terms. I see it as a journey in self-discovery (which is why it never ends), a journey that leads a man to the place of his assignment, the duty post that enables him to contribute, not only to the enrichment and betterment of society, but also towards empowering him to attaining self-actualisation. Since our lopsided educational policies refuse to take a firm stand, ‘success literatures’ have taken over the book stands and libraries as a testament to the widespread subordination of intellectual rigour of hard work and diligence to riches at any cost. These ‘success-teaching’ entrepreneurs have created a burgeoning industry out of the lacuna created by formal education. Where did we derail? From the beginning of the quest for certificates, our prospective undergraduate is engaged in a rat race of only passing his Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). The journey of higher education in Nigeria places unduly strong emphasis on students passing examinations and acquiring certificates. Serious attempt to link or lead the students and eventual graduates to discovering their calling and how the education being acquired will empower them to be masters of their destinies in the very near future are most times discounted. It is very easy to find graduates who know next to nothing in their chosen field of study. Again, you may ask, “how did he get the certificate?” The answer is simple – by passing exams! So those who contend that Nigerian graduates are ill prepared for the real world of work are right after all. What’s my take on this? I believe the time to rethink our entire tertiary educational system is now. Education must be structured to unleash the potential in every learner, leading them to acquire the much needed skills to become a source of value addition to life and society. Much of the ignorance that encircles contemporary Nigeria today certainly stems from the education industry. It is easy to point to government’s lackluster attitude as the major problem of the educational sector. Yes, the government has a huge role to play by giving direction through well thought out policies, but that in itself cannot be the whole truth. The civil society too has a huge role to play as well. Given the role of education in human societies, Nigeria’s future remains very bleak. I say this because the educational system is merely a pastiche of the society. This is especially true of the universities which should be centres of excellence, but which have become a pitiable extension of the problematic political system in Nigeria. If the universities – indeed the entire educational system – must be the vanguard of excellence and development, they have to operate at a level higher than the ugly realities that defines contemporary Nigeria. An important question to ponder is this: must every secondary school leaver go to the university? Why can we not resuscitate technical/vocational schools, equip them to award certificates in select vocations such as carpentry, auto mechanics, masonry, photography, craft, pottery, printing technology, etc.? If done properly, it would reduce the unnecessary strain on the varsity system while affording some youths the opportunity to gain practical proficiency in some chosen fields without acquiring degrees in the universities for which they are ill-equipped. More than anything else, we need the return of a vibrant intelligentsia that can bring back the era of all round research that addresses societal needs. We should rebound from the long history of the humiliation of the collective psyche of the Nigerian intelligentsia which dates far back to the military era. It is not too late for a reawakening.