I started this teaching last week by showing you the place of rest.  Today, I shall be teaching on ‘Rest in time of Unrest’ Despite the fact that unrest is prevalent in the world, there are still some people that enjoy rest in their homes, marriages, careers, jobs and lives. I want to let you know that true rest is possible, and it is only God that can give it. There are people enjoying rest unlimited. You too can find rest from the Word of God. The Word of God says: Despite the fact that unrest is prevalent in the world, there are still some people that enjoy rest in their homes, marriages, careers, jobs and lives. You too can find rest from the Word of God. The Word of God says: For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day. There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God. For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his. Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief (Romans 4:8-11). There is something you must do to enter your rest. Quite a large number of people today are experiencing one form of unrest or another. Some are so anxious about the future and are wondering over what it holds for them, while others are running helter-skelter, seeking for money-making enterprises and getting none. Some others are still searching out an escape route from tension in their failing family lives. For many in the world, these are pressure-filled times and statistics have indicated that the decline of marriage and the family unit has been greater and more alarming in the past 25 years than any other quarter century in history! There is no doubt about it that there is unrest around us today and even the world over, which has affected families economically, socially and politically. It is a global issue and so its solution cannot come from running to another nation or location. Constant crisis, terrible difficulties, turbulence and pandemonium have become the order of the day. Nevertheless, this was not God’s plan when He created the world, marriage and family life. His plan was that your marriage and family life bring you tremendous joy. The question on the minds of many now seems to be: Is it possible to find rest in this time of unrest? Today, the Word of God is going to proffer a suitable answer to that question. Who are those that have rest even in times of unrest? There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God: (Hebrews 4:9). Also, 2 Thessalonians 1:7 says: And to you who are troubled REST with us.The key word is, the people of God. The Holy Scriptures reveals the way to obtain genuine rest from God.  Are you part of God’s people? His Word tells us that, As many as received him to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: (John 1:12). One of the Saturday Punch Readers wrote me and said, “Your writings in the Saturday Punch are spiritual food. I started reading your articles since September 1997, and there has been a lot of positive changes in my life. I pray that God will give you more and more grace to continue to feed us. Adewole Samuel, Ondo state.” For the people of God, since rest is your birthright, and the will of God for you, whatever thing does not make you enjoy the peace and rest of God is a yoke. Whatever keeps your life in anxiety is a yoke and must be removed. Therefore, find out what the Word of God says about that particular area of your life where you desire rest and hold fast to it and it will become a reality in your life. God’s Word says: For we which have believed do enter into rest (Hebrews 4:3). Take for example, my marital life. Before I got married, I saw from God’s Word that rest was my portion as His child in every facet of my life including my home. I prepared for rest not trouble. I saw it in the Word of God and I appropriated it. And today God has fulfilled my expectation. My home is a resting-place for all. Rest is available to you through the Word of God, which is its source. Absolute rest is found only in Christ Jesus. Any alternative that the world may attempt to offer you will only be temporary. It may work for a short while, but ultimately it will fail woefully. Why not take a permanent solution then? The permanent solution lies solely on the Word of God, which will guarantee you and your family all-round rest. God is on your side! If you are not a part of God’s people and you want to be, now is the best time. Do not postpone or procrastinate rather, if you are not yet born again and you desire to do so right now, please pray this prayer with faith in your heart: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through contact@faithoyedepo.org, 07026385437 OR 08141320204. For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building a Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).