Sir: I have come to the pathetic realization that Akwa Ibom State has retrogressed beyond immediate salvation. Contemporary goings-on even indicate that we have speedily retrogressed to depths unimaginable. Akwa Ibom has become an absurd theatre where the powers that be boldly perform stunts to the chagrin of the exploited masses. Well, for anyone in the dark on the essence of this piece, I hereby reference the fact that Governor Udom Emmanuel and the 31 Local Government Council Chairmen in the state have beaten their chests, vowing to make heavens fall now that the National Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has decided to activate financial autonomy for Local Government. Nigeria’s bicameral National Assembly, at some point needed at least 24 Houses of Assembly in Nigeria to ratify its proposal for amendment of clauses in the constitution to grant autonomy to local government. The Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly under the Onofiok Luke infamously aborted the proposal, hence justifying his description of the Assembly as an Iron Seal of Udom Emmanuel’s Executive Arm. In December 2017, the Attorney General of Akwa Ibom State, Uwemedimo Nwoko, at a stakeholders meeting on the proposed alteration of some sections of the 1999 Constitution convened by the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, divulged thus: “The Akwa Ibom State government is against it (financial autonomy for Local government). There is nothing wrong with the joint account. What we should look at is not to abrogate the joint account, but to fine-tune it. Any attempt to create financial autonomy for the local government will collapse.” To worsen matters, full-blown crises have broken out between council chairmen and councillors. Tales of fisticuffs in councils are rife. Weeks ago, yours truly alongside his colleagues: Koko Robson and Michael Etok, went to Governor Emmanuel’s hometown of Onna, where the council boss had allegedly sent thugs to maim councilors for demanding to know how much allocation was sent by the state government. The Onna Legislative Council and the maimed councillors were in pitiable condition. Similar scenarios are replicated in other Local Government Areas of the state. As far the LG financial autonomy is concerned, one would have expected the powers that be to at least sound sensible while opposing it. The State Attorney General, who, a couple of years earlier had revealed that the state was against the autonomy, recently came out to say that the state is only opposing certain clauses in the NFIU guidelines. Sir, opposing “certain clauses” means that you are faulting the autonomy. I listened with trepidation the other day as two council chairmen went on air to say that absence of banks in some local government areas is why they are in court, challenging implementation of the autonomy. But these are people who have given no excuse for having personal bank accounts. Council chairmen starved of funds by the governor suddenly received a multi-million naira car each procured with a fraction of their statutory allocation. That’s how slavery manifests in my state. Of course, lackeys were installed by the governor as council chairmen. The governor’s wife biological brother, Mr. Ubong Idiong, holds sway as the council boss in Oruk Anam. In Etinan LGA, Mr. Cletus Ekpo, who is the biological brother to Mr. Paul Ekpo, PDP State Chairman, is the council chairman. Yes-men were also installed in other LGA. As the antics of the Udom administration continues, one may wish to preview what posterity has in the offing for the dramatis personae. When faced with the legendary submissions of John F. Kennedy: “When at some future date the high court of history sits in judgement on each one of us, recording whether in our brief span of service we fulfilled our responsibilities to the state, our success or failure in whatever office we may hold will be measured by the answers to four questions: Were we truly men of courage? Were we truly men of judgment? Were we truly men of integrity? Were we truly men of dedication?” In this regard, history will judge Governor Emmanuel and the 31 LG Chairmen harshly. Decades into the future, Akwa Ibom people will suffer the consequences of this act. bookmark their names and engrave their faces, as men who have been inducted into the hall of infamy. 