Scores of protesters from Ijaiye in Ojokoro Local Council Development Area (LCDA) stormed the seat of government at Alausa, Ikeja, to protest what they called their “bad roads.” The protesters comprising residents of Majeobaje, Progressive, Millennium Housing Estate, Hope Garden 1&2 Estate and Alayo Community Development Associations (CDAs) urged the government to fix the roads. They carried placards with various the inscriptions: “Governor Sanwo-Olu, have mercy,” “Ikereku/Adetola Temple Road, Oba Lambe, Ipetu also need attention,” “Sanwo-Olu a ti gbiyanju, apa ti kun wa o,” among others. The joint chairman, Chief Razaq Shodiya said Ikereku/Adetola street by Ojokoro LCDA “which is a major link and access road to Millennium Housing Estate, Agbado station, Fagba, Olaniyi and Powerline communities, has become impassable.” “Apart from that, it has become a security issue because anytime armed robbers come to operate there and you call the police, they will tell you there is no road to get into the area leaving us at the mercy of robbers,” he said. Progressive CDA Treasurer Dr. Folunsho Omitiran said: “We have written so many letters to the government to ask for assistance on the road and also to let the government know that though the road was listed among the 181 roads to be constructed by the past administration nothing had been done. “We want to draw the attention of the present government to the state of roads in that particular area especially Adetola-Ikereku road believing that if we do this early, government will listen and put us in mind and attend to us.” The CDAs joint co-Ordinator, Mr. Yemi Adebisi said he was attacked twice at home by armed robbers “but when I complain to the police, they say the road is terrible that they don’t have access to the place. “We just came here to appeal to Governor Sanwo-Olu. We know that he is very new, he does not know anything about the road but several times, they have awarded the road but nothing came out of it at the end of the day, we want him to help us and work on the road”. Addressing the protesters, Director (Political), Office of Civic Engagement Kolawole Hundeyin, said the roads would soon be attended to. “By the time we have the cabinet in place, action would be in full force,” he added. 