The police in Abuja have arrested a 22- year- old man, Mustapha Aliyu for allegedly beheading four children.  The children were beheaded in various villages on the outskirts of Abuja. Aliyu said he had beheaded three boys and one girl. He said he was paid N170,000 for each male head he brought and   N160,000 for a female head. He was on a mission to behead the fifth child when he was caught by the police. Speaking during his parade alongside 50 other suspects that were arrested for various crimes, the Commissioner of Police in charge of FCT, CP Bala Ciroma said: “On 19th May, 2019 at about 1430hrs following a distress call police operatives arrested one Mustapha Aliyu ‘M’ 22 Years in possession of a freshly severed head of a 3- year- old- boy who was later identified as Usman Awalu of Rugan Fulani close to Leleyi village in Kwali Area Council. “The suspect confessed that prior to his arrest, he has beheaded four children and gave their heads to his master who is now at large. “According to him, he is paid N170,000 for every male victim and N160,000 for every female victim. “He said his victims were taken from Sheda, Kwali, Kilankwa, Gwako and Leleyi villages.” Ciroma said efforts were  being intensified to arrest his boss who is currently at large. On how he got involved in the crime, Aliyu said: “I approached Mallam Yahaya because I was stranded and I needed N7000 for my education. “After complaining to him, he offered me a plate of rice and malt drink. After consuming the meal, I could no longer speak. I could not even respond to what the Mallam Yahaya said. “I walked back to my area with a substance he gave to me. He told me that if I touch any child with it, he will not make sound. While I was walking, I saw a boy and I did as the Mallam instructed. I touched the boy and he didn’t make any sound. I later beheaded him and got N170,000 as payment for the job. “I have so far beheaded four children, I was on a mission  to behead the fifth child when police arrested me.”