The long arm of the Oyo state Police Command has apprehended a prophet of Cherubim and Seraphim who allegedly lured and slaughtered a 25-year-old house wife, Bosede Oguntade for money rituals, following their friendship on Facebook. The housewife from Ilorin, was strangulated to death by the prophet, Dotun Ogunlade popularly called ‘Arole Jesu’ in Igboora area of Oyo State, the police said. The victim, Bosede who hailed from Ilorin in Kwara State was lured to Igboora in Oyo State with a view to providing solution to her economic and marital problems by the spiritualist. The Commissioner of Police in Oyo State, Mr. Shina Olukolu who led a team of policemen from the state command to the location where the victim was buried said the head and arms of the victim were cut-off before she was buried. Explaining how the victim was killed, the police boss said on the arrival of the woman in Igboora, the fake prophet told her to first solve the problem of fatigue occasioned by the stress of her trip from Ilorin to Igboora by taking sleeping drugs. He said she was allegedly injected with overdose sleeping drug and subsequently over powered, strangulated and killed. He further said her head and arms were thereafter taken for rituals while the remains of her corpse were buried in a shallow grave, at Ogboja area of Igbo-Ora. Olukolu added that based on credible information and diligent investigation, the police in Igbo-Ora were able to smash and arrest the syndicate. “Further investigation revealed that parts of her body were allegedly crushed into powder for rituals to become powerful and rich. Two knives used to kill and cut her body parts, a white cloth bag containing substance inside a gourd where the alleged powder parts were kept and a bottle of Stallion Schnapps were also recovered.” Olukolu however warned people to collaborate with police by giving timely and useful information to enable them to serve the community better. “The police will continue with their resolute determination to stamp out crimes and criminality in the society, members of the public should be careful in having absolute trust in individuals or groups who are strangers, especially those they met on social media or those who claimed to possess the power of clairvoyance or ability to combat and treat successfully terminal diseases or possessed solutions to social and marital challenges,” he said. Speaking with journalists, the suspect said he gained experience from his former boss who happened to be a prophet of Cherubim and Seraphim. He said: “Me and the woman have been chatting on Facebook since January, this year. I later invited her to Igbo Ora. “Meanwhile, Mutiu, a friend had already told me about his challenges in life. He told me he was ready for money rituals. So, I decided to use the woman for money for him. “When the woman later arrived from Ilorin, I went to pick her to Igbo-Ora, from Iseyin. On her arrival at my house, on 31st of May, this year, I gave her sleeping drugs after she complained about pains in her body, she slept off and I cut off her head, and arms. Her head was later burnt to ashes for money rituals,” he confessed.