The number of registered architects and firms yesterday swelled, as the  Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON) inducted about 450 persons and firms. They were charged not to breach professional ethics, but to uplift professionalism in their undertakings. ARCON gave the charge in  Abuja, while licensing the new architects. Its President, Mr. Dipo Ajayi, who stressed on integrity and professionalism, urged the new architects to think out of the box to make a difference. “I congratulate all of you for going through the processess. It is not how long you live, but, it is the fulfilment you derive in life. “Don’t ever think that your licence can give you all you want in life, but, fulfilment should be your drive.” Accroding to Ajayi, the nation is going through enterprenuerial revolution, calling on architects to be dynamic and think out of the box to make impactful difference. Warning against misconduct, the ARCON president reminded the new entrants that the regulatory body has an Architects Investigative Panel (AIP) and Architects Disciplinary Tribunal (ADT) that would deal with cases of infraction without fear or favour. ARCON immediate past president Umaru Aliu, who condemned  quackery, urged the architects to uphold the code of conduct and ethics. “We have the code of professional conduct and ethics to guide all our undertakings as architects. Unfortunately, we are where we are today due to lawlessness that has pervaded the land. “Foreigners don’t come and take the job all by themselves. They hide behind those who front for them.” He charged the new architects to do the right always and to memorise the code to avoid temptation. Umoru Karaye, who spoke on “Condition of engagement, charges and agreement by professional architects”, urged the architects to familiarise themselves with the document, which he said, was developed for the protection of architecture in Nigeria. He also urged them to be good ambassadors of the profession, adding that those ahead of them in the profession would assist them where and when possible. ARCON Registrar Umar Murnai, who said the institute had come up with the Architects Projects Registration Number (APRN), to prevent incursion into their profession, tasked the inductees to promote the initiative. According to him, without APRN, you, as an architect, can not make any submission in Abuja, addding that the Council had made the process of getting the number seamless.