Debt Management Office (DMO) former Director-General, Abraham Nwankwo, has advised the government on the best ways to achieve a diversified economic growth. He said the paradox of a Federal state with a unitary economic management model has been cited as a major reason Nigeria is yet to achieve economic diversification despite efforts by successive governments. Nwankwo, an economist, expressed this view in a keynote speech he delivered at an international conference organised by the Faculty of Management Sciences, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka in Anambra State today. He noted that a country practicing federalism should “naturally incline towards economic diversification”, but said the subsisting arrangement in Nigeria had worked against that expectation and renders the system a sharing one rather than a producing one. “Oil revenue, which accounts for between 75 and 80 per cent of public revenue over the past four decades is adjudged owned by the federation and not the sub-national territories where they occur. “ Following the unitary approach to administration entrenched by military governments for about 30 years, starting in 1966, the 1999 Constitution requires that such revenue be moved to the federal treasury from where it is shared to all the governments according to the prevailing revenue allocation formula. “The sharing formula has nothing to do with useful contribution to the revenue, but is rather based on such factors as population, school enrollment and land mass. This economic model encourages allocation and sharing rather than production and saving. “As a result, states get lazy about developing and depending on internally-generated revenue and neglect diversification of their revenues. This behavior is a variant of Resource Curse generated in a disjointed federal system like Nigeria’s.” He said while Nigeria’s political arrangement is federalism, the economic arrangement is essentially unitary, which has is a major factor inhibiting economic diversification. The economist further stated that the unitary management of the economy in a federal state had led to a few incongruences, which are symptoms of sustained economic mismanagement, stressing that this “disorder” must be addressed to achieve economic diversification. To achieve economic diversification, he urged the government to address some of the incongruences which include: “The non-oil sector which contributes more than 91per cent of GDP contributes less than 20 per cent to export earnings while oil, which contributes less than nine per cent to the GDP contributes more than 80per cent to exports earnings, the big non-oil sector contributes less than 30 per cent to public revenue while the small oil sector contributes between 77 per cent and 80 per cent to public rev