ALL Progressive Congress (APC) stalwart Bola Ahmed Tinubu has dedicated the maiden Democracy Day to activists, including late Dr Beko Ransom-Kuti, Gani Fawehinmi (SAN) and many students that sacrificed their lives for the nation to have history. Tinubu, who was the first to declare June 12 as holiday when he held the fort as governor in Lagos, spoke with reporters at the at the Eagle Square, in Abuja, where the Federal Government yesterday observed Democracy Day. According to him, the victory of the late Chief MKO Abiola at the June 12, 1993 presidential election defied tribe, ethnic and religious sentiments, saying that the day marked the beginning of transparent and open democratic system. The supreme sacrifice Abiola paid after his monumental victory at that particular period of history, Tinubu noted, “is the freedom of democracy we are enjoying”. He said that democracy is the most difficult system of government to manage adding that determination, perseverance and commitment are lessons from the June 12 experience. “I highly value human commitment to freedom and democracy, we did that and it took 20 years to recognise our efforts,” he said. Mr. Ita Enang, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters, said yesterday was not only to celebrate democracy but also to celebrate the sacrifices made by the late MKO Abiola. He said that the significant of June 12 was in recognition of the day the first freest election was conducted in Nigeria. Enang said: “For the next generation of Nigerians, let the day be a history for them and let them know that civilian government is still better than authoritarian government.” Former Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola said that the recognition of June 12 as the National Democracy day was significant. He described yesterday as a day of triumph and the attainment of the peoples aspiration. Aregbesola said the celebration is an indication that the aspiration of Nigerians expressed 26 years ago has gradually come into fruition and reality.