President Buhari’s commitment to a more peaceful and prosperous Nigeria has never been in doubt. This is a sentiment shared not only by his supporters but also those political foes who disagree with his style and politics. This commitment is perhaps behind his last Thursday’s appeal during the inauguration of the 2019 – 2023 National Economic Council (NEC) to the 36 states governors of the federation, the CBN governor, ministers of finance, budget and national planning, agriculture, FCT and the Minister of State, Petroleum, to join him in fighting the menace of poverty, challenges of decayed education, health, and agriculture sectors as well as the ongoing insecurity in the land. Unfortunately, these are mere symptoms of our crisis of nationality. And this perhaps explains why they have remained intractable despite the valiant efforts of President Buhari’s immediate predecessors in office. What the nation is confronted with is crisis of nationality. And as it has been shown by experiences of other multi-ethnic societies around the world, crisis of nationality is often resolved through politics by the political class with eyes on history. President Muhammadu Buhari  had during the said inauguration directed the governors  to “enforce very rigorously the statutory provisions on free and compulsory basic education especially Section 18(3) of the 1999 Constitution as amended (designed  to eradicate illiteracy and provide free and compulsory education) and “Section 2 of the Compulsory, Free Universal Basic Education Act  which  mandates every government in Nigeria to “provide free, compulsory and universal basic education for every child of primary and junior secondary school age”.  Like his predecessors, he also did not forget to reassure the governors of federal government assistance to access the counterpart funding provided by UBEC for the development of basic education. That all the nation has to show for similar past appeal and commitments by President Buhari’s predecessors are today’s over 10 million children of school age that are out of school,  is evidence enough  that chasing shadows instead of a return to ‘the path to Nigerian freedom’ never taken, is not likely going to produce a different result. In the department of health, the president said he strongly believes “it is in our collective interest that each and every citizen gets at least a minimal access to healthcare, including primary, preventive and emergency care.”  He went on to express the hope that the implementation of the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund, will ultimately achieve “at least 65 percent increase in the share of the population covered by primary healthcare by 2023, up from the 12.6 percent we cover at the moment”. President Buhari therefore wants  the governors to strive to make the universal health insurance scheme  work in their respective domains while assuring them of federal government assistance  to enable them cover “the poorest and most vulnerable in our society, who cannot even afford to pay the premium.’’ Unfortunately, Nigerians have passed through that route before. Similar past promises remain just promises. The old Western Region ran a successful primary health care system between 1952 and 1966. However, Nigerians in the rural areas today derive little or no joy from the involvement of a federal government that cannot successfully manage teaching hospitals or State House hospital located under the nose of the president, in the primary health centres spread around remote areas of the country. This is a betrayal of federalism. The states and local governments who know their needs are better equipped to manage their own affairs. In the area of agriculture, the president challenged the governors to imitate the federal government by deploying more resources to the sector while not forgetting to remind them that “Of our nearly one million hectares of land, about 77% is confirmed suitable for agriculture”. What the president did not admit however is that of the one million hectares, the federal government does not possess an inch. The truth of the matter is that beyond the funding of federal research agriculture centres, the bulk of annual appropriation on agriculture should go to the states instead of a dysfunctional centre that is known to throw money around blindly. And finally, the president who alone controls the security apparatus of state wants the governors to secure their states in the face ongoing assault by banditry, kidnappers for ransom and armed robbers. In this regard, the president according Governor Kayode Fayemi, chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum, has promised to “work with them to address questions of intelligence, broadening community policing, ensuring inter-service coordination, among the various security agencies”. Most experts have cited state policing as the panacea to insecurity in the states. Unfortunately, the governors instead of letting the president know during the said meeting that he cannot swim against the tide of public opinion, chose to engage  in needless adulation  treating the president as an emir as against an elected servant of the people . Fayemi  who cited funding as a potential disincentive to state policing after declaring   “Already, all of us are involved in funding; there is no governor that is not buying security vehicles, ammunition for police, giving allowances to our security agencies, be they SSS or police or in some cases, the military, where the military is involved”,  cannot be right. I think it is a question of states getting their priority right. It is claimed the state governors collect between N250m and N1b monthly as security votes. And when the federal government stops its unconstitutional interference in the affairs of LGAs, the state governments can do away with many parasites populating the so-called third tier of government or integrate those that are qualified into the state or LGA police force. Our problem is the tyranny of the state as represented by an all-powerful federal centre that has always stood against ‘the path to Nigeria freedom’. With government off our back and with devolution of powers to the states, a state like Zamfara, abandoned to warlords by the current governor who like his predecessors is said to have taken refuge in Dubai, will be able to mine her gold and other precious gems, pay tax to federal government and still have enough to employ doctors to run their 30 hospitals currently manned by a doctor each and hundreds of schools that could currently boast of only one teacher per school. And with oil rich Niger Delta in charge of her resources,  paying taxes to the federal government as it was in the first republic, when revenue sharing was on the basis of derivation, sponsorship of  frustrated unemployed youths by self-serving Niger Delta politicians to sabotage the economic interest of the nation will become less attractive. State police will not only end insecurity across the land, it will bring prosperity to all with herders and farmers forced to run their businesses as an ongoing enterprises and prices of their products determined by market forces.