A senior lecturer at Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, has been caught pants down while allegedly attempting to have carnal knowledge of one his students. The lecturer identified as Dr. O.O Aduwo was seen nude in a 29-second video clip which has gone viral on social media. It was gathered that Aduwo is a lecturer at the department of Accounting of the institution. Some female students of the varsity who were believed to have laid siege to the residence of the female student were seen dragging the embattled lecturer out of a room. The nation learnt that the lady’s boyfriend and his friends were said to have informed the lady to play along with the lecturer when he made overtures to her in exchange for marks. According to the video, an audible voice chatted: “This is a lecturer of EKSU. He wants to have S*x with a student. The voice said a lot of unprintable things laying bare the escapades of the lecturer. While making mockery and torturing the lecturer, one of the boys was seen pressing a powered electronic device to on his body to shock. Aduwo was screaming and begging the students for mercy but the pleas was rebuffed. He was beaten black and blue by the students when trying to resist being pulled out from the room naked. Meanwhile, the female student was the one who uploaded the video clip on her Whatsap status, captioning it “I am not sending oh, he wants to f**k fresh pu**y”. Speaking with the Nation, some students of the institution who craved anonymity confirmed the identity of the lecturer in the video as a popular person. They berated the level at which lecturers in the institution demand for sex in exchange of mark, saying they intimidate students to have sex with them. The students said there are several cases of such in the institution but most victims were not bold enough to expose the act. When contacted for confirmation, Dr. Aduwo phone was switched as the time of filing the report. Meanwhile, the institution’s Public Relation Officer, Mr. Bode Olofinmuagun who confirmed the incident, added that the management will investigate the matter before necessary action would be taken. 