The Presidency has welcomed the report of the European Union (EU) on the 2019 general elections in Nigeria, promising to analyse it fully and act on the recommendations in the best interest of the country. Malam Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, made this position known in a statement in Abuja on Saturday. Shehu noted that the EU observers were invited to the country by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and welcomed by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. He stated that this action was a clear indication of the administration’s good intentions, commitment to a pure democratic process and desire to improve on the next elections. The EU noted in their report that there were marked improvements from previous elections, although stating that more work needed to be done. ”The administration of President Buhari will work with all Nigerian citizens, state institutions, parties, civil society, the media and other experts to make sure that the improvements recommended by the EU are implemented, and that these areas of concern are addressed. ”It is noteworthy that INEC is in receipt of a number of recommendations that form a part of the EU report. ”The Presidency assures that the Commission is in safe hands and happy that they are currently engaged in root and branch reviews of the 2019 general elections and will input lessons learned into its recommendations for electoral and constitutional reforms. ”We believe that the commission conducted a good election and will continue to improve on its processes and procedures,” he said. While it is regretted that the elections in a few parts of the country witnessed some violence, among other shortcomings highlighted by the EU, Shehu noted, however, that none of these hitches affected the overall outcome of the elections. He said: ”Thankfully, EU did not question the results of the presidential election. ”This is further proof that the polls reflected the overall will of Nigerians, and that the world is solidly behind the election of President Buhari for a second term.”(NAN)