The United Labour Congress (ULC) said the former Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, erred by denying it Certificate of Registration. Ngige, during the valedictory session, said his only regret was the inability to register the ULC as a Labour Centre in Nigeria. According to him, the ULC needed 12 new unions that have never been registered or been affiliated to any existing labour centre. Speaking with The Nation, ULC President, Comrade Joe Ajaero said Dr Nigige was wrong with the excuse he gave for not approving the registration of the centre. “That is why he was saying there were few unions remaining for the ULC to be registered. The law is very clear that 12 unions can form a centre, but the minister refused to recognise existing unions and instead is talking about forming 12 new unions. “That is a complete breach of section 40 of the Nigerian constitution which says that everybody has a right to belong to a political party of his choice, a religion of his choice and a union of his choice. “I have never seen where it is said that for belonging to PDP, you cannot belong to APC. Even in secret societies, you can leave and join another organisation. “It is only in the labour movement that somebody is telling you that the moment you join centre A, you cannot leave until you die. “Whenever the Trade Union Act is in conflict with the constitution, the constitution takes precedence. So, you cannot quote the Trade Union Act when the constitution has spoken,” he said. He added that for the former minister to have violated the constitution was wrong and unacceptable. ”We have been playing this down and that is why I spoke about freedom. The trade union act is under the constitution,” Ajaero said. He also said the only letter received from the ministry since the commencement of the application process was the acknowledgement copy of the application form. “Before you head to court, you must have evidence that you have been rejected. “I have it on good authority that it took Trade Union Congress (TUC) about 27 years to be registered and the law was still clear that the moment you fulfill these things, you exist. “