Yam, dioscorea esculenta, is a staple food in Nigeria and some other African countries. It is widely consumed by all tribes as well as non-African natives. Yam is eaten in various ways; it can be eaten as boiled yam with fried egg source, portage, fried, roasted or pounded into popular delicacy known as pounded yam in the black African nations, especially in Nigeria. Yam is grown in almost all the states of Nigeria in commercial quantity. However, Benue State and all the middle belt states of the country turn out yam in more quantities than other states. Yam is a seasonal plant that requires special attention for proper growth and maximum produce. As a result of increasing consciousness in wanting to spend less time in food preparation, career women, students, bachelors and host of others are embracing almost fully prepared food products for convenience sake, hence, packaging of fresh sliced yam is becoming widely accepted. Viability: This business is highly lucrative as the working class and most people living in the cities prefer ready to fry or boil cleaned yam and potatoes. The ever growing Nigerian population is an advantage, hence a very huge market that is begging for supply. This product is sold by retail stores all over the country. the irony is that most cleaned (pealed) or cleaned yams that Nigerians buy in these retail shops are imported. Raw material: Yam is the major raw material and it is readily available at the local market closest to you in large quantity. It is sold on almost all the streets of the country. Machinery and equipment: Profitability Return on investment                                      48.2% Return on equity                                             108.0% Payback period                                               3years, one month Break-even point                                             58.0% Monetary requirement The total monetary requirement for such investment depends on the intending investor. An investor can conveniently start production with N6,859,000 to as much as over N85million, depending on the capacity the intending investor wishes to invest.