So far, we have been able to examine the following topics: The Place of Rest; Rest in the time of Unrest and Relaxing at Home. Today, we shall be exploring the topic: ‘Maximizing Happiness in your Home’ I want us to consider how to get the best of times in our families. The Bible says: The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear? (Proverbs 18:14).It is joy on the inside that brings out the best in a man. Happiness in your home will bring out the best in your wife, husband and children. A sorrowful heart is dangerous. Nothing good comes the way of the dejected. God’s Word says: A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit drieth the bones (Proverbs 17:22). When there is no happiness in a home, the family members are prone to all sorts of sicknesses and diseases. Man, which do you choose? To stay happy and make every member of your family happy, thereby staying away from hospital bills, or to continue spending your money and resources on drugs and medical bills. Wisdom is profitable to direct, the wise man said. I’ll rather choose to stay happy and be drug-free with my family members. What is Happiness? It is a state of enjoyment, showing satisfaction or joy. It is also marked by pleasure. When you are happy, in most cases, your disposition is characterised by laughter which is a feeling of triumphant or exultant sense of well-being. . When you are genuinely happy, no one needs ask you. You just flow in it, and it shows. Now, God has declared this year as our own year of turning point. Therefore, God expects a lot of happiness in and around us and our homes this year. We shall not disappoint Him. What does it take to be Happy? The Psalmist says: …Blessed is every one that feareth the Lord; that walketh in his ways. For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee (Psalm 128:1-2).Also, Proverbs 28:14 says: Happy is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief: We can see from the above two scriptures that Happiness comes by fearing God, reverencing His voice via His Word, obeying His instructions and doing what He commands to do. To maximize Happiness in our homes, therefore, God is telling us to consider these: Finally, friends, the Word says: If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them (John 13:17). God needed a garden in Genesis, and, He planted one. If you want happiness, you must create it. Nothing works until you work it. You cannot be happy without having hope. Nothing destroys laughter than hopelessness. Never lose hope for a moment. Set yourself to doing these things and your laughter shall know no end. Throughout this year, slap the face of the devil with your laughter. Be happy on the inside and it shall continually show on the outside. Your health shall spring forth and every member of your family shall enjoy the divine presence of God. Heaven is full of joy, and God dwells in the midst of praise. Make your home and life a habitation for the Almighty. Do you want to maximize happiness in your home? The first step is to be born again. If you are not yet born again and you desire to do so right now, please pray this prayer with faith in your heart: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through contact@faithoyedepo.org, 07026385437 OR 08141320204.  For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building a Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).  