The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) said on Friday that the suspension of the operating licence of DAAR Communications, owners of African Independent Television and Raypower FM was a premeditated attack on the media, describing the action as unacceptable. President of Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba said in a statement that rather than resort to unilateral decision, the National Broadcasting Commission should have approached the judiciary in resolving it’s dispute with the broadcast outfit. Wabba said the suspension of the licence will have adverse implications on job creation saying such undemocratic decision was unacceptable in its entirety and demand that the suspension be lifted immediately. The statement reads: “We are disturbed by the sudden suspension of the broadcast licences of the DAAR Communications owners and operators, African Independent Television (AIT) and Raypower radio. “We are particularly worried that the suspension was issued as a result of the alleged inability of the owners of these broadcast services to pay up licence renewal fees and continued broadcast of views and reports considered to be detrimental to certain interests. “For us, in a democratic environment, these allegations should not ultimately attract such noxious sanctions that circumscribe both the broadcast rights of the services and the fundamental rights of the public to access news and information. “More worrisome is the negative impact of this action on job creation and sustenance in the face of growing insecurity directly traced to existing high unemployment in the country. “Part of the positive attributes of democracy is the fact that there are legal options constitutionally established to resolve grievances. The judiciary should have been approached if anyone, including government or its agencies feel aggrieved by the actions of corporate or individual citizens. “We view the suspension of these licenses as premeditated attacks on the media ultimately aimed at circumscribing our collective freedom. This is unacceptable in its entirety and we demand that the suspension be lifted immediately. “We urge the Federal Government to caution all its agencies and commissions against taking any action(s) that contravenes democratic standards. The commission should approach the judiciary rather than take unilateral actions that eventually affects the rights of the citizens to information and knowledge.”