SIR: In our lifetime, siren-blaring governors, senators and other highly placed government officials— are themselves now afraid to use certain roads in the country, despite their armed escorts. It is obvious the government is overwhelmed by the security challenges. The president has handed over the troublers of the soul of Nigeria to God’s judgement. Soldiers are justifiably spent and thoroughly drained of morale. Policemen would rather attack and kill innocent Nigerians to justify their existence than face the internal insecurity headlong. It has never been this bad for Nigeria. We may get angry all we can that world powers use Nigeria as a case of a failed state: a country that appears clueless about solution to its fundamental problem is failed in every sense of the word. Boko Haram, ISWAP, bandits, criminal herdsmen, and kidnappers are all too much for a country at once. Except we divorce our proclivities for ethnocentric, religious and political explanations for these existential threats to our corporate existence and unite in tackling these devils of insecurity, we will all die like fools. Few years ago, ordinary people without political power were declared soft targets when attacked by Boko Haram. We declared Boko Haram defeated and the insurgency over, although we continue to budget billions of Naira to fighting same. Sadly, the truth in haste has overtaken our equivocation. Today, military base has become a soft target. Members of the upper political class have become soft targets. In fact, the country has become a soft target. This is in every sense an existential threat to the soul of the country. As a people, we need to respond to this security emergency bottom-up. Each person needs to secure his or her house and all houses work together to secure the street. Streets must work together to secure the area and different areas must cooperate to secure the community. As civilians, we may not be able to do more than gather intelligence— as the perpetrators of these evils often live among us. In the long run, we will realise that intelligence gathering may be more important to solving security challenges than firearms and their bearers. If a country fails, it is not only its leadership that fails; its entire citizenry fails. It is high time we all owned this failure: it is our collective failure, irrespective of ethnicity, religion, political affiliation, economic status, social class, education attainment level, sex and age. Admitting this saddening reality may be the beginning of our national redemption. If we do not fight these monsters from the roots, we will all wither from the roots. Civilian JTF in the north has given us a good example of what ordinary citizens can do in a situation of national emergency. We will do well to follow the good example. If we do not, Nigeria is most likely to bleed to death in our hands and we all will be its murderers.  Ibadan.