Lagos state Head of Service, HoS, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola on Monday said that the implementation of the newly approved minimum wage in the state civil service is a ‘done deal’. The HoS gave the assurance on Monday while answering questions from reporters after addressing a press conference on the upcoming celebration of the 2019 Public Service day which held in his office at the state secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja. According to him the reason why there seems to be a delay in implementation is because the new administration is just trying to settle down. “The governor is just taking over the reins of administration in Lagos, in the meantime consolidating on getting all the facts and figures regarding our current financial status. “And as soon as all of those are done it will be a matter of whether we are implementing the minimum wage, our own minimum wage or whether or not there are other incentives that will be added”, assuring that “it will definitely take off in the nearest possible shortest time”. The theme for this year’s celebration is: ‘Achieving the sustainable development goals through effective delivery of services, innovative transformation and accountable institutions’. Muri-Okunola said the public service day which is celebrated annually globally on June 23rd is to recognize the value of service to humanity as well as to appreciate and recognize workers in the public service and to highlight the contributions of public servants to development efforts worldwide. “It has become imperative since 2001 to organize events in the Lagos state public service calendar to commemorate the day; the commemoration provides an excellent opportunity to appreciate the productive and outstanding efforts of the state’s public servants towards effective and efficient delivery of high-quality public service”, he said However, because of certain exigencies, this year’s celebration has been postponed to the month of August “to allow for proper preparation for the series of events for the weeklong celebration”, the program of events will be announced at a later date, according to him. The HoS said the governor, Babajide Sandwich-Olu has underlined, by pronouncements and actions, so far, its determination to ensure that service delivery is optimized and that the high expectations of the good people of Lagos state are met on a timely basis. While expressing pride and joy in the Lagos state public service “for its depth of quality, demonstrated determination and commitment to remain the most vibrant public service in Nigeria,” the HoS urged all the state public servants to roll up their sleeves and gear up for the challenges ahead.