Sir: Obviously, one of the ills plaguing Nigerian Youth today is the alarmingly misuse, abuse of, and overindulgence in drugs specifically “Tramadol” and other forms of substances which are either poorly regulated or banned for use in the country. Tramadol is said to be a narcotic analgesic because it works in the body to change how it feels and responds to pain.Tramadol, like any other narcotic is a prescription drug available for sale only and strictly by prescription with a potential for misuse when overdosed on. It may lead to reduced breathing, seizure (convulsion) and eventual death. It’s abuse is speedily becoming a global issue and if stringent measures are not put in place to resolve this, more people will lose their lives and many would end up in drug rehabilitation centres. Predictably, this leads to premature deaths. In a survey released earlier this year by the United Nation Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), shows that the drug is being abused by mainly youths. The survey shows estimated 4.7 per cent of the population, 4.6 million Nigerians had used opioids (such as tramadol) for non-medical purposes in the past year. It also totals to an estimated prevalence of 6% out of 21.8% of the total drug use and the second prevalent after Cannabis in the past year in Nigeria. Nigeria’s regulatory and law enforcement  agencies (NAFDAC, NDLEA, Nigeria Police Force and Nigeria Customs Service) have had multiple cases of intercepting unregistered containers of tramadol rising every day. In 2016, NDLEA reported the seizure of 50,536 kg of  tramadol, with the quantity seized by NDLEA rising to  72,602 kg in 2017. Two high-profile raids at the country’s largest port last November resulted in the seizure of over half a billion tablets of Tramadol; In February 2018, two trucks of the banned substance were seized by the Nigeria Customs Service. Similarly, in March 2018, 33 trucks laden with tramadol were intercepted by the agency just as it was exiting the Apapa port in Lagos. Also, on Tuesday May 8, 2018, the Nigeria Customs Service at Tincan Island port said it intercepted and seized two containers laden with 225mg of Tramadol Hydrochloride valued at N124 million packaged as electrical materials, revealing the height of human desperation! This necessitates a wakeup call on them to strengthen their regulatory/enforcement systems on these drugs or put the entire nation at risk. Tramadol is a prescription medicine used to treat moderate to severe pain. When taken, it works on the nervous system and the brain to reduce binding to receptors (parts of cells that receive a certain substance). The receptors then decrease the pain messages that your body sends to your brain. There are many different forms, strengths and brands of Tramadol. Some are immediate release formulations that start working immediately to ease the pain, while others are sustained or delayed release, thus releasing the active moiety, tramadol more slowly, over several hours, to provide a constant and more even pain control. Quite prominent among the use of tramadol by young people is the desire of most of them to enhance their performances in various fields of human behavior. Either to enable them do physically challenged activities, required fitness, strength and mental alertness to improve their performances in the tracks, academics and ability to ‘last long’ in bed. Thereby become fearless, aggressive, reckless and prone to acts of inhumanity. The dangers caused at home might be enormous though undocumented. This, no doubt, disturbs social order. The in streaming of quack doctors and drug peddlers has orchestrated to a high incidence of drug abuse not only in our streets but also at our doorsteps. It is worthy to note that, not only in our homes and streets that one catches a glimpse of quacks plying their trade, but also in buses, and in “troskys” which toyed with the future and threatened with an eminent jeopardy. To combat the “Tramadol Menace”, there is need for a nationwide educational campaign, aimed at exposing every citizen to the dangers inherent in using un-prescribed drugs, a holistic health revolution will also do well in addressing the key problems of poverty and illiteracy as these are twin brothers that promote the practice and acceptance of medical quackery. When drug peddlers, quacks, users and traders of hard drugs are caught, instant punitive measures should be meted to them. Lastly, the government should sign the Pharmacy Council of Nigeria Bill passed last year which will do more in putting mechanisms in place to regulate the production, distribution, Sale and use of drugs nationwide and as well give proper training to enable professionals and non-professionals conduct their operations more efficiently and effectively. If not, everyone apart from the licensed professionals should be banned from carrying out their operations. 