Environmental sustainability has been on the front burner for a while. This is why major businesses, whose operations affect the environment, are becoming more proactive. As the world celebrates the 2019 World Environment Day, Coca-Cola HBC Chief Executive Officer Zoran Bogdanovic, in a chat with journalists, says his firm has been focusing on environmental sustainability in its operations since the last decade. He also talks about steps towards safeguarding the environment. MUYIWA LUCAS was there. Excerpts: Waste has become a big issue globally, especially as it relates to how the planet is impacted, what step has Coca-Cola HBC taken to address it? I think the amount of waste littering our planet has rightly received a lot of attentions recently. I get annoyed when I see rubbish strewn in parks, beaches and our oceans. As a company in the business of bottling, selling and activating beverage brands in 28 markets, we, at Coca-Cola HBC, understand the problem and our role in addressing it. Last year’s World Environment Day theme was “beat plastic pollution”, one year on, we have this opportunity to reflect on what we have done to date to tackle this and what we can do better in future. As it stands, materials like plastics constitute a large chunk of wastes in the environment. Why don’t you just stop using plastic? The challenge is that it is currently the best of all packaging materials available. This is because it is safe, hygienic, durable, flexible, resealable and recyclable in terms of the environmental impact of its production and transport. The problems we are dealing with today arise mainly after use, either with plastics sitting in landfill or left as litter in the environment. However, this doesn’t have to be the case. If we can get enough of the bottles back, with the right level of quality, they become a valuable raw material, as we can recycle and reuse them. And as technology advances, we will get better at doing that. The “World Without Waste” is a campaign you recently initiated. Tell us about it and to what extent has this helped to change the narrative? The Coca-Cola company, together with its strategic partners, are embarking on a comprehensive, multi-year plan that directly addresses issues regarding packaging. This approach – World Without Waste – has a goal to collect and recycle the equivalent of a bottle or can for each one we sell by 2030. As a step towards this, we at Coca-Cola HBC, launched a set of commitments last year, to be achieved by 2025, and designed to ensure that we continue to drive sustainability through our entire business. The idea is to make our consumer packaging 100 per cent recyclable by ensuring that we source more of the total PET plastic we use from recycled PET and commits us to help collect the equivalent of 75 percent of the containers used for our drinks. How far have you gone in this regard? We have already made some big steps towards these targets. Take for instance, 99 per cent of our packaging is now recyclable and we’ve identified opportunities to improve this further by ensuring compatibility between our packaging and existing recycling streams, which are done through the use of the right colorants, additives and sleeves. In support of our efforts to use more recycled PET (rPET), we have teamed up with third parties to ensure better access to  rPET suppliers and technologies. For example, in Austria, we have invested in a PET to PET plant, owning 20 per cent, together with other FMCG companies, which has supported the delivery of our Austrian water brand Römerquelle in 100 per cent rPET bottles this year. We announced a few days ago that from now onwards, every bottle within our Irish water brand, Deep RiverRock, will also be made from 100 per cent recycled PET, with further water brands in Switzerland and Romania to follow this year. Additionally, we will increase the percentage of rPET used in our Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Zero bottles in Switzerland and Austria this year to 50 per cent while continuing to build our capabilities in this area across our portfolio in our 28 markets. What is the level of success achieved since the system started the recycling and packaging initiative globally? I can say we have done extremely well. In 2018, we collected a group-wide average of 45 per cent of our packaging for recycling, in collaboration with our partners. In Nigeria, the Coca-Cola System in partnership with the indigenous company, Alkem, has been in the forefront of promoting environmental safety. During the period of the partnership, a total figure of 23,000MT of PET was collected. Also, in Nigeria, the Food and Beverage Alliance (FBRA) where we play a leading role was instituted to advance this cause and so far, the alliance has yielded significant results with a total of 109.11 tons of PET collected between July 2018 and May 2019. We have launched some great initiatives to increase this further in other markets. For example, we took an active role in Russia last year to establish, together with the industry, the first Packaging Recovery Organisation (RusPRO). In parallel, we supported the initiative ‘Separate with Us’, which seeks to raise awareness around recycling and collect more used packaging. Additionally, we work with other stakeholders to support various local collection schemes which, depending on local conditions, include packaging recovery organisations and deposit return schemes. We are part of 19 other packaging waste management schemes across our markets and we have a group-wide policy on packaging waste and recycling, which provides the framework within which our countries operate.