The Founder/Director of The Journalism Clinic, Mr. Taiwo Obe, who was the resource person/facilitator at a Polaris Bank-sponsored training for journalists in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, on June 3, advised media professionals against fake news, in order not to lose respect of readers/listeners/viewers of the media houses and to be taken seriously. The media capacity building training, which took place at Jevenik Place, Tombia Street, Government Reservation Area (GRA), Phase 2had as its theme “Online Journalism in the Era of Fake News,” had in attendance Polaris Bank’s Head, Corporate Communication, Rasheed Bolarinwa, from Lagos head office; and the bank’s Relationship Officer of Olu Obasanjo Branch in Port Harcourt, Mrs. Ogonnaya Smart. The resource person, who has been in journalism since 1978, stated that the tool needed in today’s journalism must be eternal vigilance. While urging the media professionals to train themselves to be suspicious of everything, thereby avoiding litigation or libel suits. He noted that journalists must be over-vigilance in today’s world, in order to avoid ridicule or embarrassment before members of the public. He described fake news as made-up stuff, masterfully put together to look like credible journalistic reports, which are easily spread online to a large audience. The facilitator said: “The tool needed in today’s journalism is eternal vigilance. Check, double check and be suspicious of even yourself. First, doubt the news materials/stories and photographs, so as to be on the safe side, because there are enemies of progress who want your media houses to die early and they will send to you, fake news materials and photographs. “Journalism nowadays is about providing the hard evidence. Journalists must write authoritatively and their reports must be reliable and credible. It is important to have deep knowledge of what you intend to share. Journalists must always update their knowledge and widely read books, in order to grow, improve and be relevant. “A good journalist should not lie. He must always stand by the truth and report objectively. If he is in doubt of the information, he should leave it out. Always consult experts to authenticate stories, especially breaking news. “Trust should be upheld by journalists. Make efforts to verify information, for credibility of your medium and for peace of the society.” Obe also described social media, particularly WhatsApp, as the breeding ground for fake news. Polaris (formerly Skye) Bank’s  Head, Strategic Brand Management, Nduneche Ezurike, from the bank’s head office on Victoria Island, Lagos, in admonished media professionals to always place emphasis on investigative journalism, professionalism and doing basic checks, to detect fake news, which he described as real, intense and would continue to consume careless reporters. Ezurike also urged journalists to always be ahead and not to get tired of acquiring knowledge, with all the barriers already broken, while insisting that media professionals must never be seen as nuisance. The Group Head of Polaris Bank in Port Harcourt, Raphael Abiaziem, noted that the financial institution appreciated the media as partners in progress. Abiaziem, who was represented by the Business Development Manager of Olu Obasanjo, Port Harcourt branch of the bank, George Gabriel-Whyte, described the media capacity building training as part of the core values of Polaris Bank, which he identified as continuous training, stressing that it would ensure responsive journalism, while calling for continuous support of the bank. While responding on behalf of the participants, the Chairman of Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in Rivers State, Chief Ernest Chinwo of ThisDay Newspaper, hailed Polaris Bank for the opportunity and the initiative. He called on the bank to organise the training, retraining regularly and accommodate more media professionals.