THE Lagos State Government’s move to restore sanity on the road and ensure a clean environment will only work with the people’s cooperation, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Lanre Razak, said yesterday. Welcoming Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s executive order declaring a state of emergency on environmental sanitation and traffic management, Razak said the state would excel if the government and the public were on the same page. According to him, more than anything, the cooperation of the public, especially motorists and residents, through positive attitudinal change is paramount for the executive order to achieve its objectives. He said: “I want to commend the operation zero tolerance to indiscriminate waste disposal and traffic offences introduced by Governor Sanwo-Olu but I strongly appeal to Lagosians to give the state government maximum cooperation in its determination to ensure free flow of vehicular traffic on Lagos roads and achieve a cleaner environment. The zero tolerance on traffic offences and waste disposal is for the common good and benefits of the people”. Noting that the leadership of Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat is capable of accelerating the state’s socio-economic development, Razak, the Balogun General of Epe, hailed APC stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the duo’s emergence. He described them as “experienced and the best men for the job.” “The team given to us in Lagos this time around by our leader Asiwaju is the best in the country and you cannot get it anywhere other than Lagos. As a former governor of the state, he knows the capability of those entrusted with leadership who can deliver on the state master-plan and consolidate on the solid socio-economic foundation laid by successive administrations in the state beginning from May 29, 1999, when he was voted governor. “So, rest assured that the governor and his team who have hit the ground running and started very strongly since they assumed office last month will finish well at the expiration of their tenure. All they need is the support and cooperation of all Lagosians through regular payment of taxes and rates for the government to generate enough revenue for the transformation of the state as well as obey rules and regulations. “This will enable the state retain its status as the most economically viable among the 36 states and the nation’s centre of commerce and industry”, Razak added.