There is no plan to lead a protest should the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT) rule against my bid to compel the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to grant him access to information on the Commission’s central server, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, said on Sunday. Atiku, who was the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 presidential election, debunked reports that he was planning to lead a protest should his request be declined by the panel. The former vice president Atiku his party are challenging President Muhammadu Buhari victory of at the tribunal where they have prayed the tribunal to compel INEC to grant them access to information relating to the presidential election on the Commission’s central server. The electoral umpire told the tribunal on June 13 that it has no server for Atiku and the PDP to inspect. In a statement by his media adviser, Paul Ibe, the PDP candidate yesterday described the report in circulation to that effect as the handiwork of mischief makers. According to Atiku, the said report was meant to mar his “spotless pro-democratic record”, with the view to laying the groundwork on false charges against him. The statement reads: “Our attention has been drawn to a statement circulating in a section of the media, to the effect that Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of PDP in the 2019 presidential election and Vice President of Nigeria, 1999-2007, plans to lead a street protest in the event that the election petition tribunal rules against him and his party on the issue of a server for the Independent National Electoral Commission. “I wish to emphatically state that such a statement did not emanate from Atiku Abubakar or his privies. It is the work of mischief makers who want to mar his spotless pro-democratic record and lay the ground work for their threatened actions against him on false charges of being a threat to national security. “For the avoidance of doubt, Atiku Abubakar believes in the Rule of Law and in the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In his almost four decades in politics, he has never taken action or spoken words against democracy and will not start now. “Atiku Abubakar and his team have confidence in God and thus call on those bent on mischief to have the fear of God and retrace their steps. “Democracy has come to stay in Nigeria. The culture of fear being created now cannot rein in our democracy. Nigeria and Nigerians have a consistent history of outlasting tyranny and will continue to do so by the grace of God.” 