WITH a vote of confidence passed in its National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) rose yesterday from its 38th regular National Working Committee (NWC) meeting. The NWC, which considered several issues, among which was the state of the party, resolved also raised a disciplinary panel headed by former Ekiti Statec governor and National Vice Chairman (South), Otunba Niyi Adebayo. A communique signed by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu reads: “After extensive deliberation, the NWC resolved as follows: to pass a vote of confidence on the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole; to set up a five-man Disciplinary Committee headed by Otunba Niyi Adebayo to investigate (i) the allegation levelled by Sen. Lawal Shuaibu against the National Chairman on issues involving the collective decisions of the NWC; (II) the instigation of senators/members of the House of Representatives by SenatorLawal Shuaibu against the decision of the party on the choice of the presiding officers for both chambers (Senate and the House of Representatives) at the Banquet Hall, Presidential Villa, even when these issues were all discussed and agreed by all members of the NWC. The party said that Shuaibu’s action was particularly embarrassing by moving around the federal lawmakers to revolt while Mr. President was making his concluding remarks on the need for APC to present one candidate to avoid a divided house. The Adebayo panel was mandated to submit its report to the NWC within seven days from yesterday. Also yesterday, the APC directed its elected members in the Ninth National Assembly to queue behind its candidates for the Senate President and House of Representatives Speaker positions in the Ninth National Assembly. Senate Leader Ahmed Lawan and House Leader Femi Gbajabiamila have been endorsed by the ruling party for both seats The party also commended former Gombe State governor, Senator Danjuma Goje for stepping down from the race. Its national spokesman Lanre Issa-Onilu also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his fatherly role in ensuring compliance with party decisions and directives. According to the party, the Gombe senator Goje has demonstrated himself as a reliable, committed party leader, good role model and elder statesman, saying “we believe that Goje’s selfless actions typify APC’s progressive ideals and should be emulated by all party members to ensure unity, strength and supremacy of our great party. Issa-Onilu said: “There is no doubt that the majority APC caucus is going into the incoming Ninth National Assembly as a united house. “On the sponsored reports against Gbajabiamila, the party’s candidate for the Speaker’s position in the Ninth House of Representatives, that he was ‘convicted’ by a Court in the United States of America, we urge Nigerians to ignore the phantom and infantile allegations. “The allegations have become a reoccurring fabrication. Nigerians will recall that the same baseless allegations were made against Gbajabiamila in the leadup to the 8th National Assembly speakership race and came to naught. It needs restating that Gbajabiamila has never been convicted for any crime in Nigeria and abroad. “We urge Gbajabiamila and his vibrant campaign team to remain focused on their extensive nationwide consultation and engagements which have been well-received and endorsed across party lines. “Ahead of the June 11 inauguration of the Ninth National Assembly, we urge all APC federal lawmakers to rally around the candidatures of Senator Ahmed Lawan, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and all our candidates for the respective principal positions.” Also yesterday, former Abia State governor Orji Kalu commended Goje for dropping his ambition for senate the president. The APC senator-elect for Abia North said that Goje demonstrated patriotism and maturity for throwing his weight behind Lawan in the interest of the APC. According to Kalu, the President’s intervention was timely, appropriate and highly commendable. Speaking with a cross-section of APC supporters in Lagos yesterday, Kalu, who is eyeing the position of Deputy Senate President, said: “I salute President Muhammad Buhari for meeting with the trio of Governor Ahmed El-Rufai, Senator Ahmed Lawan and Senator Danjuma Goje in the interest of the APC and Nigeria at large. “The decision of Senator Goje to drop his senate presidency ambition in order to support Senator Lawan is a welcome development.”