The President directed yesterday that a three-man committee be set up to produce a white paper on the recommendations of a committee on police reforms. Establishment of local government and state police, dismissal of 37 police officers and better funding for the police formed the planks of the recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) Presidential Special Panel on the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) Reforms. Also proposed by the committee are strengthening of the Police Rapid Response Complaints Unit and other internal complaints mechanisms to make them more responsive. The recommendations were contained in the report submitted to President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. Buhari directed the Inspector-General of Police and the Solicitor-General of the Federation/Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, to liaise with the Commission to work out the modalities for the implementation of the report within three months. Also recommended by the committee chaired by the NHRC Executive Secretary Anthony Ojukwu are: The panel noted that ARS was SARS’s original name, arguing that the reversal would make the section operate under the intelligence arm of the police from the divisional, area command, state command and zonal command to the Force Headquarters. Besides, the old name will remove the stigma associated with SARS, said the committee, adding that the section must limit itself to tackling armed robbery, leaving other intelligence and operational units to perform their tasks. Presenting the report, Ojukwu said that the panel received 113 complaints on alleged human rights violations and got 22 memoranda on suggestions on how to reform and restructure SARS and the police in general. He said: “The panel was accordingly constituted and comprises representatives of the following institutions, including members of the civil society, namely: Anthony Okechukwu Ojukwu (Executive Secretary of the NHRC); Tijani Mohammed (Police Service Commission); David I. Shagba (Public Complaints Commission); Hashimu Argungu (Deputy Inspector-General) and Prof Etanibi Alemika (University of Jos). Others are: Chino Obiagwu, SAN (Chairman, Human Rights Agenda Network); Ms Iyabode Ogunseye (Nigerian Bar Association) and Abdulrahman Ayinde Yakubu (NHRC), the panel’s secretary. Ojukwu went on: “The panel sat in the six geo-political zones of the country to afford complainants and the police the opportunity to present and defend the allegations. “At the end of its public hearing and having listened to complaints as well as defendants and their counsel, the panel recommended 37 police ofûcers for dismissal from the force. Twenty-four were recommended for prosecution. The panel also directed the Inspector-General to unravel the identity of 22 ofûcers involved in the violation of the human rights of innocent citizens. “The police was directed to pay compensation of various sums in 45 complaints and tender public apologies in ûve complaints and directed to obey court orders in ûve matters. “The police was directed to immediately arrest and prosecute two retired senior police ofûcers found to have violated the rights of citizens (one for extra-judicial killing and the other for illegal takeover of property of a suspect). The panel also recovered two vehicles illegally auctioned by SARS ofûcers and returned them to their owners.” Replying, the President recalled that the panel was constituted as a result of public outcry and various media reports on allegations of human rights violations perpetrated by officers and men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). He spoke of his administration’s effort at repositioning the police, saying major steps had been taken. Such steps include increasing the workforce as well as improving the welfare of officers, “because they put their lives on the front line on a daily basis so that the rest of us may freely go about our business in safety”. “However, in carrying out their statutory responsibilities, the police must at all times, act within the ambit of the law and must not violate the fundamental human rights of Nigerians whom they have sworn to protect,” Buhari said, adding:”Where the rights of Nigerians are violated by police officers while discharging their functions, the government has a responsibility to address the instances of violation in line with its human rights obligations and ensure that such police officers are held accountable for their actions. “It is in recognition of our obligations under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and International Human Rights Laws that this administration decided to set up this presidential panel and directed the NHRC to constitute its membership in order to investigate the various public outcries and media reports alleging human rights violations against citizens by officers of SARS. “The panel was empowered to make appropriate recommendations not just for holding police officers found wanting accountable, but also, on ways SARS and by extension, the Nigeria Police could be generally reformed. “The decision directing the NHRC to constitute the membership of the panel and to take the lead in investigating the said allegations of human rights violation was borne out of the mandate of the NHRC which include the promotion, protection and enforcement of human rights in Nigeria as enshrined under sections 5 and 6 of the NHRC Act, 1995 (as amended). “It is also in recognition of the fact that the decisions, determinations and recommendations of the Commission are binding and enforceable as provided under section 22 of the NHRC Act, 1995 (as amended).” “I want to assure you and all Nigerians that this administration will continue to fulfill its obligations of promoting and protecting human rights of Nigerians, and will give the NHRC all the support required to ensure full implementation of the recommendations contained in its report. “In addition, we will strengthen the operations of the commission to enhance its effectiveness and capability to resolve cases of human rights violations.” He spoke of the reconstitution of the commission’s Governing Council, saying the names of the members will be submitted to the National Assembly for confirmation before the inauguration of the Council in line with NHRC Act, 1995 (as amended). Buhari directed that “since the recommendations of the commission that constituted the panel are enforceable as decisions of the court, that the Inspector-General and the Solicitor-General of the Federation/Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, meet with the Commission to work out the modalities for the implementation of the report within three months from today”. 