DEAR Aunty Temilolu, I’m so pleased that I read your article tonight and I’m totally convinced within me that you’re a God-send to this generation. Damilola, 25 (Ekiti) Dear Mummy,  I like a boy in my class so much that I can’t pay attention to my teachers. It’s driving me crazy. How can I stop these feelings?  My Sweetie, If you’re not careful with your crazy but natural feelings, you’re looking for trouble and aiming to be “olodo rabata, oju eja l’omo je, o oni lo paper, silati l’oo ma lo…! On a more serious note, I can tell you for a fact that hardly would you find any woman who didn’t have a painful crush in her teens or at some point in life! This is because we’re naturally wired to love sometimes without discretion, thoughtlessly, brainlessly! While adults could be wise enough to have their brain reset and muscle up strength to jump out of an unrequited love, crushing badly on a guy who doesn’t even know you exist could be the beginning of the end of a girl! IT’S IN FACT A SATANIC DISTRACTION and that’s why I always tell you to never ever allow crushes to grow. If you do, it practically controls your life, sells you cheaply to a guy then lands you into PREMARITAL SEX, STDs, TRANSFERENCE OF STRANGE SPIRITS THROUGH SEX, UNWANTED PREGNANCIES, HEARTBREAK, LOW SELF-ESTEEM, DEPRESSION, GRAND FAILURE AT SCHOOL/SELF-DEVELOPMENT etc. When you should be having a ball in life and painting wonderful pictures of a glorious future using your vivid imagination! Why would you want to sacrifice huge successes which you have an opportunity to achieve for a guy you’d look back at 2 years down the line and wonder what in the world attracted you to him? MAY YOU RECEIVE SENSE IN JESUS NAME!!! Believe me, when you pursue your glory and not boys/men and when your glory appears, the world’s best men would give you a hot chase and you’d live happily ever after with one of them! Take it or leave it, if you’re hopelessly in love with a guy in your class and he finds out he’ll turn you to a toy/slave/moron and mangle your soul! I can’t even blame him because it’s his age when the thought of a girl crushing on him could arouse the chauvinistic monster in him. Some women are on the lower rung of the ladder of life today because they fell in love too early and passed out of school with low grades which couldn’t grant them admission to study choice courses while some ended up as cleaners, clerks etc. because they got pregnant in school and further schooling had to stop. Which one of these two do you prefer? Please choose! Okay my dear, I UNDERSTAND THE WAY YOU FEEL. The following should help: (Read psalm 119 every night before you sleep and tell God to fill your soul with His fire). I’m sure you’d grab and kiss me if you see me in a couple of weeks from now! Here’s a bear hug! May your glory appear in good time! And may every broken-heart be healed and may God do wondrous things in your life that’ll develop and distract you from having a boyfriend too soon in Jesus mighty name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.