The recapitalisation news shook the banking world on Monday. But, it was a seed sown at the World Bank meeting in the United States (U.S.) in April. Unveiling his plan for the next five years, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele said recapitalisation is the way to go for Nigerian banks to be among the top 500 in the world. What will be the new capital base? Some experts say it may be between N63billion and N100billion. COLLINS NWEZE reports.  In April, a voice seeking higher capital for banks sounded loud and clear from a distant land. It was at the Spring meetings of the World Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Washington, United States (U.S.). If they wish to compete globally, the banks, IMF said, must recapitalise and strengthen their capital base. At the African session of the yearly event, IMF Monetary and Capital Markets Department Director Tobias Adrian advised the banks to seek higher capital through recapitalisation and also tackle rising Non-Performing Loans (NPLs). His advice was heeded on Monday when Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele unfolded his policy direction for the next five years, with recapitalisation of banks topping the list. Under the impending exercise, banks will raise their capital base above the N25 billion minimum level adopted in 2004. The CBN boss also plans to lead the economy to double-digit growth, single-digit inflation, $12 billion non-oil exports by 2023 and raise financial inclusion to 95 percent by 2024 while retaining the managed-float exchange rate. The CBN guidelines stipulate that regional banks must have a minimum paid-up capital of N10 billion, national banks, N25 billion and banks with international operations N50 billion. According to Emefiele, the 2004 recapitalisation, which increased banks’ capital base from N2 billion to N25 billion, has weakened. He plans to pursue a programme that will make the banks rank among the top 500 in the world. He said: “In the next five years, we intend to pursue a programme of recapitalising the banking industry so as to position Nigerian banks among the top 500 in the world. Banks will, therefore, be required to maintain higher level of capital, as well as liquid assets in order to reduce the impact of an economic crisis on the financial system. “You will all agree with me that it was Governor Charles Soludo in 2004 that did the last recapitalisation we had, moving the capitalisation from N2 billion to N25 billion. And I must commend those efforts because it resulted in positioning Nigerian banks not only in Africa, but also being among the banks in the world in terms of capitalisation and it also increased or helped to strengthen the banking industry capacity to take on large ticket transactions- and those are some of the things we badly need today.” The CBN boss added: “And if you relate N25 billion in 2004 exchange rate, which was about N100 to N25 billion, it is certainly only about $200 million. Today, if we relate N25 billion at N360, you can see that it is substantially even lower than $75 million. What we are trying to say is that recapitalisation has weakened quite substantially and there is a need for us to say it is time to recapitalise Nigerian banks again. It is a policy thrust which will be discussed at the Committee of Governors’ meeting and of course, the framework for the recapitalisation of Nigerian banks will be unfolded for the whole world to know.” Stakeholders’ stand Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) President Uche Olowu said the CBN has industry data and the right information on why the banks should recapitalise. Recapitalisation, he said, would provide more funds for the banks to do business, especially consumer credit, mortgage finance, which they have not been given any consideration. According to him, recapitalisation will give banks the power to take advantage of opportunities in the industry, and lend more to the real sector. Many banks, he said, had eroded their capital due to the high level of NPLs, adding that recapitalisation will present a new lifeline for the banks. “For me, recapitalisation of the banks is fine. I have no problem with that, rather, I see opportunities that it presents to the economy and the lenders. It will be a healthy development for the banks to recapitalise. Normally, from time to time, there is always a need for recapitalisation of the banking sector. For banks with regional operations, recapitalisation will enable them to raise the needed capital for more coverage,” Olowu said. Association of Bureau de Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) President Aminu Gwadabe said recapitalisation would help the banks remove toxic assets from their balance sheets which make it difficult for them to lend. The exercise, he added, will help the lenders attract new foreign and local investors that will provide the needed capital for them to take bigger roles, including investment in infrastructure. He said the banks were not lending as expected, adding that recapitalisation will provide them with the right capital mix to lend to larger segments of the economy. Former Executive Director, Keystone Bank Richard Obire said recapitalisation would draw yes and no answers depending on where one stands. He described the NPLs as high and real, noting that a number of banks, including the tier-1 lenders are affected by the rise in bad loans. According to him, if the big banks are groaning under the burden of NPLs, what happens to the smaller banks? He said: “Banks’ capitals have been eroded. In 2004 when the recapitalisation took place, what the exchange rate was at that time, is different from what it is at present. He said there is capital erosion in the banks due to naira depreciation. “The no side is that it will bring challenge for the banks. Raising capital now may not be easy. If the macro-environment is upbeat, so will be investors. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth is still sluggish and raising money in such economy will be difficult,” he said. Obire agreed that more capital is required for the banks to be strong and do what they are expected to do. He noted that recapitalisation can lead to a drop in quality of service, adding that as the banks get bigger, customers’ complaints resolution will take longer time. Obire said banks can only have more money to grow their businesses in a growing economy. According to him, every business has the ambition to grow year-on-year, but that would be difficult to achieve under a shrinking economy. To him, all forward-looking banks should look at what would protect their revenues, by identifying and focusing on the healthy side of the economy. In a report titled: CBN’s five-year Monetary Policy Blueprint, Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company limited, Bismarck Rewane, said recapitalisation will bring NPLs down to nine per cent. The industry has about 16 per cent NPLs average, over 200 per cent higher than  the five per cent regulatory benchmark. Head Currency Market at Ecobank Nigeria, Olakunle Ezun, projected that judging from the percentage increase in capital base of commercial banks in 2004 recapitalisation from N10 billion to N25 billion, this time around the figure may hit N70 billion. He said the CBN in 2004 raised banks’ capital base by 150 per cent from  N10 billion to N25 billion. Ezun said the new capital base for banks may be around N63 to N70 billion if the same ratio is applied. An economist, Okechukwu Unegbu, said Emefiele’s plan could send panic into the system if not properly managed. Unegbu said beyond recapitalisation, the issue of human capital in the banking industry should also be given attention. “We must understand that everything is not about money coming into the system. We should be talking about capacity building and the type of personnel behind these institutions. “These days, a lot of bankers don’t have career path. Most bankers don’t have job satisfaction. Today, the level of fraud in the system is on the rise and it is a result of deficiency in capacity building. So, it is not only money that we should be talking about. If these institutions don’t have the required capacity and you throw money into them, they would probably be out of business before you know it,” he added. Other market sources said the CBN may also adopt N100 billion new capital base for commercial banks to ensure that only lenders with huge financial muscle play in the big league. They said the first step is for the regulator to evaluate whether the recapitalisation that was done in 2004 has any impact on the industry and the economy. According to them, consolidation can either be regulatory-induced or market-induced. “What is the objective of the new recapitalisation? Is it that the buffers are not enough? Is it that the banks are distressed? What is the need for doing it? Obviously, there is always the need for buffers, but you cannot make the minimum capital requirement a buffer requirement,” the analysts said. Drop in loan demands A researcher, Guy Czatoryski, of Coronation Merchant Bank, described lending as a principal responsibility banks owes their customers. He said the challenge with loan advancement is that only few people come forward to borrow given the slow growth in GDP. Loan demand, he said, has dropped significantly in recent years, noting that this is a challenge for banks. He described weak loan demand as the biggest challenge facing banks, explaining that it will continue this year due to poor economic growth. He explained that regular bank customers that were borrowing excessively before hardly come back for loans given the poor state of the economy. Czatoryski said weak borrowing among bank customers has nothing to do with cost of the loans. “If you tell me that loans are expensive today, they have been expensive in the last 10 years but that did not stop people from taking loans. It is not a question of pricing for the loans but weak demands for products. The industry is weak. It is very important not to confuse that,” he said. He said the weak demand for loans is affecting the banks’ profitability and ability to grow. Czatoryski said: “How big is the banking sector and how big is the economy? You are talking as if lending is about 100 per cent to GDP. Lending is only about 10 per cent to the GDP. So, the link between the banking sector and the economy is not strong because most people do not have loans. The outstanding loan of banks is not more than 10 to 15 per cent of the GDP and that is very poor. You are talking of a very small banking sector servicing a large economy. That is the problem, and it will take years for the banking sector to match growth in the economy. “In the United Kingdom (UK) and America, the economic managers can easily control interest rate because almost everybody has a loan. That is what is lacking in Nigeria because Nigerians are not taking loans.” He advised that the banks should be allowed to make more profits to enable them grow and service a larger part of the economy. State of banks Banks have been recording sizable growth and profitability in the last five years. But the growth is skewed in favour of the big banks also called Tier-1 banks while the smaller banks or Tier-2 banks continue to struggle. The fall of Skye Bank Plc and Access Bank’s acquisition of Diamond Bank Plc, which took many customers by surprise were indicators of the tough times in the sector. Assessing the banks, the CBN-led Bankers’ Committee noted that though the lenders declared nearly N800 billion in profits last year, they must continue on aggressive debt recovery, realise collaterals of NPLs and get insurance companies to settle claims relating to insured debts. According to the committee, such steps are needed to get many of the lenders back on track. The banks are also expected to strengthen risk management practices and enforce the CBN restrictions on payment of dividends by banks with high NPLs. Filings by many of the banks released by Afrinvest West Africa, an investment and research firm, showed that the sector’s total assets remain strong, rising from N25.1 trillion in 2013 to N29.1 trillion in 2014. The assets also grew to N29.7 trillion in 2015; N33.9 trillion in 2016 and N37.8 trillion in 2017. The assets were around N38.1 trillion in the first quarter of this year. Majority of the lending done in the sector was carried out by tier-1 banks otherwise called the “big banks” and these include GTBank, Zenith Bank, United Bank for Africa, Access Bank, FBN Holdings, and Ecobank Nigeria. Further analysis of the industry’s Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)   for the tier-1 banks showed that Access Bank CAR stood at 20.1 per cent in 2017 and 20.8 per cent in the first half of 2018; Ecobank Nigeria 26.9 per cent/ 28.5 per cent; FBN Holdings 17 per cent/18.1 per cent; GTBank 25.7 per cent/ 22 per cent; United Bank for Africa 25.5 per cent/ 23 per cent and Zenith Bank 27 per cent / 21 per cent during the same period. The CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital to its risk. The CAR for banks’ with offshore subsidiaries is 15 per cent minimum requirement (which rose to 16 per cent since March 1, 2015 for systemically important banks). The CAR for banks operating only in Nigeria is 10 per cent. The ownership factor Obire said recapitalisation will alter the ownership structure of many banks, noting that it will enable local and international investors to have a stake in the banks. In its yearly report, in which it released the ownership structure of banks operating in the country, the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) said foreign investors and government were divesting from the leaders. Private sector operators, it said, have gained control of the sector. The report showed that 15 of the 26 banks had partial or full foreign ownership in 2017, with five banks having substantial foreign ownership above 50 per cent. The banks in this category are Citibank, 81.9 per cent; Ecobank, 100 per cent; Rand Merchant Bank, 100 per cent; Standard Chartered Bank, 99.99 per cent, Sterling Bank, 36.94 per cent and Union Bank Plc, 86.80 per cent. For Citibank, 18.1 per cent of its ownership rests on Nigerians; Union Bank has 13.20 per cent Nigerian ownership. However, Access Bank has 91.14 per cent Nigerian ownership, 0.07 per cent government ownership and 8.79 per cent foreign ownership. Coronation Merchant Bank has 100 per cent Nigerian ownership; so also Fidelity Bank, First City Monument Bank, First Bank of Nigeria Plc, FBN Merchant Bank, SunTrust Bank and Guaranty Trust Bank Plc. Other lenders with 100 per cent Nigerian ownership include Heritage Banking Company Limited, Keystone Bank Limited, Wema Bank Plc and Providus Bank Limited. “In comparison to the previous year, there was a slight change in the ownership structure of banks. The private sector continued to dominate the ownership of Nigerian banks while government continued to divest from banks in line with requirements of Code of Corporate Governance for banks and discount houses as government shareholding was below 10 per cent in all the banks except Jaiz Bank Plc,” NDIC said. For Adrian, where there are financial stability concerns, authorities are expected to use prudential tools such as higher capital in the banking system and more conservative underwriting standards to reduce financial stability risks. He said: “We advise countries that where those downside risks are increasing to take more steps to ensure that vulnerabilities are not rising too much. Addressing NPLs is a first order importance for financial stability. Many countries have tackled that by developing secondary market for NPLs. And by being aggressive in writing off NPLs and through provisioning and use of improved accounting standards through International Financial Reporting Standards 9 (IFRS 9)”. Will recapitalisation make Nigerian banks rank among the top 500 in the world? Time will tell. 