The Deputy Director of Army Public Relations for 6 Division, Col. Aminu Iliyasu, yesterday gave details of how a notorious cultist and suspected oil bunkering kingpin, Korobe Menele Loveday (aka Mene), was gunned down in Ogoni axis of Rivers State. His death was said to have occurred after he killed a soldier and two men of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The slain security personnel were reportedly guarding Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited’s (SPDC’s) Trans National Pipeline (TNP) at Gio in Tai Local Government Area of Rivers State. But they were attacked by the criminals, who were prevented from vandalising the 24-inch and 28-inch TNP, thereby putting them out of their illicit business. The General Officer Commanding (GOC) for 6 Division of the Army, Maj.-Gen. Jamil Sarham, vowed to continue to protect life and property of law-abiding residents in its Area of Responsibility (AOR) in the core Niger Delta: Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Delta and Rivers states, with its headquarters in Port Harcourt. Sarham is also the Land Component Commander of Operation Delta Safe. Besides the bloodbath at Gio, Rivers State, last weekend also witnessed three other major criminal activities consisting of armed protesters clashing with security personnel in a shootout at Rumuakparali/Ozuoba Junction, Port Harcourt. The clash lasted many hours and it involved rival cult groups in the market at Mile Three, Diobu, Port Harcourt. It led to loss of property with many persons severely injured. Twice on Saturday, soldiers and operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) chased away criminals who attempted to kidnap some commuters on the Emohua-Degema-Abonnema road in Rivers State; motorists and commuters were forced to a standstill for many hours on the busy road. Sarham said: “In the early hours of June 16, troops of 29 Battalion of 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, in conjunction with personnel of NSCDC guarding SPDC’s TNP at Gio, were attacked by militants and cultists. “Unfortunately, during the ensuing shootout, one soldier and two personnel of the NSCDC died and their weapons, one AK-47 and two G3 rifles, were carted away by the assailants. “An immediate reinforcement by troops at the location led to the cordon-and-search of the general area, with a view to finding any criminal believed to be hiding within the communities. “Reliable intelligence led to the tracking of the prime suspect, a notorious cultist and illegal oil bunkering kingpin, Korobe Menele Loveday (aka Mene), who has been on the wanted list of the security agencies for terrorising communities in the state. “Consequently, at 9 a.m. on Sunday, June 16, troops cashing in on available information, sighted a white Toyota Hilux vehicle without a number plate, hastily driven with four occupants. Efforts to stop the vehicle by troops at a checkpoint were ignored. “The gallant troops chased the speeding vehicle and caught up with the suspects at Kira Junction on Ken Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori, road. “Sensing danger, the occupants of the Toyota Hilux vehicle opened fire on the troops in a bid to escape.” 