The Presidency has raised a four-man committee to broker peace between Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi both of whom have been locked in a cold war. The governor and the emir were invited to Abuja on Friday for talks which sources said on Saturday may halt the deposition processes already initiated by the Kano State Government. The peace team is headed by Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State. Other members of the committee are Governors Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger),  Abubakar Atiku Bagudu  (Kebbi) and Muhammad Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa). The Office of the Chief of Staff to the President is coordinating the activities of the committee, The Nation learnt last night. But the team may have to harmonize its report with that of a similar intervention committee put together by a business mogul, Aliko Dangote. A top source said: “Let   me say to you that the presidency had intervened when the state government wanted to remove the Emir about a year ago. “When this investigation and deposition processes were initiated about a year ago, the governor informed the presidency. The four-man committee was sent by the government to prevail on Ganduje to drop the idea. “He was persuaded to drop the idea while other issues were being looked at for reconciliation. “But when the governor revived the processes this time around, he did not inform the presidency. The same committee was however sent but Ganduje refused to be seen until the parliament had passed the law creating more Emirates in the state. “This time around that he wanted to do it, the presidency was not informed because he did not want to be stopped. When he went ahead and signed the order, there was a court order stopping the governor. But he said he did not get the order.” Another source said the presidency opted to intervene because of the “grave security implications” of a breakdown of law and order in the state. “So far, the government wants the state government to respect the order of the court which asked all the parties to maintain the status quo pending the determination of the application. “The presidency may therefore halt the deposition processes to allow for an amicable resolution of all issues. “The committee raised by the presidency has been meeting with all the stakeholders in Abuja to  look at the issues and the terms for peace in Kano. “A pending report by another group of Aliko Dangote might also be integrated into the committee’s findings and recommendations on the way forward. “The challenges at hand are alleged disrespect for the governor  by the Emir;  the creation of new Emirates by the State House of Assembly; alleged mismanagement of over N3b by the Emir, query issued by the state government, and likely deposition of Sanusi. “The committee is expected to consider all these matters and recommend ways out. We want a win-win situation for all parties.” Governor Ganduje and Emir Sanusi were said to have exchanged pleasantries at Friday’s meeting just as they did at the Eid grounds, Kano on Tuesday. The governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Abba Anwar, said: “As the two leaders met, they congratulated each other for the successful completion of the Ramadan Fast and the Eid-el-Fitr celebration. “Both leaders spoke and urged all Muslims to continue with the good teachings and spirit of the Fasting period of the Month of Ramadan. “Emir Sanusi seized the opportunity to congratulate Gov. Ganduje for the victory in his second term in office. He also wished the governor successful tenure in office. “For healthier relationship between the two institutions of government and Kano Emirate Council, the dialogues will continue.” Contacted by phone last night, Anwar said:”what I can confirm is that the dialogue continues, so we should wait for its conclusion.”