A final year student of Ekiti State University (EKSU) identified as Akindeko Oluwafemi, popularly known as Comrade Zamane, has attempted suicide over poor academic result. While a version said Akindeko took Sniper, a dangerous chemical substance, others believed he simply cut himself with a sharp object and is currently battling for life at EKSU Teaching Hospital, where he was rushed to. Akindeko, a final year student of the Department of Accounting, CAMPUSLIFE gathered,  had anxiously awaited his results. Shockingly, however, he couldn’t absorb the fact that he passed all his subjects except BUS 418, which would automatically make him to have an extra year. Prior to attempting suicide, Akindeko made series of posts on his Whatsapp. While some of the posts seemed enigmatic, others simply expressed his displeasure and loss of hope about life and education. “Everything about today is just worse. Result Amazon. God help me this month no dy smile satin sup gan,”Akindeko wrote on his Whattsup. He continued: “Why today cum be like this. God help me throughout this month. From 1st of June everything hasn’t been good. “All I want to do now is commit a crime and be sentenced to life imprisonment. So, keep off so you won’t fall a victim” “Life and education is something I don’t want again. I guess going off is the best for now. I’m dropping this in case you call me and I’m not picking or u message I’m not replying. Ire Ooooo!  God be with the living” “I regret ever coming to this world and I regret ever choosing to be educated. I swear. Eksu you are cursed.” Akindeko’s course mate and friend, who pleaded anonymity, told CAMPUSLIFE how consistent failure or low grade recoded by students in BUS 418, became Akindeko’s nemesis. Nonetheless, another friend to Akindeko, who introduced himself as Mayowa and who has been keeping Akindeko’s company while in the hospital, confirmed that his friend is now stable and in a good condition. EKSU management’s reaction Management of EKSU has confirmed the development. Nevertheless, it blamed the victim for choosing suicide as an option instead of enrolling at the school summer class for extra year student to hasten up their graduation. “Yes, the boy just finished and he just got his BUS 418, one of the second semester examination results. You know when you fail second semester result, that is going to be an extra year,” said EKSU Public Relations Officer Mr Deji Aleshinloye. “And that’s not a big deal The university has an arrangement for what we call a summer class, which the registration is ongoing and will start in another one week. During that summer class, final year students will be allowed to retake the courses they failed. “Why do you have to go and take Sniper? Life itself is not a straightforward thing. Who said you are not going to fail again? Do you know how many people have failed in this world? Do you know how many times Abraham Lincoln (former American president) contested and lost?” “Thank God we didn’t lose him he is fine now and stabilised in the hospital. But it’s not that the university was harsh or anti-student. He is in the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital and he is getting better now,”Aleshinloye added.