Nigeria is next in line to host the 47th edition of the conference following the conclusion of the 46th African Insurers Organisation (AIO) in Johannesburg, South Africa, at the weekend, The Chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Mr. Tope Smart, while speaking at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the AIO on the preparation of Nigeria to host the conference in 2020, said the hosting by Nigeria has the backing of the Federal Government. He stated that the conference would be taking place in Abuja from May 31 to June 3, 2020, adding that the theme of the conference would be: The African insurers: In The face of digital disruption. He said: “Activities are already in top gear to make the conference a huge success. The association is in discussion with relevant government agencies in the country to ensure that delegates have the best experience when they visit Nigeria. “Nigeria is populated by about 190 million people, with insurance penetration that is below one per cent. This shows enormous opportunities and potentials for insurance industry in the Africa’s most populous nation. The country is blessed with hospitable people, speaks over 250 languages with some attractive national monuments and heritage,” Smart told the delegates. To ensure that delegates do not have it difficult securing visa to attend the conference, the Chairman, Local Organising Committee(LOC) for the conference, Mr. Ganiyu Musa, said the committee has approached  and gotten the support of the Nigeria’s Foreign Ministry to make the visa process simple for more people to attend the conference. Musa, who is also the Managing Director/CEO, Cornerstone Insurance Plc, said, the theme is apt at a time African insurers are adopting technology to provide seamless services to numerous policyholders across the continent. He noted that the speakers at the conference would discuss various ways to use technology to offer the best services to the insured as well as ways of protecting customers’ information in the face of digital disruption. He said insurers were more than capable and ready to host their colleagues from about 60 countries across Africa and the world.