Three notorious kidnappers were among 122 suspected criminals paraded yesterday at the Bompai Police Headquarters in Kano for crimes ranging from armed robbery, car theft and burglary to scamming, drug peddling, theft, conspiracy and banditry. In Borno, the police also paraded 68 arrested suspects in their custody for different criminal and civil offences following the ongoing operation of the Nigeria Police Force code named Operation Puff Adder, bringing to 190 the number of suspected criminals arrested in the two states. Addressing reporters yesterday, the Kano State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmed Iliyasu, said the suspected kidnappers were arrested at Falgore Forest. He explained that the kidnappers waylaid a newly married couple on the road, kidnapped the bride and vanished into Falgore Forest. Upon receiving information, a team of policemen were deployed into the forest where 20 teenage suspects were apprehended and the woman rescued. When they were paraded, the victim was able to identify three of them, while 17 others were released. He said the police would soon charge them to court. According to him, “on June 20, 2019, the police in Kano, with the help of the technical intelligence at their disposal, arrested seven suspects in possession of various types of dangerous weapons and house breaking implements. “They specialised in armed robbery, extortion, house breaking and theft. They have been terrorising Sabon Gari area of the state. Suspects confessed to the offences and they will be charged to court after investigation,” he said. Iliyasu said that during a raid carried out on criminal hideouts within the period, 80 hoodlums popularly known as Y’andaba were arrested, adding that seven suspects were also arrested in possession of 53 different belts used by police, army and the Immigration Service. Upon investigation, it was discovered that two bags filled with the uniforms of police, army, and Customs officers were found in their possession. He said items recovered from them included 14 black berets cap, six jack-knives and eight pistol holders, adding that one suspect was arrested in possession of a pump action rifle and 15 rounds of live cartridges. Other items recovered from the suspected criminals include 115 live ammunition of 7.62x39mm of AK47 riffle, 53 bags of powder suspected to be cocaine, nine cartons of expired Bio-Vein injection used for insemination and hallucination. Other items include 43 knives, 10 handsets, one lap top computer, three stolen vehicles, 58 clubs, 20 dangerous weapons and house breaking implements and a large quantity of laptops. Addressing journalists in his office in Maiduguri yesterday, the Borno State Commissioner of Police, M. N. Aliyu, said the 68 suspects paraded were an addition to the 84 arrested in May, adding that the arrest is an indication of the success of the Operation Puff Adder launched by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu Abubakar, early this year. The CP, who gave a summary of their offences, said that suspects involved in four acts of terrorism, nine cases of kidnapping, five cases of armed robbery, two cases of culpable homicide and three cases of theft were arrested by the command at different locations in the state. Other suspects arrested were one person in illegal possession of firearm, while 11 suspected Indian hemp smokers were also arrested. Another gang of two persons were arrested for being in possession of counterfeit currency, four for extortion and five for fraud. The CP also disclosed that nine people were arrested for criminal conspiracy and theft, four for criminal conspiracy and causing hurt, eight for criminal conspiracy and in possession of stolen property and one for being in possession of stolen property. All the arrests, he said, were carried out in the month of June. The CP regretted the slow prosecution process in the state, which he blame on the operation of the criminal justice system in the state. 