The number of states that have enacted laws on the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) rose in the first quarter of the year. This was made known in this year’s Quarterly Report of the National Pension Commission (PENCOM). The report showed that while 15 states have made progress in the implementation of the scheme, eight states have sent  bills for its enactment. A breakdown of the level of implementation of the CPS shows that Imo State is not remitting pension contributions, not funding accrued rights and has no group life insurance for its employees. In the same vein, Sokoto, Kogi, Bayelsa, Nasarawa, Oyo, Katsina, Akwa Ibom, Benue, Kwara, Plateau, Cross River, Abia, Ebonyi, Taraba, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe and Adamawa states are not remitting pension contributions, not funding accrued rights and has no group life insurance policy for its employees. Yobe State, on the other hand, is yet to commence the process of enacting a law on the scheme. Other states except the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Lagos  have no group life in place for their workers. The commission stated that Lagos is regular and up to date in the remittance of pension contributions and is funding the accrued rights of employees. Meanwhile, Jigawa State is remitting pension contributions to selected Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs), but implementing a Contributory Defined Benefits Scheme (CDBS). The state does not have group life insurance policy for its workers. The report read: “Ogun stopped remitting pension contributions with huge arrears of unremitted pension contributions, yet to commence funding of the accrued rights and yet to put in place Group Life Insurance policy. Kaduna has been regular and up to date remittance of pension contributions. Funding accrued pension rights consistently with five per cent of total monthly wage bill. Niger however stopped remitting pension contributions in 2015, not funding accrued rights. Delta is remitting complete and regular pension contributions for state employees, but remitting only employees’ portion for LG (local government) workers. The state funded accrued pension rights of both LG and state but with huge arrears of accrued pension liabilities. “Rivers is remitting only employee portion of pension contributions. The state has huge backlog of unremitted employer portion of pension contributions. The sum of N300 million was set aside with Premium Pensions in 2012 for the payment of accrued rights The FCT is regular and up to date in remittance of pension contributions for employees of the FCTA and Area Councils/LEAs. It is also funding accrued pension rights, with regular funding of accrued rights for FCTA and FCT Area Council and valid Group Life Insurance cover,” the report stated. The commission also inspected pension boards and bureaus. “The commission conducted the maiden inspection of the pension arrangements in Edo State and its agencies. The inspection was aimed at ascertaining the level of implementation of the CPS as well as the administration of the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS) in the state. The Commission also conducted an inspection of the Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) branches operating in Edo State. “The inspection was to determine the extent to which staff of the PFAs were conversant with the provisions of the Edo State Contributory Pension Law and extant regulations and guidelines issued by the Commission, the level of compliance of the PFAs with the Commission’s circular on minimum requirement for opening of branches and service centers as well as the quality of services rendered to stakeholders. “The Commission conducted routine inspections of the FCT Pension Board and the FCT Area Council Staff Pension Board. The purpose of the inspections was to ascertain the level of implementation of the CPS as well as the administration of the DBS in the FCT and Area Councils,” according to the report. It said engagements with the state governments on the implementation of the CPS also continued. “The Commission continued its engagement with state governments on the implementation of the CPS. The Commission held series of meetings with the management and staff of Ondo State Pension Commission (OSPEC), the Committee on the Implementation of the CPS in Ondo State, the Management and Staff of the Ondo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (OSOPADEC) as well as officials of the Ondo State Local Government Service Commission. The meeting was convened to discuss some of the challenges in the implementation of the CPS in the state. “The issues discussed include provision of Information Communications Technology (ICT) infrastructure, especially the deployment of appropriate applications by OSPEC, provision of Group Life Insurance Policy, capacity building for staff, non-conduct of Actuarial Valuation to determine the past service liabilities of the employees, non-creation and funding of the Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund (RBBRF) Account, irregular deduction and remittance of pension contributions for employees of the state.The Commission held a meeting with the Technical Committee on Pension, Kano State. The meeting was convened to address the issue of non-remittance of pension contributions and inability of Kano State Pension Fund Trustees to pay retirement benefits as at when due,” the report stated.