THE Benue State Government has assured the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) of the security and safety of workers as it begins the exploration for hydrocarbon. Governor Samuel Ortom gave the assurance at the Government House, Makurdi when the NNPC exploration team led by Executive Director, Integrated Data Services Limited (IDSL), Dorothy Umoetok, visited him. Ortom, who was represented by his deputy, Benson Abounu, said the government would put in place the needed security measures to guarantee the safety and unhindered work of the team. He expressed delight that Benue State constitutes 70 per cent of the area believed to contain hydrocarbon and called on his people, particularly people of Makurdi, Guma, Ohimini, Gwer West, Apa, Agatu and Otukpo local government areas, where the exploration work will take place, to receive the team warmly and give them every assistance they need. Ortom, who urged traditional rulers and council chairmen from the affected areas to help provide the needed peaceful atmosphere for the team to work, warned that the government would deal squarely with anyone or group of people in any community that constitute an obstacle to the exploration work. Mrs. Umoetok explained that their visit, which was a sequel to the official visit to the state last year by the out-going NNPC Group Managing Director, Dr. Maikanti Baru, was to seek the guarantee of the safety and security of the lives of the exploration team so that they can begin work. Mrs. Umoetok, who expressed joy that the security situation in the state has changed tremendously and is good for exploration work, added that the NNPC has already concluded the aerial surveillance, drawn the aerial maps and done the interpretation and other activities leading to the actual exploration. She said the NNPC does not toy with the safety and security of members of its team and solicited from the government and traditional rulers in the seven local government areas a guarantee of their safety and security. He assured that the communities have many things to gain from the partnership with them. The exploration work is expected to begin next month.