The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom has disowned a group, Ibom Integrity and Servant Leadership Culture Initiative for embarking on smear campaigns against Senator Godswill Akpabio. The group, which claims to be part of the APC, had penultimate week written to President Muhammadu Buhari asking the president not to consider Akpabio for any ministerial appointment on account of alleged corruption cases. A statement by the state publicity of the APC, Mr. Nkereuwem obtained by our correspondent in Uyo Tuesday said the group of so-called elders is not known to the party. ”The State working Committee of the APC Akwa Ibom State has observed with utter dismay one faceless Elders’ group- Ibom Integrity & Servant Leadership Culture Initiative parading and arrogating to itself the power of condemnation and  recommendation as quite worrisome, embarrassing and unacceptable. ”We hereby confirm that the self-acclaimed leader of the group, Dr Asuquo Edidem Etim is a disclaimer and not APC member and we have no such group in our APC groups’ Registration Register in Akwa Ibom State. ”And the Party condemns in  totality, the disparaging campaign against our very endearing son, Sen. Godswill Akpabio as evil fireworks meant to generate bad blood and disaffection in our party in this trying time. ”Accordingly, the party warns such non-existent   group claiming to be an affiliate of APC in the State  to desist forthwith from such nefarious engagement as there is no provision in the APC constitution that grants such power (s ) to anyone or group to dabble into the function which is solely the   prerogative of the State Working Committee (SWC) of APC in Akwa Ibom State”, Enyongekere said. The APC in the state maintained that such letters of condemnation and recommendation stand annulled with immediate effect. ”On the weight of this release, President, Muhammadu Buhari, APC National  Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff to the President, Mr. Abba Kyary and the general public are hereby advised to discountenance any such correspondence (s) as it not from Akwa Ibom State Secretariat”, the statement maintained.