There was protest in Benin City, the Edo State capital on Wednesday over the non-inauguration of the 7th Edo State House of Assembly. The lawmakers-elect who are all members of the All Progressives Congress are waiting for proclamation letter from Governor Godwin Obaseki. It was learnt that the unresolved issues over the leadership of the 7th Assembly was responsible for the non-inauguration of the House. The protesters led by One Love Foundation, asked Governor Obaseki to settle whatever political differences he had with the APC and proclaimed the 7th Assembly. Founder of One Love Foundation, Patrick Eholor, said it was pathetic that Edo is one of whose House of Assembly is yet to be inaugurated. According to him, “We are gathered here today for a peaceful protest to remind the governor of Edo State that the citizen deserves better. “This is our seventh assembly. We are hoping that as at now, the governor would have transmitted proclamation letter to the Clerk so that they can carry out the duty and functions in a democracy. “So, if the Edo APC has issues with themselves, they should come to a round table to settle it because they cannot use Edo people to settle their issues. “We cannot continue to suffer this pain. It is very clear in the 1999 constitution, section 105, subsection 3. I am not a lawyer but I read it very clearly that when election is conducted, and the people have been duly elected, the governor has the right to transmit to the clerk of the house of assembly so that the people can be sworn in so that they can continue with the business for the people. “So that is why we are here to appeal to them to swear them in immediately. “The governor is a technocrat, he is very well read. We are appealing to his conscience that no matter what is going on within him or within the party or within any other political parties, he should do the needful and respect the right of those who voted for him and for those who voted for the house of assembly members,” he said. But Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said the Governor who was still in Abuja could not be doing proclamation of the Assembly in Edo. He said as soon as the Governor is back from Abuja, he would proclaim the Assembly.  