Oando Plc was a major contrarian stock at the Nigerian equities market yesterday, rallying N2.49 billion in capital gains as bargain-hunters sought to lock into the indigenous oil and gas stock. Oando’s share price rose by 5.26 per cent or 20 kobo per share to close at N4, representing total capital gains of N2.49 billion. Oando was also the sixth most active stock during a five-hour trading session that saw investors closing 3,686 deals for a total of 217.33 million shares valued at N5.82 billion at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The overall market position at the NSE however closed negative, with average decline of 1.30 per cent, equivalent to net capital depreciation of N178 billion. Normalcy returned to the corporate headoffice of Oando yesterday after policemen vacated the premises in compliance with an order of a Federal High Court, restraining the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from enforcing its decisions on the company. Sources in the know confirmed that armed policemen that took over the high-brow office complex, which houses several other firms, vacated the premises yesterday’s evening. A source condemned the seeming delay of SEC and the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in complying with the court order noting that Oando had lost two working days to the show of force. A Federal High Court of Lagos under presiding Judge C M A Olatoregun had on Monday granted Oando’s Group Chief Executive (GCE), Adewale Tinubu, and Deputy Group Chief Executive (DGCE), Omamofe Boyo, an injunction restraining SEC from taking any step concerning its decisions indicting the board and management of Oando of sundry corporate governance malpractices and market abuses. The court also restrained Mutiu Sunmonu, who was appointed by SEC, from acting as the head of the interim management of Oando. The court also ordered a stay or suspension of the enforcement of the execution of the SEC’s decisions as contained in its letter dated May 31, 2019. The injunction directed all parties involved to maintain the status quo pending the determination of the motion on notice. The case was adjourned till June 14, 2019. Sources in the know confirmed that the board and management of the company remain unchanged and Mr Wale Tinubu and Mr Omamofe Boyo continue to act as Group Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer respectively. “They never resigned, they have continued to be GCE and DGCE,” a source said. SEC had last week released a statement indicting the management and board of Oando of sundry corporate governance abuses and infractions of the relevant capital market laws. SEC barred the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) and the Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer (DGCEO) of Oando from being directors of public companies for a period of five years. SEC also ordered certain members of board of directors of Oando to resign. The apex capital market regulator stated that it had concluded investigation into alleged corporate governance abuses at Oando and found that the company was guilty of serious infractions and market abuses. SEC also directed the payment of monetary penalties by the company and affected individuals and directors, and refund of improperly disbursed remuneration by the affected board members to the company. SEC also directed the convening of an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting on or before July 1, 2019, to appoint new directors. These among others the SEC stated, are part of measures to address identified violations in the company. According to the SEC, following the receipt of two petitions by the Commission in 2017, investigations were conducted into the activities of Oando. Certain infractions of relevant laws were observed. The Commission further engaged Deloitte & Touche to conduct a Forensic Audit of the activities of Oando. On June 2, 2019, SEC appointed an interim management team headed by Mr. Mutiu Sunmonu, a former Managing Director of Shell, to oversee the affairs of Oando and to conduct an extra ordinary general meeting on or before July 1, 2019 to appoint new directors to the board of the company, who would subsequently select a management team for Oando. Oando however described the directives from the SEC as a calculated attempt to prejudice the business of the company. In a statement signed by the Company Secretary, Ayotola Jagun and Head of Corporate Communications, Alero Balogun, the company stated that the alleged infractions and penalties are unsubstantiated, ultra vires, invalid and calculated to prejudice the business of the company. According to the company, it has not been given the opportunity to see, review and respond to the forensic audit report and so unable to ascertain what findings were made in relation to the alleged infractions and defend itself accordingly before the SEC. 