Danjuma Goje, Chairman of Senate Committee on Appropriations on Thursday stepped down for Ahmed Lawan in the race for the Senate President. Goje revealed this after a short meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
As the coast seems clear for Senate Leader Ahmed Lawan, here are five facts you probably didn’t know about him 1. Lawan was born in 1959 (56 years), he is a graduate of the University of Maiduguri where he read geography. He also has a postgraduate diploma in land survey, an MSc and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees in Remote Sensing and Geographic Information System (GIS), all from the University of Cranfield, United Kingdom. His National Youth Service Corps programme was in Benue State. 2. Lawan became a graduate assistant at the University of Maiduguri after he graduated and he retired as an accomplished scholar and educationist before his foray into active politics. 3. Lawan has been a member of the Nigerian parliament since the return of democracy in the country in 1999. He was elected a member of the House of Representatives in 1999. After 8 years in the lower chambers, Lawan was elected into the Nigerian Senate in 2007, and he has been a member of the upper chambers since then. 4. Lawan has bagged so many awards that include National Honours Award of the Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON); Fellow of the Institute for Government Research and Leadership Technology (2012); Best Performing Senator in Yobe State in 2009 by Yobe State Students’ Association, University of Abuja Chapter; Best Senator for Effective Oversight, NUJ; Best Senator in 2011 by Baseline Global Ventures; and the Sardauna Legendary Pillar of Exemplary Leadership Award by Leadership and Role Model Foundation of Nigeria. 5. Lawan ran for reelection in Yobe North Senatorial District on the ANPP platform in the 9 April 2011 elections. He won with 92,799 votes, trailed by Hassan Kafayos Hussaini of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) with 76,960 votes.   Source: https://en.wikipedia.org