Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has delivered a damning verdict on most of the Senators and House of Representatives members elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over their roles in the election of National Assembly principal officers on Tuesday. Most of them, he said, betrayed the party and are unworthy of trust. He accused them of selling out on the positions of the party during the heated exercise. The National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP, early Tuesday morning, endorsed Senator Ali Ndume for the senate presidency. The party also instructed its members in the House of Representatives to support the ambition of Hon Umaru Bako to become Speaker. Wike, according to impeccable sources, mobilised NWC members to push through the endorsements despite the initial reluctance of the party to do so. It was gathered but for Wike’s frantic efforts, the PDP wouldn’t have endorsed Ndume or Bago for the National Assembly principal posts. The PDP supported Ike Ekeremadu for deputy senate presidency. But despite the endorsements, Senator Ahmed Lawan won with 79 votes to Ndume’s 28. This is despite the fact that PDP boasts of not less than 46 senators. Senator Ovie Omo-Agege was elected deputy senate president with 68 votes to Ekeremadu’s 37. In the House of Representatives, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila scored 281 votes to knock out Bago with 76. Yet, PDP members in the Lower Chamber are over 140, fuelling speculations most of them ignored directives of the party. Speaking on the disloyalty of the PDP NASS members on Friday, Wike said they sold “out themselves for one plate of porridge.’’ He said it was the typical act of politicians, most of whom he said he does not trust at all. The governor, while receiving visiting Bishops of the Anglican Province of the Niger Delta at the Government House, Port Harcourt said he rather trust only God who, he noted, never changes. He said: “I don’t trust any human being. It is difficult for me to give 100 percent trust that a man will continue to be like this or like that. ‘’The only person that cannot change is God. For human beings, they can always change. That is why they are human beings. ‘’You can trust a human being but be careful to open your eyes, because anything can happen.” He went on: “So as a politician, one group you must watch very carefully are the politicians. They are easily swayed. Some believe. When they believe, they believe. ‘’Something can entice politicians and they change. If you watch what happened at the National Assembly, you can see that this attitude of politicians. “You see the party has a position, before you know it, they are selling out themselves for one plate of porridge. “This one has a case and he wants them to withdraw the case. These things we know and we are guided about it. ‘’I will never let my guard down to say everybody is with me. The only person I can be comfortable with at all times is God. If it is human being, no.”