Thirty-two-year-old Adebo Ogundoyin, a member representing Ibarapa East state constituency and Hon Mohammed Fadeyi (Ona Ara state constituency) has emerged the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the Ninth Oyo state House of Assembly. Ogundoyin and Fadeyi emerged unopposed with the unanimous voice vote of the 32 members Assembly. The election of the Speaker followed the nomination by Hon. Adebayo Olajide (Ibadan North II constituency) and seconded by Hon. Adeola Bamidele (Iseyin/Itesiwaju) The new speaker was initially elected in a bye election held to fill the vacant seat of late speaker Michael Adeyemo in the eighth Assembly Ogundoyin, a graduate of Babcock University’s emergence is favoured by a combination of factors including party affiliation, zoning consideration and experience being one of the four returning lawmakers to the Ninth Assembly. Other principal officers of the House who also emerged through a consensus vote include Onaolapo Adedoyin (Majority leader), Hon Asimiyu Alarape (Minority Leader), Hon Akeem Adedibu (Chief Whip) and Hon Akeem Adebisi (Deputy Chief Whip) The proceeding was had in attendance, Governor Seyi Makinde, his deputy, Mr Rauf Olaniyan, Makinde’s chief of staff, Chief Bisi Ilaka, the Head of Services, Mrs Amidat Agboola, representative of the Chief Judge, traditional rulers, community leaders, religious leaders, former lawmakers, party leaders, friends and family members of new lawmakers and members of the public. In his inaugural remarks, Ogundoyin thanked his party for believing in the youths and giving them a platform to come to the house. He assured the legislative arm will work “in tandem with the executive arm in order to facilitate the speedy actualisation of the dividend of democracy to the people of Oyo state. “The people of Oyo state spoke loudly with their votes. It is clear the people of Oyo state desire an Assembly that is result oriented, opening up opportunities and lifting up their lives. “I promise to run an open door policy where I will seek the contributions, support and cooperation of honourable members in the task of making laws for good governance. “The House will process bull that will improve the lives of our dear people. All members of the house will collectively work closely to pass legislation that will greatly impact the lives of the entire citizenry of Oyo state.” Speaking Governor Makinde assured the lawmakers of a cordial legislative-executive relationship, noting that the state cannot move forward without the two arms of government working together. He noted that in keeping with his campaign promises, he will send in two executive bill within the next shortest time. The bill according to the Governor includes the Oyo State Investment Promotion Bill and Oyo State Financial Crimes Commission Bill, assuring that he will give his assent to other bills sent to him within the shortest period of time.