The Ice Cream and Coffee University in collaboration with Italian machinery companies, Carpigiani, ISA and MEC3, has introduced state of the art dessert equipment to the Nigerian market. The innovative machines were displayed during a three -day training workshop in Abuja on innovative recipes for gelato, ice cream, and coffee production hosted by the aforementioned groups. Italian Ambassador to Nigeria, Stefano Pontesilli, assured participants of their commitment to a comprehensive training process in using the equipment. “We are not here to flood the market with equipment and then run away,” he stated. “I reassure you all that you will not be left alone in any aspect, be it fixing machines, buying spare parts, and getting you trained. “We are here for the long term. This workshop means a lot to us and we hope it means a lot to you all as well.” The Ice Cream and Coffee University, which is a subset of Cosmos Trade Nigeria Ltd., aims at introducing the latest equipment and technology to local ice cream vendors at a subsidized cost and providing expert training on best practices and techniques. CEO, Cosmos Trade Nig. Ltd., Mr Tunji Olaniyi, explained importance of the partnerships with ISA and MEC3. He said: “One of the things we are introducing is small scale machinery to start a gelato business at a very low cost with small cabinet and small ice cream machinery and then grow as the business grows. “Because of the importance our partners put into the Nigerian market, to support Cosmos to be able to provide a service. “Service to us is not just about selling machines but also to keep one in business in terms of technical know -how, technical service, and availability of spare parts.” One of the participants, Ms Ibitoru Ogbeha, said the workshop is incredibly beneficial to her because it will teach her how best to expand and update the techniques she is using in her business. “I have an ice cream parlor at Lokoja, Kogi State, operational for five years,” she disclosed in an interview. “At this workshop, they are teaching us the production of gelato and the way it differs from our regular ice cream, and also updated techniques being used in the global industry right now. “So far I’ve learnt the essence of using certain quality ingredients to produce the best gelato and I’ve gotten better knowledge of what we are producing and the purpose of the machines we are seeing here today.”    