(The Furanization of Nigeria) To Abolujopon, a shanty town on the outskirts of Ebute-Manuwa, for a lively but disorderly interactive session with a group calling itself Movement Against Internal Recolonization Of Nigeria. It was on the propriety or otherwise of General Buhari hosting the Acting Chief Justice of the federation to Ramadan fastbreak. Like everything else, the issue of state dinner with serving justices has polarized the entire nation down the line.   When the matter broke, yours sincerely decided to add a satirical addendum, deploying Wole Soyinka’s famous early homage to stomach infrastructure titled Salutation to the Guts. But after the Supreme Court evacuated the entire Zamfara ruling class from its lofty perch sending the entire APC machinery into a tailspin, yours sincerely changed the gloss to Salutation to Supreme Guts. When the matter first broke, Okon had laughed it to scorn, dismissing the whole brouhaha as a mere storm in a tea cup. Snooper had thought that Okon was hinting at a historic, record-breaking tea drinking affair in London involving a notable Nigerian ruler. Up till this moment nobody is sure whether the whole thing was an early window on fake news or a masterpiece of pure mischief. But it turned out that water must find its own level and Okon’s imagination remained at the level of Secondary School mischief. “Oga, dis matter dey remind man of dem book we dey read for School Cert. Him title be Dinner for Promotion”, the mad boy scoffed. But Baba Lekki, the old legal contrarian, was having none of that nonsense this hazy, dewy morning at Abolujopon. He had dusted up his legal notebooks and historic records of state dinners in adverse circumstances. For his opening citation, the old codger relied on Justice Conrad IdowuTaylor’s famous recusal of himself from a state dinner on the grounds that he was about to play host to the same state in a pending suit. The old man had hardly finished when a crusty middle-aged crank, an absconded finalist at Holborn Inn, exploded. “The law is an ass and so is the last speaker. It is the prerogative of the state to invite anybody to dinner. Period”, the crank thundered. The thunderous applause almost brought the whole roof down.  Okon was flustered by this sharp-tongued deflation of his hero. Haba, yeye Railway Line lawyer. Wetin Baba come do now? I don tell una say na dinner for promotion. Dem man promote him man and he come giam better mala food. So wetin concern Orile Agege lawyer for dat?” the crazy boy screamed. “Okon, na poverty drive Yoruba drummer go Sabo”, one man grunted. “In fact, which kind food dem come chop sef? Dem mala no dey chop wuruwuru Yoruba food”, one man from Auchi demanded. “Na fura de nunu”, the first man answered. “Ha. Ha, no be dat dem Owu man dey call furanization of Nigeria?” a crazy man from a nearby mental home who had been infiltrated into the crowd by security people screamed and started attacking everybody in sight.