Former President Olusegun Obasanjo yesterday advised the First Lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, to use the “pillow talk” principle to draw the attention of her husband, President Muhammed Buhari, to issues affecting the nation and the need to address them urgently. Obasanjo, who was apparently reacting to Aisha’s latest displeasure with the frightening security situation in the country and the seeming inability of the military to arrest it, said the First Lady might have been able to bring home the issue to Buhari, if she had adopted the bedroom approach. The ex-president spoke when he hosted the Editorial Board of Penpushing Media, a Social media platform, at his Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL). He called for more advocacy and sensitisation to get the desired change in the country, saying the media should drive this crucial role in the mission to turn the country around for better. The elder statesman added that the advocacy would raise an awareness among Nigerians to keep demanding for better governance from people in positions of authority. In a statement by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, Obasanjo said: “We have to put all things on the table to address these problems. Mind you, we have to be sincere and genuine with ourselves. “It is nice that President wife is talking. I think she did well, and maybe she should also have a pillow talk with the President. “I believe every Nigerian family, individual, group is entitled to livelihood. It is the responsibility of all to make sure we have a dignified life. That should be our aim collectively,” Obasanjo said. Chairman, Editorial Board of Penpushing Media Mrs. Funke Fadugba had informed the former President that the visit was to intimate him about  the forthcoming third anniversary lecture of the organisation slated for July 19 at OOPL, where Mrs. Bola Obasanjo is expected to chair the occasion. Fadugba, former Chairperson, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos State Council, said the anniversary lecture themed: “Political Evolution and Multi-party Democracy: Education to the Rescue”, has become imperative in view of the developments in the country. She hailed Obasanjo for his steadfastness towards the country’s unity, peace, stability and progress, saying  the role of speaking truth to power by Obasanjo cannot be overemphasised. “And, with the statements by the First Lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, these are commendable efforts. But, one wonders what is really happening. The lecture, it is our believe, will go a long way to bring the change this country deserves,” Fadugba said. The editorial board members that were present also include: Eddy Aina, Dr. Goke Rauf and the platform founder, Prince Dimeji Kayode-Adedeji. The anniversary planning committee members, Sina Adefolahan, Siji Oyesile, Bola Solate and Ronald Dansu, were also present. 