It is contracts and contractors season at the National Assembly. “The management of the National Assembly is in the process of awarding contracts worth at least N10billion as part of the efforts to ease the work of the newly inaugurated 109 Senators and 360 members of the House of Representatives,” a report said. According to the report, there will be contracts to supply “cars, television sets, refrigerators, water dispensers and office equipment, such as desk top computers, laptops, printers, scanners, and photo copying machines.” The new items will replace the old ones used by members of the 8th National Assembly, which were sold to them at give-away prices after their tenure. Those who bought the items are expected to pay with money deducted from their severance package. A source was quoted as saying: “All the new Senators and Reps will soon make arrangements to purchase brand new vehicles befitting their status as  the N34 million jeeps and the N14 million cars used by the 2015- 2019 Senators and Honourable members were sold off to them at between  N1 million and N1.5million each.” The 8th National Assembly is said to have spent about N6.6billion to purchase cars for lawmakers. The 9th National Assembly is expected to spend much more. For instance, a source was quoted as saying: “The severance benefits of Principal Officers in the two Houses, especially the Senate President, Speaker and their Deputies are in an entirely special class… the norm is that the Senate President or Speaker leaves with almost the entire six to eight classy cars in his car pool, leaving one big bullet proof Mercedes Benz which his successor is likely to replace anyway.” The NASS has a budget of about N125 billion for this year, and a greater part of the budget is for the severance pay of former senators and Reps as well as their legislative aides. Members of the House of Representatives will get a total of N10.8bn allowances for accommodation and furniture within their first three months. Obviously, it is important to question the National Assembly’s questionable benefits. Do the federal legislators deserve what they enjoy simply because of their status? The federal legislature is not supposed to be a place where lawmakers just enjoy and enjoy. The benefits federal lawmakers enjoy make them look like political adventurers who are more interested in their own personal prosperity than patriotic performance that will enhance the country’s development.