The immediate past senator representing Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to pick members of his cabinet immediately and form his cabinet with capable, competent and patriotic persons. But he warned against the neglect of any zone or state in getting key appointments under any pretext that they did not vote for him or did not vote for the ruling party. The senator applauded the President’s decision not to consult governors on the choice of his ministers. He noted that governors do not forward the names of competent people except those of their loyalists. Sani addressed reporters at the weekend in Minna, the Niger State capital, after he delivered a keynote address at a one-day youth awareness forum, tagged: Niger Open Forum, organised by The Blue Revolutionaries (TBR). “Experience has shown that governors do not send names of competent people, they send their loyalists and they send people who are not going to say anything to them and who are not going to outshine them. “Unfortunately, the governors do not own up to failures of the kinds of people they send. So, the President should form a cabinet of people who are capable, competent and patriotic. “The report that I am hearing that he is going to appoint his ministers based on merit and not recommendation from the governor is quite commendable. This is because he has a legacy to leave behind. This is because when things go wrong, it is about Muhammadu Buhari; if it goes right, it is about Muhammadu Buhari. “I am happy with that decision because if no governor consults the President before appointing his commissioners, then there should be no compulsion for the President to consult any governor before appointing his ministers,” he said. The senator urged President Buhari not to delay the appointment of his ministers and other key positions. He added that there is need for him to get to work immediately. “I think he should not repeat the mistake of 2015. The most important thing for him now is to pick his cabinet immediately and hit the ground running. There should be no excuses again over failure to perform in the sense that he now has all the ample opportunity,” Sani said. Urging the President not exclude any part of the country in his key appointments because they did not vote for him or did not vote for the ruling party, Sani said: “If you exclude the Eastern or the Southsouth part of the country, or even the Northcentral because they did not vote for you, you are simply feeding the anarchy, feeding the secessionists, feeding the merchants of crisis in this country. “It is expected that when you win an election, you are for everybody. We have a pattern in this country where people are excluded and marginalised out of government on the basis that their ethnic or religious group did not vote for the government in power. That is very dangerous to do.”