Protesters at the weekend called on President Muhammadu Buhari to make the acting Managing Director, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Prof. Nelson Brambaifa, a substantive boss of the commission. The demonstrators trekked kilometres to the office of the NDDC condemning series of anti-Brambaifa campaigns. They said despite sponsored campaigns against the NDDC management, Brambaifa had remained focused on his mission to actualise the vision of President Buhari in the Niger Delta. The leader of the protest and former security adviser in Bayelsa, Chief Perekeme Kpodo told the Coordinator of the NDDC, Francis Kolokolo, that the NDDC over the years failed in its mandate to develop the Niger Delta. He said: “But today we have a son from Bayelsa , who is professor Nelson Brambaifa, four months only, he has change the tide. There are roads everywhere. We have over 100 roads in Bayelsa, Delta and Rivers states. The fact is that Brambaifa from Bayelsa has come to ensure that these roads are put in good and motorable conditions. There is nobody from anywhere that can stop the planned development. “All those gimmicks they are doing outside Bayelsa are for selfish interest not for the interest of Bayelsans or the Niger Delta. So, we say we need Brambaifa to be confirmed and to continue so we can have the dividends of democracy. This is not party issue, we are talking about our development, look at our youths, since NDDC was created there is nothing to show but it is time to take the bull by the horn, let Brambaifa continue to actualise the President Buhari dream for the region”. In his remarks, the President Attisa Youth Council, Richard Giani, appealed to Buhari to confirm Brambaifa following his performance in office. “My point here is very simple, for four months now that Brambaifa has been the acting MD of NDDC, we can see the giant’s strides; roads are everywhere, even the waterways are calm, he is tackling security issues. What his predecessors couldn’t do, he did it. So, we are calling on President Buhari to use his good office to make Nelson Brambaifa the substantive NDDC MD”, he said. On his part, a one-time Chairman of the Central Zone of the Ijaw Youths Council, Jonathan Lokpobiri, said for the interest of the peace in the region, the Ijaw should rise and support Branbaifa. He said: “We are now using this platform to send a message through the coordinator of the NDDC to the federal government that the confirmation of professor Brambaifa is in the right direction and in the best interest of our region. There is no politics in this. We do believe that Brambaifa can work with almost everybody in the Niger Delta region. So, I believe that given the opportunity for him to be confirmed as the MD of NDDC, can only improve the well-being and the life styles of the Niger Delta people and I can assure you that peace will improve”.