The Prosecution announced the closure of its case on Wednesday in the on-going trial former presidential spokesman, Doyin Okupe on a 59-count charge, bordering on money laundering, criminal diversion of funds to the tune of N702, 000,000. The spokesman by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Tony Orilade said, in a statement, the prosecution lawyer, Ibrahim Audu announced the closure of the prosecution’s case when its last witness, Shuaibu Salisu, former Director Administration and Finance in the Office of National Security Adviser (ONSA), who now works at the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) concluded his testimony. While being led in evidence by Audu, Salisu said: “Sometime in 2012, Chief Okupe came to the Office of the National Security Adviser and after their discussion, I was directed to make a payment of N50 million to him.” The witness said the defendant “provided his account details, where I paid the amount into the bank account of Value Trust Investment.” Salisu said he was further directed by the ONSA to be paying N10 million monthly to Okupe for a period of over two years, which he said was reduced to a monthly N5million (Five Million Naira) towards the end of 2014 due to paucity of funds. The witness said he made other payments to Okupe as directed, saying that at a point he was instructed to pay the defendant N6, 000, 000 (Six Million Naira). Salisu told the court that sometime in 2014, the then National Security Adviser, NSA, Sambo Dasuki directed that he paid the sum of N35million (Thirty-five Million Naira) to an account provided by Okupe and that he can also recall paying N50million (Fifty Million Naira) in cash to Okupe on Dasuki’s directive. He told the court that he only obeyed directives in all the payments he made to Okupe and didn’t know what the monies were meant for. When asked if there were evidences of the payments, the witness told the court that he usually provided Okupe with the payment vouchers, which he usually signed. On whether all the payments were captured in payment vouchers, the witness said no. While being cross-examined by lawyer to the defendant, Akinlabi Akinbade, Salisu said Okupe was not the only one, who received payments from ONSA. He explained: “Anybody that the NSA directs that payment be made to, we make payment.” When asked if the payments were from illegal source, Salisu said he had no reason to believe that the payments he made were from an illegal source. The witness said: “Why would I assume it was illegal? I was only directed to make payments,” disclosing further that some of the payment instructions he carried out while working in the ONSA came verbally while some others came written, but that in the case of the payments to Okupe, all the instructions, he said were verbal. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu has adjourned till June 28, 2019 for Okupe to open his defence. 