Japan is seeking Federal Government’s partnership to organise the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD) scheduled for August this year. The special envoy of the Prime Minister of Japan, Mr Shunsuke Takei said Nigeria can lead the discussion and bring high level participants from government and the private sector including President Muhammadu Buhari. Mr Takei added that seventh TICAD is not only for Japan and Nigeria but the entire Africa to discuss economic and development agenda. Speaking on Thursday in Abuja when he paid a courtesy visit to the home of the former Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, he said the economic relationship between Nigeria and Japan has been steadily developing. He said: “I was appointed to attend the Nigerian Democracy Day celebration by the Prime Minister and it was very interesting.’’ “Yesterday, I was briefed by Japanese and Nigerian businesses communities, I am so glad that the economic relationship between Nigeria and Japan has been developing steadily. I understand that since 2015, the minister has been working so hard to contribute to science and technology, he visited Japan in 2017 to attend the Science and Technology in Society Forum and I sincerely seek your cooperation as a critical political leader in the All Progressive Congress (APC). “The 7th TIC on TICAD seven will be held on the 28th-30th this year in Japan. TICAD seven is not only for Japan and Nigeria but the entire Africa to discuss economic and development agenda, the minister attended TICAD six in Nairobi and we highly expect that as a great power in Africa, Nigeria can lead the discussion and bring high level participants from government and private sector including President Buhari and in terms of that, I sincerely need your cooperation.” Dr. Onu informed Mr Takei that President Buhari is interested in working with friendly nations like Japan. He said: “Nigeria is very willing and happy to have economic relationship with all countries but the relationship it has with Japan is very unique. Here in Nigeria, we are working very hard to remove our economy from its dependency on resource to that of innovation and technology.”