•SERAP and others’ suit against lawmakers’ jumbo allowance is commendable The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), BudgIT and Enough is Enough Nigeria have gone to seek legal intervention from a Lagos High Court to stop the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) from paying the members of the ninth assembly N4.68billion as take-off allowance. The leadership of the National Assembly, the NASC and the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission were all joined as defendants. SERAP, since its inception in 2004 as a non-profit, non-governmental organisation, has been concerned and working towards the upholding of international human rights laws for increasing transparency, accountability and protection of economic and social rights in Nigeria. The organisation seems to have been actively and dedicatedly pursuing their goals in the country. Since the return to democracy in 1999, the salaries and other financial benefits of the National Assembly members have been like a financial sore on the nation’s budget annually. At some point during his tenure, the then governor of the Central Bank, Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi, decried the fact that the National Assembly’s budget alone takes out a very reasonable percentage from the nation’s annual budget. Even though there had been rumours and allegations, the sad clarity from the CBN governor startled the nation. Sadly, nothing has been done to remedy that financial situation. The paradox of the jumbo pay of the legislators in a country that is presently the poverty capital of the world negates any form of democratic representation. It is on record that Nigerian legislators are some of the highest paid in the world. If truly the legislators are representatives of the poorest people on earth and live the opulent life noticeable around them, then the intervention of SERAP and others to take judicial steps to compel the RMAFC, a body statutorily required to review the pay of the lawmakers in conformity with the country’s economic realities to achieve fiscal efficiency is commendable. According to SERAP, the last review of the salaries of the legislators was in 2007, that is some 12 years ago. If truly the country is practicing a government of the people by the people and for the people, there should be some display of sensitivity by all those charged with responsibilities of achieving the best of democratic dividends. To have legislators earn and flaunt obscene wealth in the face of abject poverty in the land is a  time bomb. We might not know how the legislators feel about the urgency that is needed in remedying the financial obscenity that SERAP and others have gone to court over. However, we do know that the insecurity in the land, the discontent with the political elite and unemployment that is in double digits cannot augur well for anyone. Being the poverty capital of the world should more than the other two arms of government bother the legislative arm because they are more representative of the grassroots. The commission empowered to review the salaries must see itself as having failed in its duties if truly it had deliberately not done a review in the last 12 years, given the financial situation of a country in deep economic problems, with unpaid salaries and other indices of fiscal irregularities. We equally urge the judiciary that has been approached with facts and figures of the salaries and allowances to do the right thing as the last hope of the common man. We expect that the matter as filed should get the urgency of attention required before the new assembly starts where the last stopped. The country cannot afford the extravagance of the past years that makes the scale tilt in favour of Nigerian politicians who live in affluence amidst poverty. An added advantage to a review of the salaries and allowances of politicians generally would help in checking electoral violence because most politicians are in it for the financial benefits rather than service. This is the very reason elections in Nigeria are seen as ‘do-or-die’ with the attendant violence and bloodshed. A reduced financial benefit would discourage mercantilist approach to politics and give rise to professionals who are desperate to serve unlike what presently exists. We commend SERAP and the other organisations striving for transparency and social and economic justice on behalf of the voiceless. We implore other NGOs to borrow a leaf from them for a better country.