The Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) has produced 6,659 entrepreneurs in Bayelsa and Delta states through its enterprise development programme launched in 2003. SPDC’s General Manager, External Relations, Mr. Igo Weli, who spoke in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital during a graduation and award ceremony of a new set of beneficiaries said the programme was part of the company’s efforts to solve the problem of youth restiveness in the Niger Delta. Weli, who was represented at the colourful event by the SPDC’s External Relations Manager, Swamp West and EA Fields, Evans Krukrubo, said the scheme was instituted to provide alternative incomes to youths. He said: “The graduation and award ceremony of the southern swamp associated gas solution enterprise development programme is an initiative targeted at the 23 impacted communities of the Southern Swamp Associated Gas Solution (SSAGS) project in Bayelsa and Delta states. “The programme was aimed at inspiring and supporting youths to start their own businesses or expand existing ones. We do this by providing the beneficiaries the requisite training and start-up finance in the belief that legitimate alternative livelihood will enable young men and women to refuse the lure of vices. “This enterprise development programme is the flagship of our youth enterprise development programmes and was launched in Nigeria in 2003. The Shell Enterprise Development Programme has now produced 6,580 Niger Delta entrepreneurs, most of whom are employers of labour. “Some of the beneficiaries are also given the opportunity to play in SPDCs supply chain as vendors and are provided with access to growth capital. With these new graduates, I am happy to announce that the number of Shell enterprise development programme beneficiaries has gone up by 79. “These beneficiaries from the SSAGS programme went through the entrepreneurship training, wrote business plans; pitched their business ideas and finally the 49 best performing beneficiaries have been selected”. Well said the SPDC injected N2.2 billion into the SSAGS area for community development as top-up funds for the Community Cluster Development Boards in Bayelsa and Delta states. He added: “This programme is one of the proof points of the foresight in setting up the Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU) model for project delivery to our host communities. “This model has proved quite successful as a vehicle for meeting the needs of the people as it engenders co-operations of benefiting communities to deliver the overarching goals of these projects, promoting sustainability, infrastructure and human capital development. “From 2013 to this year, SPDC paid the total of N2.2 billion as top-up funds to the eight impacted southern swamp associated gas solution GMoU cluster boards in Bayelsa and Delta states. “By this programme, youths of Bayelsa and Delta states are offered a bigger door of opportunities. This is the beginning of a journey that has the potential of launching any of the beneficiaries into international recognition and success. This has happened in other host communities. It can happen here”. Well further told the beneficiaries that they had taken first step to a fulfilling career in self-development and skills optimisation. “There are huge opportunities ahead of you. The road to becoming a successful entrepreneur is seldom smooth but if the journey is undertaken with the commitment and zeal it deserves, it can be very rewarding”, he said. At the ceremony, the 49 youths, who completed the enterprise development programme received start-up grants of N19. 60 million. The beneficiaries were also assisted by the company to register their businesses and to be given certificates of registration from the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). In his remarks, the Chairman of Iduwini Cluster Development Board, Macpherson Gold, appealed to the beneficiaries to maximise the opportunity offered them to become successful people. He said: “I commend SPDC for giving our youths the opportunity to contribute to the growth of our communities. Being self-employed and having source of income is very essential to making positive contributions to one’s community.” Also, the Executive Director, Centre for Information and Development, Mrs. Belema Obigwe explained that the beneficiaries received intensive training on business management and assigned to established entrepreneurs for mentorship. . She said 130 youths nominated for the scheme by their communities were shortlisted in April last year, adding that out of the number, 79 successfully completed the training while 49  of them passed the assessment tests conducted at the end of the scheme. Addressing the beneficiaries, she said: “This journey began in April last year. We went through the applications and the applicants were screened through various stages. We expect that the way you worked with us, the way you gave us your attention, we believe that what we have planted will germinate. “This is the beginning of the next phase. Please, continue in the same measure. As a result of your hard work, you are going to have some benefits. Just as the training was not easy, the journey is not easy as well. “By being here today, you have entered a contract with Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria. Shell is the sponsor and the initiator of the programme. Your clusters have nominated you to be here. You have entered into an agreement that you will do your best to give us the result for investing in you all”. Some of the beneficiaries praised the initiative and commended Shell for establishing the scheme. One of the beneficiaries, Robinson Erebi said the training was practical and beneficial. “We are grateful for this opportunity. I have tried and failed in businesses twice but in the course of this training, I discovered why I failed and now I am ready to get it done the right way. “We were trained in order to support our business ideas and Shell is also supporting us with a start-up capital. So, we are now out of the labour market and they have encouraged us to expand our businesses and to create more jobs,” Erebi said.