The All Progressives Congress (APC) says the 9th House of Representatives under the leadership of Femi Gbajabiamila would support critical legislative intervention aimed at driving developmental, social and empowerment programmes in the country. The ruling party which celebrated Gbajabiamila on the occasion of his 57th birthday said this in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu. ‘‘Under Gbajabiamila’s leadership, we are confident that the 9th House of Representatives will support critical legislative intervention to drive developmental, social investments and empowerment programmes for our people. ‘‘Our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) celebrates the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on the occasion of his 57th birthday,’’ Issa-Onilu said. According to him, the APC family attests to Gbajabiamila’s exemplary qualities as a cerebral lawmaker, de-tribalised Nigerian and a loyal party man who has consistently defended internal democracy, party loyalty, discipline and above all, national interest. Issa-Onilu added that a testament to Gbajabiamila’s pedigree and appeal was in full display during his recent landslide election victory as speaker which transcended party affiliations. ‘‘The support of the National Assembly remains critical to enable the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration deliver on our Change Agenda and Next Level manifesto. ‘‘As minority leader, majority leader and now Speaker of the 9th House of Reps, Gbajabiamila’s colleagues have found in him a consensus builder who is committed to ensuring best legislative practice and cooperation between the executive and legislative arms of government. ‘‘We join family, friends, associates and fellow legislators in praying for a long, healthy life, and wisdom to lead the 9th House of Reps,’’ he said. In a related development, the APC has also celebrated Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State as he marks his 54th birthday. ‘‘Coming just less than a month after he assumed the mantle of leadership at the Centre of Excellence, this birthday could not have come at a more auspicious time,’’ Issa-Onilu said. According to him, the party is delighted to celebrate the governor who, has within a very short time, left no one in any doubt of the positive direction he plans to take the state in the next four years. ‘‘The APC, while acknowledging the multifaceted challenges confronting Lagos state, affirms the governor is ready to walk his talk against the backdrop of his administration’s pro-people actions and policies in the last one month. ‘‘Our great party is confident that Lagos residents will not have any cause to regret voting this embodiment of hard work, commitment, loyalty and a man of vision and ideas into office as their governor. ‘‘We wish the governor a very happy birthday and pray to God to imbue him with wisdom and sound health to run the affairs of the state successfully for the next four years,’’ he said. (NAN)  