Three of the six parties suspected of involvement in disobeying an order stopping the May 23 National Association of Women Journalists’ (NAWOJ) (Lagos Chapter) 2019 election, Monday asked for forgiveness. Ekene Adeola, Abiola Beckley and Yemisi Adeniran apologised to Justice R. Gwandu when they were accused of contempt. But their counsel, Shakiru Omolaja, pleaded on their behalf after arguing that they did not deliberately disregard the ex parte order. Adeola, the Registered Trustees of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Ifeyinwa Omowole, Ladi Bala, Beckley and Adeniran are the first to sixth defendants in suit NICN/LA/248/2019 filed by the NAWOJ Lagos State Chapter Chairperson, Mrs Sekinah Lawal. Lawal and Adeola were candidates in the chairperson category of the NAWOJ election. However, Adeola – in unclear circumstances – purportedly emerged as the winner and was sworn in as Chairperson, following which the judge, on May 30, summoned the defendants. At the commencement of proceedings Monday, only Adeola, Beckley and Adeniran were available and the judge expressed displeasure at the women’s conduct. Judge: “I’m not happy with you. You held an election; you know that is contempt of court.” “We are sorry,” the three women answered. Judge: “You are mothers, you are wives. Give me one reason why you should go home today. I am really disappointed. You conducted an election against a court order? “We are sorry.” Judge: “Do you know the meaning of that? The court is not a joking place. Even in that order I stated that I would give the suit accelerated hearing, yet you went ahead. If I say now that you are not going home today, who will pick up your children from school; serve food to your husbands?” But Shakiru apologized on their behalf. He said: “Very sincerely my lord, we are tendering an unreserved apology. The defendants did not deliberately flout the order of court. They were not even aware that the order had been made. Nevertheless, we are tendering a very unreserved apology. We are committed to accelerated hearing of this case.” After ordering the defendants to file their defence, Justice Gwandu adjourned further proceedings till June 25. Aside the suit, some of NAWOJ and NUJ officials, including Ifeyinwa Omowole, are also at the centre of an alleged N150million housing scandal, which is currently before the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). In her May 22 affidavit in support of suit, Lawal averred that Adeola was ineligible to participate in the polls having been disqualified by a seven-man Electoral Committee which screened candidates for the election. She averred that upon constitution of the Electoral Committee under the Chairmanship of Grace Ekpoanwan Achum, the electoral committee screened all the candidates for the respective offices and cleared only candidates that met the requirement of the NUJ Constitution.