The Managing Director, Chi Limited, Roy Deepanjan, has stated that much of the information on sugar and fruit juice in the public is largely misleading and that the country’fruit consumption rate is far below the global average. Deepanjan who stated this at the Chivita Masterbrand Media Immersion held at the company’s corporate headquarters in Lagos recently, noted that much of the information being circulated rarely highlights the positive value of 100 percent fruit juice. According to the Chi boss, fruit juice constitutes three percent of liquid consumed by Nigerians whereas the global average stands at nine percent, adding that Nigerians are losing out on the health benefits of fruit juice. He said that Chivita, being the major player in the industry, has a social responsibility to lead the debate on 100 percent fruit juice, a reason it came up with‘no-added sugar’and healthy living campaign last year. According to him, the company which currently controls over 50 percent of the juice market through its Chivita Masterbrand will through the campaign provide balanced information on the health benefits of 100 percent fruit juice. The campaign, he said, is aimed at sharing of unbiased information on the benefits of 100 percent fruit juice, stressing that the campaign, which is driven by the independent efforts of experts such as scientists, nutritionists and dieticians, is to show how 100 percent fruit juice contributes to the health and well-being of consumers. Emphasizing the health value of fruit juice, he noted that independent researchers have proved that Chivita 100 percent fruit juice contains no-added sugar, colour, preservative or any other addictive as it has the same nutritional benefits as the raw fruits it is extracted from. Deepanjan said; “Our passion to produce nutritious and healthy brands has over the years led to the birth of household names including Chivita 100 percent fruit juice, which was introduced in 1996. Chivita 100 percent fruit juice, a member of the Chivita Masterbrand, is made from 100% real natural fruits, and squeezed into the most natural blends, with no-added sugar.” Also speaking at the event, Marketing Director, Probal Bhattacharya, said the campaign would provide the correct information consumers need to make the right choices. He said; “As a stakeholder, we are committed to the production of quality and healthy processed foods. But it is not enough to provide nutritional solutions. As a socially-responsible company, we also have a responsibility to inform and educate consumers. “Chi Limited is the largest producer of juice, nectar, still drinks and dairy products in tetra-Pak in sub-Saharan Africa. Chi brands have received numerous international honours, which validate their strong equity and phenomenal consumer franchise across various demographics.”