AS the Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government continues its search for the right candidates to constitute the much awaited federal cabinet, chieftains of Imo State All Progressives Congress (APC) are currently lobbying for the candidate that would represent the state even as they blame each other for the failure of the party in the last governorship election. Dr. Chuks Osuji, a political scientist, administrator and author, in a statement entitled, “Imo Ministerial Slot: For whom the bell tolls,” made available at the weekend, argues that Madumere seems to be the most likely candidate from Imo State for a ministerial position. “All things considered, it is likely that Senator Hope Uzodimma may be asked to submit a list. If he is asked to do so, knowing how the mind of Hope Uzodimma works, he is more than likely to submit a list containing his name, first, Prince Eze Madumere – second, T.O.E Ekechi etc,. Knowing the temperamental chemistry of Adams Oshiomhole, he would not look at that list twice; because, he would weigh so many things in mind. It stands to be reasoned that Sen. Uzodimma was given the governorship ticket which he performed very poorly, coming a distant fourth place position. “Secondly, the immediate past minister, Prof. Anthony Anwuka, is from Orlu zone. So there can be no rationale for considering Uzodimma for ministerial position and other concomitant reasons which may not promote the Senator’s aspiration for ministerial appointment. In addition, if one raised the issue that the current Imo governor is from Owerri zone, such argument will be automatically shut down because both Madumere and Governor Ihedioha are not of the same political party,” he said. Another APC chieftain in the state, Nze Stanley Onuoha, who made a case for Madumere, also blamed Uzodinma for the party’s failure in the state when he said: “there is no way APC would have succeeded with the level of lack of seriousness on the part of the APC governorship candidate who literarily did not campaign in Okigwe zone. He was not just ready. It was the more you look the less you see. We must look at the leadership of the party for us to move ahead.” But Chief Ukachukwu Nwulu, a grassroots leader, would not hear of it that Uzodinma is being blamed by his party members for what happed to APC in the last elections. “Senator Uzodinma tried his best under the situation we found ourselves. It is only fair that he is compensated now by the APC-led federal government,” he said. Hon. Felix Adiele, one of the leaders of APC in Owerri Municipal however believes the blame should instead be on the former governor. “Okorocha in pursuance of his goal of building a political dynasty takes the greater percentage of the blame but our unfortunate candidate, Senator Uzodinma sealed the failure,” he said. 