Sequel to suspension of the National Chairman of the Action Alliance (AA), Kenneth Udeze, the party has withdrawn the letter of withdrawal submitted to the Imo State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal by the suspended chairman. The suspended chairman had written the Election Tribunal that the party was withdrawing all petitions challenging the outcome of the Imo State governorship election. Represented at the Tribunal sitting on Monday by the National Legal Adviser, Barrister Anokia Peter, the party reaffirmed that it will pursue the petition before the Imo State Governorship Election Tribunal to a logical conclusion. It added the suspended National Chairman acted without the consent of the National Think Tank Committee of the party. Meanwhile, the Imo State chapter of the party has ratified the suspension of the National, following his suspension by his Ward and Local Government Executives, as well as the State Executive Committee of the party. The State Chairman of the party, Elder Uchendu Ahaneku, accused the Chairman of acting ultra vires by unilaterally ordering the withdrawal of the petition filed by the party and its governorship candidate in the 2019 election, Uche Nwosu, against the declaration of Emeka Ihedioha as the winner of the governorship election. He said that it is the National Think Tank Committee (NTTC) as the highest decision making organ of the party that can give such directives. According to him: “The National Chairman and the national Secretary have no power to arbitrarily withdraw the petition. “The decision to challenge the results of the election in Imo State was a collective resolve and resolution without any resenting voice. “Uche Nwosu is our choice and candidate and any report about the withdrawal of the petition is laughable and an aberration. Nobody has any constitutional right to take any action in the matter without carrying Imo AA along. “We have a party constitution and the NTTC has denied being part of that decision.” We will swim, sink and sail with Uche Nwosu.” He added the national legal adviser is also in a better position to act on behalf of the party in all legal matters.