The Lagos State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Mr Sunday Aroni, has urged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to build a befitting permanent orientation camp on the land the state allocated for the scheme at Agbowa, Epe. He said doing so would increase the number of corps members deployed in the state. Aroni spoke at the opening of the three-week orientation course for 2,560 Batch “B” Stream I corps members at the Iyana Ipaja camp. He said: “Let me at this juncture express my sincere appreciation once again to the government of Lagos State for the allocation of 10 hectares of land at Agbowa Epe Local Government Area. It is our ardent belief that our amiable and youth friendly Governor will put all necessary measures in place for the construction of a very befitting permanent orientation camp in the Centre of Excellence. Lagos State will not only come out as one of the best camps but will guarantee the increased number of corps manpower to the state.” Of the 2,560 corps members registered before the ceremony, Aroni said there were 888 men and 1,732 women graduates mobilised to serve the state. They were led in the oath of allegiance by Justice Owolabi Afeez, who represented the Chief Judge of Lagos State. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs Folasade Jaji, counseled the corps members to use the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme of the NYSC to gain skills that would make them employers of labour after the service year. “This novel idea was put in place to empower corps members with requisite skills in the course of their service to become employers of labour and not job seekers. “As you commence your national service year, I encourage you to always reflect on the successes the scheme has recorded in the sustenance of national unity, integration and economic development,” he said. He also admonished them to adhere strictly to the rules and regulations of the scheme. Though there was a downpour, which  cut short the ceremony, but it did not stop the NYSC dance troupe from performing. 