In the presence of his victims, a suspected traffic thief allegedly snatched and swallowed a wedding ring. But luck ran against Taofeek Adebayo, 19, and his accomplice, Toheeb Tijani, 20 and they were arrested at Oshodi at the weekend by operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS). Adebayo told the RRS that he had vomited the ring and handed it over to his colleague, who is now at large. Adebayo and his gang snatched the ring and other items from two women in a grey Toyota Sienna bus. In a statement on Monday, RRS said they asked the women for “food money” (Owo ounje ) and were given N100 which they rejected, claiming eleyi ki i se owo ti wa (This is not our money). Reliving the incident, one of the women said: “My colleague and I were coming from Anthony and heading to Ilasa for our association’s meeting. Three of them (pointing to the suspects) came near our vehicle. There was traffic and we could not turn anywhere. We were scared. They said we should give them money for food. I reached out to my colleague to give me money. “She gave me N100 which I gave them. They rejected it. One of them said, ‘ eleyi ki i se owo ti wa ’. I told them this is what I have. One of them pulled my left ear and removed my earring. I was scared. “Two of them turned to the other side of my vehicle. They threatened to waste us if we don’t give them money. ‘Where is the money’, they screamed at us. In a hurry to leave our car, they forced my friend to surrender her wedding ring. “This yellow guy (pointing to Adebayo) took the first one and swallowed it in our presence. His colleague took the other one”. Adebayo said: “I swallowed it but I have vomited it and handed it over to Young Boy – the third guy when police were chasing us. I told him to hand over the rings to the ladies so that the police can release us but he absconded with the two rings and earring.” Tijani said to be on the watch list of the police for snatching a mobile phone from a commuter in traffic earlier, said: “I have released the phone to the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) officials standing at Oshodi-Oke. They told me that RRS officers were looking for me to arrest me”. In another development, two persons, Samson Oluwa, 20 and Michael Amodu Adamu, 22, were arrested in an all-night operation at CMS for alleged robbery. They were arrested while allegedly robbing a stranded motorist. Commissioner of Police (CP) Muazu Zubairu has directed that the suspects be transferred to Makinde Police Division, Oshodi and the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Yaba, Panti, Lagos Mainland. 