The announcement of a two- week clamp down on drivers without or with fake driver licence by the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) in Lagos State is commendable. There are some issues I however want to pinpoint to prevent the clampdown from becoming another jamboree exercise in futility. The exercise should not be just a two – week exercise but continuous. The exercise should not be restricted to federal roads but all roads. The exercise should not be for drivers alone but should also cover riders of motorcycles and tricycles. A multi-sectoral and holistic approach should be employed to achieve significant results. While it is good to check whether drivers and riders are holding genuine licence, it is more important to ask if the drivers or riders actually earned the licence or they were awarded. As the National President of Driving School Association of Nigeria (DSAN), I can authoritatively say here that over 70 per cent of the current holders of driver licence in Nigeria did not undergo the requisite theory and practical training in accredited driving schools.  Most of them till this moment do not know the traffic signs not to talk of defensive driving techniques and deeper issues about driving. So many licensed killers are currently operating on Nigeria roads. In the same vein, over 80 per cent of the holders of driver licence have not had any form of refresher training to upgrade their knowledge and skills about driving despite the dynamism in vehicle technology, health/energy level   and road traffic regulations. The updated version of the National Road Traffic Regulations was released in 2018. Based on my research, over 90 per cent of drivers and riders are not yet aware of these changes in the traffic regulations and traffic offences. While enforcing a clampdown on drivers without licence, the process for obtaining the driver licence should of necessity be looked into as well. Every month in Nigeria, thousands of untrained and half – baked drivers still get their driver licences with ease without any formal or informal training. The process of  obtaining driver licence today  is very porous and fraught with lots of compromise and corruption. This needs to be effectively addressed. If the FRSC and other traffic management agencies truly want to address the root cause of road accidents, it is very expedient they also address the other issues. I raised in this article to get the desired results.