Three months after 15-month-old twin girl, Taye Adetunji, died under “suspicious” circumstance at a suspected illegal hospital, HJ CLAIROOWEN Medical Centre in Egbeda, Lagos, the police are yet to conclude their investigation. In April, detectives from the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) at Panti, Yaba, confirmed to our correspondent that a case reported by the baby’s parents, Adeola and Taiwo Adetunji, at the Igando Police Division was transferred to the department for further investigation. A panel constituted by then Health Commissioner Jide Idris and headed by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry reportedly found a volunteer paediatrician at Igando General Hospital, Dr. Joy Ohirnigbe, culpable of professional misconduct and negligence that led to the child’s death. Dr. Ohirnigbe was also found culpable of running an unregistered and illegal hospital where the baby’s mother was lured to, from the general hospital she had gone for medical services. She was also accused of applying an overdose of analgesics on the baby with the help of an auxiliary nurse, Dayo Badmus, who allegedly posed as a doctor at the illegal hospital. They were said to have facilitated the burial of the child without an autopsy by a licensed hospital. The report said: “Dr Joy Ohirnigbe, who was a volunteer worker of Alimosho General Hospital until March 25, 2019, was on call duty on the day the deceased child was brought to the hospital. “She was found to have ignored the established referral system and protocol of the hospital by not consulting with the Head of Paediatrics or communicating with the nurses or the Ambulance section. Her decision was made singlehandedly for selfish and monetary gains. “Dr Joy flouted the conventional system of referral within the sector in which a patient is only referred from a secondary to a tertiary level of health care; in this case, the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), as already indicated in the deceased patient’s case file. “Unknown to the ministry, she illegally operates an unregistered health care facility where she employed quacks headed by Mr Dayo Badmus, an “auxiliary” nurse. “Her unprofessional and negligent conduct led to the death of the patient. In a callous manner, she facilitated the quick disposal of the body without the required autopsy by instructing a nurse to give a death certificate and advising on the burial location. “In view of the above, she has been found culpable and the matter has been referred to the state Ministry of Justice, the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) as well as the police for further action and prosecution, if necessary. “Two other workers found negligent through acts of omission have also been reprimanded and disciplined in accordance with civil service extant rules.” Dr. Idris had set up the panel, following public outcry by the Adetunjis who accused the doctor of infusing blood into the child without screening, among other allegations. Dr. Ohirnigbe, who was a volunteer paediatrician at Igando General Hospital, allegedly poached the child, who was billed for transfer to LASUTH, to her “illegal” private clinic where the baby died during blood transfusion. During a visit to the SCIID by our correspondent in April, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Yetunde Longe said the police were still investigating the matter. She added that the department believed it was not a police issue but that of the MDCN. Asked if she was aware of the panel’s report, Mrs. Longe answered in the negative, saying the department would write the ministries of Health and Justice to get a copy and for advice. But there was another twist to the matter after a policeman called our correspondent, claiming that the parties had agreed to settlement and wanted closure, without media reports, a claim Mr. Adetunji denied during a confirmatory conversation with our correspondent. Adetunji decried the lack of progress on the matter, regretting that each time he called to be updated, he usually got lukewarm responses. “It is untrue that we have settled or are talking about settlement. No one called me. Besides, I have said it before that my interest is justice. “I am surprised to hear this because I have been the one calling the police and the Office of Public Defender (OPD) for updates. The OPD lawyer has been trying because she has been on the Investigating Police Officer (IPO) to ensure the right thing is done. “It was just on Thursday that they called from the police and said my wife should come to Panti. I do not want my daughter’s death to go like that. If it is allowed to go, those who did it will continue to do it as though it is normal,” he said. Also, our correspondent gathered that a sworn affidavit containing details of what happened to the baby had been sent to the MDCN Tribunal in Abuja and the council had begun its investigation on the matter. Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), promised to get back to our correspondent but did not do so last night. 