Normalcy has returned to Jalingo -the Taraba State capital, after scores were killed and several properties burnt. The situation is however, an uneasy calm, as there are fears of possible reprisals. Violence broke out in Jalingo when armed gunmen, riding motorcycles, invaded Tudiri settlement in Nukkai and set several homes ablaze. The destroyed homes belong to the Kona community. Sources said Monday’s attack on Tudiri was a continuation of the communal feud between Kona and Fulani communities in Jalingo and Ardo-Kola areas. Eye-witnesses said the attackers, suspected to be Fulani militias, who rode on eight motorcycles, were well armed with sophisticated guns. “When they arrived, people began to flee, while they torch residences, the source said. The Kona community in Tudiri had last week received a threat from Fulani militia groups that they were coming. “They asked us to leave the area for them,” one of the displaced persons told The Nation. Hoodlums, believed to be Kona youths, took advantage of the incident and began to attack people indiscriminately. They razed some homes, shops and a mosque. Joined by other criminal elements, they smashed and burnt vehicles, looted and injured innocent residents, including travelers. The rioters also mounted barricades with burning tyres near Nukkai Bridge and Bera Market, ceasing traffic flow along the Yola-Wukari Road. It took the intervention of armed soldiers, police, immigration and other security agencies before the barricades were cleared. However, gunshots were heard throughout the night. A military source said the night shootings were from them, to repel further attacks by hoodlums. Many residents were seeing with luggages fleeing Nukkai, Bera market and ATC areas yesterday morning. Police confirmed the incident to newsmen but said “no life was lost.” But reporters captured on cameras the body of a resident who burnt in the razed village. A source told The Nation that another person who was shot, while fleeing from the armed bandits, died in the hospital. Police spokesman, David Misal, said “the situation is now under control and is being investigated.” Misal, in a statement, said: “Yesterday, about 1800hrs, heavily armed bandits on motorcycles invaded Tudiri village, via Jauro Yinu Ward of Ardo-Kola local government area and set houses ablaze. “The Command immediately mobilised patrol teams to the area. But before their arrival, the hoodlums have fled into the bush. “It is unfortunate that the Kona youths who were apprehensive of the development, blocked the Nukkai-Kasuwan Bera-ATC highway, Jalingo, and set unused tyres on fire, attacking innocent people for no reason. “Consequently, they burnt three vehicles, two motorcycles and three tricycles (Keke Nappep). “With the efforts and timely response from the police and other security agencies, the situation was brought under control and barricades were cleared. No death was recorded. “The situation is closely monitored by security agencies in a bid to forestall further breakdown of law and order.” He urged the people to be calm, not to take laws into their hands, as he disclosed that those who took advantage of the incident to attack people, smash and burnt people’s vehicles and loot shops, will surely be arrested and prosecuted in court. “So far, two suspects have been arrested in connection to the incident, and they are being investigated by our criminal investigation department,” Misal said.  