Why merely ‘passwording’ your phone doesn’t save you from hackers How banks can be liable for customers’ losses -Ex- NBA chief You may just be a step away from losing your life savings to hackers, who are daily coming up with new ideas, if you don’t put necessary measures in place to check them. Bank customers who engage in indiscriminate online purchases and those who toy with their security information on phones and ATM cards are susceptible to the crime. INNOCENT DURU reports. NIGERIANS are one of the most careless people in the world. So, if there is anybody you can dupe, it should be Nigerians.” That was how an internet user, who goes by the name MikeBush The Rich Lazy Asshole, began a shameless and reckless lecture on his website Smartlazy Hustler.com about how his ilk and the aspiring ones could use technology to hack people’s bank accounts and devastate their lives. For many criminal-minded elements in the society, coming across the website was akin to getting the solution to the numerous challenges they had been having in hacking into people’s accounts. From singing his praises, praying for him and deifying him using titles like Baba, Boss, among others, a good number of visitors to the website took time to inundate their mentor with various obstacles they had been facing in hacking into their potential victims’ bank accounts after obtaining all the necessary items and information like mobile phone, ATM card, BVN number among others. A number of the viewers left their mobile numbers and their emails on the website begging their mentor to reach out to them. Some even offered to pay any amount to acquire the full knowledge about how to become experts in the unholy business of hacking into people’s bank accounts. To the chagrin of this reporter, some of the depraved miscreants also sought help on how to hack their fathers’, grandfather’s and siblings’ bank accounts! Without any sense of guilt, MikeBush The Rich Lazy Asshole, took time to proffer solutions to some of their challenges.  He was particularly buoyed by messages telling how much was in a prospective victim’s account. Aside from the above website, some other sites, locally and internationally, also have information about hacking but none seen by our correspondent was as audacious as the one promoted by MikeBush  The  Rich Lazy Asshole. Methods used by miscreants to hack bank accounts During the week while members of the Saturday Desk of this newspaper were having their editorial meeting, a suspected fraudster, separately, within a space of five minutes, called two members of the desk telling them he mistakenly sent details of a recharge card vouchers to their phones and requested them to resend it to him. Findings showed that the idea was for the hoodlums to obtain some information about their banking details if they had naively responded to his bated request. That is one of the ways the fraudsters now get access to unsuspecting bank customers’ accounts. Teaching his followers different ways of hacking into people’s accounts, MikeBush   The Rich Lazy Asshole, posted: “One of the methods used most times is specific text messages telling you that you need to update your BVN or your account will be blocked.  Call 080……… to help you update it. “This is a notification from the Central Bank that your account is currently being hacked. To secure your money, please call Mr Taiwo, your account manager on 080 …..to assist you further. Then you send it to the phone numbers you have bought from people. “Some Ignorant ones will start calling to check if it is true. You have to sound like a professional.  There are three things you will need to collect from them: card number, expiry date, CVC (the card at the back of their ATM). “Once you have all these, just tell them (unsuspecting victims) that   you will get back to them and assist them further.  All you have to do is go online and start buying whatever you need. Or through a payment gateway like Patstack, you transfer and re-transfer it to your account. The disadvantage of this method is that people are becoming wiser about giving out their details to anyone who sends them messages.” The new method in town, according to him, is to create fake websites. “This cost me money to build but it was one of the steps I knew would help me hack someone’s account and transfer their money without BVN. On this website, I was selling expensive perfumes for as cheap as N500. On this website, you are required to purchase anything you want online and it will be delivered to you. At the back end of the website, there was where I could collect every detail that was registered on my website. People were buying till I had so many card details on my hands. Then it was time for operations. I had all I needed to hack bank accounts in Nigeria.” On how to hack ATM card in Nigeria, he said: “There is no straight forward way to hack ATM card in Nigeria if you don’t know the person’s pin.  The only way to get money from someone’s ATM card is to get the details of the card. “If you have someone’s card and you want to hack ATM card in Nigeria, take the card and use it to buy things on foreign websites. Most of the foreign websites don’t demand for OTP. So, you are safe.  Don’t ever use your real name while buying something with someone’s ATM. They will track you”. The suspected scam promoter went further to explain how hackers allegedly connive with bank workers to rob people of their hard-earned money using BVN. “There are two ways to transfer money using BVN and account number.  With your BVN, they will be getting the account number, phone number, date of birth, secret question and answer and email.  Once they have all this information, they can easily change your pin and use it to commit fraud on your account.  They will also need an insider to help them complete the transaction, which isn’t difficult to get. “Two ways to transfer money using BVN and account number are through secret software and insider job. When scammers have your BVN, what they do basically is to establish a link with someone inside the bank; once they have the necessary information, they can transfer your money through internet banking or cheque scam.” Children seek information to hack parents’ bank accounts You risk losing your bank savings if you naively open details of your bank accounts to even your children.  This reporter’s check on the notorious website revealed the extent children go in seeking information to hack their parents’ bank accounts. For one of the viewers who posted using the name Prince, reading through the website provided him with an opportunity to want to deal with his father.  His post reads thus: “Baba, my dad has over N500, 000 in his account but he is not helping any of his children even in school. I want to hack (into) his account but the money is in a micro-finance bank. He has no ATM card. Is it possible to hack it?” Another visitor to the site, named Adeyemi had his eyes on his grandfather’s savings.  “Hello, I have my grandpa’s account via mobile app. All I want to know is how I will make payment without the alert on his phone and not knowing the phone number that he is using on his account,” he posted. The mentor, in his depravity, responded: “It will be hard. Unless you have an insider in the bank that will help disconnect the phone number from receiving alerts.” For one Tejiri, blood relationship is never a barrier to hacking.  “How can I order something online with my sister’s ATM?” he requested. Shocking comments, requests by other scammers Aside from heartless children seeking to hack their parents’ bank accounts, many others hinted about the items and information they have concerning their potential victims and sought how they could complete the criminal steps they had taken.  Surprisingly, the callous mentor provided some of them with answers. Enamoured by the content on the website, one of the followers, who simply posted using the name Peace, submitted to the authority of his newly found boss in criminal matters and elatedly wrote: “I want you to be my mentor.” Another visitor to the site, Smart, apparently became more thirsty for additional information after reading the unholy write-up. In a tone that showed his desperation, Smart posted:  “Baba, can I get your whatsapp number please?  I want you to teach me work…any amount, I will pay please.” For Baldwin, reading the content of the website was an opportunity to cross a hurdle he had using a foreign debit card. “Boss, I am really enjoying your lectures. Please I have a debit card of a popular bank Santo Domingo North Carolina. Is it useful?” One area that appeared to be of interest to another one of the viewers, Victor, was creating fake websites. “Good day boss. Please how do I go about creating the fake website?” he asked, leaving his mobile line on the website. Responding to Victor’s request, the mentor immorally advised:” It is simple. Just meet any web developer and tell him what you want to achieve with the site. He will be able to help you clone any site of your choice using scripts.   He will advise you better on the steps to take.” Another viewer, Timi, posted: “Boss, baba. Is it possible to wire money from one’s bank with ATM without the pin? Which site does that?” To this also, the mentor said: “You don’t need pin to wire money with their ATM from one online to another. The only obstacle is a One Time Password (OTP) that they might send to the phone number. But not every bank does that.” Another visitor to the site, Tom, said: “I have some bank details here with me and I need someone to help me out to hack or shop with them online. Thanks boss. My email Williams2Tom1@GMAIL.com.” The trend continued with Jowizaza, who said: “Boss, I have a card and I have access to the phone number but when I sign up on quickteller to transfer the money after entering the OTP, it’s demanding for ATM pin. Is there any other channel that won’t ask for pin?” Like he did to others, the mentor also proffered solution to Jowizaza’s request and told him to send an email to him. ‘How bank workers connive with hoodlums’ The advice by experts that bank customers should keep the passwords they use for banking transactions secret appear inadequate. The recent busting of a syndicate that works with a banker to hack people’s accounts explains the hydra-headed nature of the crime. To get victims’ phones, the syndicate liaises with pick pockets who steal phones and take the SIM cards to them and get paid. Explaining his role in the group, a member of the syndicate, Ohiozogie Joseph, said: “My role is to get details of the Bank Verification Number from stolen SIM cards. Thereafter, I will contact Oracle and Hunter (still on the run) who are into internet fraud. They would deactivate the settings and withdraw money from any available ATM machine or transfer online to a Merchant bank. I get at least N50,000 at the end of each transaction. “ The banker, who worked with the group, Chris Amaechi, disclosed that he had done six transactions with one of the members. His role was to give full details of victims’ accounts, particularly those who have accounts with his bank. He said: “A friend, Ayobami, popularly called AY, gave customers’ details to me to withdraw money. At times I gave them the exact account, if the owners of the account banks with us. I met AY in December 2017. I have so far done six transactions with him but not all went through. In my own bank, the stolen SIM must have an ATM card for withdrawals of such to be possible. One Gabriel also approached me for the same deal. We have been talking but he was yet to give me any deal before I was arrested.” Asked if he had ever received complaints from victims, he replied: “I do not work in the unit where customers lodge complaints. I work in Cards Services Department. I was employed as a contract staff 11 months ago and I earn N75,000 monthly.” As for Nelson Matthew, he stated that he only accepted SIM cards of a particular bank (name withheld) from pickpockets. Explaining, he said his role was to “do USSD transfer by rolling victims’ SIM cards. For instance when such SIMs are given to me, the first thing is to get the person’s account number and the code. All I need to do is dial *901#. This is followed by a request to create a pin and another request for code. Again, I will dial *565 # which will reveal the 10 digits of the account holder’s BVN. From there, I will take the last four digits and create another pin. Thereafter, I will make transfer online, to a merchant account. I did this over 15 times last year but this is my first attempt this year”. “Our targets are those who store their account numbers on their phones. We also get account details through alerts on phones.” Another suspect, Henry Omagbemi, said he was into the USSD transfer of accounts of two particular banks which daily withdrawal unit is N200,000. He said: “I get between N40,000 and N50,000 on each withdrawal. All I need is the SIM cards, which are brought to me by pickpockets. I only know one of the pickpockets, Obinna; his share is N70,000 on each successful withdrawal. “At times, when I get a SIM, I will contact AY who will get the banker that will give us the last four digits of the account holder. At the end, the banker (Ameachi) gets N20,000”. One of the suspects, Muna John, was discovered to have had his last transaction two weeks earlier where N200,000 was withdrawn from the victim’s account. He stated that a relative of the victim brought the SIM to him. “Somebody called and said he had his brother’s SIM card in which was an alert of N360,000. I contacted AY who told me that he was not around. I had to call Gabriel because I didn’t know how to go about it. He (Gabriel) collected the SIM and sent it to the banker, from where N200,000 was withdrawn”. SIM lock as possible solution to hacking An IT expert, Ken Ozi, said one of the ways people can keep their accounts from being hacked into is by putting password on their SIM cards. “When SIM cards are pass-worded, the thieves cannot unlock it but they can unlock a phone that is locked by merely flashing the phone.” Explaining how a SIM card can be locked, he said: “The first thing you’ll need to do is to go to the settings menu. From there, you click on the security and location.  Here, under the device and admin, you will see ‘lock SIM card’. Just like you do on your ATM machine, you will have to input the code given by the network provider. For many, this is just 1111. Note that if you enter this incorrectly three times, it will render your SIM useless.  If you input 1111, and it doesn’t work on the first try, you would need to contact the network provider to get the correct default code. “Once you enter the correct PIN, SIM lock will be switched on. At this point, you’ll want to tap the second entry in this menu: ‘Change SIM pin’. You’ll enter the current PIN (again, the default); then select one of your own between four and eight digits. “After you confirm the new pin, you are good to go. Your phone will thereafter require both your current lock screen security entry and the locked SIM to be installed before it can be used. If you forget your SIM password, and input the wrong one three times, your line would be blocked and you will need the network provider to help you out”. Our position, by CBN The Director, Corporate Communications, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Isaac Okoroafor, in a telephone chat with The Nation, said hacking into people’s accounts is a criminal issue and has nothing to do with the apex bank. “You can ask the police all that.  It is not for the Central Bank.  We are not the police now. In the banking system, under the CBN regulations, it is expected that every bank put up measures to ensure that their technology is safe for customers.  The measure is to ensure the safety of people’s accounts, and the technology that is being used. “On the other hand, the CBN enjoins customers to make sure that their pins and passwords and other information are kept safe. Fraud happens from many angles. It could be from people breaking into the system, or people exposing their pins and passwords. That is all I can tell you for now. I have told you what I know and I cannot go beyond that.” In a separate telephone interview, former Second Vice President of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Monday Onyekachi Ubani, explained why a commercial bank can be held liable when a customer’s bank account is hacked. “The bank has no liability. Even the CIA stuff that is so tight is being hacked. It is a criminal act. The bank can only be liable where they are negligent. You have to provide an expert to proof that the bank did not provide a fraud proof protection for your account. In the absence of that, there is no way the court can just give you damages. “What I am trying to say is that banks can only be culpable where there is absolute negligence, or an omission on their part that makes a customer to lose money. If a staff of the bank is involved in the scam and it is proven that the person is a staff of the bank, then the bank will be liable.”