The Adamawa State Police Command has paraded 37 suspects allegedly involved in criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, unlawful possession of firearms and armed robbery. Parading the suspects at the state police command headquarters in Yola on Friday, the Commissioner of Police, Mr Audu Madaki,said that 19 of the suspects were charged with criminal conspiracy and kidnapping, and 13 for criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and unlawful possession of firearms. He added that three were charged with criminal conspiracy and armed robbery, while two were charged with unlawful possession of firearms. The police commissioner said  the arrests were made in eight operations following constant raiding of criminal hideouts and black spots across the 21 local government areas of the state. He said: “As the operational strategies continued, the command recorded tremendous achievements through the sacrifices of some gallant officers in the command by dislodging criminals in their hideouts, rescuing some innocent citizens in their captivity, arresting the criminals and recovering so many dangerous weapons.” According to him, ten suspected kidnappers were arrested on April 8, 2019 at Malabu in Fufore Local Government Area He gave the names of the suspects as Abdu Maina; Musa Danjuma; Muhammed Abubakar; Umar Ibrahim;  Abubakar Mohammed; Abdullahi Abubakar; Siddi Aliyu; Gambo Huhu; Samaila Ishayaku, and Muhammed Abubakar. He also named Umar Muhammed and Ibrahim Hassan as two suspected kidnappers arrested on May 15, 2019 at Dikong village in Mayo-Belwa Local Governmemt Area. The police commissioner said  that following a report by one Alhaji Sule Mumuni of Euro Yanka in Yola South Local Government Area that gunmen came to his house and abducted his 14-year-old daughter and demanded N1 million ransom, his men succeeded on May 16, 2019 in arresting one of the suspects, Gambo Nagabi, who confessed to committing the offense with others yet to be arrested. He added that in yet another operation, his men arrested six suspects who had all confessed to kidnapping a man at Ganjara village in Gombi Local Government Area. The police boss gave the names of 13 people charged with criminal conspiracy and kidnapping and unlawful possession of firearms, as well as three other suspects identified as Shilla Boys charged with armed robbery. The CP added that two other people were picked up in two separate operations for unlawful possession of firearms. 