The Comptroller General (CG), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede on Friday raised alarm that some officers are still collecting bribe on passport issuance. Babandede who disclosed this in Abuja during the official decoration of 48 senior officers promoted to the rank of Comptrollers of Immigration, warned officers to shun corrupt practices adding that anyone caught in the act will be sanctioned. He also warned against officers using their uniform and arms to molest anybody. Babandede congratulated the promoted officers and urged them to exhibit high sense of professionalism and commitment to duty inline with the mandate of the service especially in furtherance of the Federal Government’s policy on ease of doing buisness. The immigration boss who expressed sadness over the development said: “I will not promote an officer who have been found collecting bribe? It is not a right for everybody to be promoted. “We still have challenges. Officers are still taking bribe on passport issuance. For example if an officer collects money to get a job for someone, we will dismiss the officer. “President Muhammadu Buhari has always insisted that we must do our work very well and shun corruption, we must respect human rights. Do not use the uniform and guns that is given to you by government to molest anybody.” “The elevation of all of you to the rank of Comptroller of Immigration service is a mark of your dedication and loyalty to the service. It equally comes with a lot of responsibility. Therefore, I want to task you to redouble your efforts to ensure that the statutory responsibilities of the service are archived and geared towards securing Nigeria against the current myriad of security challenges. We are putting everything in place to ensure that the service makes a very positive impact on the security matrix of the country as well as providing enabling environment for trade and tourism. On the ongoing technology building, Babandede said: “Julius Berger has done well for the technology building, when completed next year June, we shall effectively monitor mobility of our borders. Our responsibility is to ensure that Nigeria is safer.” 3,413 senior officers of the service between the ranks of Comptroller and senior Inspector of Immigration were promoted. The 2018 promotion list as approved by the Civil Defence, Fire, Immigration and Prison Service Board (CDFIPB), vide a letter referenced CDFIPB/S.M33/Vol.II/93 and dated May 30, 2019 has 53 comptrollers of Immigration. 114 Deputy Comptrollers and 146 Assistant Comptrollers of Immigration. Further breakdown includes 96 Chief Superintendents, 303 Superintendents, 369 Deputy Superintendents and 78 Assistant Superintendents of Immigration while 2,254 others were promoted across the ranks of Chief Inspectors, Deputy Chief Inspectors, Assistant Chief Inspectors, Principal Inspector and Senior Inspector of Immigration. Findings revealed that among the Comptrollers, 62 of them sat for the examination, 53 passed, 48 were decorated while 5 have retired from service. Babandede commended President Muhammadu Buhari for given the service all it takes to grow. 