Apparently distrust with the myriads of what he described as unsavoury comments trailing his exit from the political administration of the state, the immediate past Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi has lashed out to his successor, Governor Seyi Makinde to face the serious business of governance instead of looking for mundane issues to discredit him. Additionally, the former governor said, the incumbent must only correct perceived areas he (Ajimobi) might have done badly and build on the success of his eight years administration. Ajimobi made the remarks over the weekend at Ibadan House, Oke Aremo, Ibadan, venue of a luncheon held in his honour by the Ibadan Elders’ Forum, in commemoration of the ‘meritorious two-term service in Oyo state’. The event held under the chairmanship of Professor Oladipo Akinkugbe was attended by eminent personalities including traditional rulers, Ajimobi’s former aides and former commissioners among others. While speaking, Ajimobi noted that it was his prayers that Makinde succeeds in office, noting that if he (Makinde) succeeds, he would have taken the state higher than he met it, urging him not to try to be perfect. He said, “My admonition is that the new government succeeds. It is in our best interest that he succeeds. If he succeeds, he would have taken Oyo state higher than he met it. “I am advising him that he should not try to be perfect but he must build on our successes. He must build and not demolish. He must build and not destroy. We have raised the bar of governance in this state and can’t afford to see it go down again. “We must not return to the days of brigandage and days of locust where chaos and disorder was the norm in Ibadan. Let him face the job and not look at mundane issues. There was a time I heard he said our government officials took cars away, which vehicles is he talking about among all the issues on ground in the state. “He must know that all journey begins with one step and end with one step. He must start now to correct wherever we were wrong. I don’t profess to be perfect but he must build on our successes. Where we have taken Oyo state now, he must not take it back. “We know that the dual carriage roads we built can’t be returned to a single lane and the bridges we have constructed cannot be pulled down. We have taken Oyo to greater heights and it must not go down. We did not achieve perfection but achieved successes. I pray for the success of Oyo state, the success of Nigeria and the success of Ibadanland.” The former governor commended the Ibadan Elders’ Forum, saying the forum was the promoter and sustainer of whatever successes his administration might have achieved. Apologizing to those he might have offended while in office, especially in his utterances, the former governor said those were the things that made him who he is and different from every other person, saying “we can’t do things the same way otherwise I will not be me. Whoever I have offended should forgive me and I have forgiven those who offended me too.” Chairman of the occasion, Prof. Akinkungbe in his remarks commended Ajimobi for all the feats he achieved in moving the state forward since he assumed office in 2011, saying “leadership come and go but posterity would always judge if leadership was in gold or otherwise, and Ajimobi leadership in Oyo state has proven to be in gold.” Speaking earlier, the President, Ibadan Elders Forum, Ambassador Sanu, said since the formation of the Forum, “its activities have been characterized by monitoring progress in the state public service, giving gentle admonition to active political players and making suggestions on possible ways of ensuring social and political advancement of the state generally. All these without soliciting whether overtly and covertly for any patronage. “The Elders Forum believes that acknowledging good performances will not only be pleasing to the performer, it will also inspire in-coming governors not just to perform well, but try to surpass whatever standard is met on ground.” Congratulating the incumbent governor, the former Ambassador promised that the forum would hold a befitting reception for him at the appropriate time, assuring that “may I say with all emphasis that as the Governor of this state, you have the full support of the Elders’ Forum. We also assure you that the forum will stand by you as you strive to advance the economic and social progress of the state.”