The vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in this year’s election, Mr Peter Obi, has expressed confidence that his party will be victorious at the election petitions tribunal. Obi spoke at a victory thanksgiving service in Atani, Anambra State, in honour of Senator Stella Odua, Chukwuka Onyema and winners of Anambra State House of Assembly, Noble Igwe and Somto Udeze, representing Ogbaru I and Ogbaru II constituencies. Obi reassured the people that all hope was not lost, insisting that his party would not give up as the case was still in progress. The former Anambra State governor urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to provide the server used for the election. “INEC must provide the server they used for the election because they know they used the server for the election and must provide it,” he said. Attributing the victories recorded by his party in the elections to God, Obi said it would have been impossible for the PDP to achieve anything in the election. He said: “The election has come and gone and now is the reality. We have to thank God Almighty, for without Him, we would not have succeeded in the election. “Whenever we have the opportunity, we should show gratitude to God. Thanksgiving is important and we are here to show our appreciation to God for what he did for us. “We also show our appreciation to all the people who helped to make it possible for us to succeed. We must do something that they will appreciate.” Obi urged the newly elected lawmakers to first consider the interest of the masses and use public money for public good. He said: “You are nearer to the people. There is no road in Ogbaru and so many areas need to be revived again. There is a lot of work to be done in the constituency. “So many people are hungry, so many things are happening to Nigeria. Let those who are in power today please use public money for public good. “Our children are not working because there are no jobs, while some are working and suffering.” Princess Odua pledged her continued commitment to empowering the youth in the area. She said: “The essence of being in the Senate is to make laws that will brighten and better the lives of the people as well as laws that will breed good governance. “Youth empowerment is ensuring human capital development. Nothing else can work except people are empowered. “To develop the people, we must empower them to empower others.”