Who vandalised the Osun Polytechnic Health Centre at Iree in Boripe Local Government Area of Osun State? The school is accusing the students, who strongly deny the allegation. But the students are blaming the centre for the death of their colleague in the facility, ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMLA and LAWAL SODIQUE OLAYINKA report: The sudden death of Shehu Aminu, in Osun State Polytechnic, Iree, is generating heat. The school and students are bandying words over the incident. A week ago, the institution’s medical centre was vandalised in the wake of Aminu’s death. A worker, who asked not to be named, said management spent additional N10 million to acquire more facilities for the centre. Until his death, Aminu was a Higher National Diploma (HND) student of the Department of Food Science and Technology. The deceased reportedly slumped in the examination hall. The management and students are giving conflicting accounts of his  death.  The Students’ Union (SU) has absolved its members of  vandalising the centre as alleged by the management. Its President, Comrade Bolaji Olaniyi Ezekiel told CAMPUSLIFE that some hoodlums took advantage of the peaceful protest organised by the students to do the havoc. Although the management said it started the Tertiary Institutions Students Health Insurance Programme (TISHIP) in 2007 and that students have been paying the mandatory N2,000 yearly, in accordance with the guidelines on TISHIP implementation,  checks by CAMPUSLIFE showed that the school also imposed sundry fees, such as the compulsory N1,000 medical examination fee, as well as ‘T-Shape Fee (the school’s general medical fee) of N2,000 each year making a total of N5,000 medical fees per session. CAMPUSLIFE findings further revealed that while students are angry over the outrageous medical fee, which they said is not commensurate with services rendered, they put the blame at the doorstep of the SU for instigating a protest at a time tempers were high and exam was just two days to wrap up. Students who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE revealed the undercurrents between the leadership of the SU and the led. They blamed the students’ representatives for not being calculative. According to them, the Departments of Food Science and Technology, where Aminu was once a student, is one of the notorious department in OSPOLY.  Besides, the department, CAMPUSLIFE learned, has been in a running battle with Olaniyi-led SU for his administration’s failure to prevent the management of OSPOLY from slamming sundry charges on students in the name of medical fee. So when Olaniyi chose the option of a protest, after Aminu’s death, his adversaries saw an opportunity to get back at him by hijacking the protest and turning everything upside down. As at the time of this report, the management of the institution is still  the loss at the facility, which a source in the management unofficially put at about N150 million. There are also arguments about the exact venue where Shehu died. While the management claimed that Shehu died when he was being rushed from the school clinic to another hospital; students claimed that he was already dead at the school Medical Centre due to negligence of the health officials on duty. When CAMPUSLIFE visited the school at the weekend to assess the situation, the Medical Centre was in a sorry state. Aside the wreck, which the facility has become, there were also broken windows, doors and vandalised equipment. Littering the floor were rumpled old and new files used for keeping patients’ records. There were also broken doors, torn or punctured roofs and empty wardrobes. Smoke was yet coming out from the torched building, which obviously was in complete ruins. It would require a comprehensive rehabilitation to get it back to its former state Checks by CAMPUSLIFE revealed that the attack on the medical facility might have come as a result of bottled up emotions trailing series of students’ complaints that have remained unresolved. Students, who felt bad about the loss of their colleague, are accusing the school’s health officials of their indifference attitude to patients, an allegation the management has denied. Students’ complaints, it was discovered, ranged from wrong diagnoses and prescriptions.  This is in addition to the fact that most times, students buy drugs at pharmaceutical stores outside the campus as a result of non availability of drugs at the school clinic.  Students are culpable, management insists But the school’s management  insisted that workers at the clinic did their best to save the deceased when he was rushed to the clinic. Spokesperson of the institution, Mr Tope Abiola, told CAMPUSLIFE that workers at the health centre did their best when the deceased was brought into the clinic. Abiola, who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE, recounted that Aminu was already at the point of death upon his arrival at the clinic. “It was unfortunate that he collapsed in the examination hall because he was exhausted, possibly because of the ongoing Ramadan fasting at the time, which might have reduced the level of glucose in his system,” Abiola said. He continued:“He was later referred to another hospital, but unfortunately, he gave up the ghost on the way. Abiola said aggrieved students, who live off campus, stormed the school, armed with dangerous weapons the following day. “His death later caused pandemonium in the town. Students trooped out as early as 6:00 a.m. the following day, brandishing dangerous weapons, and singing war songs round the town. This suddenly made the inhabitants of the town to run for cover. “By 7:00 a.m. the irate students, in their thousands, marched to the campus to perpetrate the dastardly act. They sacked the security of the school and stormed the newly renovated Health Centre stocked with drugs and state-of-the-art equipment, carting away some of the medical equipment.  Students: we’re not The Students’ Union leader, Comrade Bolaji Olaniyi Ezekiel, popularly known as “HOPE”, blamed the school clinic for failing to attend to the victim promptly. Ezekiel told CAMPUSLIFE that although a peaceful protest was organised in front of the school gate to express their grievances, he was not aware how some miscreants invaded the school from the rear and attacked the Health Centre. “You would recall that on Friday May 31, Shehu Aminu, a student of Applied Chemistry HND1 fainted after writing his examination at a PLT2 Hall within the campus. Aminu was rushed to the school’s medical centre at about 4:45pm. To our surprise, we were informed that the medical centre had closed for the day and so the victim could not be attended to. However, he was later rushed to a nearby hospital on a motorcycle, but gave up the ghost before they got to the hospital.” “The Students’ Union immediately convened a peaceful protest to express displeasure over the situation. A part of our strategy was ensuring that security personnel were on ground. In spite of this effort, some individuals somehow still gained entrance through the many routes leading to the campus to perpetrate this nefarious and destructive acts. “While I was addressing the students outside the main gate on the need for a 24-hour medical service delivery and justice for Aminu, some group had led another to destroy the medical centre without the consent of the congress due to the lack of perimeter fence in the institution. “We wish to dissociate ourselves from the destructive actions exhibited by this uncouth, uncivilised and violent group of people. Permit me to state clearly that our demands were just for the Institution to operate another medical centre outside town that will commence operation from 4:00pm.” Similarly, the speaker of the Students’ Representative Council, Comrade Oyelakin Adedapo Sunday, condemned the destruction of public property. Nonetheless, he expressed regrets that the otherwise peaceful protest got out of hand.  NANS factions clash Two factions of the  National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Osun State chapter, have equally waded into the matter, albeit with conflicting stances. While a faction led by Comrade Abdulmojeed Oladimeji Oyeniyi, condoled with the institution and condemned the students’ actions, the other faction led by Comrade Abidoye Omololu, a.k.a Castro, blamed the management and urged the police to carry out thorough investigation in order to fish out the perpetrators. “Following series of reports over this ugly scenario, our leadership has received both truth and fallacies of what transpired before and after the death of Aminu. However, it is imperative to note without any fear or favour that ‘an eye for an eye’ will only make the whole world go blind. We should also state that the era of aluta with gangsterism, hooliganism, and so on, is gone and this is the era where diplomacy, sincerity, and maturity should be embraced,” noted Oyeniyi. He continued: “Nigerian students are known as custodians of justice, but our zeal to get justice as and when due must be embedded in a spirit of patriotism, diplomacy, maturity and sincerity, without dragging ourselves in the mud. “Hence, I’m urging concerned Nigerian students to sheath swords and embrace peaceful dialogue at a crucial point like this, in order to avert a reoccurrence because we can never shy away from the fact that two wrongs can never make a right.” Nonetheless, Omololu’s countered Oyeniyi’s position, blaming the management on the shoddy manner it handled Aminu’s case. Omololu also said Oyeniyi lacks official capacity to speak on the matter. “As part of our campaign against indiscipline and hooliganism, we again call on Osun State Police  Command to, as a matter of responsibility, bring the perpetrators to book. More so, innocent students should not be punished. “However, the inability of the health workers to forestall Aminu’s death is nothing but a clearer evidence of extortion in the name of medical fee by the school. Or how do we interpret the scenario of a rejected patient where the health assistant meant to provide first aide at 4:00pm maintained closure for the day? “We call on the school management to, as a matter of necessity, investigate the medical staff on duty whose negligence we believe, orchestrated the ugly incidents, and befitting punishment should be meted out on them.” Management counts loss “This type of protest has never happened in the institution since its creation about 27 years ago. It is barbaric for students to perpetrate this type of evil. You all can see can see how they (students) looted the Health Centre, carted away items, vandalised the building and set ablaze facilities they could not carry,“ Abiola continued while counting the loss. “All files and records here in the centre were destroyed. How can you destroy your personal property? Those things the polytechnic use for their treatment are destroyed. This shows that the future of the country is bleak, if students that are being trained as leaders of tomorrow could resort to this type of odious activity. I am afraid of the future.” Abiola said the impressions that the clinic lacked personnel, drugs and equipment, are meant to tarnish the management and school’s reputation. Abiola said the institution began the Tertiary Institutions’ Social Health Insurance Programme (TISHIP) in 2017 and in accordance with the guidelines on its implementation, students are required to pay a fee of N2,000.00 which entitled them to free medical services at both the primary and secondary levels. According to Abiola, the school appointed a Health Maintenance Organisation (HMO), which  has been footing the bills of students that require secondary medical care in line with TISHIP policy. “To complement the primary care being provided by the Health Centre, a service agreement was reached with Labab Hospital, Inisha and Osogbo, for the provision of primary healthcare in emergency cases, which may occur after the close of work in the institution since we are non-residential,” he added.  Conflicting tales Other students, who spoke with   CAMPUSLIFE, either chose not to mention their names or used only their first name for fear of victimisation. One of them, Olaposi Samuel (not real name), an HND 2 undergraduate of Mass Communication, condemned the vandalism by aggrieved students. “I am not also pleased at all. The students should have engaged in a peaceful protest and demanded for 24-hour working medical centre instead of this ugly action. Yet, the SUG president, who called for the protest, is to be blamed as well because he should not have called for the protest at such critical moment. Another student, who introduced himself as Oluwasegunfunmi, a Higher National Diploma 2 of Science Laboratory Technology (SLT), also blamed the student’s action, he, however, added that they should not be totally held culpable. “Such things are bound to happen in a school where management do not reckon with the yearnings of the students. I hope the school management has learnt some lessons from this horrible incident,” said Oluwasegunfunmi. “This is simply a step taken too far,” noted Ayobami, also a National Diploma Food Science and Technology undergraduate. “Shehu Aminu’s death is really painful and a great loss to us, but two wrongs cannot make a right. Now students would be charged to pay for damages and this may possibly lead to another trouble. May God console the family of the deceased,” Ayobami added. But another student justified the students’ action.  Lukman, a National Diploma student of Computer Science said: “What is the essence of a non-functioning medical centre that gives paracetamol only as drugs for all ailments? The medical personnel are harsh. They treat patients with disgust and complain a lot. Also, the troubles students go through while undergoing the compulsory  medical examination ahead of registration is too much.”