A non-governmental organisation, AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF – Nigeria), has unveiled the Boys 2 Men programme to provide support for boys during adolescent. The programme, which is expected to provide support for boys and girl during adolescence, was unveiled at the Marina Resort, Calabar, Cross River state. The organisation’s Advocacy and Marketing Manager, Steve Aborisade, stated this in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, the nation’s capital. He said the Boys 2 Men program is being implemented under the STYLE UP concept of the organisation. According to him, adolescence is a key transition period for boys and girls, noting that the program will provide the needed support for a successful transition into adulthood for them. Aborisade said the program will affirm the need for individuals (boys and girls) to be updated, trendy and in-vogue with their overall lifestyle and wellbeing. According to him, this is tune with ownership and responsibility for one’s health as a core affirmative action. “At the centre of it all is sustained health promotion and as an avenue to build capacity of young people to effectively articulate issues that affect them and propose solutions at local, national and international levels. “Program is intended to bridge knowledge gap on HIV, STIs and risky behaviours and promote behaviour change as well as build self-esteem, life skills as it creates avenue for mentorship. “Five schools in Calabar were involved in the maiden Boys 2 Men program, with each sending 10 students accompanied by a teacher each. “Schools in attendance included: Hope Wadell Training Institute, Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria Staff Secondary School, Pereka Model Secondary School, Government Secondary School, Henshaw Town and, Government Secondary School Lagos Street,” the statement said. AHF’s Cross River State Clinical Coordinator, Dr. Ifeanyi Udenko, noted that boys that have been overlooked by the society become overlooked men and are the perpetrators of evil in future. He encouraged all the students to feel safe during the event and feel free to share experiences with each other. 