Women Leader of the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Jumoke Okoya-Thomas, has congratulated Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on his 54th birthday. In a statement by her media aide, Mr. Oladipupo Awojobi, she described Sanwo-Olu as a blessing to his generation, Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole. Okoya-Thomas said Sanwo-Olu had reasons to celebrate, adding that his 54 years on earth have been full of activities and that better years were ahead for the Governor. The Women Leader recalled that just about a year ago, nobody knew that Sanwo-Olu would emerge the governor of the state, saying that it was obvious “the people’s Governor” adequately prepared for the task of ruling the state regarded as the centre of excellence at this material time. “I wish my action Governor a happy birthday. Governor Sanwo-Olu deserves all the accolades he could get on a day like this. “While I wish him many happy returns of the day, I want to emphasise that it is very clear that the APC and the people of Lagos State did not make a mistake by choosing Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to rule the state at this period. “Just as Governor Sanwo-Olu promised during the campaign, he has hit the ground running and we have all seen that he has the capacity to move Lagos State forward and take it to the next level. “I am so happy to rejoice with you on your special day and my prayers are that God will give you long life, wisdom and understanding to direct the affairs of a state as complex like Lagos, which everyone is looking up to as the number one in Nigeria,” Okoya-Thomas was quoted to have said in the statement. The Women Leader, who was a member of the Federal House of Representatives, urged the people of the state to continue to cooperate with the Governor in his plans to turn the fortune of the state around and further make it the envy of other states in the country. She added the Governor had all the qualities required to fix all the sectors of the state, and that the coming months would further reveal the capability of the Governor. “Above all, I want to join millions of others to felicitate with our action Governor and pray that God will give him long life as well as the strength and wisdom needed for him to actualise all his laudable plans for the state,” the statement reads.