Mr Lateef Ademola Olatunji is the Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State. A PhD holder in Economics, he is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). In this interview with FREDRICK ADEGBOYE, Olatunji speaks on his plans for the polytechnic and what he hopes to leave behind. What are your challenges since you assumed office as the Rector of Federal Polytechnic, Offa in January 2017? Yes, normally, it has boiled down to paucity of funds. You know, it’s not easy, every institution in Nigeria is struggling to make ends meet when it comes to funds and maintaining the decaying infrastructure in our institutions. So, the greatest challenge is how to have more funds to do more things because for anybody to excel, you need funds. What are you doing in revenue generation? When I came in, there were so many things that were absent. In the area of collaboration, you witnessed our matriculation with the Federal University of Technology, Minna. We have started IJMB (Interim Joint Matriculation Board) programmes too. We’re doing A-Levels in collaboration with Ahmadu Bello University. There are many things that are coming in to increase our internally generated revenue which have not been before. And, fortunately, we have one of the cheapest tuition in Nigeria. I don’t want to base my IGR on tuition by increasing it. We don’t do that here. You can ask anybody. For instance, look at our hostels, it’s N10,000. We still have school fees of our HND, pegged at N16, 000 per session. So, we’re trying in the area of improving our IGR. And by His grace, by the next session, many things would join the ones I’ve just mentioned. You’re a chartered accountant. How would you compare the accounting curricula in the universities with what obtains in the polytechnics? I think in the area of accounting, the polytechnics do better. If you go to places like YABATECH (Yaba College of Technology), before many of those students graduate, they are already chartered accountants. This means that the curricula of polytechnics are richer than that of those of universities viz a viz the ICAN requirements. But despite that, one still finds disparity in pay and placement between HND and BSc holders in the labour market? Yes, the government is trying all means possible to address it. In some states, they have removed the disparity. I know the government would do something about it. It’s a long tradition and people are made to believe polytechnic students are sub-standard and the government is trying to correct this. Now within the government circle, when you come in as HND and BSc graduates, they would start the both of you on the same level. So, I think the disparity is mostly in the private sector. OK, which day would you say has been your greatest joy, especially since you became the rector? You all knew Federal Polytechnic Offa. But since I took over the mantle of leadership, there has not been any crisis in the polytechnic. There has not been any closing of gates by staff, students or the unions. But it was in the news some time ago that some students were rusticated for being cultists… (cuts) Not in my administration. And which day would you say has been a sad one for you here? Well, my own cross has been when people don’t carry the right story. Like when I read that a student committed suicide based on handout. The story was not true. In Offa Poly here? Yes! We lost one of our students but one of the national newspapers reported that the student committed suicide because of handout. Those things are not true. When you hear those  things, people would be calling you from all over the world, asking what was happening. Immediately, we debunked the story. What legacy would you like to leave? Number one, I want this institution to rank first in the area of accreditation; that all our courses would be accredited. Number two, I want to mount new programmes in almost all the departments. I’ve charged the various head of departments that they should come up with programmes that are sellable; programmes that would allow the students to be self-dependent. Three, I want to ensure laboratories across all departments to be fully stocked with equipment. Currently, if you go to our Department of Mass Communication, we have one of the best equipment anybody can boast of. Look at the departments of Computer Engineering and Computer Science too. So, those are the legacies I want to leave.