On the occasion of the 26th anniversary of the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Abudulmumuni Abiola, the son of Bashorun Moshood Abiola, spoke to The Nation on the family’s feelings towards the Federal Government’s declaration of June 12 as ‘Democracy Day’, the role of the pro-democracy community in the fight for the recognition of June 12, how the family has fared in the absence of the patriarch and other issues. In the interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, he explains why the family has not shown interest in politics. What is your family’s response to government’s declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day? First and foremost, I will like to thank President Muhammadu Buhari for the great honour done the Abiola family. I equally want to express my gratitude to the National Assembly for passing the enabling law to make government’s pronouncement a reality. It is what Nigerians have sought in the past. We thank God that this has been accomplished. I believe it will go a long way in strengthening our country’s democracy. I want to use the opportunity to urge Nigerians and those at the helm of affairs to utilise the moment not only for celebrating, but also for sober reflection. Therefore, it is important that we start addressing the issues that the June 12 election stood for. In essence, government should work to actualize the ideas and the programmes set out during the struggle for the actualisation of June 12. The pro-democracy community was actively involved in the struggle for the realization of the feat. How have you been relating with the groups? I must thank the pro-democracy groups, because I believe that they were the ones that kept the struggle alive all these years. They believe in June 12 and what it stands for and went out wholeheartedly to pursue the cause. So, to the activists and non-activists, they have fought a good fight. They have made it possible to keep the flame burning. My father contested the June 12, 1993 election with the intention to make the country better. His major agenda was to eradicate poverty in Nigeria. Another cardinal point in his programme was to provide free and qualitative medical care for the Nigerian people. So, it would be a thing of honour if the government can put in place those things that my father wanted to actualize. My father believed in quality education for the people and provision of infrastructure. This, to me, will be the best ways to honour my father. It was the belief of the Nigerian people that things were going to get better under my father. That is why many keyed into the political movement to actualize the mandate freely given to my father. At this juncture, I want to encourage the President to do more in order to honour my father, by eradicating poverty in Nigeria. How has things been for the family since the exit of Abiola? Actually, it has not been easy for the Abiola family since my father left the stage. Again, I thank God for my step mom, Mariam Abiola; she has been the pillar of support behind the family. She has been the one holding the family together. You are aware that most of my father’s assets were confiscated after the annulment of June 12 occurred. We are grateful to other Nigerians who have been with the family. We appreciate the sacrifice Nigerians made during the struggle. Many people actually paid with their lives to ensure that the mandate was validated. Now that June 12 has been entrenched, we will actually work with government in whatever capacity to ensure that we equally make contribution to the Nigerian state. So, we encourage government not to leave the people to their fate; they must be provided for, so as to make life comfortable. You have not shown interest in politics over the years. What will happen now that your father has been honoured? Looking at what happened to my father and mother, it would not have been wise to simply jump into the ring and start playing politics. You cannot build on a faulty foundation. Besides, we were still struggling to secure a better deal for my father, to ensure that justice was done to my father. With what has happened, I think we can now begin to look at things from a broader perspective. As the saying goes, you only go to people who want you. In view of the fact that everything that my father and mother gave was being whitewashed, it would not be wise to venture into politics at the time. Now that the story has changed, we are going to be more politically participatory. I am very sure now that you are going to be seeing more of the Abiola family venturing into the political terrain. For me, I have always wanted to see how I can make my contributions. I have worked with the immediate past governor of Osun State and I joined in actualizing some other projects in the Southwest. I do hope by 2023, I will come out to participate and by then it will be exactly 30 years when June 12 election took place. In your view, what is the significance of the recognition of June 12? I thank God for those who are alive to comment on the recognition of June 12, 1993 election, because were killed in the process of actualizing the mandate. People who are still alive, like Prof. Wole Soyinka, Femi Falana, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Segun Mayegun, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Opeyemi Bamidele, played significant roles.  We thank the President who, by his act, acknowledged that an election took place on June 12, 1993 and that it was won by Abiola. Nigerians came out and voted for Abiola and he got the majority of votes. If Abiola had not won, I wonder if the President would go ahead to honour him, by giving him Grand Commander of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (GCFR) and the Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON) for his deputy, Babagana Kingibe. I thank him for declaring June 12 as Democracy Day. For President Buhari to make the pronouncement and of course pushing it further by sending an executive bill to the National Assembly, it was a landmark feat. The National Assembly passed the bill (which has since been passed into law by the President). I think that is another big thing that has happened to the country. Abiola was the focal point of June 12. Abiola himself is not June 12 in totality. June 12 was the programme Abiola was striving to achieve for the Nigerian people. Was there any collaboration with other groups to ensure the success of Abiola’s programme? While he was pushing to actualize his programme, others equally came with their programmes, especially the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO). It took them a while before they could reach an agreement. The moment the agreement was reached that was when you saw the mammoth crowd that started moving alongside with him. Abiola also had agreement with students; that he was going to make education free and that he was going to make sure that every Nigerian will not go to bed hungry. He said he was going to abolish hunger in the land and he demonstrated it during the course of his campaign. The prices of food and essential commodities were going down, especially when it became obvious that he had won the election. When the election was annulled, everybody came out to protest. Abiola did not need to call people out, because the system itself made the people to come out. They sustained it until Abiola was killed. So, I thank the President for winning the second term. I know that his first term was very bumpy, but I was not expecting much. By the grace of God, as long as Ahmed Lawan emerge as Senate President and Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the House of Representatives this second term will be more impactful. So, by the time we have all arms of government working toward a purpose, it will bring Nigeria back to where it should be. Having recognised June 12, I will enjoin the President to go the whole hog by releasing Abiola’s seized assets. Buhari is the least person to pay the Biafran soldiers their entitlements. He actually surprised the whole world by paying the Biafran soldiers the money they were owed. We are begging the President to do the same on Abiola’s property seized by the Sani Abacha and Ibrahim Babangida military governments. Abiola lost almost all his assets, including Concord Press, the Wonder Loaf, Volkswagen Motor Plants, farms etc to the struggle. His accounts, both business and private, were frozen by the Babangida government and further emasculated by Abacha. They were trying to use that to muscle Abiola toward accepting their terms, but he refused. He maintained his position in the face of his adversaries. President Buhari should mandate all the banks where the accounts were held to pay the entire interests accumulated over the years. Government should pay reparation to the children, because they suffered the most. Now that government has honoured Abiola, do you think the pro-democracy groups are satisfied? They have been very happy about the pronouncement. It is not easy to get someone to risk his life for a just cause. Abiola was very comfortable; he could have walked away and be living in comfort. He was not willing to abandon the struggle. If he did, it means those martyrs who died on the streets died in vain. I believe that was why he continued to advocate for his mandate, so that when he comes back, I am sure Abiola would have paid reparation. Those who were killed on the streets, Abiola would have made their families comfortable. He had been giving to the needy; he would have done it again to those who laid their life for him to actualize the mandate. He would have made Nigeria better. The issue of uninterrupted power supply would have been addressed; the issue of road infrastructure and economic boom would have been realised under Abiola. 