All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has been urged to intervene in the crisis rocking the Edo State House of Assembly and the All Progressives Congress (APC). His former political adviser, Charles Idahosa, belives  Oshiomhole’s silence is responsible for the crisis rocking the seventh Assembly. There have been calls for Governor Godwin Obaseki not to have a second term ticket, especially by the Edo Peoples Movement, which claims to be loyal to Oshiomhole. Idahosa, who addressed reporters yesterday, said it was tragi-comical for those who brought Obaseki to power to be unhappy with him while the voters are praising the governor. The former aide said it was worrisome that Oshiomhole refused to deny empowering anybody or group against Obaseki. According to him, Oshiomhole’s silence means he supports the opposition against Obaseki. He said: “We are not comfortable with what is happening in Edo State today; the political division, the confusion. A situation where we should be happy as a party, but it is now like a tragi-comedy. A situation where we have a governor that the people are happy with but his problem is with the party leadership. “Over two years ago, I was the first person to react to Obaseki’s relationship with the party leadership. I called leaders who are today fighting Obaseki but nobody saw what I was talking about. They turned around to present a situation that I was fighting the governor. Because of personal interest, they have turned around to fight because they want federal appointment; some want to take over from Obaseki. These people were seen to have no value for eight years. “I find it strange that Obaseki on arrival from his vacation said he had no problem with the APC National Chairman. I have waited since for a reaction from Oshiomhole, but none is coming. Why has Oshiomhole refused to say he did not send anybody to gang up against the government? Silence means consent. “I make bold to say that Oshiomhole is responsible for the problem of APC in Edo State by his silence. Many of these boys are his boys. “Truth be told, it would not have got to this stage if Oshiomhole had spoken. We must look at the fact before us and say the truth. At what point did Obaseki insult Oshiomhole? Oshiomhole is no longer governor. Let the governor there now do his work. The public is hailing Obaseki but the people that brought him to power are angry. We must be very careful so that what happened in other states do not happen here.” But convener of EPM Henry Idahagbon described Idahosa as a “political jobber frolicking with Obaseki to fight Oshiomhole”. He said: “Oshiomhole is too big for these people, and it is sad that each time Idahosa wants to seek relevance, he sang Oshiomhole’s name so his benefactor will see he is working. “The crisis in Edo is between Obaseki and the leaders of APC and not Oshiomhole. Many of us are well known for the efforts we made to bring on board this governor. If they like, let them call Oshiomhole’s name to high heavens, it will not stop our genuine agitation. “And we will continue until we kick Obaseki out of the Government House. Idahosa is free to continue his sychophancy; that is his stock in trade. We will not be surprised to see him on the other side tomorrow.”