Twenty-Five days after their inauguration, most state governors are yet to constitute their cabinets, keeping their constituents and other stakeholders guessing on who may or may not get the nod. But people are not amused. They want the cabinets constituted as early as possible to clear the anxiety created by the current delay. Investigation across the states by The Nation showed that several factors are responsible for the delay. These include efforts by the governors to pick the best hands they can get; fulfil the promises they made to power blocks and individuals who helped them into office; accommodate as many vested interests as possible; and ensure balance and fairness in the spread of the appointments. Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State for instance, will have to find a way of accommodating in his cabinet nominations from the Achike Udenwa, Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu and Kema Chikwe’s camps, all of which played critical roles in events leading to his emergence. The different power blocks are locked in a fierce rivalry over appointment into the governor’s cabinet and other positions. But the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Chibuike Onyeukwu, said there are no ripples over political appointments by the governor. Ihedioha, according to him, is not under any form of pressure on appointments. “The governor is not under any form of pressure. His appointments so far have shown that he has taken his time to select across party divides, those he felt are capable of pushing the agenda to rebuild Imo State. “We built a lot of alliances across political parties during the election and the governor, in fulfillment of his promise to run an all-inclusive government, will partner and give all stakeholders a sense of belonging.” Appointments already made by Ihedioha include Chief of Staff, Secretary to the State Government, Attorney General, Special Adviser on Media and Chief Press Secretary. Gbagyi, CAN demand equity in Niger The Gbagyi and the Niger State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) want Governor Abubakar Sani Bello to be fair in his distribution of appointments. Various Gbagyi groups say the governor should do the needful by balancing appointments. They claim they have been marginalised in the appointments made so far by him. The CAN in particular is not impressed by the appointments so far made by Bello. The local CAN Chairman, the Reverend Mathias Echioda, said the first major political appointments – Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chief of Staff (CoS), Deputy Chief of Staff and Head of Service (HOS) –by the governor went to Muslims. This, he said, was unacceptable and hoped that the interest of Christians would be fully taken care of in the appointment of commissioners. He said: “We consider the most recent development as embarrassing. We consider it to be alarming, to be a disappointment. “Christians in Niger State participated very well and actively during the primaries, before, during and after the general elections. I can vouch that the level of our participation has never been like any other time in the state. “If we were that aggressive, if we were that involving, if we were that sacrificial, if we were that committed, if we were all giving to it as we did and it wasn’t a hidden thing that Christians were generally involved in the election. I know how much Christians overwhelmingly voted for the present administration, we therefore expected that we should have our share of the booty. “That is when you talk of the principal offices, at least something should be given to us because this was part of the complaints in the last administration but to our embarrassment, surprise and disappointment, we got to know that the governor has appointed an SSG, COS and HOS and none of whom is a Christian . “I can tell you that this is totally unacceptable. “We believe that this is equal to political robbery and we will not take that low at all because we contributed to enthroning the present administration. We should also be part of the decision making at the highest level in terms of management, policy formulation and policy implementation.” It is not clear yet when the governor is likely to constitute his cabinet. Lalong bidding his time, say sources Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State has not made a single appointment since his swearing in for a second term last month, not even his aides. Sources told The Nation that the governor is bidding his time. It was gathered that about 10 names have been suggested to him by political associates from which to pick his press aides, but up till now, he is yet to decide on who to appoint. One source said: “The Gov Lalong I know is going to base his appointments on trust. Yes, you may be a professional media person but the governor will want to verify how trustworthy you are. “The governor was disappointed by some people he trusted during the first term and , this time around, what is of paramount importance to him is trust. “The state is not lacking in good men and women, I mean technocrats and professionals, but the governor is looking for those he can trust and those with credibility. “This is his last term as governor, and he is being very careful not to bring in appointees that will embarrass government before the anti-graft agencies. The man wants to run a credible government and leave a legacy of credibility.” Other sources said the governor has told those recommending people for appointment as commissioners that he knows what he wants after having served as governor for four years already. Some of the former commissioners are said to be lobbying to be reappointed. ‘Abiodun still consulting in Ogun’ Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State is said to be still consulting with stakeholders on his cabinet. “He is consulting widely. He is working very closely with party leaders and other stakeholders on the list,” an APC source said in Abeokuta. “This of course requires patience and diligence. He is not sleeping. He is working very hard on it.” Another source said whatever delay may be experienced, is actually due to the determination of the governor to form a broad based administration as promised during the campaign. The source said: “Check out all the appointments already made, I can tell you they were all arrived at after wide consultation with and approval of major stakeholders across the state. “He is not a governor who wants to do it all alone. He recognizes the place of the party and other organs and he is allowing time and chance for them all to make input into the list. This is why it appears it is being delayed but I can assure you the final output will justify the time spent on it. There is no crisis whatsoever anywhere about it,’ he said. The Nation however learnt that the governor may send the list of his nominees to the state assembly any moment from now. According to a prominent party leader in the state and a former commissioner, following various consultations and inputs, the list may have finally been streamlined to the required number. “What we had was a pool of suggestions as the governor allowed for all stakeholders to make input. But I think the governor should send the final list to the assembly soon. He has really worked very hard and diligently to come up with the very best for the state,” the source said. Serious lobbying on in Cross River Many ex-commissioners and other Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members in Cross River State are going the extra mile to catch the attention of Governor Ben Ayade so that he might consider them for appointment as commissioners. While some show up at state functions for them to be noticed by the governor, others engage in charity activities that can give them publicity in the social and traditional media. The governor said, while flagging off of the rice wet season planting in Calabar recently, that those to be considered for appointment in his new term would be those who delivered in their polling units in the last general elections. This however does not exactly exclude those who the governor may have in mind as his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) generally did well across the state in the elections. During his first term, the governor made over 8000 appointments based on his food-on-the table policy: distribution of government funds directly to as many people as possible for the purpose of reducing poverty. But sources in the state say the policy may not be adopted this time around. “He definitely cannot even afford to employ 8, 000 people. The issue of 30, 000 minimum wage is on ground,” a source said. “The local government funds are not going to the state government as it was in the recent past. So, it is going to be difficult going with a large number of appointees and also there are projects littered all over, so he cannot attempt that. Besides, he has to take his time to get those who would enable him achieve something before he leaves office. The time for jamboree is gone and now it would be business.” Ayade also dropped a hint recently that some of the former commissioners “will come back but not in the same ministry.” He has retained Mr. Martins Orim as his Chief of Staff and appointed Mr. Godwin Nyiam as Acting Director General of the Department of Public Transportation (DOPT), and Engr. Oxford Egbe as Acting Director General of the Cross River State Development Control Agency. 