The Assistant Inspector General of Police ((AIG), Zone XI Headquarters, Osogbo, Osun State, Adeleye Oyebade, has charged officers and men to cultivate friendship with people to be able to assess sensitive information to track down criminals. Giving the charge at the commissioning of the Police Special Protection Unit (SPU) Base XI Permanent Site built by the Commanding Officer of the base, CSP, Dayo Akinbisehin at the Zone XI Headquarters in Osogbo, he maintained that one of the basic strategies by the police to flush out criminals out of the states was through active community policing. He said effective policing could only be achived when the police are informed about acitivies of criminals, adding that it has become imperative that the police must battle menace of banditry and kidnapping in the zone, comprising Osun, Ondo and Oyo states. Oyebade said: “You must remain active in our community policing strategies by cultivating informants and ensuring that Zone XI is the safest in this country. So, I am calling on officers and men to uphold professionalism, which is the core ethics of police, to be able to discharge our duties at all times. “You must always have in mind the interest of the people you are called to serve instead of constituting dangers to them. You must also be fair. Wherever you find yourself, ensure that you protect the people that you are called to serve. There should be nothing like accidental discharge. It is not a good term for us.” He enjoined his men to exhibit core values that would take the police to high level of the pedestal. He said the community policing had started yielding good results in the battle against crime and urged the officers to live up to expectations to be able to make a difference in their various responsibilities. The AIG, who commended Akinbisehin for the feat, said the facility was a proof of commitment of police to fulfil vision for the progress of the force. According to him, the facility was part of efforts to support the police to give protection to those that are in the Special Protection Unit (SPU) for them to always give their best. Osun State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Ige, commended Akinbisehin for the laudable performance. She enthused that the feat was a model for every officer to emulate. She also urged them to always endeavour to live good legacies behind anywhere they had opportunity to serve. Akinbisehin thanked the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu and the AIG, Zone XI, for “giving me this rare opportunity to contribute my own little quota towards the infrastructural development of the force through their innovative leadership.”