Beneficiaries of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) scholarship have been warned against seeing the gesture as a right, but as a privilege to help them acquire tertiary education. The Amnesty Office said being from the Niger Delta is not an automatic qualification to enjoy the benefits of the programme, as its mandate mainly covered the management of 30,000 persons captured in the database. A statement on Monday by Murphy Ganagana, media aide to Coordinator of the Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Dokubo, said the warning became necessary in view of an unruly behaviour exhibited last week by some non-beneficiaries of the Programme offered scholarship on compassionate grounds at the Gregory University in Uturu, Abia State. He was dismayed that rather than concentrating on their studies and show gratitude to Dokubo for providing them succour after they were fraudulently and illegally admitted into the university, the students, who are not bona fide beneficiaries of the scholarship, engaged in acts that breached the peace in the university. According to Ganagana, reports on the cause of the incident showed that the students were being mischievous by demanding to be granted same allowances meant for beneficiaries of the scholarship duly captured in the database, not minding the fact that they are not beneficiaries and were illegally sent to the institution through the back door. The statement reads: “We wish to clarify that there are two categories of persons in the March 2018 deployment of delegates to universities onshore for educational programmes which were illegally carried out by a former worker of the Amnesty Office. This became a subject of investigation by relevant security and anti-graft agencies. The discovery of illegal deployments followed a verification ordered by Prof. Dokubo. “It is uncharitable and irresponsible for Niger Delta youths, who are not duly captured in the database of the Amnesty Programme but offered conditional scholarship on compassionate grounds, to demand full privileges accorded genuine beneficiaries of the programme. Being from the Niger Delta is not an automatic qualification to enjoy the benefits of the programme, as its mandate mainly covers the management of 30,000 persons captured in the database of beneficiaries…     