Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday advised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Commodore Bode George, to desist from fabricating lies against its stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The party wondered why George could support the Mr. Kola Abiola’s lie that Tinubu begged the late Gen. Sani Abacha to made commissioner in Lagos State. Kola Abiola, last week provoked controversy when he insinuated that “It was after Tinubu had lost out that he decided to join hands with the National Democratic Coalition for the actualisation of June 12 mandate.” But the spokesman of the local chapter of the APC in Lagos, Joe Igbokwe, lamented that George, who he described as a failed politician, supported Kola’s tissue of lies because he lacked a sense of history. He said: “If the lie is not debunked, it could be repeated by detractors a thousand times “so that some people will not believe it as the truth.” Recalling the June 12 saga, Igbokwe, who was an anti-annulment crusader, berated the former military governor of the old Ondo State for his shortfall in historical perception. He said: “Before the annulment of June 12, 1993 presidential elections governors, senators, House of Representatives members, states’ assembly members had been in place and to all intents and purposes, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was one of the elected senators from Lagos. “Now, how can an elected senator be asking for a mere appointment as commissioner? Does it make sense to anybody who is privileged to be a sensible person? “In one breath, the story tellers said Asiwaju asked for the post of a commissioner; and in another, they told us he wanted to be deputy sole administrator of Lagos. Now, do we have anything like deputy sole administrator then? Was it in existence? Are they not liars from the pit of hell?” Igbokwe said that George’s virulent criticisms of Tinubu were in bad faith, stressing g that the retired soldier has been full of bile, hatred and jealousy. He said while Tinubu’s profile has been rising as a credible leader and crowd puller, George has been swimming in the pool of devastating electoral defeat and multiple failures. Igbokwe stressed: “We do understand the reason Chief Bode George always have this penchant to get at Asiwaju  Bola Ahmed  Tinubu at the drop of a hat and even when it is not necessary. “The gap between Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Chief Bode George in terms of political sagacity, leadership, achievements, follower ship, capacity, acceptance, credibility etc is a huge one in favour of Asiwaju. “Asiwaju has been defeating and crushing Chief Bode George in every election in Lagos for 20 years and the world knows that George has been an unhappy man for two decades. How can anyone in all honesty expect Chief Bode George to celebrate his potential political enemy? “George has found himself in a miserable political position in Nigeria in the past 20 years. Everybody knows that Asiwaju kept him in that miserable situation and only a baby will think that he will be fair to Asiwaju in anything at all. “While it is  possible for Chief Bode George to work so hard to get to Asiwaju’s level in the next 20 years, it is difficult, if not impossible, to bring Asiwaju to Bode George’s pathetic level in order to bridge the gap.” Igbokwe urged the PDP chieftain to reflect on his poor and unpleasant politics in Lagos and the Southwest in the past 20 years and amend his ways. He said: “An Igbo adage says when an old woman falls down two times on her way to the market she is bound to count what is remaining in her basket. Time has come for Chief Bode George to take stock and do a sober reflection on his political career.”