inspector-General of Police (IGP) Abubakar Adamu is excited that the governors embraced collaboration as a better way to tackle insecurity. Represented by the Deputy IG in Southwest, Mr Taiwo Lakanu, the IGP detailed what the police were doing to defeat criminals. His words: “I am particularly glad that we are now more conscious of the imperative of collaboration, the indispensability of common front to fight our common enemies who make lives miserable by their nefarious activities. “To address the security challenges in the Southwest, we have reviewed and improved on our security strategies across the country, dealing with the states according to their peculiar challenges. We have given additional PMF personnel, Intelligence Response Team, vehicles and other logistic support to Zone XI Osogbo to enable it deal with recent security challenges in some parts of Ondo, Osun and Oyo states. “I want to reassure the citizens that the Nigeria Police has emplaced frameworks that will facilitate the strengthening of Operation Puff Adder and ensure the sustenance of its gains.This includes plans directed at re-organizing and re-launching the safer Highway and Safer City Models of Policing which will entail the acquisition of new fleet of vehicles that will be deployed to dominate the public space as well as the emplacement of CCTV and other cutting-edge technologies for city surveillance. The current attempts at adopting and implementing the concept of Community Policing also represents part of enduring strategies aimed at changing the policing narratives of the country. “Since its inauguration, the outfit has made very significant achievements in the fight against kidnapping, armed robbery, banditry and other heinous crimes. We appreciate the support of the governors. Your contributions in terms of logistic support to your respective states has added impetus to security and is largely responsible for the relative peace in the states. However, there is still need for more support to enable us address our security challenges adequately. We all admit that there is a gap, and the need to find the missing link is the reason for the gathering.” The Assistant Inspector General (AIG) in charge of Zone 11 comprising Oyo, Osun and Ondo states, Mr Leye Oyebade, said security agencies were not overwhelmed by the challenges in the region. He said the kidnappers operating around Ikire and other communities on Ibadan-Ife expressway have been arrested. The police, he said, decided not to publicise their successes for security reasons, adding that he was responding to the governors’ claims that the police were overwhelmed by the level of insecurity in the country. Hailing the governors for their support, Oyebade insisted that more support, especially in the area of vehicles and technology, will further enhance the police ability to offer a more effective policing. He also spoke about policing riverine communities through which, he said, criminals escape. “We are not overwhelmed. We are going to succeed,” he said. Renowned criminologist Prof. Femi Odekunle, Olutayo Adesina, Senator Iyiola Omisore and the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) made presentations at the summit. Some members of the public also made contributions. Technical sessions will hold on Wednesday and Thursday. At the summit were traditional rulers including the Oluwo of Iwo Oba AbdulRasheed Akanbi; Olugbo of Ugbo Oba Frederick Akinruntan; the Osemawe of Ondo Oba Victor Kiladejo; Oba George Faduyile of Ikale land and Olomuo of Omuo-Ekiti Oba Omonigbehin Adedotun, among others. Also there were heads of security agencies including Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Department of State Security (DSS). Nigerian Prisons Service (NPS) and the Army. The YCE, Afenifere and Agbekoya were represented on the occasion. 