News that over 1,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) in their Taraba State camp highlighted the condition of the IDPs as well as the conditions in the camp. The number of internal refugees said to have malaria shows that the camp is also home to mosquitoes. The picture of such a large number of IDPs experiencing periodic attacks of chills and fever is troubling indeed. The camp used to be a primary school. Now it is home to internal refugees from 11 villages: Murbai, Kershaba, Yerwai Abare, Jokumbo I and II, Banibu, Jen Betel, Jaagbegh, Koko Uban, Wururoo, Yukani and Koudat. According to the camp coordinator, Mr Danlami Kwambo, the 3,149 IDPs in the camp lack potable water, food and bedding, which makes them vulnerable to various health problems. No fewer than 48 women in the Nukkai primary school camp are said to be pregnant, and four others were recently delivered of babies. An internal  refugee in the camp was quoted as saying: “Some of us have newborn babies; they are being exposed to mosquitoes. One of us has to stay awake to keep watch over the children.” It is alarming that pregnant women and infants are also exposed to the camp’s undesirable conditions. IDP camps are supposed to cushion the blow of displacement. Immediate basic needs, meaning food, water, shelter, clothing, sanitation and healthcare, should not be problematic in camps that exist to meet the needs of internal refugees. Sadly, basic needs remain problems in IDP camps. In February, for instance, IDPs at Teachers Village Camp in Maiduguri, Borno State, took to the streets to protest food shortage in their camp. The Teachers Village Camp is one of the largest, with about 20,000 displaced persons. IDPs don’t expect to experience starvation in their camps. So the protest wasn’t surprising. The protesters, mostly women and children from Baga, Kukawa and Monguno, blocked the Maiduguri-Kano Road and caused a gridlock. They complained that they had been neglected by the government. “It took the intervention of officials of the Mobile Police to bring the situation under control. The policemen dispersed the protesters when they reportedly fired canisters of tear gas at them,” a report said. According to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre, in 2018, 541,000 new displacements were recorded, 200,000 of which were caused by the Boko Haram insurgency in the North-East. The centre said: “In the Middle Belt region, competition between pastoralists and farmers has caused tensions, culminating in significant levels of violence and displacement. About 2.2 million people remained displaced due to these conflicts as of the end of the year.” It also stated: “Flooding displaces thousands of people every year. Flooding affected 80 per cent of the country last year and triggered most of the 613,000 new displacements recorded.” In Taraba State, where the large-scale malaria attack in an IDP camp was reported, 138 displacements were recorded between June 22 and 25, as a result of destroyed housing. Thirty-two houses were burnt down in an armed attack by Tiv militias in Tsondi. As the number of IDPs increases, the challenge of providing their basic needs also escalates. The authorities must address not only the conditions in IDP camps, but also the factors that create IDPs. It is likely that there are exploiters and beneficiaries of the country’s internal refugee crisis. Those who corruptly divert funds and materials meant for internal refugee camps should be apprehended and punished. IDPs are not supposed to be perpetually displaced. This means that the authorities must pursue the goal of getting them to return to their original communities, and rehabilitating them.