Operatives of the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad (RRS) have arrested two suspects alleged to specialise in snatching Uber cabs and killing the drivers. The suspects, Daniel Alagor, 28, Samuel Effiong, 25 and Emeka Okoye were arrested on Thursday morning after they tied, assaulted an Uber driver Charles Ekwomi and fled with his Toyota Camry 2006 car thinking he was dead. While Alagor and others at large were said to have tied the driver with a rope before beating him to comma and fleeing with his vehicle, Okoye and Effiong were said to have made arrangements with a buyer to dispose the vehicle Thursday morning before their arrest. The suspects, the police said, had booked a trip though Alagor’s phone around 11pm and Ekwomi picked the order. But midway to their journey, the duo with the help of one Blessing currently at large, diverted the driver with the ploy that they were going to a birthday party at Shoprite Sangotedo and have to first pick two of the friends in Abijo GRA. In his statement to the police, Ekwomi said: “I agreed to pick their friends and drop them at the venue of the party as we were already in Abijo GRA. I noticed that their friends were not at the bus stop. “They called their friends and we agreed I move into the Estate to meet them on their way. I drove about 100 meters and I didn’t encounter them. I insisted I was going no further. “They eventually came and immediately they entered the car, they tied a rope around my neck from the back. Then, all of them started punching me till I passed out. “Thinking that I was dead, they took me into the bush and dropped my body near an uncompleted building. They left beside me a knife after tying me. Thank God, I woke up later. I reported at the closest police station and eventually, I learnt RRS men have arrested them.” The suspects, according to sources, after presumably killing the UBER driver left one of them in Abijo GRA while three of them Alagor, Blessing and another suspect, whose identity police are working on, drove the car to Shoprite, Sangotedo to pick Effiong, who already negotiated with a buyer based in Fashola Estate, Lekki.
Effiong told the police that Blessing had called him around midnight on Wednesday to say he wanted to sell a car.  “He called me on phone around midnight on Wednesday to take him to the person that wants to buy the car. They picked me up in Shoprite, Sangotedo. I didn’t follow him to where they stole the vehicle. “We were close to Fashola Estate when we ran into RRS patrol vehicle. They stopped us for a check. Blessing and his friend bolted while Alagor and I were arrested. They also arrested the Emeka Okoye, alias Tallest who wanted to link us to the buyer,” said Effiong. Police said investigation to the spot the criminals dumped the driver’s body led to the recovery of further evidence including a kitchen knife, ropes and fez cap, reportedly belonging to Blessing. The operatives also recovered two locally made guns and seven live cartridges from another set of suspected robbers on Eko Bridge. Some RRS operatives had in few hours to the arrest, prevented six robbers from accessing the Lagos Island after it chased a convoy of three motorcycle riders and recovered two loaded and cocked guns from the suspects. Sources said the six suspected robbers were on motorcycles riding against traffic on Eko Bridge when they sighted RRS patrol vehicle approaching. Trying to detour, the parcel containing the loaded and cocked guns fell just as they were speeding away. The robbers escaped while the officers retrieved the guns. Commending RRS operatives for the successes, Lagos Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu directed that all suspects be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigations.