The Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai; has described as false the alleged humanitarian assistance being provided by Boko Haram terrorists to Borno and Yobe communities. Buratai made the declaration on Monday in an interaction with journalists after  he paid a courtesy visit to Governor Babagana Umara at Government House, Maiduguri on Monday. He charged communities to expose bad eggs within the communities, just like he challenged those propagating such claims to come up with facts to substantiate their claims. “The claimers must come out with facts. Like I said, these insurgents come out within the communities and carry out their clandestine activities and the people must be bold enough to fish them out for us to win this war against them. “I don’t believe that these Boko Haram terrorists are building bore holes. Where will they get the drilling machine to move around without being identified?  Where are they getting the resources.  It is just mere propaganda. “Yes they can get financial resources and probably tip some elements. But give us specifics and will know how to go about it. We will not work on propaganda.” He explained on the alleged pulling out of troops from some Borno communities. The military, according to him, was re-strategizing following recent attacks in Kukuwa, Gajiram, Kareto and Magumeri communities. His words: “Military operations are classified. We’re strategizing and I assure you that we are containing the menace to the barest minimum. “Our troops were in these communities contrary to fears expressed by the people that the military pulled out. “But then, the way we were before in these areas is not obtainable now”. He admitted that military operations cannot be carried out without loses, alleging that most of the media reports often exaggerate casualties and are not satisfied what the official figures that the military usually give them. Buratai also reacted to media report on his comments on troops’ commitment in the counter-insurgency operations. “I was wrongly quoted.  I never said in any comment that troops lack commitment. I was quoted out of context. Some of your colleagues have even went beyond that to quote me that I said troops are cowards. This is far from the truth,” Buratai explained. According to him, the comment was made at a training workshop organized to review the military operations in the country so as  to find solution to the challenges currently experienced. The COAS appealed to the media to avoid  help the insurgent hype its propaganda. 