Ahead of the 2019 Total Africa Cup of nations (AFCON), the Super Eagles goalkeeping trio of Daniel Akpeyi, Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Francis Uzoho have all enthused that Nigeria is capable of going all the way to annex the most sought-after continental silverware in Egypt. 
For the first time in history, one goalkeeper so chosen at the end of the tournament will be rewarded with the novel Best Goalkeeper prize following the ground-breaking five-year sponsorship deal between the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and international tyre manufacturer, Continental.
Last May, CAF named Continental Tyre as its official sponsor of the 2019 edition of the tournament with the extensive rights package of the sponsorship agreement extended to the next two editions of the AFCON to be staged in Cameroon and Cote d’Ivoire in 2021 and 2023 respectively.
Meanwhile, the Super Eagles’ goalkeeping musketeers share their aspiration in Egypt in a session with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Excerpts. HOW IMPORTANT IS A GOALKEEPER TO THE SUCCESS OF A TEAM IN A COMPETITION AS BIG AS THE AFCON? AKPEYI:  A team is as good as the quality of the goalkeeper and I think the  important role of a goalkeeper is seen in a situation when there are lapses in the defence.  The goalkeeper is expected to save the team and prevent the ball from going into the net because that  is the reason you’re the goalkeeper in the first place. The goalkeeper is there to offer support to the back four or back five depending on the pattern of the coach.  Currently, goalkeeper has changed to goal-player because you are part of the defence and that’s why you’ll see some as ‘sweeper goalkeeper’ or ‘playing-goalkeeper’ unlike what we used to have in the past. I have been working on myself and I’ll say the more one gets older, the more experience one has and I think these are some of the values I will be able to contribute to the success of the team (Super Eagles) at this time. EZENWA: The importance of a goalkeeper is to be there for the team at every given time; trying to pull important saves when called upon. My value to the Super Eagles is to always be at my best at every given time when I am in the goal post. UZOHO: A goalkeeper holds a very strong position in a football team; can determine how far a team goes but that doesn’t mean he can do it alone, it’s a team work. When I am on top of my game, I bring calmness and security to the team. WHAT DOES IT TAKE TO BE SUPER EAGLES NUMBER ONE CHOICE GOALKEEPER? AKPEYI: I’m not battling to be Super Eagles’ number one choice as it were. You know the goalkeeping department is a very sensitive and important one. And one can only be lucky to be given the room to gain ground and confidence in the team; at some other time other goalkeepers can also be given their chance to prove themselves. In my own situation, I may have made one or two lapses in the past that allowed the coach to give opportunity to others because he’s looking for a balance in the team. But this has also given me the room and opportunity to work on my deficiencies and it has really helped me to improve. It only brought out the positive rather than the negative side of me. The extra motivation for me is that the coach understood the dynamics of the game and he still has great confidence in me. He has watched and spoken with me times without number and the fact that he believes in me gives me enough courage. EZENWA: I will start by saying that I am grateful to God to be amongst the three goalkeepers representing our great nation. The competition is always something that gives me joy because we work very hard like brothers, trying to be there for each other and to also correct ourselves. I have to motivate myself because I know the importance of going to the AFCON. UZOHO: It’s has been a great privilege to be the first choice at Russia 2018 and that stands as an extra motivation to do better at the AFCON 2019. CAF AND CONTINENTAL TYRES WILL GIVE OUT THE BEST GOALKEEPER AWARD, HOW DOES THIS SERVE AS A MOTIVATION FOR YOU? AKPEYI: I think we have to commend CAF and Continental Tyres for considering goalkeepers for this award.  This is very important because in some instances you’ll see some goalkeepers that were outstanding in a tournament by helping their teams win particular games or winning the trophy. It is good that this kind of award will be given in Egypt and this would surely serve as motivation for all the goalkeepers to really give out their best at the AFCON; because everybody has now realised that there would be an award for the best goalkeeper at the end of the tournament. I must personally applaud CAF and the company (Continental Tyres) that came up with this particular award for the best goalkeeper at the AFCON. EZENWA: It’s a welcome development. I’m so happy to hear that, for the first time, CAF in conjunction with Continental Tyres would be giving an award to the best goalkeeper at Egypt 2019. It’s going to bring out the very best of every goalkeeper coming to this great tournament. Everyone wants to be the best in the tournament, so the competition is going to be something special. UZOHO: From my own point of view, it’s a great development that CAF and Continental Tyres are going to give an award to the best goalkeeper at the AFCON and this will be an extra motivation to all goalkeepers in the tournament. If I can win it?  We gonna take it one step at a time once the tournament starts. HOW FAR CAN THE SUPER EAGLES GO AT EGYPT 2019? AKPEYI: How far the Super Eagles can go would depend on how well we handle each of the matches. We have good players but we have to take one game at a time and see how it goes. But it would be a thing of joy for me if we can  finish the tournament as champions. EZENWA: Going far in the tournament is something that is very important to us as the players, but first we have to take it one game at a time. The most important thing is praying for luck and favour upon the team. With all these, I can see us going up to the last four in Egypt. UZOHO: I am not the type who talks so much outside the field but we the Super Eagles can achieve whatever we set our minds to.