The new government of Kwara State has agreed to ensure participation of citizens not in government in the budget process. This announcement was made at a special economic summit in Offa by the deputy governor of the state, Kayode Alabi. He was at the summit to represent the new All Progressives Congress (APC) governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. Participatory budgeting (PB) is a process of including civil society, professional groups and other non-state actors in deliberating over and reaching decision on budget proposals prepared by the state or municipal unit. Although PB has been in existence since 1988 when it was introduced in Brazil, and has since been used in parts of East and South Africa, Kwara State may be a trailblazer for Open and Participative Budgeting in Nigeria if it walks its talk. Since the advent of post-military governance, there have been demands for the democratisation of the budget process. One response to such calls until the recent announcement by the Kwara State governor has been ranged from acknowledgment of the need to move from traditional budgeting to zero-based budgeting and later to calls by government leaders for open budget. Kwara State’s commitment to participatory budgeting will be a further step towards decentralisation of budgeting and providing access to civil society and traditionally marginalised citizens to key budget documents that can demystify the budget process for non-state actors and individuals. Kwara State’s pledge to promote open budgeting can deepen democracy at the grassroots, particularly if the process of selecting the group to scrutinise annual and supplementary budgets is not restricted to political partisans, civil society and professional groups. Giving hitherto excluded demographic groups opportunities to see the connection between budget paradigms and details to their needs can enhance the potential of open budgeting. Including non-state actors who reflect the divergent interests in the state will offer a good opportunity for diverse interest groups to agree on efficient and fair allocation of resources to competing divergent needs in the state. This policy will reduce the alienation often expressed by citizens about budgets in Nigeria as designed principally to cater to the desires of the elite. For participative budgeting not to become a circus or a subtle distraction, it is necessary for Kwara State to complete each year’s budget proposals well in advance and enable citizens to have time to scrutinise such budget proposals and offer suggestions  for improvement for timely consideration of the budget by the legislature. In addition, the proposed open budget policy should include extending citizen participation to the post-budget stage. It may not be enough to allow citizens to be exposed to how governments raise and spend money.  They should also be involved in monitoring budget implementation by having opportunities to participate in in-year budget report, mid-year review, and year-end report. It may be meaningless for people who participate in approving a budget not to have a voice in whether budget promises are kept and, if not, why. Such knowledge can be of benefit to the state and citizens in deliberating on subsequent budgeting exercise while enriching financial and fiscal literacy of citizens. If an active citizen participation in the budget process is well managed in Kwara State, it may become an enviable model for other state and municipal or local government units in the country. Involving citizens who are not state actors in participating in budget deliberations can enrich the system of representative democracy and the process of accountability. Governor AbdulRazaq should consider encouraging municipal and local governments in the state to include citizens at those levels in the budget process. Such policy will enable citizens to appreciate if the priorities of the budget are in agreement with the development challenges of the state and local governments from the perspective of non-elite members of the polity.