A monarch, Oba Ebenezer Akinyemi, has thrown his weight behind the recent nullification of the appointment of 76 monarchs in Ogun State. The affected monarchs were appointed between February and May 28 by former Governor Ibikunle Amosun. The Ogun State House of Assembly led by its Speaker, Hon Suraju Ishola Adekunbi, on May 31 passed a resolution nullifying all appointments and promotions of traditional rulers in the state by the immediate past administration. Speaking with The Nation, Oba Akinyemi, who is the Eselu of Iselu in the Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State, said the sacking of the  monarchs was in the best interest of the traditional institution in the state. He, however, observed that the Assembly should have consulted well the prescribed traditional authorities on the procedure to be adopted on the matter. ‘’ The power to recommend promotion as coronet monarch or oba resides in the traditional councils and paramount rulers. The requirement is that a letter of request would have been written to the council that a community headed by a baale (village head) is in need of an oba (monarch). The council in turn would consider and recommend the request to the appropriate ministry for approval and installation. ‘’For example, in my own area, there was no letter of request to the traditional council, or prescribed traditional authority, yet the immediate past state government upgraded the baales to monarchs. That’s an embarrassment to the obaship institution. ‘’The power to recommend the upgrade of a stool has been delegated to the traditional council and that means that the state government which delegates the power should not have exercised it without first withdrawing the delegated power from the prescribed traditional leadership in the affected community.’’ Oba Akinyemi described as untrue the accusation of betrayal being peddled against Speaker Adekunbi for leading other lawmakers to sack the controversial monarchs. ‘’Speaker Adekunbi is not a betrayer. He is a good son of Yewaland and patriotic indigene of the state.