Henceforth, traffic offenders are to be tried by special courts in Lagos, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said at the weekend. According to him, the special courts would be created soon, adding that convicts will be made to serve punishment if found guilty at the point of contravention. The government would not spare anyone, irrespective of status, warning that motorists must obey traffic regulations. According to a statement by deputy chief press secretary Gboyega Akosile, the governor spoke on Sunday at an interdenominational thanksgiving Service organised by the Lagos chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) at the Deeper Life Bible Church Headquarters in Gbagada. The statement quoted the governor as saying: “We want the people to obey Lagos traffic law. We want them to understand that they are not the only road users who have right of way. If you want my government to finish well, don’t drive against the traffic. “We are working with the Acting Chief Judge of the state to set up special mobile courts that will dispense judgment on traffic offences. Any offender would be made to serve the punishment immediately, which could be in the form of compulsory community service. We are declaring zero tolerance for disobedience to traffic rules.” Sanwo-Olu said the task of realising the ‘Greater Lagos’ project would be difficult without the support of the residents. He urged Christians in the state to join hands with his administration in its efforts to create a prosperous Lagos. CAN Chairman, Apostle Alexander Bamgbola, described life as “a race”, pointing out that the governor emergence was a call to service. He urged the governor to always seek the pleasure of God before taking decisions. Observing that many leaders failed because they sought the pleasure of man and severed their connections with God, Apostle Bamgbola said a leader must be just in deciding the affairs of the society. He said: “You must run with God if you want to finish the race of life well. Run with the fear and pleasure of God. Run courageously and deliberately to win. “Run the race without worldly distractions. Run with knowledge of eternity, because all leaders will give an account of their stewardship on Judgement Day. So, therefore, you must run the race with the aim to make heaven.”