The choice of a career for the young generation can be a little tricky. Sometimes, maybe not. The choice of a career to some of the little ones has even been left at the mercy of the parents, especially in this part of the world. For some parents in Nigeria, there are career path that their kids are expected to tow. These choice stems from the unpopular opinion that some career are more rewarding, and it is accompanied with some sort of respect and prestige. Career like Law, Medicine, Banking and Engineering tops the list. The little child who has some other dream is left with no choice but to do the bidding of the parents. Things however are taking a different dimension from what it used to be. All thanks to whoever introduced “Career Day” to our schools. For the students of St. Francis Catholic Secondary School (SFCSS), Idimu, it was another time to be fired up in preparation for the future that lies ahead of them. The school founded in 1990 by a Jesuit priest, Fr. Francis Cusimano, S.J. is run by the North-West Africa Province of the Society of Jesus. Located in the serene environment of Idimu, the school is home to over 900 students, both boys and girls. For SFCSS, a career talk is usually organized annually, and it is targeted at the JSS 3 students of the institution. It is believed that at this point, the students ranging from ages 12-15 must have attained some level of maturity to decide what career path they want to tow. Therefore, the career talk is an eye opener to help them make a decision that pertains to their future. The air crews of Arik Air were part of the history making for the 2019 Career Talk Day of the school. The representatives of the airline which consisted of a Pilot, Capt. Babajie Obi, Senior Cabin Crew Members, Odeyemi Oluwole and Odinaka Okamgba and some crew members, Babatunde Benson, Ayoade Komolafe, Abidemi Opawunmi and Adebote Adeyemi were on ground to provide insights necessary with respect to the aviation industry. Also present at the talk was the Head of Communications of Arik Air, Mr. Banji Ola. The talk which started at exactly 8am had the students spell bound as they listened with rapt attention to what the representatives of the airline had to say. The session lasted for about two hours and when it was time for questions and answers, the interest of the students had been stirred up so much that the turnout of those who were thirsty for more information was beyond imagination. The able crew was equally up to the task as they meticulously provided the students answers to that which they sought. The session ended with the presentation of branded Arik Air writing materials to all students present at the talk. And two of the students present at the talk, who had shown extra interest, were given flight tickets.