ON the face of it, Nigeria qualifies to be called an emerging democracy. We just celebrated 20 years of uninterrupted civil rule with transition from government to government facilitated by elections  no matter how flawed. We have a functioning, albeit high maintenance, parliament in place and the wheels of justice keep grinding ever so slowly in the courts. Our citizens and media are relatively free to express opinion and disseminate information  even if the thin boundary between the hatred and fiction are breached with regularity. Famous American political scientist Larry Diamond says a democratic order would consist of four key elements: a political system for choosing and replacing the government through free and fair elections; the active participation of the people, as citizens, in politics and civic life; protection of the human rights of all citizens; a rule of law, in which the laws and procedures apply equally to all citizens. While on the surface a structure with the façade of a democracy exists, the temperament of those who operate it is increasingly anything but democratic. A succession of recent events suggests that what is evolving, rather than being some home-grown variant of this system of governance, is a truer reflection of our innate need to dominate others as opposed to a ‘live and let live’ outlook. Let begin with the recent elections. The European Union observer team at the polls just turned in a final report that was less than laudatory about our efforts. Everyone received flak: from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to political parties and security agencies. The report spoke of widespread intimidation and sundry attempts to game the system. It estimated that in 150 persons lost their lives in the process. Why would a process that is supposed to merely produce people who want to serve be so deadly? Yes, there are pecuniary and material advantages in an environment where public service has become the quickest route to staggering riches, but a greater reason is that no one wants to lose, or be sportsmanlike in defeat. Every election cycle is trailed by allegations of rigging because all sides are trying to outwit one another using underhand tactics. In a different environment the blatant cases of vote-buying and bald inducement of the electorate witnessed at the recent polls would land many in prison. Fifty-eight odd years after independence the same claims of malpractice that dogged First Republic electoral processes are still making headlines today as the levels of desperation rise. INEC reported this month that it had 1,689 court cases arising from the February-March elections. It budgeted N1.9 billion to fund legal fees as a slew of aggrieved candidates dragged it before the courts. Most of these cases would ultimately be tossed out of court as lacking merit. But that has never deterred the ever litigious Nigerian politician who always hopes to secure on a legal technicality, what he could not earn freely through the ballot. There’s no guarantee that those rushing to the courts would diminish in future elections. If anything, the allure of what public office offers would ensure that current numbers are eclipsed. It is this level of desperation and lack of democratic temper that produced the kind of shock that trailed former President Good luck Jonathan’s decision to concede defeat in the tense 2015 contest. Four years one there are many who still flay him for conceding. After all, whoever heard of an incumbent president ceding power so meekly in these parts? The concept of majority rule is inherent in any democratic culture but recently we’ve been seeing things turned on their heads in that unique Nigerian way. Back in 2015, the All Progressives Congress (APC) naively assumed that its majority in the National Assembly would automatically translate into its chosen candidates emerging as leaders. They got a rude shock when Bukola Saraki aligned with Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senators to install himself as Senate President. You could argue that a majority of senators elected him on inauguration day. In reality, however, he was beholden to the opposition as he couldn’t survive without their support. The minority had the whip hand over the so-called ‘majority.’ Four years spent chafing under this unorthodox arrangement had the APC leadership pulling out all stops to ensure that the majority had its way this time. But didn’t prevent the minority from trying to reprise the 2015 playbook. The upshot was the ruling party was on tenterhooks in the last three months with Senators Ali Ndume and Danjuma Goje insisting on running in a race for which official candidates had been endorsed. It was clear that their only chance of prevailing was against forging an alliance with the minority to rule over the majority. The threat of history repeating itself forced the APC’s anointed duo of Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila into a cross-country presidential style campaign for positions which they should have slipped into seamlessly going by established parliamentary traditions from around the globe. But such is the deterioration of our democratic temperament that the leadership of the PDP didn’t see anything wrong in a minority making a play for power without a mandate. So much so that the former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, again, threw his hat into the ring hoping for an encore. The absurd game of numbers is also playing out in Bauchi and Edo States where a minority of lawmakers with the obvious backing of sympathetic governors have installed Speakers under very dodgy circumstances. In Edo, nine legislators in a chamber of 24 persons chose the new helmsman. When the 15 others tried to meet elsewhere in the state capital, they were set upon by thugs and beaten to an inch of their lives. The last reports say they have fled to Abuja for refuge. Both sides are from the same APC. A similar scenario is playing out in Bauchi State where 11 members in a parliament of 31 chose a Speaker as early as 7.00am on the day. By the time the majority arrived at 8.00am and discovered they had been served a fait accompli, they promptly elected their own Speaker  setting the stage for confusion of Babelian proportions in the assembly. The drama in Edo and Bauchi is reminiscent of the days under former President Olusegun Obasanjo when five persons out of the 24-member Plateau State House of Assembly approved the ‘impeachment’ of then governor Joshua Dariye who the president was bent on removing from office. More than 12 years after that infamous power play, we are still fooling around with manoeuvres that the courts have dismissed as illegal and unconstitutional. Another recent action that leaves you questioning the democratic credentials of our politicians is the rush to sack duly elected local government chairmen. It a sin for which the APC and PDP are equally guilty. One of the first things Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, did on assumption of office was to summarily dismiss the officials. This move was replicated in Kwara by Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq  albeit with the pseudo-legal imprimatur of the state house of assembly. In Ogun State, the legislature suspended all local government administrations ostensibly to allow the governor effect some sort of probe of their activities. It used to be that governors would on a whim fire the hapless chairmen. Now, some are hiding under the argument that assemblies with the power to make laws in their states had directed them to do so. But the Supreme Court has since ruled that these state chief executives don’t have the powers they are exercising. In a December 2016 judgement it described as “executive recklessness” the act of dissolving democratically-elected local government councils in their states and replacing them with caretaker committees. The court also nullified the provisions of the laws enacted by the states’ Houses of Assembly empowering governors to carry out such dissolution and replace them with caretaker committees. More than two years after that judgment state governors are still carrying on like omnipotent, all-conquering military rulers with authority to annul mandates received from the electorate. Whatever legal grounds they were standing on to act in this way, was taken away by the December 2016 judgment. Just as the president cannot just sack a governor, any state executive removing local government chiefs illegally is skating on thin ice. The sole reason they oust these officials arbitrarily is that many governors are insecure; they cannot abide the opposition exercising power at such a strategic level. The sheer need to control power absolutely then pushes them into acting illegally  knowing full well that justice would not be served promptly. No democracy can exist and thrive without respect for the rule of law. The same governors who would at one point or the other be looking at the Supreme Court for succour, should show that they are democrats by respecting the existing judgments of the apex court. One of the greatest attributes of a democracy is the acceptance that people can differ without descending into hatred. In the last four years the tenor of public discourse has deteriorated. It is almost impossible now to have a civil political discussion without it becoming an exchange of bile and name-calling. We have become so trapped in our partisan prisons with each side uninterested in enlightenment; only bent on winning the argument. This mind-set drives people to want to win at all cost and when they lose it’s like the world has come to an end. Democrats are not all-knowing. They respect the other side who are only opponents and not necessarily foes. They understand that you win some and lose some. Today’s opposition can ascend to power tomorrow. Nigeria’s faces a myriad of troubles that require urgent solutions. We need more democrats who can reach across the divide in a bi-partisan way to resolve them. We can do with fewer of the army of flamethrowers out there.