The Lagos State Government has expended over N45 billion as accrued rights on over 11,000 retirees from the public service in the last 46 months, Director-General, Lagos State Commission (LASPEC), Mrs. Folashade Onanuga, has said. She made this known during the 16th Retirement Benefit Documentation Seminar for employees who are due to retire from the Lagos State Public Service between July and December, 2019, held at the Adeyemi-Bero Auditorium, the Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos. Mrs. Onanuga said the commission has been able to achieve this feat because the state government has been paying  accrued rights monthly since August 2015 to date, saying the state has not shirked for once in her responsibilities and commitment to regular funding of the employees’ Retirement Savings Accounts. She said: “Lagos State is the only state that is up to date in the monthly remittance of contributions, the only state that maintains monthly payment of accrued pension rights, the only state that has not reneged in the funding of the Retirement Benefit Redemption fund, the only state that is committed to the welfare of its workforce both active and retired. “Though, there are challenges of inadequate funding of pension obligations, but you will agree with me that as long as regular funds are provided, the issue of backlog will be cleared.”She added that the state  has invested heavily in ICT infrastructure to ensure pensions operations are uninterrupted. Onanuga said other innovations were also introduced to pave way for efficiency and effectiveness. “The increase in the number of Pension Fund Administrators and Annuity Service Providers from 6 to 15 and five  to  six respectively, was also to serve the pensioners  better.” She said the support for the activities of LASPEC has enabled the commission to be very efficient in its operations and this has translated into qualitative service delivery to you, our customers. “I want to say unequivocally that this pace will be maintained by the new administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu because Lagos State is known for consistency, commitment, effectiveness, efficiency and good governance and the governor is an astute establishment person having served as Commissioner in the Ministry of Establishment, Training and Pensions.” She implored the prospective retirees to make sure their documents are submitted in good time, so that they are processed. She said the seminar was organised to prepare the workers for their exit from active service after putting in many years to the development of the state. “Your transiting into another phase of life which is the evening time comes with its challenges as regards health, economy, social among others, and as a result, the importance of your being financially independent cannot be underestimated. Hence, our resolve to prepare your minds that retirement is inevitable and should be looked forward to. “I know you will be happy to ‘put down your pen’ if you are well informed of arrangement made by your employer for end of service benefits. Do not be afraid of what life out of paid employment holds. Be optimistic, prudent and contented. The payment of the accrued pension rights is critical to the early processing of your terminal benefits by your Pension Fund Administrator, and the main reason why this seminar holds bi-annually. Knowing what to do six months before retirement will go a long way to prepare you. “Start collating your documents six months before your exit. Ensure your pension records are complete i.e. your PIN details and contributions. Study and understand the benefit options available so that you can ‘take an informed decision. More importantly, there is need to maintain a safety nest whilst your pension entitlement is being processed”, she told the prospective retirees.