ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately. Water crisis in India and Cape Town; now considering towing icebergs from Antarctica at $200m and heatwaves in Europe and floods in Benue; warn our 2019-2023 Nigerian politicians to drive water development and fight water pollution and climate change -SDCs. According to Fareed Zakaria in GPS on CNN, 330m tonnes of plastic /year equal to the volume of all human beings banning plastic starting with bags and single-use plastic is good but not enough. Now the dumping grounds of plastic like Vietnam, India et cetera will not accept ships bringing plastic waste from abroad. Yes, Nigeria is banning single-use plastic bags. However, beware, African countries and Nigeria’s politicians must resist the corruption-driven temptation to make Africa the world’s next plastic dumping target. The current vile mindless violence and unprecedented poverty rate of 75% demonstrate that Nigeria is more than National Assembly, NASS, politicians passing self-enriched laws or even 20 multi-billionaires or Nigeria’s wealthy oil well ‘owners’ appropriating Nigeria’s patrimony. Nigeria is about the millions of citizens in the markets, mud huts and slums. Nigeria is in crisis and expects a serious NASS to stop ceremonial bowing and long protocol self-congratulatory name-calling of undeserved nomenclature and instead serve the citizens with rapid passage of the budget, and a cut in salaries. The poor also pray and God listens. God equates one politician to one poor person.  A redemption parliament must reverse the many selfish decisions taken by past NASS. Start by putting NASS politicians on a government scale and cutting perks by 75% because that is the correct thing to do. There is more to life than local politics. Politics must serve. Nigerians do not want much. Today Nigerians are frustrated with insecurity and their lowly lot, at a high personal cost. Already they are their own LGA providing everything for the family. Nothing comes from government except the air of Nigeria and huge bills for politics. Will 2019-2023 politicians introduce an ‘Environmental Bill 419 to regulate the Excessive Consumption of Air by Citizens’ and bill us for air consumption during jogging, dancing and even during sex!! But for politicians it is the reverse – everything comes from government-free housing, water, transport, electricity, generator fuels 24/7/x4 years and secret perks and pensions. This huge ‘cost of politics’ Nigeria’s tsunami, has a contrasting poor performance and low productivity.  The new NASS and state assembly politicians will collect undeserved millions annually for their every need except the air we breathe. How can we stop this profligacy? The people all want in improvement in the ‘Ease Of Doing Business’ not only in ‘big picture’  Abuja but in ‘small picture’ zones like their LGA neighbourhood, transport, markets, farms, schools, hospitals where uniforms and NURTW plague their lives and increase the cost of doing business. Frustration is expressed within families, in communities, in the violence we see, in the frequent women’s marches and the recent breaking of car windows at the Nigeria High Commission in London reacting to arrogant but typical poor services from diplomatic servants. It is time for AGIP, Any Government In Power, to have made its presence felt in daily life and not just in government bonds. Yes, children have school meals but governance is about 10,000 ‘small things’ that obstruct and ‘pain the people daily’. For example the checkpoint corruption should have been wiped out by sacking/suspending the supervisor- the DPO or state Commissioner of Police, CP. Simple. Suspend/sack supervisors 2-3 times to correct the system. No one wants to die for another man’s matter. All governors must start ‘Good governance of small things’ immediately by eliminating bottlenecks and potholes and improving statewide road access for ‘The Ease Of Doing Business’ access. Many states are strangled and losing business visitors because their entry, exit and other roads including railway crossings are unmanaged. Not everyone has a siren and convoy.   Negligent authorities refuse to control swarms of okadas, taxis and petty traders placing wares on the roads and sidewalks choking road access nationwide. For example in Ibadan this occurs at Ago Tailor from Abeokuta, ‘Sango railway chaos’, Polytechnic/UI Road junction, Oja’oba, Mapo, Mokola, Bodija Market and Challenge Roundabout et cetera. We want jobs, millions of paying jobs which pay a living wage regularly every month. Worldwide, economies and companies rise or fall in the stock market, based on consumer consumption. Citizens with no salaries do not consume much. Jobs do not create themselves. People create jobs. Entrepreneurship is as old as time. The private sector has existed for ever in Nigeria. Every single market, every street is full of entrepreneurs who need recognition and relief just as the new generation entrepreneurs. Governors must help IGR and local economy by moving traders, wares, wheelbarrows five feet from road edges, limit okadas to 10/team and remove them from roundabouts and junctions, removing taxies from within 50 yards of junctions, getting bigger transport -buses. We also need more alternative roads. Traffic police should be at junctions from around 6am -9 pm before the traffic builds up to when it is over. Hurray, politicians have reintroduced the subject History into the Nigerian curriculum after 15-20 years. Who killed history? Name, shame and punish them for ‘Policy Corruption’ and those who killed geography, civics and cancelled scholarships and practical science and sport and murdered the library, depriving it of book grants. Restore them all to our children between 2019 and 2023. 