The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) Director, José Graziano da Silva, has praised over 100 countries that are combating illegal fishing. This followed  their adoption of the Port State Measures Agreement (PSMA) to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. The PSMA, an international treaty brokered by FAO, took effect from  2016. At the moment, more than 100 countries have either adhered to it or are preparing to do so. ‘’Today, I see a room filled with many more delegates than two years ago,” Graziano da Silva said in an address to the Second Meeting of the Parties to the PSMA in Chile. The PSMA requires foreign vessels to be inspected at any port of call.  It strengthens rules requiring countries to control their fishing fleets and raises the cost of IUU fishing by making it harder for wrongly-caught fish to be sold. IUU fishing is estimated at 26 million tonnes yearly or about one-fifth of the global catch, and undermines efforts to ensure sustainable fisheries through effective fish stock management measures around the world. At the moment, one-third of the world’s fish stocks is being caught at biologically unsustainable levels – up threefold from the mid-1970s. “One of the main conditions of the PSMA to achieve good results is to have a large number of countries preventing vessels from landing their illegal catch.” Graziano da Silva said, adding: “Otherwise, if a vessel cannot disembark in one country, it will do so in a neighbouring country.” Graziano da Silva noted the support of the countries helping to develop global capacity to implement the PSMA. He thanked Norway for helping developing countries participate in the meeting. FAO has devoted substantial resources to boost  the success of the treaty as part of its mission to stamp out IUU fishing. At the meeting parties were also expected to discuss how a broad monitoring and review of the PSMA’s implementation, mandated for 2020, will take shape. The parties’ work is critical to the common quest to safeguard global marine resources and achieve sustainable development. IUU fishing also puts millions of livelihoods at risk and distorts markets for an important global industry as and source of nutrition. “This is an important meeting for food security at the global level,” said Jose Ramon Valente, Chile’s Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism. “From now until 2050, the world’s population will need more protein, without saturated fats, and that’s what ocean products offer,” he added.