The All Progressive Congress (APC) chairman Adams Oshiomhole surely has his faults, but he also has the courage to dare. Some say he is abrasive and rash when pushing his view. But regardless of what one says about the petit former labour leader, it is dangerous to take him for granted in any contest, where being loquacious is an added advantage. Politics is one such contest, where being bombast could be a bomb against your opponents. In the run up to the 2019 general elections, the APC chairman was up and about shredding the reputation of the opposition PDP and asking Nigerians to move unto the NEXT level. Again, as the National Assembly prepared to elect their leaders last week, the APC chairman was so upbeat about the chances of his party, that he declared all the leadership positions a no go area for the opposition. He warned that any legislator who sells any piece of the family silver would be severely punished. His warning came when there was palpable fear that the PDP could take advantage of the potential division within the APC camp, to gain one of the four coveted seats. Luckily, with President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC national leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu flexing their muscles, the party cleared the senate president and the deputy, as well as the speaker and deputy speaker of the House of Representatives. In his usual loquacious manner, the APC chairman has warned the ruling party that having gotten the legislative and executive arms in their firm control, there would be no excuses not to deliver the dividends of democracy to Nigerians. This column identifies with that warning and urge the Buhari presidency to save Nigeria before it is too late. Let the truth be told, Nigeria may not survive its present trajectory of the onslaught of globalised terrorism combined with self-induced poverty that has become a potent cataclysm for our dear country. The war in the north arising from enormous security and socio-economic challenges facing the region cannot be won with bullets alone. It requires the creation of viable alternative socio-economic programmes to absorb the teeming youths attracted to the rogue opportunities created by the insurgency and Muslim extremism in the region. If the Buhari presidency does not wish to offer excuses why it failed at the end of its tenure, then it must recalibrate its modus operandi, since time is not on its side. For instance, the list of its proposed ministers ought to be ready by now. And in choosing the ministers, competence must be the watch word, and not where you come from or the religion you practice. Part of the legacy President Buhari must work to leave behind is that he doesn’t pander to tribe and religion, as opposed to competence in making choices. He must know that because of the lop-sidedness in his appointments in the last four years, the general believe especially among his political opponents is that he is ethno-centric. While his admirers will deny that he is partial in his appointments, unfortunately the performance of his team has been less than stellar, despite their best efforts. So, he has to look beyond the confines of his narrow political environment to pick his next ministers and assistants. He should seek assistance from within and outside his party to get quality candidates to work with him to save Nigeria from going under. Like Oshiomhole said, there will be no excuses to fail this time, as the legislators are on standby to approve the list of ministers and special assistants. The only thing required of the president is to be broadminded to cast his net wide enough to catch quality persons, regardless of tribe and religion to face the onerous task of repositioning Nigeria for better. President Buhari should note that the poverty indices under his watch have been scary, perhaps because of the freeloading of the past era. But his government has had four years to lay the foundation for a Nigeria of his dream, and as some have said, since his 2015-2019 regime is now the immediate past regime of his new 2019-2023 regime, he can only blame himself and his team for any shortcomings. While that may not be entirely correct, President Buhari must realise that time is seriously running out on him, if he wants history to attribute any serious achievement to him. If Buhari’s government should end today, there will be few achievements to ascribe to his government. While no doubt he has fought off Boko Haram attacks, his achievement can be obliterated within few weeks of attacks, as the bandits can burn in a jiffy all that his government helped the region to rebuild. Moreover, without an alternative viable economy or even alternate re-evangelisation, the susceptible youths of the area would easily join a Boko Haram movement in the absence of sustainable alternative. Perhaps Buhari’s best effort is the war against corruption. In fairness to him, he has tamed the excitement about engaging in corrupt practices by public officials. Apart from the initial slur on some of his privileged kitchen cabinet members, there has not been subsequent allegation around him or his inner circle. The EFCC under his watch has also made huge recoveries and substantial convictions in the past four years. Unlike under his immediate predecessor, there are also no stories of free loading. But the problem with war on corruption in Nigeria is that no regime effectively wages it against itself. So, it is only if the successor regime doesn’t find skeletons in the cupboard after Buhari’s government, that he can beat his chest that he succeeded in that area. While taking plaudits for his efforts in that direction so far, the president must raise the transparency level of his government. For example, it should be public knowledge what every minister earns, whether as salaries, emolument or other allowances. The same should apply to all appointees in the executive arm. If President Buhari is able to rein in those directly answerable to him from corrupt practices, it will become easier to deal with the legislators who have brazenly been stealing from the public treasury. As argued on this page last week, any income by whatever name or alias that the legislators earn without the approval of the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) is unlawful earning. But the presidency would have to first remove the log in its executive eye before he can ask the legislators to clear the specks in their own eyes. Since Oshiomhole has been thumping his chest about party supremacy following APC’s victory in the contest for the leadership of National Assembly, Nigerians are waiting to see how that supremacy will influence Buhari in his next political appointments.