The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command has arrested nine suspects for their alleged involvement in “one chance operation” in various parts of the territory. Some of the suspects reportedly disguised as stranded foreign nationals to lure their victims into their act. A statement yesterday by police spokesman Anjuguri Manzah, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), gave details of how the suspects were arrested. It reads: “In furtherance with the current operation by the FCT Police Command to curb the menace of ‘one chance’ robbery/419 in the Federal Capital Territory, on May 31, at 0930 hours (9.30 a.m), operatives of the command’s Anti-One Chance Unit, following a tip-off, arrested Osita Chukwuemeka Orotu (M), 28, a notorious one chance robber, at his hideout in Angwan Cement, Kado. “Until his arrest, the suspect was on the command’s watch list for his nefarious activities. Effort is being intensified to arrest his cohorts. “Similarly, on June 13, at 1400hours (2 p.m), detectives, who were acting on a complaint, arrested two notorious fraudsters (419ners) – Uche Ugbabor and Emeka Okafor – at their hideout in Shagari Quarters, Deidei. “The suspects, who posed as stranded foreign nationals to lure and defraud their victims, belong to a notorious 419 gang that has been terrorising unsuspecting persons around Kubwa/Deidei axis.” The statement added: “In another operation, on June 15, police operatives from the Anti-One Chance Unit, who were acting on a tip-off, carried out a raid at some notorious 419/one chance robbery meeting points at Ungwan Shehu and Ungwan Cement in Karimo. “The raid led to the arrest of Uche Johnson Eze (M) 38; Ekechukwu Eze (M), 27; Solomon Ifeanyi (M), 31 and Onome Emele (M), 33, all of Ungwan Shehu, Karimo, and Sunday Agbom (M), 32, of Giri, Gwagwalada. “Also, arrested is John Idehi (M), 48, a member of the one chance/419 syndicate, who posed as a native doctor (babalawo) and custodian of the concoctions purportedly used for doubling money for their unsuspecting victims.” Items recovered from the suspects include one black KIA car with registration number (Abuja) ABC569HA, used for their operation. Manzah said the suspects will be arraigned in court when investigations intom their cases are concluded. The spokesman added that the raid on one chance robbers/fraudsters’ (419) hideouts would continue. The command urged the public to be security-conscious, vigilant and avoid using unpainted taxis. 