The call for entries for the Africa Netpreneur Prize Initiative (ANPI) will be closing on 30 June. ANPI provides African entrepreneurs platform to submit their businesses for the chance to pitch Jack Ma and win a share of the USD1 million prize at the grand finale event in November 2019. The ANPI is a flagship initiative for the Jack Ma Foundation in Africa. Jack Ma decided to create the prize after his first trip to Africa in July 2017 when he was inspired by the energy and entrepreneurial potential of the young people he met. A statement from ANPI explains that the competition is open to entrepreneurs from across all countries of Africa to apply; and from all industries, including traditional and tech. It puts a special focus on small enterprises, female entrepreneurs, and those doing work to improve local communities. “There is incredible entrepreneurial energy in Africa, and we’ve been inspired and motivated by the entries we’ve seen thus far,” said Jason Pau, Senior Advisor for International Programs, Jack Ma Foundation. “We strongly encourage every entrepreneur across Africa to use this opportunity to overcome any barriers they’ve faced and share their ideas with the continent,” the statement added. To enter the competition, each business must create three short videos – one from the founder, one from an employee, and one from a customer. Applicants must be African nationals leading mission-driven organisations and must have been operating for at least three years. The finalists will be selected by a team of judges from the five regions representing the entire continent. Global leaders Graca Machel, Chair of the Graca Machel Trust Board and Ban Ki-moon, Former UN Secretary-General and Co-chair of the Ban Ki-moon Centre for Global Citizens serve on the ANPI advisory board. The Jack Ma Foundation has teamed up with regional partners: Nailab (continental and Eastern Africa), 22 on Sloane (South Africa), Nine (West Africa), and Rise Up (North Africa) to promote the Prize in their respective regions. The partners mobilize entrepreneurs across the continent through grassroots outreach. The semi-finalists will be announced in August, with the top ten finalists travelling to the Grand Finale in November.  