What could have informed the floodgate of policy reversals since the swearing-in of newly elected governors? Could it be an act of vendetta, or a manifestation of all that went wrong with the outgoing administrations in the affected states? These are some of the searing questions agitating the minds of not a few discerning Nigerians. The nation has been awash with a surfeit of policy reversals by some outgoing state assemblies and the just sworn-in governors. From Imo to Ogun state, Gombe to Oyo state, the story has remained largely the same. Ogun state assembly set the ball rolling when in one singular sitting; it passed a bill (Nullification of Irregularities (amendment) Law, 2019) and three resolutions reversing all appointments, employments and financial agreements made by the former regime of Ibikunle Amosun between Feb. 9, and May 28, 2019.  The bill is an amendment to the one passed at the inception of Amosun’s regime reversing all irregularities by his predecessor. The legislators argued that the last minute appointments, upgrading and employment by the last administration did not follow due process, lacked merit and were lopsided. Apparently following the same trend, Imo State House of Assembly passed a motion directing the state governor, Emeka Ihedioha to suspend all board appointments including the promotion of permanent secretaries made by the last regime from March 2019. The assembly also suspended indefinitely, the 27 local government council chairmen and their councilors. Events followed the same predictable pattern in Gombe, Adamawa and Oyo states. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state reversed the promotion of all the new permanent secretaries in the state’s civil service. All transactions either contractual or in terms of promotions done between March 11, and May 28 would be properly scrutinized because of the “obvious mischief that had been introduced into governance within that period”. Governor Inuwa Yahaya also suspended all appointments, contracts and all allocations by the Gombe state government and local government councils made as from March 10, 2019. He said there were lots of irregularities perpetrated by the last administration and he would take steps to redress them and hold culprits and illegal beneficiaries accountable. There is a common thread running through all the reasons proffered by the Imo and Ogun assemblies and the governors of Oyo, Adamawa and Gombe states for these reversals. They all spoke of non adherence to due process, irregularities, lopsidedness and outright mischief. If there are elements of truth in these claims, then it will be uncharitable to accuse these state assemblies and the governors of a hidden agenda to get even with their opponents. Then also, the suggestion that the measures were acts of vendetta against the former governors would have collapsed irretrievably. This is especially so when it is realized that both the Imo assembly and its Ogun counterpart had worked very harmoniously with the former governors. The speaker of the Ogun state house of assembly is a known loyalist of the former governor and it is inconceivable that his action could stem from vendetta or an attempt to curry favor with the new administration. This point gains further traction given that such reversals are not entirely novel in the annals of Ogun state legislative business. The former governor was a beneficiary of similar reversals at the inception of his regime. What should rather be of concern is the inability of leaders to learn from history.  It is an uncanny irony that the bill reversing Amosun’s contentious promotions, appointments and upgrading was only an amendment of the earlier one with which some of the policies of his predecessor were reversed. Being a beneficiary of such reversals, he lost the moral right to input sinister motives into the action of the assembly. Even then, the assembly contends that the processes leading to such promotions, appointments and upgrading of traditional rulers were not in conformity with due process, balance and extant regulations. Why outgoing governors would relish in laying landmines for their successors is at the root of governance failures on these shores. If the former governors are accused of sowing thorns for their successors, it will be very difficult to fault. If they are accused of favoring cronies, relations and supporters by those appointments, it would also stand. Since government is a continuum, the right thing is to allow the new governors make such promotions and appointments if they deem them necessary? The mad rush to have such appointments take effect before the incoming governors settle exposes the duplicity in the entire exercise. The case of Imo state presents very startling revelations. After the defeat of his preferred candidate in the governorship election, the former governor, Rochas Okorocha went into frenzy, initiating actions in several fronts culminating in a bazaar of all manner of appointments, promotions and transactions. Not only did he hurriedly constitute the boards of some statutory commissions, agencies and parastatals, he appointed many permanent secretaries and had them sworn-in. Not done, he shocked many when he woke up one morning to announce the establishment of six new universities, four polytechnics and two colleges of education. He did not stop there but moved ferociously to have the state polytechnic relocated so as to pave way for one of his touted universities. But for the stiff opposition mounted by the host community, he would have succeeded in disorganizing academic activities in that institution given the absence of supportive infrastructure in the site it was being relocated. Okorocha made a public show of a certificate of approval for one of the universities and made so much noise about the new universities’ readiness to takeoff in the coming academic session. Surprisingly however, it did not take long before he reversed himself on those phony projects. It should not come as a surprise that some of the state assemblies have taken the lead to have such infractions reversed. Not only were such appointments motivated by outright mischief, they lacked any modicum of altruism given that they were designed to undo the new administrations. It is refreshing the affected state assemblies have been so sufficiently challenged by the anomalies that they took proactive measures to have them reversed. They stand to be commended for placing the overall interests of their constituents over and above self-serving predilections of the former governors. There has been an attempt in some quarters to impute ulterior motives into the actions of the assemblies. This is especially so given their apparent inability to rein in the former governors through their oversight functions. Even then, the assemblies in Ogun and Imo were not known to have asserted their independence from the executive in the last four years or so. Allegations of betrayal against the two state assemblies arose in the main from their inability to act as an effective check against executive excesses in consonance with the principles of separation of powers, checks and balances. It is little surprising that in the absence of the assemblies living up to their statutory duties, the governors had an unhindered latitude to a voyage on illegalities. The assemblies are therefore vicariously liable for not challenging those measures as they unfolded. Why await the exit of the governors before doing the needful? It is symptomatic of the level of decay and wrong perception of governance process that you find elected leaders transmuting to a verity of an army of occupation as they prepare to leave office. The new governors must seize the initiative by empanelling commissions of inquiry to redress all illegalities in appointments, promotions and financial transactions entered into by their predecessors after the last elections. It is refreshing governor Emeka Ihedioha has taken the lead by setting up a panel to restore sanity and order to statecraft.