Leadership of the Edo Youth Political forum Wednesday cautioned the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters, Senator Ita Enang, over what it called misleading and unguided utterances” over the Deputy Senate President slot. The Forum in a statement by Benjamin Agbohaode, President Edo Youth Political Forum, said that Enang must separate his private opinion from official business. It said that Enang should immediately withdraw his unguided utterances or be ready to explain the source of his information. According to the forum, the Radio Interview granted by Senator Enang where he allegedly made preference for Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for the post of Deputy Senate President, was a “biased opinion expressed from an uninformed position of ignorance.” It said, “Senator Ita Enang is not a serving Senator and do not have the capacity to speak for elected Senators. President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC National Chairman has not appointed Ita Enang as the spokesperson of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Therefore he should stop exceeding his boundaries in order not to overheat the polite. “President Muhammadu Buhari understood that we are in democracy and has given the senators their independence to choose their leaders. “Senator Ita Enang is speaking from both sides of his mouth because he has earlier said the president will not intervene in the Senate leadership and now he has reversed to his own vomit by expressing his preference for Ovie Omo Agege over Senator Francis Alimikhena “As an incumbent Deputy Chief whip of the Senate, Senator Francis Alimikhena is well equipped and refined for the position of Deputy Senate President and not for triviality. The group called on the elected legislators to ignore Senator Enang’s interview as he was speaking for himself. “The decision of who emerges as the next Deputy President of the Senate should be the business of the legislators and not Ita Enang. Edo State will not succumb to this cheap blackmail by Senator Ita Enang.