AN Air Peace Flight P47291 from Abuja yesterday skidded off the runway at the Port Harcourt Airport, Omagwa, while landing. The situation was due to a downpour. However, there was no casualty in the incident which occurred at 3.42 p.m. Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), confirmed the incident. Yakubu said although the Boeing 737-500 aircraft skidded off the runway, the pilot was able to control its drift. She also said that in spite of the rain, the undercarriage of the aircraft did not sink into the soil. “All passengers disembarked successfully. There was no casualty, “Yakubu said. The Chief Operating Officer of Air Peace, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Olajide, attributed the incident to the flooding of the runway. Olajide said: “We confirm that Air Peace Flight P47291 Abuja-Port Harcourt had a runway excursion upon landing at the Port Harcourt International Airport on June 22 due to downpour. ”Our professional crew quickly recovered within seconds of the incident and the aircraft was successfully normalised. “Our esteemed passengers on board the flight were calm during the incident and disembarked normally. “Our teams of experts and the authorities are currently reviewing the incident and we will give our cooperation for a thorough exercise. “We apologise to our esteemed passengers for the inconvenience caused them and wish to assure them that we will continue to prioritise their safety in all our operations.” The affected aircraft has been granted for inspection by the aviation authorities. Meanwhile, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) said the runway of Port Harcourt Airport has been cleared by the authority for normal flight operations after an Air Peace aircraft overshot it and skidded into the bush. In a statement on yesterday, FAAN spokesperson, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, said: “An Air Peace aircraft marked with registration number:  5N BRN, flying from Abuja to Port Harcourt today, skidded off the Port Harcourt International Airport runway at about 1500hours. “The incident occurred during heavy downpour at the airport.  “There were no casualties, however, as all 87 passengers and six crew members on board the flight were safely evacuated. “The runway is already being cleared by the Authority so that normal flight operations can continue.”