The Ibom Integrity and Servant Leadership Culture Initiative (IISLCI) on Sunday maintained its opposition to the appointment of ex-Akwa Ibom governor Godswill Akpabio as a minister by President Muhammadu Buhari. It said the Akwa Ibom State Working Committee (SWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which criticised its position, failed to address the allegations it made against Akpabio. Last Wednesday, Akwa Ibom APC Publicity Secretary Nkereuwem Enyongekere described IISLCI, comprising a group of activists, as faceless. Enyongekere said the group was not registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). Akpabio’s spokesman, Anietie Okon, also described the group as ‘faceless.’ He said it was unknown in the state, adding that responding to its petition ‘’would amount to according legitimacy to a faceless group.’’ But in another statement yesterday, IISLCI said making Akpabio a minister would destabilise APC. The group frowned at the APC SWC for focusing on its registration status rather than the issues it raised. “We are, however, encouraged by the fact that the said unsigned statement didn’t deny any of the issues bordering on integrity deficit that were raised in our letter”, the statement said. It urged President Buhari not to consider Akpabio because of an alleged pending corruption charge against the former Senator by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). IISLCI’s Executive Vice President  Dr. Asuquo Edidem Etim insisted that its complaint to the President echoed “the inner thoughts of many patriotic and loyal members of APC in Akwa Ibom and the Southsouth states.” It claimed that Akpabio’s “haughty attitude” and public utterances against the party and the person of the president in 2011 and 2015 general elections eroded the goodwill and sympathy the APC enjoyed in Akwa Ibom state before his defection to the party from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It said the claims it made against Akpabio in its letter to the President were verifiable. On the EFCC probe, the group cited a report in which Akpabio was quizzed by operatives of the anti-graft agency over an alleged N108 billion fraud few months after he left office, following a petition by a lawyer who is also an activist. According to Etim, the senator has not been acquitted of the allegation. On intolerance of opposing views, the group cited the arraignment of Senator John Udoedehe for alleged treason following reported violence which occurred at the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN) campaign rally in Ikot Ekpene which allegedly left scores of ACN supporters dead. It claimed that the unfortunate incident came after causing Udoedehe’s detention for weeks prior to the election in which he was Akpabio’s main opponent. Akpabio was then in the PDP. IISLCI further accused the senator of not keeping faith with the weekly executive council meeting, while he was a governor, wondering how he would keep up with the tasking schedule as a minister. It also claimed that Akpabio had a “culture of intemperate language”, which would “do more harm to the party at all levels,” if he was appointed minister. In this instance, IISLCI recalled that while at a funeral ceremony in Aguobu-Owa, Ezeagu Local Government area of Enugu State on August 21, 2018, Senator Akpabio allegedly declared that APC’s takeover of Akwa Ibom in 2019 would be as total as the 1940 invasion of Poland by the German dictator, Adolf Hitler. This statement, the group claimed, cost the APC enormous goodwill of voters in the 2019 elections. According to the group, Akpabio lacked electoral value which was required to reposition APC in Akwa Ibom. “He came into APC with no recognizable political structure or any meaningful support base of any value. It was expected that a politician of that stature would be able to at least command the loyalty and following of at least half of the members of the House of Assembly, but he came almost empty-handed. “So, when the PDP cleared all the 13 NASS seats, including his own, in Akwa Ibom, won 20 of the 21 House of Assembly seats in the state and retained the governorship of the state, it became very clear that we had actually overrated his electoral value and influence”, the statement added. The group added that based on the desire of APC members in the state to have a representative in President Buhari’s cabinet, who would enjoy the support of majority of Akwa Ibom people irrespective of political background, and for equity and fairness in a party that was emerging from a depressing electoral experience in the state, the party needed a unifying factor. Akpabio, it claimed, “does not fit into this leadership class.” 