The ghost of June 12, 1993 elections continues to loom large and we may never do enough to atone for the annulment.  It goes beyond MKO Abiola, the winner of that election and any piecemeal pacification and posthumous awards.  It was an injustice to the soul of the nation that robbed us the opportunity of the benefit and promise of good life for the ordinary Nigerian.  It was the treachery and schism of Ibrahim Babangida, the self-styled military president that birthed June 12, 1993 elections’ abortion.  Not many politically conscious Nigerians of age at the time ever trusted Babangida’s transitional programme.  While he commissioned some of his lieutenants to understudy the history of some past military leaders that perpetuated themselves and reigned supreme in their countries with the aim of self-succession, he also was selling the dummy of transitional programme and hand over of government to civilian government. He turned Nigeria into a guinea pig with his political experimentation and a promise to expel the corrupt old breed politician from further participation in politics.  His first test of five political parties was likened to five fingers of a leprous person by late Bola Ige.  In all the tests, the ghost of the corrupt old breed politicians ruled the country from their graves as they became mafia-like godfathers that partitioned and carved the country into their fiefdom till date. When he eventually imposed two political parties on the nation, the presidential candidates of the parties turned out to be his personal friends and associates who were more of businessmen than the professional hard nut Nigerian politicians.  Babangida deliberately laced the transition programme with booby trap for self-succession.  He hired some political jobbers and intellectual merchants as his ideologues who engaged members of the public with lies and deceit.  He bribed everyone that came his way because to him everybody had a price; he institutionalized corruption and destroyed the integrity of every institution. The inimitable business mogul and philanthropist, MKO Abiola became the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP).  He was an enigma who defied the Nigerian ethno-religious factors to inspire people across every spectrum in the country to vote overwhelmingly for his party.  At the end of the day, he won by a landslide across the country to the chagrin and disappointment of the evil genius himself, Babangida. The ebullient chairman of Independent Electoral Commission, Professor Humphrey Nwosu was determined to declare the result but was commandeered by the goons commissioned by Babangida to stop further announcement and collation of the results. They threw the country into chaos and anarchy reign supreme which made him to step aside. The true heroes and heroines of the June 12 election were the masses and protesters on the streets acting as foot-soldiers for democracy at the barricades. They received hot lead with their chest from the guns of the security forces who fired live bullets on peaceful protesters for the actualization of June 12 1993 elections. Whatever pact Babangida had with General Sani Abacha who became the most senior minister in the contraption called Interim National Government, the head threw in the towel and General Abacha took over as maximum ruler and unleashed mayhem on imaginary and perceived opposition to his government fighting for the actualization of June 12. The people that came together to campaign and fight for the actualization of June 12 election were not politicians but human right activists,  the radical wing of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and the Nigerian students under the umbrella of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS). People like Professors Omotoye Olorode, Idowu Awopetu, Dipo Fashina (Jingo) among others in Obafemi Awolowo University Ile Ife mobilized market men, women, and artisans to demand for the restoration of June 12 election. The Campaign for Democracy and Committee for the Defence of Human Rights among other organizations made Lagos ungovernable and mobilized nationwide in spite of the vicious method of campaign of terror employed by the government to suppress the protest. The security forces used lethal weapons including bombing of journalists and pro-democracy activists.  Some of them were hounded into underground cells in detention facilities across the country while a good number of them voted with their legs and fled abroad. In the face of the onslaught, the masses of the people remained on ground as they had nowhere else to go and of course could not afford the means of leaving the country. Today, we watch people re-write history as all manner of charlatans lay claim to the resistance and fight against the military dictatorship and restoration of democracy in Nigeria.  They are succeeding because they have the platform and control the airwaves but history will judge them harshly as they have become the new oppressors and driving the country to a breaking point.   The beneficiaries of June 12 turned out to be those who did not see any need to fight for it because to some of them, MKO Abiola was not the messiah Nigeria was waiting for.  One of the greatest beneficiaries of June 12 was Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. It was a political master stroke for President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressive Congress (APC) led government to make June 12 to be the Democracy Day.  Recognising June 12 as democracy day is just a beginning of a process to healing Nigeria’s political wounds.  It may as well have been informed by mere political calculation but there is no doubt that it has a sound foundation in our political history as against May 29.  June 12 as Democracy Day will be an empty ritual if the masterminds of the grave injustice done to the nation are left to get away with it; even in death.  When they are identified, they should be stripped off any national honour they may have conferred on themselves including monuments, roads, streets that they have named after themselves with their villainous personalities.  We do not need an oracle to tell us that Ibrahim Babangida was the arrow head; but he could not have done it alone.  He is undeserving of any national honour for sundry injustice he has done to the psyche of this nation. By the reason of the annulment of June 12 1993 election, Nigeria was robbed forever of the opportunity of re-engineering our people on a pan Nigerian route that religion and ethnicity did not constitute  rod of division as the MKO Abiola won on a Muslim-Muslim ticket.  We may never get any Nigerian politician today or in the nearest future with the élan of an MKO Abiola’s unifying personality.  Instead, we have intolerant bigots and ethnicists who are taking the country on a road to disaster by their divisive statements and actions. The soul of June 12 belongs to the ordinary Nigerian citizens who have borne the brunt of misrule and pillaging by the politicians. During the maiden June 12 celebration, the man on the street, the real Nigerian was completely left out as it was made an urban fiesta at the Eagle Square and other state capitals for select few. The true Nigerian was locked out by heavy security presence around the precinct of the venue and road blocks were erected to barricade people from the satellite towns and other arteries to Abuja city centre.  June 12 can never be actualized if we still have people who see themselves as above the law no matter whatever office they occupy.  June 12 can never be truly actualized if there is no respect for the rule of law.  When there is disobedience to court order by the government and its officials, then we have not achieved anything about June 12.  If we continue to operate on the principle of selective justice, then we have not actualized the June 12.  June 12 remains the soul of the nation and belongs to the masses of the people not for urban elite who are usurpers. 