The Lagos State Government, in collaboration with a non-government organisation (NGO), BOSKOH Lagos Health Care Mission International (HMI), has begun a free medical intervention programme. The programme, which started on August 2, is aimed at combating organ impairment and life-threatening ailments in children aged 0-12. It will hold at seven Primary Health Care Centres (PHCs). Children with visual and hearing impairments and other life-threatening ailments, which can negatively impact their capacity to study, will be screened. The Medical Officer of Health, Akerele Primary Health Centre (PHC), Dr. Rahmat Odesesan, said the exercise would increase patronage of health care services at the PHCs. “This exercise is meant to create awareness for residents, because many of them are not aware of the services the PHCs offer. “We have the health personnel available to cater for their needs. So, people should take advantage of this free exercise to access health care at the facility. “Residents will be screened and anyone in need of medical attention will be treated. “Also, those who need referral will be referred to the designated general hospitals for treatment, which will also be taken care of by the government,” she said. Services offered at the programme, Odesesan said, included: eye screening and free glasses for those in need. Others, she said, were dental checks, free laboratory tests, test for tuberculosis and general check-up. “We are encouraging residents to take advantage of this programme, because it is free. It is an opportunity for people to know their status and get treatment,” the medical officer of health said. A beneficiary, Mrs. Abosede Awolesi, said the programme was well organised and the processes were smooth. “I came very early thinking the programme might take long, but I was impressed that the doctors attended to my children promptly,” Awolesi said. A student, Miss Arinola Amodu, urged the government to make health care accessible to people at the grassroots.