As part of his unique way of celebrating Sallah festivity through making special visits to Prisons, Children Remand Homes and VVF Centre in the state, Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has facilitated the release of 200 inmates from 10 prisons as part of prerogative of mercy programme. It makes of those released under his administration to 2,717. After Eid-Prayer with the Emir of Kano, His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II, the Governor went round a few places, including the Kano Central Prison as his tradition. He stated he was at the prison to facilitate the release of some of the inmates, after advising them to be of good character during and after their jail terms. According to him: “Some of you are released because of old ages, some because of illness and some of you are released after paying the fines put on their shoulders by different courts. After we paid on their behalf, they can now go and rejoice with their families during this Sallah festive period. “After our Prerogative of Mercy Committee went thoroughly through court records of some of you, we found out it could be good and encouraging if we could pay and pardon some of you. This is what we have been doing since our coming as a government.” Comptroller of Prison, Kano, Magaji Ahmad Abdullahi, commended the governor for his immense contribution in beautifying and helping all the prisons in the state. While acknowledging five cattle and bags of rice sent to Central prison for the Sallah celebration for the inmates, the Comptroller said: “Since when your Committee on Prerogative of Mercy started discharging its responsibilities 2,517 inmates have so far been released. With another round of 200 inmates today, we are talking of 2,717 inmates in all. We are all thankful for that Sir.” All the released inmates were given N5,000 as fare to their respective residences. At the VVF Hostel  Kwali, Ganduje promised to put in place a modest skills acquisition centre to help victims become self-reliant after being discharged. The Hostel, according to the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Welfare,  Auwalu Umar Sanda, treated 825 female victims of VVF, from January . 