The Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky led Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), has explained why its leader declined medical treatment in India and returned to Nigeria. It said, contrary to the claim that, Sheikh Zakzaky outrightly refused treatment in India, the role of government in the planned treatment raised suspicion it was planning to kill him in India using its international connections. Spokesman of IMN, Ibrahim Musa in a terse statement on Friday after the return of El- Zakzaky and his wife Zeenat to Nigeria, said: “Nigerian government had an ULTERIOR MOTIVE it was nursing using its connections in India when it violated court order and interfered with the procedures of the Sheikh’s treatment.” According to IMN: “As our leader Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky has landed safely at Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport today, we wish to set the records straight in order to disabuse the minds of Nigerians from the false claims perpetrated in some sponsored stories and articles in the media concerning his aborted medical treatment in India. “However, before we do that, we vehemently condemn the way the security agents whisked him away upon arrival without allowing the multitude of journalists that were waiting for him for hours to have a chat with him. We urge the security agency holding him hostage to declare to the public where they are keeping him in the country. “It is a well-known fact that the Nigerian authorities had tried all their antics to see that the Sheikh wasn’t given a medical leave. Distrustful of the Nigerian government’s offer of a jet to take him to the destination, having survived its attempts to poison and kill him while in detention, our leader Sheikh El- Zakzaky declined the offer and chose to pay for his trip through the Emirates Airline. “Their ordeal started right here in Nigeria when they were scheduled to board the plane to Dubai. After a 2- hour drive from Kaduna to Nnamdi Azikwe international Airport in Abuja, they were not given enough time to rest before boarding the plane. “They endured an 8- hour flight to Dubai and another 3- hour flight to New Delhi. Under normal circumstances, as patients suffering life- threatening ailments they shouldn’t have been subjected to such exhaustion. “Nonetheless our leader and his wife endured the journey hoping that they will get good treatment when they reached New Delhi. “However, even though they needed rest, on arrival they were wheeled to a hospital without their personal physician that accompanied them from Nigeria. “They were then subjected to physical examination in the absence of the doctors that examined them in Nigeria and when they requested for their presence, it was turned down. “Even a physician that came from London was also denied access to them. It was at this point that Sheikh El- Zakzaky refused any attempt to have him forcefully treated. “Moreso, the hospital compromised its stance and medical ethics, as a result the Sheikh lost interest in the hospital and demanded to see his own doctors for a substitute arrangement. “It is well within every patient’s right to decide whether or not to be treated and to also decide who attends to his health. It is called ‘giving of consent’, which every sane autonomous person with capacity is entitled to. “Contrary to the Nigerian government’s press statement, that misinformed that it was against “medical ethics and standard practice,” it is in fact at the very essence of medical ethics, which every elementary medical person knows. “The interference of the government raised suspicion that it was planning to kill the Sheikh in India using its international connections. “He insisted that if he would not be allowed to see the doctors that brought him to India he would rather come back to Nigeria and seek another destination for his treatment. “This became clear because of the government’s stance insisting on other doctors than the ones that he was in India to meet. They finally decided to bring him back for refusing to succumb to be treated by their chosen doctors. “It is worth noting that the Kaduna High Court allowed the Sheikh to go to India with the government only supervising. Instead the federal government presented him to the Indian government as a dangerous suspect with an unknown ailment coming to India and demanded stringent security placed on him. There was even a report that the security agents in India subjected him to physical assault. “It is glaringly clear that the Nigerian government had an ULTERIOR MOTIVE it was nursing using its connections in India when it violated court order and interfered with the procedures of the Sheikh’s treatment. “This can also be deduced from the way the security agents whisked him away to unknown destination after arrival at Abuja International airport, without allowing him to have audience with the journalists that were waiting for his arrival. “The Islamic Movement will however continue its struggle to ensure that our leader gets the appropriate medical treatment he deserves as ordered by the Kaduna High court. “And as we continue with the struggle, we wish to reiterate our call for the federal government to comply with an earlier Abuja high court that has freed him since 2016. We believe obedience to this court order will finally solve the crisis that has been lingering since the Zaria genocide of December 2015.”