A group, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), yesterday said that the anti-corruption crusade of the Federal Government was on course. It noted that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)’s prompt action on allegations of corruption and misappropriation of resources against some former governors have affirmed that President Muhammadu Buhari has no friend or foe. The organisation in a statement by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, said recent moves by the EFCC against prominent APC members showed that justice under President Buhari, is truly blind. The group said under the administration, what matters in the fight against corruption are evidence, facts and the law, not cronyism or party membership, or how highly placed a person was,   in the society. It said: “Within the last few weeks we have seen the EFCC launch sweeping investigations into the activities of some APC stalwarts including the former Governors of Zamfara, Imo and Bauchi States. This simply means that President Buhari’s statements that the fight against corruption would be executed regardless of whose ox is gored, was not mere bark but had the bite power, in fact. “This is a strong statement to Nigerians that we have a President whose objective is to clean the Augean stable and rid it of the mess that had been left for decades. Corruption is a major issue in Nigeria, previous administrations had either turned a deaf ear and blind eye to the need to end it, or made it a witch-hunt of its enemies – real and perceived. This is not the case with President Buhari. “The President is sincere in his resolve, and that is why asides the fact that he does not interfere in the activities of the law enforcement agencies charged with the responsibilities of fighting corruption, he has provided them the needed and necessary support they need to discharge their duties effectively.” The group said Nigerians are probably not used to this kind of system where the government has not turned its anti-corruption institutions into its personal attack dogs, which was the case in previous administration.