Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki yesterday visited the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomole, at his Iyamho country home. In his Sallah message to the Muslim community, the governor had enjoined the people to eschew bitterness and work for the state. To underscore his readiness to live by example, Obaseki visited Oshiomhole and his mother, Hajia Aishetu Oshiomole, despite their differences. He thanked the Muslims for supporting his administration in its bid to transform the state. The Otaru of Auchi, Alhaji Momoh,  commended the governor for his uncommon leadership. He advised him to ignore the forces of darkness and division in Edo State. The monarch also urged Obaseki to be prayerful and defend the interest of the state. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communications,  Crusoe Osagie, said Obaseki has demonstrated exemplary leadership. He said the visit will end the rift and foster unity in Edo APC. Osagie added: “The notion that these two men are adversaries is being propagated by morally and financially insolvent people seeking to profit from it. “ You cannot blame such people really. Their talents and abilities are severely limited. So, it is in their collective interest to stoke tension and drive division, but I can tell you that they have already failed. “It is not in their interest for Edo State to peacefully progress. So, they will try to mis-categorise this visit. This is what they have always done and it’s their stock in trade”. “True leaders understand that they represent the people in whose interests they must serve. This is why His Excellency has always said that the resources of the state are for the people only, and not for a negligible minority and nothing can ever change this.” Osagie was silent on whether Obaseki will issue a new proclamation for the inauguration of the House of Assembly. But, he noted the directive of the National Assembly on the contentious issue. The media aide said: “I cannot speak on this matter as it is subjudice. But, I think the whole world knows that the Edo State House of Assembly has already been inaugurated. “No person or group of persons or institution other than the judiciary can order a state governor to do anything on a matter that is presently before courts of competent jurisdiction. “We are a nation of laws and by the special grace of God, we will be alive to witness the law run its full course.”