Ogun State Government on Monday said hard times await kidnappers in the State as it mulls sending a Bill that will attract capital punishment for kidnapping to the State House of Assembly for legislative action. Governor Dapo Abiodun who disclosed this when he received the Remo Leaque of Imams that paid him a Sallah visit at his Iperu home, described kidnapping as an economic crime that must be stopped by all means. Abiodun said most of the kidnappers were foreigners who disguise f as herdsmen, adding that it would not augur well if criminals were allowed to operate unchecked and hurt the State which is regarded as the industrial hub of the nation. “We do not want criminals to cause problems for us. The state host a lot of companies and Industries. It will augur well to hear that criminality is prevalent in our State. “I have asked that those who have were caught in the recent kidnappings in them State b brought be brought to me. I will warn them because Government will not spare anyone caught in kidnapping henceforth,” he warned. The Governor called on religious leaders to be committed at ensuring that peace and unity reign in the State, and take the issue of security seriously as it is the responsibility of everybody. The Governor acknowledged Eid El Kabir as the first religious celebration since he assumed Office, calling on adherents of different religions to live in peace with one another as they all worship the same God. He admonished the people to reflect on the lessons of Sallah, adding that “Prophet Ibrahim exhibited unparalleled and uncommon faith that has continue to resonate in our heart,” calling on the people to emulate Him in all their actions. While calling for continued support and prayers, Governor Abiodun pledged to be fair to all irrespective of political or religious affiliations. According to him, his administration would run the State according to the dictate of the law. In his sermon, the Chief Imam of Remoland, Sheik Junaid Abdukadiri, said the election of the Governor was a testimony that God is not man and that He will always be done. Prayers were said for the State, Nigeria and the success of the present administration.