The diversity as well as sheer immensity of the problem of corruption in the Nigerian public service have, once again, been brought to the forefront of our national consciousness by the Chairman of the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission (NSIWC), Chief Richard Egbule. The NSIWC boss told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), that his commission had prevented the Federal Government from being defrauded to the tune of over N400 billion by detecting and blocking illegal Duty Tour Allowances (DTA) payments. We can best imagine what immense harm this kind of horrendous fiscal haemorrhage would have further inflicted on an already prostrate economy starved of resources for development had it not been checked. But the big question is: what guarantees do we have that this discovery is not only a tip of the iceberg and that the criminal practice may still not remain rampant in the public service? Chief Egbule chronicled the many ways through which civil servants at all levels rob the country of humongous amounts of money by claiming inflated or unauthorised allowances.  According to him, “some board chairmen are in the habit of pushing the chief executives to pay what is not appropriate or authorised by government. In some of these agencies, you will find people taking salaries as well as allowances that they are not supposed to take, or taking the rate of allowances that they are not supposed to take. We have seen cases where they abuse the periodicity of payments. For instance, if somebody is supposed to get furniture allowance once every four years, they will instead pay the same amount every year”. Elaborating on how the Duty Tour Allowance, in particular, is grossly abused, Chief Egbule said “In fact, the most abused payments relates to DTA. The highest per night, which is meant for a night, is N35, 000 but in some agencies, that is not even what they pay a Level 8 officer. On their own, they will extend it even as high as N150,000 per night”. The NSIWC chairman revealed that the fraud extends even to the level of tertiary institutions across the country. In his words, “Also, you won’t believe that staff schools, which are the concern of universities and tertiary institutions, have also been abused. These universities establish primary and secondary schools, collect school fees from pupils, but place their teachers as staff of the universities that government pays. In fact, in many of them, teachers collect salaries as much as a professor. So all these things we discovered and we put a stop to it”. Even though commendable, is unveiling and stopping these illegal practices sufficient action on the part of the NSIWC? We do not think so. Further steps should have been taken to bring those indicted for such acts to justice to serve as a deterrent to others. Egbule’s explanation that his commission does not have the power to prosecute and is thus only able to report infractions to supervising ministries sounds like a lame excuse. It can surely formally draw the attention of the anti-graft agencies to such incidents to enable the latter exercise their powers of investigation and prosecution. There is no guarantee that supervising ministries of infringing agencies and officials will take any meaningful action to bring culprits to book sine they may also be complicit. What we have on our hand is clearly a case of widespread indiscipline and lack of respect for extant financial rules and regulations across the public service. It is also a reflection of the weaknesses and ineffectiveness of our auditing systems that these abuses are not routinely discovered and punished in the process of statutory auditing of the accounts of the ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs).