The Governing All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked the main opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to offer public apology to Nigerians for supporting the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in the past and playing politics with them. Reacting to weekend’s attack on former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu in Nuremberg, Germany by members of the group, National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu described the reaction of the PDP to the attack as hypocritical. Issa-Onilu said the group his under regional identity to perpetuate criminality in the region while receiving the backings of the PDP and its leaders, stressing that the attack on Ekweremadu was an affront on political dignity. The statement reads: “The All Progressives Congress (APC) strongly condemns the attack on Senator Ike Ekweremadu, immediate past Deputy Senate President and serving Senator by members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on Saturday in Nuremberg, Germany. “Those involved in the despicable actions and the organisation they represent are unworthy in character. No Nigerian should be assaulted in the manner Senator Ekweremadu was. It is an indecent action and it is below the acceptable standard of behaviour expected of our citizens whether in Nigeria or abroad. “It is however regrettable that some of the people and organizations who had offered these irresponsible elements open support in the past are raising their voices now. It would be recalled that the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its leaders chose to play politics over a matter that called for collective patriotic actions when IPOB raised a terror group in the South East. “It is clear that PDP and its other short-sighted co-travelers who were the main cheerleaders of IPOB owe this country an apology. IPOB hid under regional identity to perpetrate criminality having recruited some misguided elements and miscreants. “Are we surprised by the PDP’s hypocritical reaction to the unfortunate attack on Senator Ekweremadu? No! The PDP and their leaders have acted true to type. This is what happens when politicians become myopic and allow narrow sentiments becloud their sense of judgement. “We all have a responsibility to collectively rise against evil wherever we find it and in whatever guise it appears. We hope lessons have been learnt from this unfortunate incident.”