The resolution of Bauchi State House of Assembly’s impasse has generated fresh enthusiasm in the politics of the state, reports Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, who monitored the fears and confusion that trailed the crisis SINCE the factional Speaker of Bauchi State House of Assembly, Kawuwa Damina, and the other 16 members finally bowed to pressure and made themselves available for inauguration, the Bauchi State political atmosphere has breathed fresh air even as some observers have hailed the Femi Gbajabiamila-led House of Representatives for the role it played in the new peace in the state’s politics. It would be recalled that the Bauchi State House of Assembly was thrown into confusion and crisis on June 20th, when members-elect held parallel inaugurations leading to the emergence of two Speakers. In the curious drama, Abubakar Suleiman (Ningi, APC) was elected inside the Assembly complex by 13 Members with the Clerk presiding over the sitting, while the factional Speaker, Kawuwa Damina (Darazo, APC), was elected outside the Assembly complex by 17 Members under the symbol of a Mace with another Member-elect presiding. Following the fears and the confusion that followed the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, had set up an investigative panel which went to Bauchi and held a 3-day public hearing to unravel the issues and made some recommendations. Shortly after the panel had submitted its report, the factional Speaker, who was the immediate past Speaker, Kawuwa Damina, led the remaining 16 members to take their oath of office and oath of allegiance. The 17 members were inaugurated at a special session of the House held presided over by the Deputy Speaker, Danlami Kawule (Bauchi Central, PDP) as the Speaker, Abubakar Suleiman, was said to have travelled to Abuja that Friday. Excited Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, who was also at the Assembly complex as an observer during the special session, told newsmen after the inauguration that it was a victory for democracy and the people of the state. The governor was accompanied by his Deputy, Senator Baba Tela, the PDP Chairman, Hamza Akuyam and top government officials. He said: “Bauchi State House of Assembly has always been one and what you have witnessed is the swearing-in ceremony of the remaining members of the House who are my bosses as the Governor and in this business, Bauchi State has shown that it is the home of democracy. “This misunderstanding and the resolution, by the grace of Allah, has shown that there is no victor, there is no vanquish. Those who came now have exercised their democratic rights and of course, I am willing and ready to work with every one of them and I have no malice against them and I want to tell the Federation of Nigeria, that in Bauchi, we practice participatory democracy, democracy at its best. The Nation had reported earlier here that when the Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship candidate, Bala Muhammed, emerged as the Governor of Bauchi State in the last elections, some informed observers expressed fear over the likely effect of the development in the politics of the state. This was because Muhammed’s political party, the PDP, failed to get majority seats at the state House of Assembly. While PDP got only eight seats in the House, All Progressives Congress (APC) had majority 22 seats, a development that some analysts predicted may have set the stage for unnerving rivalry in the politics of the state between the two major parties. The recent disagreement was traced to middle of June when Muhammed suddenly postponed the inauguration of the Assembly after announcing a previous date. The All Progressives Congress (APC), which has majority in the Assembly with 22 members as against PDP’s eight, suspecting that the governor and his political party may have perfected plans to determine the principal officers of the Assembly, quickly expressed its displeasure over the development. It described it as “undemocratic, null and void.” The Acting Clerk of the Assembly, Alhaji Umar Gital, who announced the postponement in a statement issued in Bauchi, said the state government regretted the inconvenience the postponement of the inauguration might have caused invited guests. APC was not impressed by the plea. The party in a statement signed by the state secretary, Bako Hussaini, said Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution (as amended) did not empower a state governor to suspend the inauguration of an Assembly after issuing a proclamation to that effect. The party also alleged that it was part of the governor’s plan to have his way in the process of electing a Speaker and that it was this same scheme that made the governor to remove the Clerk of the Assembly a few days to the inauguration. Reacting, the Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party in the state, Hamza Akuyam, described the allegations of the APC as “false and unfounded.” The confusion and disagreement peaked when two speakers eventually emerged as two factional groups of lawmakers converged differently and elected different speakers; one from the PDP and another from the APC. Confusion, crossfire Following the emergence of the two speakers, concerned stakeholders were unable to resolve the resulting confusion. As a result, there was verbal crossfire and threats. The verbal antagonism did not end at the state level. For example, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of APC, was so angry over the development that he reportedly called for the sealing off of the Bauchi House of Assembly. The former governor of Edo State warned the Bauchi state governor to stay away from championing what he described as ‘illegality in the House.’ Warning that the Police are not expected to provide security on an illegal matter, the National Chairman of APC, called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to seal off Bauchi State’s House of Assembly over the emergence of two factional Speakers. Oshiomhole, who visited Kogi to get firsthand information of the development, while addressing APC lawmakers in Bauchi House of Assembly said President Muhammadu Buhari was briefed on the crisis in the state’s parliament. He also said he had discussions with the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed on the crisis. Oshiomhole also expressed the view that it would be impossible to have PDP members as Speaker, Deputy Speaker and other principal officers of the House. Describing such a development as invitation of trouble for the governor, Oshiomhole said, “There is no way the PDP can produce the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and other principal officers. If the governor insists, then he is inviting trouble for himself. He should have said he is vacating the Government House, until the determination of his case,” he said. He also said that if Mohammed had submitted to the rule of law, the governor would have no choice than to submit himself and the PDP in Bauchi to rule of law. As he puts it: “I assure you, on behalf of APC, that we stand by the statement we made that the purported election organised under cover with illegal use of the Nigerian Police to install a puppet against the wish of the majority of the members cannot stand and it will not stand by God’s grace.” “We will fight it to its logical conclusion and we will prevail on the police to provide enforcement for the rule of law; we are not asking for any partisan support. The parliament must be secured because that is the business of the police and security agencies to secure lives and property. The parliament is the property of the people of Bauchi State. “They must ensure it is used for the purpose for which it was built, which is for which is law making not for the governor to lock up the place,” he added. The disagreements notwithstanding, Honourable Abubakar Suleiman, who insisted that he was elected by 13 lawmakers instead of 11 as was widely reported in the media, said there is no going back on his election as Speaker. He blamed the current disagreement on what he described as over dependence on loyalty to the party. As he puts it in a recent interview, “Many of the APC lawmakers were carried away by their loyalty to the party; last time I was in Kano, where they summoned us for a meeting, the then APC leader in the state, former governor (Mohammad Abubakar), after the meeting, announced that Kawuwa and Tukur were the party’s choice for Speaker and Deputy Speaker positions respectively. “Nobody in that meeting objected to that position, all of them agreed with the decision of the former governor. Well, I believe my lone objection would not change anything there, so I played along. Surprisingly, after the Kano meeting, before I arrived Bauchi, the news making the rounds was that I have stepped down for Kawuwa as Speaker. People started calling me to register their displeasure and protest over what they heard. “My political associates and friends were inundating me with calls asking about what happened in Kano. They said they were not in support of what they heard. In fact, there were threats on my life and my family, because on my arrival in Bauchi, my supporters stormed my house in over 20 buses. They were angry over the decision reached in Kano. They said the only thing I can do not to let them down was to continue in the race of the speakership. With this I had no objection than to step up.” Stalemate Until the sudden turn around, there was stalemate when it was learnt that APC’s top leadership was highly disappointed over Abubakar Suleiman’s resolve to work with the ruling PDP against the position of the party, even as the Speaker insisted he was still a member of APC. As a result, there was even the speculation that Suleiman had concluded plans to defect to PDP. Reacting however, the lawmaker said he was yet to hear from APC leadership on the development.  He acknowledged then that his party leaders saw him as a ‘sellout,’ adding that for now; there is no communication between us as they are expressing their dismay. I wrote a letter to explain the circumstances that led to my emergence as the speaker of Bauchi State House Assembly, while asking for their forgiveness if I have erred. While tension continued to rise in the camp of APC in Bauchi over the emergence of the two speakers and things seemed to be looking up for the ruling PDP notwithstanding threats from APC, The Nation learnt that elders of Bauchi and top politicians reached out to each other to save the state from the feared political crisis. Today, with the inauguration of all the law makers and the resolution of House leadership, observers are eager to see how long the resultant peace will last.    