Centered around the Holloways, their friends and enemies and how they dealt with their individual challenges while preparing for Mopelola Holloway’s -played beautifully by Elvina Ibru- over-the-top 51st birthday party. Family, gossip, lies, infidelity, betrayal, classism and wealth were some of the prevalent themes in the movie. Written by Anthony Kehinde Joseph, one would find it difficult to believe that this movie is the directorial debut of Bolanle Austin Peters, following to production quality –great acting skills by the casts, cinematography and sound delivered in the movie. The Bling Lagosians tells the story of The Holloways, an elite Lagos family led by old-money-born Akin Holloway who runs his company to the ground and soils the family name and business with the help of his wife, as a result of their lavish spending and insatiable cravings. The story succeeded in capturing the extravagant lifestyle of Lagos’ privileged few in all their largesse and often times, pretentiousness. Winihin Jemide’s role cannot be over emphasized due to her acting prowess in the movie where she played the role of Oge Briggs, friend to Mopelola Holloway (Elvina Ibru), Dunni Fernandez (Toyin Abraham), Kiki Princewill (Bisola Aiyeola), Ngozi Gomez (Monalisa Chinda) who are all members of the 1% of the 1% of Lagos society as depicted in the movie. It was also a shock to know that it was her first time acting in a movie considering spectacular performance. As the villain of the movie, Jemide was absolutely natural and confident in her acting. She interpreted her character so well, you would not want to say ‘hello’ to her if you saw her in real life as you would still be mad at her from the movie. She understood her blockings, delivered her lines so beautifully, it felt very real. She didn’t come with a stereotypical type of acting as most rookies tend to do. She definitely will and should be every producers delight. We do hope it’s not the last of her we get to see! Another favourite is the lead actress Elvina Ibru, an embodiment of class, grace, opulence and eloquence. Ibru was beyond amazing as Mopelola Holloway. My favourite scenes of hers were at the end when she had lost it after hearing the news that they had lost their company on her birthday and the consequent reconciliation with her daughters. The part where she stormed Oge Briggs’ (Winihin Jemide’s character) office to scold her for embarrassing her at Dunni Fernandez’s Iya Oge party was also a standout scene. However, like most modern Nollywood movies, The Bling Lagosians isn’t perfect and has some loopholes in its story line. Some of the cast include Alexx Ekubo who sparkled in his role as Upper Iweka filmmaker Nnamdi, Elvina Ibru, Monalisa Chinda, Jide Kosoko, Bisola Aiyeola, Toyin Abraham, Osas Ighodaro Ajibade, Jimmy Odukoya, Gbenga Titiloye, Sharon Ooja and more. There were also a few first timers and newbies in the movie, one of which is Winihin Jemide. Also worthy of mention is comedian and Instagram sensation, Broda Shaggi whose character was a chef at the Holloway’s residence and a budding musician. I’m sure his character will actualize his artistic dreams when pigs fly. A big shout to him for cracking us up with his terrible English and funny jokes.