Festus Daumebi, a lawyer and Bayelsa Central senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last general elections, spoke with Mike Odiegwu on why former governor of Bayelsa State and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, annointed Chief David Lyon as governorship candidate for the November 16 poll. You once called on the leader of the Bayelsa APC and former Governor Timipre Sylva to join the governorship race. Are you disappointed that Sylva, who is now a minister, did not heed that call? I’m not disappointed at all. Let me applaud Chief Timipre Sylva for deciding to be a statesman that he is and has been. He has put the party’s interest and that of his state above his personl interest. As a matter of fact, Bayelsans were yearning, praying and craving for him to be the next governor, going by his antecedent and track records when he was governor of this state. There is no ministerial portfolio that you will compare to that of executive governor of a state; a viable state like Bayelsa State. If he were after his personal interest, he wouldn’t have accepted a ministral portfolio against the people’s wish for him to become the next governor of this state. So, you can see clearly that Chief Sylva is a statesman that puts the interest of the people above his interest. At this critical time of  our political development, particularly in Bayelsa State, where the PDP claims to  purportedly hold the grip, it will only be good in the interest of the nation that we have the leader of the party at the center to work with his followers back home to further strengthen the party in the state and that’s exactly what Chief Sylva has done. So, why will I be disappointed? How do you react to claims by some critics that the junior ministerial portfolio given to Sylva belittles him and Bayelsa State? I am not disappointed at all at that office. It is at the President’s prerogative to allot portfolios and if anybody is condemning Chief Sylvia for accepting a minister of state portfolio, I think the person is misguided. In fact, the minister of petroleum for state is as viable as any other first grade ministry. It is among the first grade five ministries in the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Bayelsa being a major contributor in the petroleum sector, it’s only good that a son of the soil, who is conversant with the issues, handle that portfolio. As a matter of fact, on behalf of the APC and people of Bayelsa State, I thank His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, for finding our son and our leader worthy to hold this all-important ministry and we are glad. We are not disappointed at all. In Bayelsa State, how strong is the APC? The party, as a matter of fact, is ready and more prepared than any other political party you can imagine in this state. In 2019 general elections, the performance of the party is out there in the public domain. This is a state where the temporary ruling party, the PDP, believes is a hundred percent PDP state. But, we have at present two House of Representatives’ members and a serving Senator. That is to say out of the three senators, we have one and out of the five House of Rep members, we have two. In other words, out of the eight National Assembly members we have three and they have five for now and there are matters before the tribunal that we cannot talk about. Nobody knows how those matters will go. So, that’s to say that APC is Bayelsa and Bayelsa is APC. Now, talking about the preparedness of the party in the state, the dynamics of the politics in Bayelsa has changed within the past few days, following the emergence of Chief Sylva as a minister. Sylva, who is the leader of the party in the states, holds the party so dearly to his heart. With a man he has decided to back, David Lyon, our likely candidate by the grace of God, I don’t see the chances of the PDP winning this election. With the candidate we are putting forward, PDP stands no chance. Don’t you foresee crisis within your party ahead of the election, especially after the primary? There are no crisis anywhere and there will be no crisis. It is a simple logic. For you to win an election, you must have a structure. Today if Chief Sylva is not contesting an election, whoever he decides to back and give support, will win the election because he has the structure in the states. So, where will the crisis come from. You cannot come from nowhere where people have finished building the house, you become a landlord it doesn’t happen. So, there will be no crisis in APC. All members of the party are entitled to vote as we have adopted direct primaries for Bayelsa. The party have adopted direct primary. Has the party adopted direct primary? Yes. At the state level, we have adopted direct primary where every party member is entitled to vote and we believe in the people. We know all the people. We are here every day in Bayelsa with the people. Most of these people only come in two weeks to the election; some are Port Harcourt-based. So, how can you come from nowhere two weeks to the election and expect to win a man who has been with the people? We are here with the Chief Sylva structure. Our foot soldiers are everywhere and so winning this election wouldn’t be an issue. One of the aspirants, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, supported Sylva, your principal, in 2015. Why is your camp not supporting Lokpobiri since Sylva is no longer running? Politics is a game of interest. Like I said, Lokpobiri  is an elder brother. He’s my leader. I respect him so much. But, for this purpose, for this governorship purpose, if he emerges,  if God says it is his own and he emerges as the candidate of the party, I pledge my 100 per cent support to my party man. But, before the primary, he doesn’t have my support. It’s a personal decision, before the primary my support is for David Lyon, the aspirant that is backed by Chief Sylva. Manypeople are describing your aspirant, David Lyon, as a neophyte. Do you think he has requisite experience and credentials to be governor? Let me start from credentials. Our constitution is clear. The requirements for one to become the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is a school certificate. David Lyon has a sound primary school certificate, a sound SSCE, a graduate of the University of Ibadan. He did College of Education in Port Harcourt campus. All these certificates are attached to his form that I personally purchased on his behalf and submitted. So, the issue is, if you think that he’s not qualified, what’s your definition of qualification? You can go to court. Talking about degrees, what Bayelsans want are tractors, bulldozers, working sites, action and not PhD holders and professors that will come and tell us they want to turn us today to Dubai. Tomorrow, they say it is Jerusalem and next day, they are creating a new city towards the end of their administration. That is not what Bayelsans want. David Lyon is not going to promise Bayelsa Dubai.  David Lyon wants to promise Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom, our neighbors. At least if in four years, and God grant him the grace and he gets to eight years, and he can change the state’s narrative to that of Akwa Ibom, we are good to go. We’re serious about this. So, if anybody is talking about qualifications, David Lyon is more qualified than any other persons. How do you react to the recent display of strange brotherly love between your principal, Sylva, and the Governor Seriake Dickson? I must at this point commend Governor Seriake Dickson for the brotherly love he showed at the point of the nomination and screening of our principal. That is to say a man may be bad, but not in all areas. I know that Seriake Dickson is not a good leader, but I give it to him on the role he played during that period. He showed that we can fight inside, but let us be brothers outside. The APC, for that show of love he displayed is grateful. We are very sincere people. When you do good, we give it to you and when you do bad we give it to you. Are you expecting defections, following the recent changes in the state? It has started already.  The governor’s representative in Ogbia Local Government Area and  Southern Ijaw defected to the APC recently. Let the parties primary come and go, you will be tired of publishing defections because the people know that the Restoration Government has failed and what the Restoration Government is planning is from frying  pan to fire.  How can you be a commissioner and you can’t pay your children school fees and yet there is no physical development? This is very parochial and sectional government that believes in only its immediate environment. The governor doesn’t believe in the state. Do you see Yenagoa as a state capital? So, this election is  not about the APC, it is about the individual. It is the individual candidate that the party is projecting. It is the individual that rules or governs or represents his people. So, Bayelsa has realized themselves and the mistakes we have done over the years and we are willing and prepared to correct them with our PVCs. We are going to vote based on individual. Power comes from God. David Lyon is not coming to be a governernor to enrich himself. It is not all about money. The major driving force of this team is the development of Bayelsa State. Before you develop a place, you must have interest in that place. How do you expect most of these people that are parading themselves around Bayelsa to develop the state when they don’t even stay here. We have the majority with us. We are good to go and by the grace of God David Lyon will be sworn in the next governor of Bayelsa State.  