Lagos State Government has declared its readiness to boost the capacity of Private Sector Participation (PSP) waste operators through the provision of equipment to increase their capacity with soft loans. The resolve of the state was disclosed by the Commissioner for The Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello, while addressing the management officials when he resumed at the ministry’s headquarters in Alausa, Ikeja. He said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is committed to providing capacity for the PSP operators to ensure they partner the state in removing refuse. Bello said part of the policy thrust of the present administration was to engage in waste sorting and buy back towards reducing the amount of waste generated and transported to the only functional dump site at Olusosun. He said in the coming weeks, he will meet leaders of market men, women, parks and garages on how to ensure that the parks and markets are always clean. The Environment and Water Resources commissioner said there is zero tolerance for indiscriminate dumping of refuse at markets and parks, warning that the Sanwo-Olu administration will not hesitate to shut any market or park that fails to engage the service of a PSP operator to properly dispose of its refuse. Read Also: He said with the renaming of the ministry as Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, which also includes drainage services, there would be efforts to ensure the drains were cleared all year round and refuse disposed of regularly. Bello hinted of plans by the government to revive, in conjunction with the Ogun State Government and the World Bank, a plan mooted five years ago to establish another landfill site in Ogun State, which is a contiguous state to Lagos. He said in about four to five years, the only functional landfill site in the state at Olusosun will be filled up, adding that there is need to take advantage of a neighbouring state with landmass like Ogun in preparing for any eventuality. He affirmed that the bulk of the work of the ministry would be devoted towards refuse clearing as well as ensuring a smooth running of the drainage system. According to him, uncleared refuse majorly contribute to clogging, which eventually results in flooding. Bello said there was need to open up the manholes for cleaning, to complement the clean-up of primary and secondary drainage channels; and called for the support of all workers. “All hands must be on deck to achieve a cleaner, healthier and flood free Lagos,” the commissioner said.