Lagos State Government has trained 1,000 health workers from public primary, secondary and tertiary health facilities in emerging infectious diseases. The training was held on Monday and Tuesday during a two-day Continuing Medical Education (CME) programme organised by the Ministry of Health at Alausa, Ikeja. Permanent Secretary Ministry of Health Dr. Titilayo Goncalves said CME was geared towards enhancing the state’s preparedness and response in the prevention and control of the outbreak of emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases, such as Ebola, Lassa Fever, Monkey Pox and other viral haemorrhagic diseases. She added that the training was also organised to improve competencies and relevance of workers, build robust relationship between health workers and clients as well as maintain a high level of professionalism in health service delivery. Goncalves said topics on health care, workers’ attitude, communication and coping with stress were treated. Said she: “The year 2019 State Continuing Medical Education Programme with the theme – ‘Improving Quality Health Care’, was organised for health workers to boost their capacity and enhance effective service delivery in the health sector. “The theme was carefully selected to set a landmark in providing quality health for the citizenry. I am enthusiastic about the topics because there is need for health care workers to be prepared for any emerging infectious disease, have a positive attitude and mindset towards our clients and be well equipped to be productive in the face of daily stress.” The permanent secretary said the best dividend of democracy any government could offer its citizens was the provision of quality health care, which is made available, accessible and affordable. A guest lecturer, Mr.  Akin Osibogun, a Professor of Public Health and Community Medicine at the College of Medicine, University of Lagos, who spoke on the topic: “Emerging Infectious Diseases: Role of Health Care Workers in Prevention and Control”, said health workers must ensure watchfulness over emerging diseases in order to prevent them from spreading.