The Group Managing Director/CEO United Bank for Africa (UBA), Kennedy Uzoka, has reiterated that Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SME) are a major driver of employment and growth. He spoke at the UBAmarketplace 2019 held at the sidelines of the Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship Forum in Abuja attracted over 200 guests. Uzoka and Wizkid had sat in a fireside chat themed “Suits and stars, Afropop meets high finance” where they discussed finance and the creative industry in Africa. Continuing, Uzoka said: “And so today, we are unveiling Wizkid as our brand ambassador to show our unrelenting support for SMEs and to further create a platform for them to thrive. This is a strong collaboration that will help us as an institution to propel our dream of making Africa a truly self-sufficient economy,” Uzoka noted. He said: “UBA is a bank that is interested in the growth of SMEs as well as youth empowerment and we have done many things in the past in this regard. We have partnered the Tony Elumelu Foundation to support the youths across Africa who we know are the future of our continent’s economic renaissance.” In his response, Wizkid, who sought for increased support of financial institutions for the entertainment industry, expressed his excitement with the partnership, adding that the UBA brand shares his passion to make every child and youth in Africa have the opportunity to thrive. He said: “It is my passion and my biggest dream to help the youth and to build schools around Africa, and this partnership, I believe, is a step towards that direction; UBA and Wizkid, now let’s change the world.” The bank said guests and participants were able to network, while being engaged with a series of entertainment, panel sessions, fashion, fun, comedy, relaxation and shopping. At the event, they also had the unique opportunity to meet with some of their favourite stars and celebrities. The major highlight at the marketplace was the unveiling of Africa’s international Afropop artist, Ayo Ibrahim Balogun aka Wizkid as the new brand ambassador for UBA.