The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has described the set of cabinet ministers inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday as a poor parade of “recycled foot-travelers”, many of who the party said have failed Nigerians in governance assignments. A statement by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, stated that in assembling a team made up of persons “indicted for corruption and treasury looting”, the President has demonstrated that he has nothing to offer to the nation. The President, the main opposition party added, has, through his actions, been condoning and encouraging corruption as well as perpetuating incompetence, failure and ineffectiveness in governance. The party said it was not surprise that the President had no clear-cut blueprint to rescue the nation from the economic, security and social quagmires, which the PDP accused the administration of plunging the nation into in the last four years. The statement said, “Of course, Mr President has severally demonstrated a lack of required capacity to lead a nation as complex as Nigeria, especially at this trying times. “At a ceremony where Nigerians had expected the forceful articulation of a progressive policy thrust, Mr. President bored the nation with an empty and directionless script that only evoked more despondency in our nation. “Instead of helping President Buhari to offer hope, his handlers were more interested in photo-ups and refreshments, away from serous business of governance” Describing the President’s approach to governance as contemptible, the party said he disregarded ministerial portfolios to clerical aides to his Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari. During yesterday’s inauguration, the President had instructed the newly inaugurated ministers to channel their submissions to Kyari, a directive the PDP said amounted to demotion of the ministers, “which is completely unacceptable, counter-productive and reduces governance to a domestic affair”, the party said. The PDP said it feels the pains and anguish of Nigerians, who it said, by now, would have been enjoying the benefits of the much-desired economic recovery blueprint articulated by the its candidate in the February 23 presidential election, Atiku Abubakar. “Nigerians will recall that in Atiku’s blueprint, proactive strategic policies and plans were laid out for rapid interventions in critical sectors of our national lives to address the security, economic and social problems caused by the Buhari administration and return our nation to her pride of place”. The party urged Nigerians not to lose hope but to continue in the expressed determination to retrieve Atiku Abubakar’s “stolen” presidential mandate at the court.