FOLLOWING some news reports which alleged that former Big Brother Naija housemate, Tokunbo Idowu, was pregnant and delivered a child, the reality TV star has come out to debunk the report. T-Boss as she is popularly known, made the clarification in a long Instagram post where she also slammed the bloggers responsible for the story. Labelling the posts in parts, T-Boss wrote: “I wanna use this opportunity to express my immense appreciation to Each & Everyone who took out time to send me Congratulatory messages, prayers & well-wishes on the birth of my child.” But T-Boss dismissed the reports as fake. “However, I regret to inform you that- That isn’t my child. I’m still appalled at the person who took out the time & went through all the trouble to come up with such a juicy story, and the photo they used has a really striking resemblance to me – nose & mouth if I may say so myself.” According to her, there is so much fake news on social media. “Just a few days ago I wrote how I ALWAYS learn new stuff about myself on Social media & now look at the mega one that popped up, Mi darlings, whilst SM could be fun, there’s sooo much FAKE stuff out there & truth be told it’s hard to figure out what’s real or isn’t- just have your laugh & take it with a pinch of salt, not everything you see needs to be taken seriously. “This is to the Bloggers that so hurriedly reported FAKE News, My God in Heaven aren’t y’all even Ashamed of yourselves? You didn’t confirm anything, didn’t double check nothing, didn’t As much as ask any questions but just ran with the news just to get traffic on your pages- How blooming pathetic can you be? I’m even ashamed for the people who follow y’all or believe anything y’all write. No dignity whatsoever, no respect for your name- Don’t you care about your credibility? I guess I’m the one who overthinks things but seriously y’all really need to cut the bullshit.” She then advised people not to believe everything they see on social media. “And to think that I intentionally set the trap for y’all to fall into by saying- Oops Busted & y’all fell for it is totally Hilarious. “And for the very last time I’m gonna say this- Ubi is a friend & there’s NEVER, EVER been any form of intimacy between us- Not that it’s any of your business to be honest but yes a Beautiful lady & successful man can actually be friends-This is for them idiots whose stupid brains refuse to understand. “And lastly- Getting pregnant, having a baby or starting a family is a very personal journey, kudos to those who wanna share with the world but these are terrible times, with loads of terribly angry people & let’s not forget This is Nigeria So if someone wants to keep their business Their business- there’s absolutely nothing so hard in Just letting them do them and minding your modaf**&ing business. “If you must know you’d know & if you mustn’t then- it is what it is… What did you learn from this mi darlings? Most of the content on SM is somewhat controlled to get a particular reaction from the public- DO NOT FALL for everything you see!”