Six persons were confirmed dead while 24 others, including children, sustained injuries on Friday when two commercial buses collided along Isara – Ogere stretch of the Lagos – Ibadan expressway. The accident involving a Toyota Bus with registration number ABC932XJ and Mazda bus marked FST820XD occurred when the Mazda bus veered off its lane and ploughed into the Toyota bus coming from Abuja. The Route Commander, Public Education Officer, Federal Road Safety Corps, Ogun State Command, Florence Okpe, attributed the fatal crash to “excessive speed and wrongful overtaking.” Okpe added that the Mazda bus travelling from Lagos perilously left it’s lane while overtaking another vehicle and collided with the Toyota bus coming from Abuja which was travelling on the opposite direction of the Lagos – Ibadan Expressway. She stated: “A total of 30 people were involved made up of 19 male adults, nine females adult, one male child and another female child. “The people injured in the crash were 24 comprising 16 Male Adults Female Adults, one Male Child and one Female Child. “Unfortunately the crash led to the death of six people made up of three male adults and three female adults. “The FRSC Rescue team rescued 11 injured victims to Victory Hospital Ogere, six other victims were rescued to Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OSUTH) Sagamu. “The seven other victims were rescued to Idera Hospital Sagamu for medical attention. “The corpses of the six passengers killed in the crash comprising three people made up of one male adult and two female adults were deposited at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu Mortuary. “Another set of three killed passengers comprising two male adults and a female adult were deposited at the FOS Ipara Morgue.” According to Okpe, the Sector Commander; Clement Oladele, expressed sadness over the unfortunate and avoidable reiterated the need for motorists to note that the entire stretch of the Lagos – Ibadan Expressway remains a construction zone. She advised motorists to regard construction zones , especially diversion points as areas requiring extra caution with speed not exceeding 50 kilometers per hour and also refrain from overtaking to avoid such type of unfortunate crash.