In the last three series that I have written on “Improving teachers’ image”, I have discussed what the government/training institutions/school owners, others, have to do for the teaching profession.  But this piece is about what the teacher has to do to improve him or herself for the sake of the profession. Teachers face a lot of challenges in Nigeria, some of which I detailed in the other three series, namely, poor training, poor pay, and poor teaching/learning environment.  As a result, many teachers do not give their best.  A teacher who is poorly paid and has to trek part of his way to get to school; does not have requisite facilities to work with, and has to deal with difficult learners and a heavy work load has all the reasons in the world to complain and not to be productive.  However, that will not pay such teacher. I am not saying teachers should not protest these harsh conditions and seek for a better life, by all means, we should all advocate for change in our education system.  But, regardless, the teacher has to do his/her job in such way as to stand out as a shining example of what a teacher should be.  When such teacher stands out and is noticed, he/she is in a better position to advocate for change because he would have the ears of the people that matter and can effect the change. In the course of my journalism career, I have met some of such teachers and been truly inspired by them.  There was one teacher who I wrote about before I met him.  It was his boss, Mrs Bimpe Careena, who was then Principal of Surulere Secondary School, Surulere, who told me about him during a British Council connecting classrooms programme many years ago.  She said Mr Oni was the one who heeded her call anytime she needed a teacher to train pupils for one programme or the other, run errands, do something outside his core responsibility of teaching a subject and assessing his learners.  She said others complained about the workload without extra pay and would run away at the slightest opportunity.  Well, when time came for the British Council exchange visit to London, Mrs Careena nominated Oni.  Oni went to London for the programme.  After the training, while sightseeing, someone saw him, shouted his name, and prostrated on the streets of London.  It was one of his former pupils, who was delighted to reunite with a teacher who made a difference in his life.  That pupil, connected with other alumni and they came to visit Mr Oni, coming with gifts for him and his family.  Would Oni have got such if he worked only according to how he was paid? I doubt. Another of my favourite teacher stories is that of Mrs Rose Nkemdilim Obi, the pioneer winner of the Maltina Teacher of the Year Award in 2015.  I can still remember the day she was announced winner at the Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, venue of the event.  I interviewed her husband, who said he was happy she stuck to her job as a PTA teacher at the Federal Government Girls’ College, Onitsha despite being paid peanuts as a part-time Mathematics and Chemistry teacher and yet doing the same work as full-time teachers.  Mrs Obi kept at it for almost 10 years before she was employed by the Federal Government on full-time basis.  She was driven by passion to give her best regardless.  And it eventually paid off when she won the award in 2015. The most recent inspiring teacher story I have is that of my interaction with Prof Adewale Solarin, former Director-General (DG) of the National Mathematical Centre (NMC).  I spent a precious one hour hearing how he differentiated himself as a teacher of Mathematics.  He said he had all his education in Nigeria.  A turning point in his career was when he participated in a Fellowship in Italy, as a young lecturer at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife.  There, he met scholars from other parts of the world who demonstrated such mastery of their subject in a way he did not have.  He then resolved to improve himself in every way and learn the subject to mastery level.  He said years later (before he became a professor), by the time he got a DAAD Fellowship at a German university, his reputation as a distinguished scholar was such that the university inviting him was amazed he was a black man.  And when he got there, he delivered. As a lecturer, Prof Solarin said in taking his students, he goes beyond  the Nigerian curriculum for the subject.  He tells students to study particular topics as they are taught by renowned universities of the world like Harvard, Princeton, MIT, ahead of the class.  By the time the students attend such class and share ideas, they gain so much more from the lesson. These teachers are examples that attitude, resourcefulness, hard work, dedication, and determination on the part of the individual teacher matters and can go a long way to improve the Image of the teaching profession.