National Association of Campus Journalists (NACJ), Usmanu Danfodiyo University (UDUS) chapter, has hailed the appointment of Prof Suleman Bilbis as the new Vice Chancellor of the university. Prof Bilbis took over from his Prof A.A Zuru. The student journalists advised him to ‘do things more differently and better’. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, NACJ president, Muneer Yakub, lauded the immediate past administration, urging the new man to consolidate on the achievements of the institution. “The former VC did really well as we all know, specifically in terms of maintaining the uninterrupted academic calendar and putting in place some infrastructure. As the President of NACJ, I’ll say that the new VC should continue on the legacy of his predecessor. However, he should try to do things more differently,” he said. He noted that even though the former VC did well, there are still grey areas that his successor needs to address. “Generally, the last VC did well, but we can’t score him 100 per cent because there are still things left undone, which the new VC needs to critically look into. Based on his exposure, he should try to do things differently. “For example, in terms of academics, I can’t remember the last time we had an inaugural lecture. In fact, most students will tell you that UDUS is very dull because we lack such things,” he said. Muneer also emphasised the role of campus journalists in exposing wrongs on the campus. He therefore, appealed to the school management to allow NACJ members do their work unhindered. “Well, we want the VC to allow us practice journalism the way it ought to be practised. We want freedom of expression. We want to expose wrongs that need to be fixed. The essence of journalism is to bring change to the society,” he added. He also urged the management to allow journalism to thrive without fear or threats, as well as take appropriate action when campus journalists report important issues. He admonished the new management to imbibe open-door policy and be partner NACJ.