The police in Ogun have arrested four suspected members of the gang that kidnapped three persons on Sallah Day including the son of a Chief Imam. It was gathered the suspects were apprehended Wednesday morning by operatives of the command’s Anti-kidnapping unit at Ijebu Waterside. Their victims identified as Adamson Bamidele, Adam Jelili and Sanni Azeez who were kidnapped on August 11, were rescued five days later inside the creek where they were taken to and one of the suspects arrested that day. Confirming the arrest of the four suspects on Wednesday, spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said they the Commissioner Bashir Makama gave marching orders to the squad to bring the fleeing culprits to book. Remember that the operation to rescue the victims was personally led by the Police Commissioner. Police helicopters and other intelligence arsenals were deployed to survey the creeks and smoke the suspects out of their hideout. “They were forced to release their captives when they could not stand the heat anymore. The command did not stop at reuniting the victims with their families as the anti-kidnapping unit was deployed to fish out other members of the gang. “They are being transferred to the command headquarters for further action. This is a warning to other criminal elements that there is no hiding place for them in Ogun,” he said. The police also arrested two suspects Lekan Odusote, 27, and Monday John, 22, for allegedly killing a motorcyclist in Ijebu-Ode on Tuesday. The duo was said to have killed the unidentified motorcyclist before stealing his bike which they sold for N120, 000 at Ijebu-Igbo. It was gathered that the suspects lured their victim to Ikangba in Obalende, Ijebu-Ode where they killed him, took his corpse to an uncompleted building, dug a shallow grave and buried him there. Trouble however started following their disagreement over the sharing formula which caused a heated argument between them. It was gathered that as they threw tantrums, some of the words they used made people around them suspicious and the police was notified. Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Obalande was said to have dispatched his men to the scene upon receipt of the information and the suspects were arrested. “They confessed to have lured the motorcyclist to an isolated place, killed him and took his bike which they sold. “The suspects have taken police to the uncompleted building where the victim was buried and the corpse has been recovered and taken to mortuary for post mortem examination. “The Commissioner of Police has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation and prosecution,” said Oyeyemi.