The Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) said on Thursday that the bodies of the remaining two victims of the Tuesday boat accident had been recovered. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the unfortunate incident that involved two passenger speed-boats occurred at Irewe community in Ojo, near Lagos late on Tuesday. Thirteen of the 18 passengers involved in the accident were rescued alive, while three were confirmed dead and two declared missing. LASWA General Manager Mr. Oluwadamilola Emmanuel told NAN yesterday in Lagos that the bodies of the last two victims, a young adult and a youth, were recovered at 8:30am yesterday. He condemned the reckless disregard for safety regulations by some boat operators. Emmanuel said the authority would not relent in its efforts to ensure full compliance with safety regulations by boat operators to make the waterways safe. The LASWA boss in a statement on Tuesday, said 13 people were rescued alive in the accident, three others were confirmed dead, while rescue operation for the remaining two victims had continued. He said the head-on collition, which occurred at about 6:10 pm, involved two passenger speed-boats along the creek in Ojo Local Government. Emmanuel said there were 10 passengers in the boat from Ojo jetty and eight passengers in the other from Irewe community when the accident occurred. He said the search and rescue operation was by relevant state agencies and the local community, who were the first responders. The general manager said preliminary investigations by LASWA and Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) showed that the accident was caused by reckless driving and over-speeding on the part of the boat captains. He said further investigations would be carried out by the authority and those found wanting would be sanctioned. Boat accidents have become rampant on sea routes in Lagos, Nigeria’s crowded economic hub, with the June 29 incident claiming 17 lives. The 20-passenger capacity unmarked boat with a 60? Hp engine capsized after being hit by severe waves mid-sea en route to Egbin Jetty in Ijede, Ikorodu at about 11:00pm, with only three survivors. Investigations by LASWA on the tragedy revealed that the accident was caused by poor visibility and the fact that the passengers had no life jackets. Also, on February 2, three people died and 17 others were rescued, as a passenger boat capsized at Bayeku area of Ikorodu.