Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq yesterday urged the people to support his push for reforms. He said the 2019 polls have led to a paradigm shift, adding that the people voted for development and prudence, instead of waste and underdevelopment. Speaking at the 2nd Annual Grand Durbar ceremony organised by the Ilorin Emirate Council in Ilorin, the state capital, AbdulRazaq advised the people to refrain from behaviours that could stall progress. He was represented by his deputy, Kayode Alabi. The governor commended the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Kolapo Sulu Gambari, and the Ilorin Emirate Council for the historical cultural event. He said: “We must embrace reforms, which are often tough at the beginning. We must make tough choices in our decision to move our state forward. “I have made my personal decision along this line. I will not use public funds to enjoy or gratify myself at the expense of the people. Public resources will only be applied strictly to public projects and overheads approved and budgeted for. “We will not entertain excesses of any sort. With the people’s interest as the guiding principle, we will do things differently and purposefully to get more impactful results. “I appeal to our people to unite behind this agenda for the progress of our community and generations yet unborn. Anything short of this will keep us moving in a circle and that would defeat the purpose of our people standing in the sun to vote the way they did.” AbdulRazaq reiterated his resolve to institutionalise the cultural activities in the state to boost tourism and economic growth,. He described the Durbar as the heritage of Ilorin people and a testament to the bravery and valour of their forebears, especially the royal lineage of Sheikh Alimi. The governor said prudent management of resources was necessary to drive growth. He added: “Let me clarify this too. Kwara is immensely blessed with abundant natural and human resources, as the quality of attendance at this Durbar shows. “Kwara is, however, not so rich in monetary terms.  But, that was not the reason for the slow development. The problem was that the little resources Kwara had was not going into building sustainable future. This is what we need to change, this is what we are changing, and that requires the support of all of you.” The Emir thanked the guests for their attendance and gave a chieftaincy title of Danmazani of Ilorin to the Durbar Committee Chairman, Suleiman Yahaya Alapansanpa. The Grand Durbar was attended by prominent guests, sons and daughters of Ilorin from across the country and beyond. They included Senator Ibrahim Yahya Oloriegbe; Chief of Staff Alh Adisa Logun; Olusin of Isanl-Isin, Oba Solomon Oloyede; Alhaji Jani Ibrahim, Moshood Mustapha; Lukman Mustapha; Mallam Olaolu Ali (SAN); former Vice Chancellors of University of Ilorin, Professors Shuaib Oba Abdulraheem and Abduganiyu Ambali; and Mallam Soliu Mustapha.