ONCE again, a Nigerian intellectual has achieved global pre-eminence in spite of the constraints and challenges which stymie effectiveness in her home country. Dr. Tongdiyen Laura Jasper, a public health physician, has won a grant for research into paediatric HIV/AIDS awarded by the International AIDS Society initiative of the Collaborative Initiative for Pediatric HIV Education and Research (CIPHER). She was among the 150 shortlisted from over 1,000 proposals from across the world, and is the only African to be among the four proposals that were eventually accepted. The two-year grant will offer up to US $150,000 to enable Dr. Jasper to develop a structured programme of anti-retroviral treatment (ART) for Nigerian children living with HIV/AIDS. She will examine the ways in which ART adherence is facilitated and obstructed, measure the impact of caregiver and peer support, set up a culturally-relevant training curriculum and intervention programme, and promote ART strategies among children. The project will start in October this year. This research is critically important to the ongoing fight against HIV/AIDS. Even though attitudes have undergone substantial change since the first cases emerged in Nigeria in 1985, efforts to properly combat the condition are still characterised by widespread ignorance, stigmatisation and denial. With 0.2 per cent of an estimated 3.1 million People Living With HIV/AIDS being children between 0 and 14 years of age, Nigeria has the second-highest number of children living with HIV/AIDS on the continent behind South Africa. About 37,000 of the 160,000 new cases of babies born with the virus in 2016 came from Nigeria, compared to South Africa’s 12,000. As at 2017, only 26 per cent of Nigerian children were on ART. An estimated 30 per cent of all new infections in West and Central Africa in 2017 came from Nigeria. Many Nigerians are unaware of their HIV/AIDS status, and there are not enough counselling and testing sites to assist the relative few who bother to check. Globally, AIDS-related mortality rates among children have risen by 50 per cent, compared to a 30 per cent decline in other groups. It is significant that Dr. Jasper’s research grant is coming from a foreign non-governmental organisation (NGO). Much of the anti-HIV/AIDS programme in Nigeria is being driven by the United States government under its President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) initiative, as well as the Global Fund. While such assistance is genuinely appreciated, it is vital for Nigeria to take greater responsibility for anti-HIV/AIDS treatment within its own borders. If this is not done, the possibility of becoming hostage to the agendas of outsiders cannot be ignored. Nigeria must be able to fund its own research into HIV/AIDS control and management, thereby ensuring that it can independently set its own priorities, establish its own goals and targets, and develop culturally and socially relevant treatment regimens that are more likely to result in changed attitudes, increased cooperation and greater empathy in the citizenry. Increased independence will, however, rely heavily upon greater transparency in the local agencies and parastatals entrusted with the fight against HIV/AIDS. The country’s anti-HIV/AIDS programme has been tainted by several corruption scandals in the recent past. In 2005, over $6.2 million in Global Fund donations could not be accounted for by the Country’s Coordinating Mechanism (CCM) headed by a Federal Ministry of Health official. A 2016 audit revealed significant discrepancies in the financial, procurement and supply-chain management systems of the National Agency for Control of AIDS (NACA). If the sterling efforts of committed individuals like Dr. Jasper are not to go to waste, Nigeria must improve its local capability to combat HIV/AIDS, and ensure that transparency and accountability are not sacrificed.