Leading Experiential Design firm, The Creative Counsel (TCC) Nigeria, part of The Insight Redefini Group, has set the pace for the revolution of the experiential space as it held its inaugural Experiential Design Summit tagged #FutureNow. Tagged, ‘Experiential Design in the Age of Artificial Intelligence and Augmented Reality,’ it brought together various marketing experts and communications specialists across sectors such as Financial, ICT, eCommerce, FMCG, and Entertainment, in an effort to foster conversations around machine learning and data mining highlighted in new age technology and the transformation of consumer behaviours. In his opening remarks, Dr. Ken Onyeali Ikpe, Group Chief Executive Officer, Insight Redefini, recalled the partnership of the group with Global marketing communications firm, Publicis Groupe in 2016 which caused a huge shift within the Nigerian marketing and communications space, emphasising that the birth of TCC was to change the landscape of activations, engagements, and customer experiences that can be uniquely measured and managed. Mr. Jimi Awosika, Vice Chairman, Troyka Holdings, at the event opined that brand managers need to be more open minded, taking off existing industrial age thinking to become post digital age managers. Also speaking at the Summit, the convener, Mr. Joshua Akinbanjo, Chief Operating Officer, The Creative Counsel Nigeria, posited that “TCC is in the business of the show for which the metrics of success are instant and feasible.” He noted that the Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of IoT market is projected to grow to 15% with a value of about $581 billion for ICT-based spend by 2020, stressing that only ambitious and discerning brands leaders with ambition to drive category leadership will adapt technology to drive consumer connections in order to improve volume and value for profits.” The panellists and moderators at the event include Okenla Christiana, AGM, Customer Experience and Advocacy, ipNX Nigeria Limited; Oyebowale Akideinde, Entertainment and Tech Executive; Mayowa Adebayo, Chief Marketing Officer and Consultant, Wakanow; Dr. Omotola Elatuyi, Marketing Manager, Innovations, Guinness Nigeria; Bosah Madueke, Augmented Reality Developer; Agbons Igiewe; General Manager, Ziza Digital; Lead Consultant, Quadrant MSL, Anurika Azubuike; and Lekan Babalola, Head of Business Operations, TCC Nigeria.