Boxing is a passionate sport in Nigeria. It is one sport people love, and they actually practice. Nigerians still remember Bash Ali and his exploits in the early 2000s but the country, blessed with various potentials, still have some persons who are excellent but did not fight for the country. The Nation looks at a few of them, and their exploits for their “adopted” lands: · David Dejiro Defiagbon  Nicknamed “The Dream”, Defiagbon fought for Canada and won the heavyweight silver medal at the 1996 Summer Olympics. Born in Sapele, Nigeria, Defiagbon won gold in the welterweight (– 67 kg) at the 1990 Commonwealth Games. As a light-middleweight, he won a bronze medal in the 1991 All-Africa Games in Cairo. In 1992 in Barcelona at the Summer Olympics he represented Nigeria and was eliminated in the first round of the light middleweight division (7 to 8 against Raúl Márquez). He went on to fight for Canada for whom he won the heavyweight silver medal (limit 201 lbs) at the 1996 Summer Olympics beating Nate Jones, losing to Félix Savón. · Anthony Joshua  Anthony Oluwafemi Joshua is not the only Nigerian-born world heavyweight boxing champion to have represented another country. Joshua’s Nigerian background can be specifically traced back to Ijebu-Ode in Ogun State. He is a former unified world heavyweight champion having held the WBA (Super), IBF and WBO titles between 2016 and 2019. AJ, as he is popularly called, represented England at the 2011 World Championships as an amateur in the super-heavyweight division, winning a silver medal. He also represented Great Britain at the 2012 Olympics, winning gold. In 2017, his victorious fight against Wladimir Klitschko was named Fight of the Year by The Ring and the Boxing Writers Association of America. · Henry Akinwande  Henry Akinwande was born of Nigerian parents in London, England and started his career as an Amateur boxer. He represented Great Britain in the heavyweight division at the 1988 Olympic Games in Seoul, South Korea. Akinwande made his professional debut in 1989 against Carlton Headley in London and impressively claimed victory in his first 18 bouts. He has total fights of 55, he won 50 (30 KO), lost 4 and Drew 1. · Herbert Okechukwu Maduagwu (Herbie Hide)  Okechukwu is a former professional boxer who fought for England. He held the WBO heavyweight title twice. He is best known for his victories over Michael Bentt and Tony Tucker. Herbert was born on 27th August 1971 to Nigerian parents in Amauzari, Imo State in Nigeria but he moved to England as a young boy. He has fought for most of his career at heavyweight but later decided to take a step down to cruiserweight. He is known as The Dancing Destroyer and has had a successful career, rising to domestic success at a very young age for a heavyweight. Hide has twice won the lesser regarded (at the time) WBO heavyweight title. His career began in 1989 with a second round win and he racked up a total of 25 successive wins, all but one inside the distance. His level of opposition was respectable and included fighters such as Jeff Lampkin and James Pritchard. At 25-0 (24 KOs), Hide challenged Michael Bentt for the WBO heavyweight title in March 1994 at Millwall Football Stadium, Millwall, London. The inexperienced Bentt had won the title by knocking out the heavily favoured Tommy Morrison in one round. The fight made headlines after the two boxers scuffled and threw punches at a pre-fight meeting, whilst in the bout itself, Hide outboxed and knocked out Bentt in 7 rounds (who was then hospitalised and never fought again). A year later, Hide defended his title against former undisputed champion Riddick Bowe. Hide impressed with his courage, repeatedly picking himself off the canvas, before he was knocked out in the sixth round. After his loss to Bowe, Hide fought twice in 1996, winning both by KO against Michael Murray and Frankie Swindell before earning another shot at the now-vacant WBO title in June 1997 against 38-year-old one-time IBF title holder Tony Tucker, despite Tucker losing three of his previous five fights. Hide knocked out the overweight Tucker in two rounds. Hide defended his WBO title twice in 1998 with quick stoppages of late replacement cruiserweight club fighter Damon Reed and German Willi Fischer. In June 1999, Hide faced Ukrainian Vitali Klitschko, only the second world ranked fighter he had actually faced after Riddick Bowe. Hide, favoured to win at the time, was knocked out in two rounds. Hide never featured as a main contender at heavyweight again, his only mildly notable wins coming against Joseph Chingangu (who also knocked Hide out in one of Hide’s many comebacks) and Alexander Vasiliev. In 2006, Hide stepped down a weight division to a more natural weight division at cruiserweight. Since then he has won fourteen successive fights, most of which took place in Germany. Hide defeated Mikhail Nasyrov in December 2007 to win the WBC International cruiserweight title. His total fights was 53, won 49(43 KO) and lost 4. · Ikemefuna Ibeabuchi  Charles Ikemefula Ibeabuchi was clearly one of the best boxers with Nigerian heritage but his career has been enmeshed with crime and controversy. Perhaps Ibeabuchi nicknamed ‘The President’ would have been better off as a military officer in the Nigerian army, a career he wanted to take up until he watched a heavyweight fight between James ‘Busta’ Douglas and Mike Tyson which the former won by a knockout in 1990. That fight was the inspiration he needed to launch a career in the rings first as an amateur fighter before the leap to professional boxing. Of note was his victory at amateur category over fellow Nigeria’s Duncan Dokiwari who won bronze at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. Ibeabuchi emigrated to United States and moved to the Dallas area with his mother in 1993 and made his professional debut at heavyweight with a second round knockout of Ismael Garcia on October 13, 1994. After winning 16 straight fights from the start of his career, he made a big jump in competition and fought undefeated prospect David Tua for the WBC International Heavyweight title on June 7, 1997. Tua was 27-0 and considered by many analysts to be ‘the next Mike Tyson’. But Ibeabuchi defeated Tua in one of the fiercest heavyweight bouts in history. His total fights was 20, won 20 (15 KO) and lost 0.