The police in Ondo state on Thursday said it has begun investigation to unravel how a woman tortured her daughter to death in Akure, the Ondo State capital. The Command Spokesperson, Femi Joseph, who confirmed the incident, said efforts were on to track the woman to know how it all happened. It was learnt that a woman whose identity is yet to be ascertained, was said to have rushed her daughter believed to be about four year-old to the Ondo State University Teaching Hospital, Akure Annex. The incident reportedly happened on Wednesday night when the woman brought in with suspected marks of horsewhip visible on the girl’s body to the hospital. According to some members of staff of the government-owned hospita, “the woman escaped with the child’ corpse which was brought to the Children’s Outpatients Department (COPD) of the hospital. “The woman brought in the girl to the hospital at the children’s emergency ward for treatment. “As we tried to attend to her, we noticed that she had maltreated the girl to the point of death. “If you see the body of the girl, it was a case of child abuse as there were serious marks of beating all over her. “By the time the doctor on duty could rush and attend to her, it was discovered that she even brought the child dead. “The doctor had to quickly tell the woman that the young kid she brought to the hospital was dead already. “Before you know it, the woman grabbed the girl and ran away from the hospital facility”. One of the doctors on duty when the incident occurred confirmed the incident, noting the child was brought in dead by the mother. The doctor, who preferred anonymity, said: “Immediately she (the woman) brought in the child dead to the hospital, we tried to resuscitate her but there was no life again. “And before we knew it, the woman grabbed the corpse of her child and ran outside the hospital facility. “All effort to trace her has since has proven abortive because we did not know how she just manage to escape from the hospital facility,” the doctor said. Administrative Secretary of the hospital, Dayo Owoseni said: “I only heard about the incident this morning and we have called on the doctor on duty to come over and explained what happened to us. “Although, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital was not currently around and the remaining top staffs are in a meeting Ondo police spokesperson, said there was no proper record of the case registered but efforts are on to track the woman. “We have already sent in some officers to go and investigate the case to know what actually went wrong,” he stated.