Kano State Governo, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has described his Chief of Staff, Hon. Ali Haruna Abubakar Makoda, as a trustworthy fellow, whose good family background and proven track records earned him the respect and consideration he has from his administration. Recalling, he said he knew Makoda over 30 years ago through his father, Alhaji Bukar Makoda, “Since when I was a commissioner of Works, Housing and Transport during the military regime. When Colonel Muhammad Abdullahi Wase was the military administrator in Kano,” says Ganduje. The statement was made by the governor when the families of the Chief of Staff, under his father Alhaji Makoda paid a thank you visit to the governor, at Government House, Kano. Amid cheers,, Governor Ganduje said he should be the one to thank them for allowing their son to accept the position given to him by the governor. He explains further that, “To also thank him for his acceptance of the position, not the other way round. I need to thank you all.” According to Ganduje, the father of the Chief of Staff was first introduced into government activities, as a renowned and respected contractor during military regime. “That was when I was a commissioner, which means he was not introduced by politicians to government activities. For your information he was the contractor who built this our quality Mosque inside government house. And because of the quality of his work, the Mosque is still very strong,” he revealed. In his remarks, Alhaji Ali Bukar Makoda, who spoke on behalf of the family, after thanking the governor, he assured that, the choice of the Chief of Staff was apt and appropriate. “We are glad to inform His Excellency that, this choice is commendable, which also shows appreciation of good behaviour in governance and proven track records,” says Makoda. He added that, “We are all here Sir to show our utmost happiness and to also commend you for what you have done to the family. The family that you have a close contact with for some decades back.”