Lagos state is a beautiful coastal city with so many beautiful resort centres around. It is a place of various beauties. The city is located right by the Atlantic Ocean, thus there are various beaches and other fun places in it. Below is a list of fun places you can visit and have a memorable weekend experience. 1. Elegushi Beach Elegushi Royal Beach is a private beach owned by the Elegushi Royal family, led by HRM Oba Alayeluwa Saheed Ademola Elegushi. The beach is well known to be the go-to fun place for great meals, nightclubs, and hang out spots. This beach is the perfect spot for picnics, parties or social gatherings. 2. Atican Beach Resort  When you think about private beaches in Lagos, Atican Beach Resort is the first that should come to mind. Atican Beach resort, one of the prestigious beaches in Lagos is a pristine ocean-side destination in Lekki. The private beach resort is a centre for fun and relaxation. Its clean white sand and beautiful Carribean style layout make it a great destination for romantic getaways, group hang out and family outings. It has lodges and a restaurant too. 3. Eleko Beach Eleko Beach is located in Lekki, Eleko Beach offers a peaceful retreat for privacy seeker or couple’s looking to enjoy a good time away from the hustle of Lagos. This public beach is one of the lush beaches in Lagos, located close to La Campagne Tropicana. It offers private beach features such as bamboo huts. It also less rowdy than other public beaches in Lagos and considered to be cleaner. 4. Tarkwa Bay Beach  Tarrkwa Bay Beach is one of the beaches in Lagos where you can be assured a great time. A sheltered beach located near the Lagos Harbour. It’s a popular with swimmers and water-sports enthusiasts, also home to a welcoming resident community. 5. Oniru Beach One the most beautiful and serene private beaches in Lagos owned by the Oniru Royal Family. Oniru beach is one of the most sort-after beaches in Lagos because of its serenity and neatness. This beach is located on Victoria Island. It’s a popular venue for parties, live shows, and special events. When you visit Oniru Beach, ensure you are ready to have a good time and make wonderful memories. 6) Whispering Palms This is located just outside the hustle and bustle of Lagos. Whispering Palms resort is the ideal place for lovers to finally get that alone time they’ve always wanted. It has so many beautiful activities for friends, lovers and families. 7) Lekki Leisure Lake It is located opposite the three-story Vantage Beach Hotel, Lekki Leisure Lake is the best destination authentic outdoor fun in Lagos. The resort is a safe and tranquil destination suitable for a family outing, a group adventure or even a fun day out with your significant other. 8) Coconut Beach Badagary Aptly named for its Coconut trees, this is a favourite beach in the coastal town of Badagry. The beach is located about 20 miles towards the border of Nigeria and the Republic of Benin. It is a great place to visit as a couple because it is a Coconut Beach far removed from the noise of suburbia and is instead surrounded by holiday resorts, vacation huts, fresh air, palm trees, fresh air and an open sky.  