LAGOS State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu will on Friday launch the state’s ‘Healthy Child Project’ to screen children for ailments and help them to be healthy. It is also to prepare them for leadership roles in future. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Titilayo Goncalves, who announced the launch on Thursday at a news conference in Alausa, Ikeja, said the launch would hold at the Blue Roof, Lagos Television (LTV) compound, Agidingbi, Ikeja, at 9am. Goncalves said the screening, which will last for six days, will begin on August 5 in seven Primary Health Centres (PHC) across the state, namely Ajara PHC-Badagry, Akerele PHC-Surulere, Ikotun PHC-Alimosho, Iga Iduganran PHC-Lagos Island, Epe PHC-Epe, Onigbongbo PHC-Ikeja and Ita-Elewa PHC-Ikorodu. She said the treatments include dental care, orthopaedic treatment, visual/hearing impairments, surgeries and other common ailments. Goncalves said the project with the theme: ‘Lagos Health Bee Project’, is a programme of the Health Care Mission International, in partnership with BOSKOH Health Care Mission and collaboration with the Lagos State Government. “The programme is in fulfilment of an important pillar of development under the six pillars of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration” The Executive Director of Health Care Mission International, Mrs. Nike Osa, said the government recognised the prime place of children in the survival of humanity. “This informs why the government has offered to collaborate with BOSKOH Lagos Health Care Mission International to make our children healthier through screening them for visual and hearing impairment and other problems that can negatively impact their capacity to study. “Those found to have visual or hearing impairments will be provided with glasses and hearing aids to help them overcome such impairments. Additionally, those with ailments that require surgery will be operated on along with those on the waiting list in public hospitals across Lagos. “Although children are the prime target of the programme, adults will be given health talks and screened for tuberculosis and HIV. Those found to be positive will be managed, using the established channel of treatment of these illnesses,” she said. The Permanent Secretary of the state Primary Health Board, Dr. Tayo Lawal, said about 1,000 people would be attended to on a daily basis, adding that about 21,000 people should have been attended to at the completion of the exercise. Lawal said the project was an avenue to create medical awareness among residents.