Last week, we dealt with the introduction and causes of mental illness. This week, we will conclude on the causes of mental illness. It’s well documented that significant trauma as an adult, such as military combat, being involved in a serious accident or being the victim of a violent crime may result in one form of mental illness or another. Meanwhile, physical causes – for example, a head injury or a condition such as epilepsy can have an impact on behaviour and mood.  Also, there are hereditary or genetic factors to consider: mental illness may run in the family. Having dealt with the causes, let us now turn our attention to some specific and common mental disorders. Anxiety disorders are very common indeed. Ordinarily, going for an interview or going to write an examination can result in anxiety. At some points in our lives, every one of us will suffer a brief anxiety. Anxiety becomes a problem when it remains persistent and disturbing our daily functions. What is anxiety? Simply put, anxiety is a worry about future events:  be it impending wedding, childbirth, first day at school, going to check our bank account balances, creditors coming to knock on our doors and so forth.  Anxiety is not fear. Fear is holding the view of failing at an event or having something terrible happening to us. All these are temporary worries. If and when anxiety is prolonged, then an illness is said to occur. Anxiety comes in different forms. Forms of anxiety:  Anxiety can be classed as generalised anxiety disorder, which is a psychological disorder characterised by excessive or disproportionate anxiety about several aspects of life, such as work, social relationships, or financial matters which is unlike panic disorder. Panic disorder is a serious anxiety condition that occurs without reason or pre-warning. Symptoms of panic disorder include sudden attacks of fear and nervousness including physical symptoms such as sweating and shaking. Social phobia (another form of anxiety) can be initiated by traumatic social experience (for example: embarrassment) or by gaps in a person’s social skills that produce recurring negative experiences. In general, anxiety may lead to sweating, fast breathing, loss of appetite, palpitation, headache, rise in blood pressure, loss of weight, sleeplessness, irrational symptoms that cannot be explained otherwise and can cause the sufferer to lose ability to function properly on daily basis. Feelings of panic, fear, and uneasiness, cold or sweaty hands or feet, dry mouth, nausea, numbness, dizziness and muscle tension, How to deal with anxiety disorder: A temporary anxiety will pass away as the event that started the anxiety ebbs away. A prolonged anxiety needs medical intervention. There are various ways to deal with a troublesome anxiety ranging from simple “do it yourself” to serious medical intervention. Treatment: A patient presented with anxiety may need to be investigated by the doctor to rule out underlying disease such as abnormally functioning thyroid, high blood pressure and diseases of the adrenal glands. Most certainly, if the doctor discovers any related diseases, he or she will treat accordingly. If there is no underlying illness that is fuelling the anxiety, then the anxiety can be dealt within its own right. Available methods vary. A persistent troublesome partner in a domestic environment or work may require the sufferer to change environment to avoid the perpetrator of the anxiety. Any medication that contributes to development of anxiety may need to be changed as is food and substances that are culprits. For a start, my recommendation will be a prescription that the anxious person should be physically engaged in exercise. Exercise is well known to help reduce impact of anxiety.  Exercise may also improve sleep and  appetite and sleep.  In some instances, counselling may be all that is required. Some sessions with counsellors in a cognitive behaviour therapy environment may also help. If non-medication method fails, then medication may be called for. The doctor will consider individual needs before prescription of specific medicine. Of course there are various types of medicine to deal with anxiety.  Some of the medicines are sedatives and may cause us to nod off to sleep especially at night. But in general, medicines exist to help deal with our anxieties. Prevention of anxiety: avoid substances such as cigarette, coffee, tea, kolanuts, cola and energy drinks. Regular mental and physical exercise may also help to keep anxiety away. In next week’s article, we will deal with depression.  Have you have been impacted by the content of this article or you need some clarification?  Kindly call 07087733114 or 08188343865 for support.