Reconstruction of segment 2 of the Agboju-Trade Fair section of the Lagos/Badagry Expressway will be delivered in 10 days, Permanent Secretary Ministry of Works and Infrastructure Olujimi Hotonu has said. Hotonu, who spoke at the weekend in a statement in Alausa, Ikeja, said the completion was in fulfilment of the promise by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to complete the reconstruction of the Lagos section of the express way by the end of this year. The statement, issued by the Director of Press Affairs, Mr. Adesegun Ogundeji, said the contractor, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), has been mobilised and mandated to complete the construction on Alakija/Navy Town Junction within 10 days to ease traffic. Honotu assured Lagosians that the construction would not exceed 10 days. He said the government had made alternative arrangements for road users to ensure a hitch free journey. Hotonu said alternative arrangements had been provided for them to ease their journey to and fro during the period. According to the statement, while road users going from Trade Fair/Abule Ado to Mile 2 on the service lane should detour to the left before the flyover at Alakija and use the flyover to continue their journey, those on the toll lane should go straight and make use of the flyover. “Road users going to old Ojo Road /Navy Town/Satellite Town from Trade Fair on the service lane are advised to turn at Dantata Junction through Old Ojo Road to continue their journey, while those heading for Festac Third Gate on both the toll and service lanes are to make a detour to the left before the flyover bridge at Alakija and use the corridor between the two flyovers. “Commuters going to Festac from Mile 2 on the service lane should turn right at Festac First Gate or Agboju (Second Gate), while those on Toll-Lane should go and turn at the Trade Fair,” the statement said. For those commuting from Festac to Badagry, the permanent secretary advised that they should make use of the First Gate or Agboju. He urged those going to Satellite/Old Ojo Road/Navy Town to use First Gate or Agboju and turn at the Trade Fair. Hotonu said directional signs have been erected on both sides of the road to assist commuters. He added that besides the signs, Lagos State Transport Management Authority (LASTMA) officials would be on ground throughout the period to assist road users and ensure free flow of traffic. He appealed to the residents, especially those living on the axis, to cooperate with the contractor. The permanent secretary said the government would deliver on its campaign promises. He enjoined road users to obey traffic diversions put in place, to avoid gridlock.