SECURITY got the attention of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Dr. Supo Ayokunle and the Chief of Air Staff (CAS) Air Marshal Abubakar Sadique in their Sallah messages. Rev Ayokunle urged Muslims, as they celebrate this year’s El-ei-Kabir, to join in the battle against insecurity. Air Marshal Abubakar encouraged officers and men of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to brace to the evolving security challenges with modern techniques. In a statement in Abuja by the association’s National Director, Legal and Public Affairs, Kwamkur Vondip, the CAN president urged Muslims to always throw their weight behind the fight against the unending security challenges facing the country. Air Marshal Dr. Ayokunle pleaded with Muslims to see the celebration of Eid-el-Kabir as a period for deeper reflection “on the challenges of Nigeria and the need to build confidence in one another by deliberate show of love for peace building.” Felicitating with the Muslims on the occasion, the CAN leader also admonished the Federal Government to urgently put an end to the security challenges bedeviling the nation. The statement reads: “The President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, His Eminence Rev. Supo Samson Ayokunle, on behalf of the Christian Association of Nigeria(CAN) felicitates with the Sultan of Sokoto, the President of the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs and Co- Chairman Nigeria Inter- Religious Council (NIREC) His Eminence Alhaji Saad Abubakar III and the entire Muslim Ummah in Nigeria as they celebrate Ed-el Kabir. “We urge Muslims and indeed all Nigerians to be reminded that we have no any other nation to call ours beside Nigeria hence the need for all well-meaning Nigerians to be patriotic and support the fight against insurgency, kidnapping and all forms of insecurity and criminality bedeviling Nigeria. “Government at all levels are urged to consider the responsibility given to them to govern the people as a divine calling and  be more committed and practical in carrying out  their mandate of securing the lives and property of the citizens. “It is our hope and prayers that the challenges of our nation will very soon be a thing of the past as Nigerians renew their commitment to God at this trying moment. “We call on the government to do everything to rightly curb criminality in the nation through more technologically based surveillance and prompt action against violence in any disguise. We wish all Muslims a peaceful and wonderful celebration.” Air Marshal Abubakar urged personnel and officers of the Air Force to evolve new ways of dealing with emerging security threats in the land. He, however, said whatever measure being adopted should be done in accordance with the rules of engagement of the service. Air Marshal Abubakar, who praised the personnel and officers of the service for their commitment and zeal as demonstrated over the past few years, said the sacrifices made by those who paid the supreme price for peace and unity of the country would not be in vain. In a Sallah message, Air Marshal Abubakar urged the personnel and officers to redouble their efforts in dealing decisively with the enemies of the country. He said: “It is with great pleasure, and gratitude to the Almighty, that I heartily wish all officers, airmen/airwomen and civilian members of staff of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) a Happy Eid-El-Kabir!  I pray that the joy of the season abides with you and your families. “I wish to particularly thank commanders at all levels for their commitments and sacrifices. I urge you to continue to think outside the box whilst evolving innovative solutions in order to ensure high level of aircraft and equipment serviceability as well as robust logistics support capability for enhanced combat readiness to deal with the threats to our nation. “It is gratifying to note that our gallant pilots as well as our Regiment and Special Forces personnel are adapting creditably to the ever changing nature of these threats and making good progress. “We must also sustain and improve on the level of professionalism in the Service through robust, job-focused training; commitment to improving personnel welfare as well as result-oriented Research and Development (R&D), which have all had a positive impact on our operational effectiveness. “Notwithstanding our modest gains, we must appreciate the enormity of the challenges ahead, as we strive to consolidate and work with sister Services and other stakeholders to rid our great nation of the threats to her security and development. “Accordingly, as we go forward, I enjoin you all to redouble your efforts in dealing decisively with all enemies of the State, while remaining professional in the discharge of your duties. You must be courageous and, working in synergy with other security agencies, continue to take the battle to the armed bandits and terrorists, not minding their malicious propaganda.” 