If I am ever asked to list ten things that I do not like, mosquitoes will be on the list. I don’t even know if they are beautiful insects. Even though a lover of nature and life, I have never tried to admire these particular creatures.  Nobody poisoned my mind about them.  I have experienced their habits. They invade my environment and they bite painfully and leave a bump on my skin. They are so persistent in following their target that they can make a person paranoid.  They suck blood and they cause malaria.  It is because of the latter that most people do not like mosquitoes. The World Health Organization tells us about malaria: “Malaria is a life-threatening disease caused by parasites that are transmitted to people through the bites of infected female Anopheles mosquitoes. It is preventable and curable”.  The WHO estimates of 2017 tell us of 219 million cases of malaria in 87 countries that year with 435 000 malaria deaths.  Africa was “home to 92% of malaria cases and 93% of malaria deaths” (https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/malaria). Malaria is caused by parasites called plasmodia (singular: plasmodium). Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax are recognized as the most dangerous of plasmodia, to humans: P. vivax in the Americas and P. falciparum in the rest of the tropical world, particularly in Africa.  The mosquito is the vector that carries the parasites from person to person.  Mosquitoes have killed many more Africans than snakes or lions. It is raining season in Nigeria, a time when the incidence of malaria may sky rocket if people are careless about their environment and the parasite is easily transmitted. The WHO summarizes that: ‘The intensity of transmission depends on factors related to the parasite, the vector, the human host, and the environment.”  All four factors are important for us to take care of for good health and we shall discuss each of them. During the raining season, we can save our communities from an outbreak of malaria by vector control.  WHO recommends two forms of vector control – insecticide-treated mosquito nets and indoor residual spraying.  These are the basics.  There are other measures we can take.  We shall discuss them. One of the challenges humans face in tackling or even in eradicating malaria is the problem of resistance.  The malaria parasite involved may be resistant to known drugs.  The mosquito vector may be resistant to known insecticides. The plasmodium parasite that causes malaria is one of the most perfectly adapted parasites know, with characteristics that enable it to conquer its host and also to assure its own propagation.  We shall discuss this parasite. Wikepedia tells us that: “Over 200 species of Plasmodium have been described” (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plasmodium). Microorganisms often undergo genetic mutations and give rise to changed offshoots.  Some of the changed offspring have characteristics that make them survive drugs and other factors.  They survive and then proliferate and form new generations or new lines of parasites that are resistant to used drugs. WHO tells us that “There are more than 400 different species of Anopheles mosquito; around 30 are malaria vectors of major importance”.  It is possible that new mosquito species keep evolving and some may have characteristics that help them survive human weapons.  WHO tells us that “According to the latest World malaria report, 68 countries reported mosquito resistance to at least 1 of the 5 commonly-used insecticide classes in the period 2010-2017; among these countries, 57 reported resistance to 2 or more insecticide classes.” Some scientists have come up with a malaria vaccine.  This is a good prospect for children especially.  Young children, unlike many adults, do not yet have partial immunity to malaria. Other scientists may finish the story.  They have come up with genetic modification of mosquitoes that could eliminate them from the surface of the earth (at least those that are vectors, the others do not bother humans).  This is a hot topic.  A Smithsonian article deliberates on the question: “New gene-editing technology gives scientists the ability to wipe out the carriers of malaria and the Zika virus. But should they use it?” (https://www.smithsonianmag.com/innovation/kill-all-mosquitos-180959069/).  Every time I see a mosquito now, I might as well study it and admire the skinny legs that land on our skins, the dangerous proboscis that pricks us, the expert antenna  that finds us, the slender body that balloons up when filled with blood, the hunch back that pretends humility, and pointed bottom that lays 300 eggs at a time –  because very soon indeed, we may never see them again. Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635