WIFE of Lagos State Governor Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu on Thursday urged emergency responders to work together in the discharge of their responsibilities of saving lives and properties. She spoke at the quarterly stakeholders’ meeting organised by the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), with the theme: “Sustaining synergy amongst stakeholders in emergency/disaster management: Working better together”, at Alausa, Ikeja. Mrs Sanwo-Olu, represented by Consultant Anaesthetics Dr. Abiola Mafe, said the agencies must understand that none was more important than the other. She urged the agencies to concentrate on improving their work plan instead of squabbing. “Since emergencies and disasters are inevitable, adequate measures must be channelled to mitigate them and ensure that when they occur, lives and properties are saved and more importantly they are not allowed to escalate. “The major objective of emergency responders is to save lives and it must remain so. Our priority should not and must not be about unnecessary supremacy battle. Granted that when there is an emergency or rescue operation there must be an agency that will lead and coordinate our activities and generally in Lagos State, LASEMA takes the lead. “But then, there must be mutual respect among all agencies involved in emergency operation. No agency should feel more important than others. As a matter of fact, it should be seen as a joint effort while there must be cooperation, constant meetings and most importantly, an agenda for emergency procedure in the state. “All the agencies, LASEMA, Police, Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS), Lagos State Fire Service, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Lagos State Neighborhood Safety Corps (LNSC), Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Lagos State Environmental Health Monitoring Unit (SEHMU), Red Cross, among others, must know their specific duties during an emergency and keep to them. “This, however, does not preclude relevant agencies from helping other agencies in the event of overlapping. “The bottom line is that the agencies must know their duties and cooperate with one another. “The paramount thing is to save life and not any unhealthy rivalry. There must be an emergency plan, there must be a will to do what is in the plan and there must be constant meetings, practices and demonstration of the emergency procedures so that all the agencies are working together towards achieving the same purpose of saving lives and properties.,” Mrs Sanwo-Olu said. LASEMA Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu said plans were underway to establish LASEMA marine rescue unit to cater for the about two million commuters on the inland waterways. LASEMA, he said, was working on improving its 10-minute response time to emergency, adding that the meetings would better position the agencies for the task ahead. The meeting, he added, is intended to provide workable strategies to renew confidence in “our collective ability, responsibility and capacity to rise up to any emergency and disaster challenges in the state. “All over the world, surmounting emergencies take the collaborative efforts of relevant stakeholders on one hand, and the active support and collaboration of the grassroots, communities and the populace towards protection of lives and properties,” he said. Rapid Response Squad (RRS) Commander, Tunji Disu, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), said emergency responders must cooperate with one another to achieve results. 