JOEL: I am a former employee of a Federal Government agency. I want to know if it is possible to change my PFA from (Anonymous) to another one. I have been out of employment since 2013, I have over N2m as my contributory pension. I want to change my PFA because I m not satisfied with my current PFA. Is it possible for me to change and move my pension fund to another in my current situation? PENCOM: Section 13 of the PRA 2014 allows an RSA holder to change his/her PFA not more than once in a year without giving any reason. The Commission is currently in the process of opening a transfer window to enable contributors’ move from one PFA to another. ONYAKA: Sir, does First Pension Limited still exist as a pension fund manager? PENCOM: Yes. They are known as First Guarantee Pension Limited.  Their contact details are as follows: Irorun Plaza, No. 65, Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos, http://www.firstguaranteepension.com TAYO What are the modalities for payment to those who joined the civil service in 2003 going by the Pension Act? PENCOM: Any employee, who is entitled to retirement benefits under any pension scheme existing before June 25, 2004, being the commencement of the Pension Reform Act, 2004 falls under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). You may liaise with your PFA to advise you further in respect of modes of payment when you retire. My pensioner number is Annonymous. I did verification since August 2017, but PTAD has not paid me till date. Kindly assist, several pensioners have gotten their pension. I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired on 30 April, 2008 without payment till date. Thank you. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been investigated. She will receive payment as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government. JOSHUA: Dear Omobola, my name is Joshua. I retired as a Seargent on grade level 05 step 4. My date of first appointment is January 20, 1986 and date of retirement is March 1, 1997. I have done verification in Abuja. Please I am koboless and pray you to tell the pension boss that she should pay my pension. I am helplessly living a tortuous life. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been reviewed by the operations department. He will be paid as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government. SUNDAY: I retired in June 2003 from the service of former governmet agency changed to National Clearing and Forwarding Agency. I received my pension from March 2008 to April 2018. But they stopped my pension after April and I don’t know why. Please help me. PTAD: If Mr Eshiet has been verified, we advise that he sends a clearly scanned copy of his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. If he has not been verified, he can visit our Abuja or Lagos office with his employment documents, BVN and original stamped bank statement from April 2018 till date to be verified and monthly pension payment resumed if eligible.