SERIAL entrepreneur and philanthropist, Daniel Omoyibo, has been conferred as the patron of the Directors Guild of Nigeria (DGN) in an event that was held at Dantinajoe Gold Resort, Oleh, Delta State on Sunday, July 28. Omoyibo, a business man and lover of art, was selected following his love and will to support the directors, actors and the movie industry at large. Speaking at the conferment ceremony, the president of the Directors’ Guild of Nigeria (DGN), Fred Amata noted that the industry needed someone to champion the course and help the industry with its aspirations. “The challenges that we have we thought we would need a champion, a power champion who could help us with some of our dreams and our aspirations” said Fred Amata. “As we were speaking I knew I had to come back to the land of my birth and seek eminently qualified people but little did we know that we were going to find a man of his rare form of philanthropy, his humility, his influence in society, a man who likes to build people institution, a man who is dedicated to developing the youths we said we have found the right person.” Amata further described the Director’s Guild of Nigeria as the apex guild in the movie making sector of the creative sector. “DGN is custodian of the film making culture of Nigeria over the years, we have had a guild that has stood in the forefront of the pursuit of standards and quality of the regulations in the movie industry. This entire ceremony is like a prelude to DGN at 20, DGN was set up to look after the welfare and the progress of the industry and has continued to do so since inception”. On accepting to be DGN patron, Omoyibo said it is divine, adding that Nollywood would experience changes within few weeks. “It is divine; if it’s not divine it wouldn’t have been possible. I feel ok and happy”, he said. “Well, buying into this idea, since I was young I’ve had love for the actors and the directors and I feel this industry even do more empowerment than we who are contractors. So what really motivated me to accept being a patron is because I feel that this industry has been empowering people right from time “I’ve been in business for twenty two years and what I always talk about is change; there is no where I step in that you will not see change. In the next few days, months, you will see changes in DGN”. Omoyibo however urge the movie makers to come and make movies in Oleh, stating that there are nice locations and great landmarks in the community. “Forget about Lagos for now, forget about Enugu or Asaba, come to Oleh, come to Isoko , we have rivers, we have shores, and many places where you can make films, I want you actors to bring this film industry down to Isoko land.” The patron, Engineer Omoyibo, is a cheerful giver who is loved by many for his kind gestures and helping hand especially in his community Oleh, which also houses his five star hotel, Dantinajoe Gold Resort.