The Chief Operating Officer, Ikeja Electric (IE) Plc, Mrs Folake Soetan, has said the company had fully commenced the rollout of meters under the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme to all unmetered customers across its network. Soetan disclosed this on Friday in Lagos at the Customers Engagement Forum to sensitise customers in Shomolu Business Unit on the registration process, survey, payment and installation of meters. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that lkeja Electric, alongside one of its MAPs partner, Mojec Metering Asset Company, held an engagement forum to sensitise customers in Shomolu Business Unit. The MAP scheme is in line with the Federal Government’s commitment to bridge the metering gap. It entails empowerment of third party companies identified Meter Asset Providers, by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), to procure and install meters for electricity consumers under the scheme. She said that in the first phase, which culminated at the end of July, metering was restricted to only customers in Ikorodu, Abule-Egba and Shomolu Business Units. She noted that from the beginning of August the exercise has been extended to customers in Ikeja, Akowonjo and Oshodi Business units. The Ikeja Electric boss reiterated the company’s commitment to leverage the opportunity provided by the MAP scheme to close the metering gap across its network and also remove estimated billing. “The scheme will ensure accelerated meter deployment to unmetered customers, totally eliminating every form of controversy regarding the accuracy of electricity bills. “We have taken concrete actions in terms of planning and manpower deployment for adequate metering,” she said. In order to ensure a seamless registration for meter under MAP scheme, she advised the unmetered customers to register through IE website map.ikejaelectric.com, using their Ikeja Electric’s account number on the bill to update their KYC (Know Your Customer) details after which a survey will be carried out to determine the type of meter suitable for their premises. Soetan also pointed out that the company had set up a debt resolution panel in its six Business Units to address disputed outstanding bills and ensure reconciliation. She said that customers must always pay into the designated bank account provided on the online MAP Portal and always quote their Application Reference Number (ARN) when making any payment. She advised new customers to visit the nearest Ikeja Electric office for account creation and set up to enable them start their registration for meter. “As part of the registration process, customers will be required to provide a valid email address and telephone number as they will be contacted through the information provided,” she said. She urged customers to always ensure that they provide accurate data during the registration process. She directed tenants who share the same service cable to separate their service wires by engaging the service of Licensed Electrical Contractor Association of Nigeria (LECAN). Contributing, the Chief Executive Officer of MOJEC Meter Asset Company, Ms Chantelle Abdul, said that the company had adequate meters in stock for the MAP scheme. According to her, the single phase meter cost N38, 850, while the three-phase meter cost N70,350, both inclusive of VAT. She revealed that all processes have been put in place including bank loans for customers who could not afford to pay for the meter outrightly. NAN also reports that the event was attended by dignitaries, including Alhaji Ralialau Alabi Yunusa, the Baale of Bajulaye, who represented Oba of Shomolu, Mr Adedapo Oduguwa. Also in attendance were the Community Development Committee (CDC) Chairman of Shomolu, Alhaja Olawumi Osiefa, who is also the CDC Chairperson, Bariga and Head, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Council, Lagos Office, Mrs Susie Onwuka.