Tenants in a building in Lagos have cried out over the alleged use of officials of the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA), by their landlady, to evict them. They alleged that their landlady wanted to eject them on the pretext that the house required “urgent non-destructive test’, as it is in distress.” The tenants, who live at 14, Olusola Ikare Street, off Liasu Road, Egbe-Idimu, Lagos, alleged that they are in a state of uncertainty, since their landlady has vowed to use all power at her disposal to evict them. According to them, in February, their landlady’s lawyer gave them a quit notice, which took effect from June 30. They said they started having problem when the landlady, Mrs. Rukayar Muri-Okunola, took over the ownership of the house, following the death of the landlord (her father) two years ago. The tenants said the woman refused to collect rent from those whose tenancy had expired. They said they were shocked when LASBCA officials came to the house on July 5 and asked them to report on July 8 at their office at Moshalashi bus stop, Iyana-Ipaja. “At the meeting, they compelled us to sign an undertaking and produce the house documents.” The tenants said they declined signing any document, as they were not the owner of the house. “We wonder why the landlady, who is in possession of the house documents, was not invited. “We believe LASBCA is an enforcement agent of the landlady, who has vowed to use all means to evict us.” The tenants alleged that the agency officials locked the gate of the house with a padlock, “with our cars inside the compound.” They added that two days later, the landlady came in company with two armed policemen and two other hefty men, cut off the small gate with a hacksaw and carried it away. The tenants said since the landlady had made up her mind to evict them on the pretext of renovating the house, all they were asking for was an extension of time to enable them secure another accommodation. Counsel to the landlady, Olumide Ajibola of Equilibrium Law Firm, said the position of the law in the matter was that after the expiration of the quit notice, notice should be filed and served on the tenants through the court. He, however, denied knowledge of his client being invited by the human rights. Ajibola said: “On the issue of the police human rights, I don’t know anything about it. But you know the police have no right to interfere in any tenancy matter, as stipulated in the tenancy law. I believe in following due process, which is going through the court in matters like this. I don’t know about the police invitation. “The removal of the small gate, I don’t know anything about that. Concerning the locking of the gate, I learnt it was LASBCA officials who did that. Maybe it was because of the situation of the building that made them to seal it off.” LASBCA spokesperson Mrs. Titilayo Ajeromi Ututu said she had no knowledge of the tenants being asked to sign an undertaking in their office. She, however, insisted that the house had been identified as being defective, adding that LASBCA had a file of the building. Ututu said: “The house has structural defect that has been identified. The tenants have been asked to move out, for the house to undergo defective examination. “We officially have a file of that house. They were served notice in June. It was the former general manager that asked them to lock the place because of the defectiveness of the structure. The seal off is official. Every notice has duration before we move in for a final seal off. “We have done the necessary things. Let them stay there; it’s at their own risk. If anything happens to the building while they are there, it’s their own cup of tea.”