The Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) has inaugurated the chairmen and standing committee members to resolve all the issues pertaining to the mandate of the commission. The Chairman of RMAFC, Engr. Elias Mbam, disclosed this on Thursday during the inauguration of members of the committee. He told the committee member that President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the commission to focus on expanding the sources of revenue to the Federation Account and other non-oil sources. Mbam said the president also directed the committee to use all legal ways and means to strengthen the commission’s monitoring mechanism and block leakages of revenue from the Federations Account. He said: “As you may be aware, the commission is constitutionally empowered to among other duties: Monitor the accruals to and disbursement of revenue from the Federation Account; Review, from time to time, the revenue allocation formulae and principles in operation to ensure conformity to changing realities; Advise the Federal, State and Local Governments on fiscal efficiency and methods by which their revenue can be increased; and Determine remunerations appropriate for Political/Public Office Holders. “You may recall that during our inauguration, Mr. President directed us to concentrate more on expanding the sources of revenue to the Federation Account and other non-oil sources including solid mineral and use all legal ways and means to strengthen the Commission’s monitoring mechanism and block leakages of revenue from the Federations Account. “In consideration of the President’s address and to effectively and efficiently discharge the Constitutional Mandate of the Commission, it has become absolutely necessary to constitute Standing Committees to handle respectively all the issues pertaining to our mandate. “The Standing Committees would be similar to that of the National Assembly. It will be made up of Constitutional and In-House Committees. The Committees shall carry out respectively in-depth study and work on each subject matter. “The recommendations of the Committees shall be forwarded to the Plenary Session for consideration and possible approval. The technical, professional, secretariat and administrative requirements of the Committees are to be provided by the Secretary to the Commission, the various Departments, Divisions and Units as well as Zonal/State Offices. “Let me at this juncture assure you that the Commission will within its available resources provide all the necessary support that will facilitate the smooth functioning of the various Committees.” He urged all Chairmen and Members of the Committees to devise new strategies that will further improve the work processes of the Commission and strengthen the existing collaboration between the Commission and its diverse Stakeholders. A total of eighteen committees were constituted – Constitutional Committees and In-house Committees. The Constitutional Committees are: Indices and Disbursement Committee (I&DC), Federal Allocation Account Committee (FAAC), Oil – Crude Oil Monitoring Committee (COMC), Inland Revenue Monitoring Committee (IRMC), Customs Revenue Monitoring Committee (CRMC), Solid Minerals Monitoring Committee (SMMC), and Gas Monitoring Committee (GMC). Other Constitutional Committees are: Remuneration and Monetisation Committee (R&MC), Fiscal Efficiency and Budget Committee (FE&BC), Mobilization and Diversification Committee (M&DC), Revenue Allocation Formula Committee (RAFC), Investment Committee (IC). The In-house Committees are: Legal Matters Committee (LMC), National Assembly Liaison Committee (NALC), Personnel Matters Committee (PMC), Public Affairs and Communication Committee (PA&CC), Business and Rules Committee (B&RC), and Finance and General Purpose Committee (F&GPC).