Unless the government puts in place policies to protect indigenous carriers, the stuned sector will remain, experts have said. The policies, experts argued, must be conceived to create an enabling environment for domestic carriers and other players in the sector. The experts, who included Topbrass Aviation Managing Director Captain Roland Iyayi; President, Sabre Travel Network, Dr Gbenga Olowo; Chief Executive Officer, African Aviation Services Limited, Mr Nick Fadugba and Medview Airlines Managing Director Alhaji Muneer Bankole, spoke at the 23rd Airport & Aviation Correspondent Conference in Lagos. According to Iyayi, the absence of good policies has stunted the growth of the aviation sector, adding that the government needed to put in place protectionist policies that will reduce the burden of indigenous carriers, which are already buffeted by multiple aeronautical charges; high cost of aviation fuel, obsolete and inadequate airport facilities. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), which ought to set the tone for such policies as the industry regulator, he said, has lost its bearing in providing leadership for the sector. Rather, in the words of Iyayi, the NCAA was engaged in over regulation of domestic carriers. The NCAA, he said, should be actively involved in drawing the template for air treaties negotiation for the country to protect it from exploitation by foreign countries and their carriers. Iyayi said: ”To grow aviation there has to be a deliberate policy geared towards ensuring that airlines, which are primary players in the industry, can survive. That you have airlines failing is not because you cannot run the business, it is the environment in which they operate that is extremely harsh and not conducive for growth. “Essentially, the government needs to be proactive by looking beyond cost recovery for its agencies, but design a framework of policies that will address multiplicity of charges affecting domestic carriers.’’ On his part, Olowo said the government had put in strategies that would drive policies geared towards investors’ confidence by focussing on tangible assets in the industry. He said the policy trust of government for the sector should factor in ways to improve service delivery at airports, improvement of safety and security, stakeholders and consumer satisfaction. Olowo said any policy that does not have key performance indicators to measure their effectiveness will be counter productive. He said: ”What is key in any  policy is its ability to drive the growth and development of the sector and at the same time guarantee regulatory and legal confidence in players and investors.” Fadugba corroborated others’ position, saying any policy that does not factor in ways to protect indigenous carriers will not guarantee industry growth. He, therefore, canvassed a working document christened “Vision 2030” hinged on the need to conceive deliberate policies that will bring about stronger indigenous carriers, modern airport and airspace infrastructure as well as adequate regulatory and legal framework to protect private investment. Fadugba said the sector, if well positioned, could serve as a catalyst for Africa’s economic growth and social advancement. He said Africa needs a safe, reliable, efficient and portable air transport industry that facilitates business, trade and tourism across the continent and between Africa and the world. Fadugba, in identifying the challenges, said aviation safety, security, training, regulatory oversight, infrastructure,liberalisation, modernisation, funding, efficiency, affordability and profitability need to be improved on.