After three months of exciting musical performances, music talent hunt, Ariya Repete 2019 finally came to an exciting climax on Saturday, at the car park of Ikeja City Mall. Thousands of music lovers filled the mall grounds. All nine finalists treated the audience to spectacular performances as they showed the audiences how they were able to get that far in the competition. It was a tough night for the judges, who had the near-impossible task to select the three finalists for the grand prize of N20 million. However, the night belonged to the three amazing talents, who etched their names in Ariya Repete history. All contestants did two performances to impress the judges; performing original songs. Before  the curtain fell, Suliamon Adeyemi, Yomi Johnson, and Mayowa Alayo won in the Fuji, Juju, and afro-pop categories. All three winners could not contain their joy, as they got very emotional when receiving their prizes. Mayowa Alayo, who had a rough ride to the final, particularly after dealing with the death of his infant child, on the day of his audition, was clearly elated saying: “I still think I’m dreaming, I can’t believe I won, I’m so grateful to everyone who has supported me and Goldberg Lager, Thank you!” Goldberg’s Brand Manager Olufunmilayo Ogunbodede remarked: “It’s been a great show, and I’m glad to see these talented acts emerge as winners. I believe, however, that everyone who has come on the show is a winner, and we are proud of the talents we have uncovered over the course of these three months. We thank the consumers for always coming out and cheering the contestants, and we can’t wait to delight our consumers with more initiatives…” First off was King Sunny Ade. It’s hard not to run out of superlatives after watching his performance. KSA continues to prove that age is nothing but a number, while also offering a timely reminder of his immense talents as a performer. Next up was Taye Currency. The Fuji veteran was full of life as he engaged the crowd in a sing-along. Taye is a very confident performer, and his charisma was on full display when he came on stage. Wrapping up the night were performances from Pasuma and Goldberg’s Brand Ambassador Olamide. From Eni Duro to Oil and Gas, the hip-hop virtuoso took his fans down memory lane with a performance that will not be forgotten anytime soon. Pasuma capped off the night with a stellar performance befitting of the occasion.