Experts in the field of personnel management have called on Nigerian youths to ensure integrity as a vital tool to thrive in business, urging them to shun scrambling about for quick cash. The call came in Lagos at this year’s National Industry Leaders Summit, themed: ‘Reputation Capital’. The summit was to commemorate the birthday ceremony of the Co-founder of Pertinent Limited/Chief Executive Officer, Globarel Limited, Sunday Olorunsheyi, and the launch of his book titled: ‘From slum to significance.’ Olorunsheyi, said there was urgent need to re-orientate the youths to focus on building their reputation on integrity. He noted that youths must thrive in all their endeavours to build their reputation on integrity, noting that is what will make their partners trust and respect them in business. According to him, his business was able to grow beyond expectations because he believed in posterity and did everything possible to live a life of integrity. “My business is growing today, neither because of my professional qualifications, nor because of my experience in the business world, but, it has been practically on the platform of reputation capital. “People that have been able to trust me with little resources graduated to trusting with bigger resources and we are still looking forward to achieving more in business.” He lamented that youths believe in shortcuts and that to make it in life requires cutting corners. He therefore urged the youths to make meaningful impact anywhere they find themselves though it might be challenging, rather than focus on making quick money. One of the facilitators, Bola Oba, urged the youths to be steadfast and committed to the development of the nation’s economy, rather than go abroad in search of greener pastures. He said: “Nigeria is still a land of opportunities and a goldmine, but you do not go to goldmines to pick gold on the ground; you go there to break the earth to get to it and in breaking the earth, the elements of skill, diligence, perseverance and collaboration are fundamentals that cannot be excused away. “I left Nigeria in my early 20’s and went abroad. The things I was looking for in the Diaspora then, I get more of them now and enrich people in the Diaspora. I think something is wrong with our thinking system that we need to change in our youth.” Speaking about the book, Mrs Bosede Olusola-Obasa, said the book tells how Olorunsheyi, who was not born with a silver spoon, now produces golden spoons for people and distributes.