Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde will on Thursday swear in 14 commissioners to serve in his cabinet. Makinde made the disclosure while receiving stakeholders of the Ibadan based state-owned football club, Shooting Stars Sports Club (3SC), in his Agodi, Secretariat Office, Ibadan. The commissioners-designate who had earlier been screened and confirmed by the House of Assembly during a session that lasted about eight hours last week, will take their oath of office and allegiance at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s office, Agodi, Ibadan by 10 am. The 14 commissioners comprise representatives and members of parties from the coalition that teamed up with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to secure victory from the then ruling All Progressive Congress during the last governorship election. The new commissioners to be sworn-in are a combination of politicians and technocrats with years of private practice. They are four former lawmakers in Oyo Assembly including Mr Kehinde Ayoola (Former Speaker); Mr Adeniyi Farinto; Mrs. Funmilayo Orisadeyi (the only female nominee) and Mr Ojemuyiwa Ojekunle. Others are a former Director-General Seyi Makinde Campaign Organisation Chief Bayo Lawal; Dr Bashir Bello; Prof Oyelowo Oyewo; Prof Dawud Sangodoyin, Mr Olasunkanmi Olaleye and Mr Adeniyi Adebisi. There are also Mr Raheem Abdulraheem, Mr Seun Ashamu, Dr Wasiu Olatunbosun and Mr Akinola Ojo. Speaker Adebo Ogundoyin had expressed satisfaction with the calibre, intelligence and educational pedigree of the commissioners-designate, expressing optimism that the new team will give fresh impetus into the Governor Makinde-led administration in the state. But a source close to the government confirms that the names of three additional commissioners nominees have been sent to the House of Assembly for screening and confirmation. The source, who refused to disclose the names on the new list said, the second batch became imperative in view of the efforts of the lawmakers to unbundle and split some of the ministries and reorganise them for greater effectiveness. The source assures that the lawmakers who are currently in recess till September 15 will do the needful to the list in due course, expressing optimism however that the commissioners would also be assigned their various ministries where they would serve immediately.