The two words, ‘child labour’ embody two striking paradoxes given that their semantic imports must put them apart. Their appearing in the same sentence or being seen as contextually appropriate is an aberration. A child as defined by the UN Convention on the Rights of a Child is anyone under the age of 18. Subsequently, parents, family and the state each has vital roles to play in the general well-being of the child. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) is a legally-binding international agreement setting out the civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of every child, regardless of their race, religion or abilities. About 190 countries signed and ratified the Child Rights Law as stipulated by the United Nations. However, the fact that 218m children aged 5-17 are employed and 152m are victims of child labour, many of who work in hazardous work environments is evidence that many countries, especially the developing ones, have failed to play by the UN rules. The resolution highlights the member- states’ commitments “to take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour significantly.” The declaration by the UN making 2021 International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour is a very welcome development given the very many disadvantages of child labour and child trafficking. Most children who are forced into labour miss out on all the progressive steps of development. They miss out on schooling, their physical and mental developments are often impaired, they are exposed to all forms of mental, physical and sexual abuses and often initiated into many criminal activities that haunt the society perennially. We commend the United Nations for being at the forefront of child protection and for this extra push to possibly eliminate all forms of child labour by 2021. However, our concern for developing countries like Nigeria is for the government to make child labour very unattractive through the implementation of the relevant laws and having a strict punishment and reward system in ways that loudly speak to the protection of the future embodied by the children. In more developed countries, ages 5 – 17 are almost sacrosanct ,as there are laws that compel both the state and families to build capacity and ensure development through education of all children, in which case children between such ages are required to be in school. There are basic reasons why adults surreptitiously or overtly exploit children through child labour. Poverty in families make parents use children as street vendors, domestic servants to wealthy families, farm hands and some odd jobs, while some even traffic the children in the guise of giving them a better future. Some are engaged in sundry menial jobs like shoe shining, begging for a living and to augment family income. The fact that 23 out of 36 states in Nigeria have passed the Child Rights Law is evidence of the governments’ unwillingness to protect a tomorrow that children represent. Even the states that signed the law have no stringent implementation of the laws and ultimately, it is the children that suffer and the whole country becomes a worse victim. There must be an attempt by governments to check population explosion so that parents can have fewer children. There must be more emphasis on the development of the rural areas to help stem rural/urban migration, and more investment in infrastructure to create more jobs for the adult population so they can fully cater for their children. Governments must be seen to have the political will to sustain policies without any partisanship or political expediencies in view. There must be the political will by all tiers of government to see the full and productive development of all children in ways that make child labour the crime it ought to be. A country like Nigeria with more than 13 million out-of-school children must not wait till 2021 to implement the relevant anti-child labour laws. Even though we recognise some peculiar cultural values that might be different from country to country, there must be recognition of the global dependence on education, technology and ideas for development. Only education guarantees these. Time is almost running out and the UN has blown the global whistle to end child labour by 2021. We cannot afford to toy with our future.