A 14 year-old girl, in Ikorodu area of Lagos, has narrated how she was forced at knife point by a man simply identified as Dolapo in a house at Fajemisi Kokoro Abu Street in Sabo, Ikorodu area of Lagos. The incident happened around 11am on Monday. According to the victim, the incident happened while she was coming back from where she had gone to buy food for her boss in the same area where she is learning hair styling. Dolapo, it was gathered works with a gas operator on Fajemisi Koro Abu Street in Sabo, Ikorodu. He was said to be initially living with his parents in the same community before they relocated, but now lives with another man in a room apartment where the incident happened. She told our reporter that Dolapo was wearing a yellow top and short; adding he is short, dark complexioned and has tribal marks. “I was coming from where I bought rice for my boss when the incident happened, I was heading back to the Saloon when Dolapo called me to come but I did not answer him because I don’t know him. He then crossed my path by a house that is at a corner on Fajemisi Kokoro Abu Street in Sabo, Ikorodu and pushed me. He lifted up his yellow top, brought out knife and tied my mouth with cloth. He pushed me on the floor, dragged me to a room and said if I move, he will kill me and run away. “He dragged me to the bed, removed my cloths, slept with me and afterwards I got dis-virgin. He removed his yellow top and used it to clean my blood; he opened the door and ran out with the cloth. I went out of the room and shouted, people came around, and some chased after him but did not find him. A woman took me to my boss shop; I was given some drug and shewbs. My mother later joined us and we went to report the incident at Igbogbo police station, then later went to the hospital.” She noted that since the incident, she has not being fine. She said she wants proper care and wants her good health to be restored, adding that she also wants Dolapo to be arrested and face the full wrath of the law. Her mother, who simply identified herself as Monsura, said her daughter has three cuts on her private part because Dolapo forced himself on her. “He dragged her, pushed her on the wall and brought out knife. When she came out of that room, there was sand all over her body. As she is with me, she is not well, she is not fine and she is not comfortable. She has since Monday been bathing with hot water and she cannot do anything by herself. If you see her, you will pity her, she has been wearing cardigan up and down since Monday and covering up herself with bed sheet. “We took her to the General hospital in Itelewa, she was given medications and did several tests including HIV. The doctors said he has damaged her badly and that she has three cuts in her private part. Monsura said; “If I had power, I would make them carry the man Dolapo lives with, his parents and the owner of the gas shop. If all these people are arrested, Dolapo will appear.” She said she and her daughter went with the police to that man’s house where the incident happened on Tuesday but the man was not around, the house was locked. The area is deserted, that man still lives in that house; I learnt he comes to the house very late at night and leaves very early in the morning. Dolapo is nowhere to be found but his clothes and belonging are still in the man’s house. “That boy is a bad person, I want him to be arrested and face the full wrath of the law. I learnt he is an area boy and he relates with drunkards in the neighbourhood. He is known as area boy that just sits at the junction and takes marijuana. I was told his lips are black, only God knows what he has deposited in my daughter, due to all the rubbish things he takes. When we called him, he did not pick, now his number has been switched off. I want my daughter to be well because she has not been fine since Monday. “Of major concern to me now is that Dolapo dis-virgin my daughter, cleaned her blood with cloth and went with the cloth. I’m concerned about the cloth with blood taken because of what is going on now in the country. Some people said they use it for money rituals; they said they sell it to the rich people to do blood ritual and that the blood of their victim gets dry and the person will not be ok. I have been to our Alfa to help her to be well. I don’t know what will happen to my daughter anytime soon because she is in pains now.” Explaining further, she said her daughter had been learning hair dressing in the shop for about two years and nothing of such has ever happened to her. She said her daughter left home that Monday as usual around 9am, only for her to be called on the incident that had happened around 11am. She lamented that her daughter was too young to be going through such emotional trauma that may last for a life time. “She finished secondary school and I put her in the hair dressing shop to learn. She was meant to learn for two years but after the two years, I extended it to enable her learn new hair styles, since she was too young to start a business of her own,” she said. The survivors Boss, who identified herself as Aisha, said it was not the first time she would send the girl to buy her food from that place. “I have also gone to buy food in the shop several times and I have sent other people working with me to the same place; we all pass through that house she was rapped and nothing happened. “I don’t know the Dolapo but we have been searching for him, someone gave us his number, I have called him several times but his number has been switched off.” Aisha said she has opened her saloon in that area for about three years and the food vendor she sent the girl to have been there since she opened the saloon. Calls to Dolapo’s number has been abortive, as his number is switched off. Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, said the police is investigating the matter and the case would be charged to court. “We are investigating the matter and the case will be charged to court,” he said.