A taxi driver, Sunday Hunkokoe, has accused officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), of N10,000 extortion. Hunkokoe alleged that the officials, who wrongly accused him of not wearing his seatbelt, also broke one of his headlamps. He said the incident occurred on August 7, at Iponri in Surulere, Lagos Mainland. Hunkokoe, who said he was in his car with his wife that morning, narrated how the officials, who were on duty at Cassette bus stop, Ijesha, Lagos, claimed that he only wore his seatbelt after seeing them. “It is still paining me. I have gone to their area office twice to report to their commander, but I did not meet him. They accused me wrongly and the next thing, they seized my car and drove it to Iponri. “I was taking my wife to work and also intended to start the day’s business when I saw from my side mirror that the LASTMA officials were chasing someone. I actually thought it was the vehicle behind me. The next thing, one of them ran to my car, opened it and jumped inside. “I know one of them very well. So, I asked him what was the matter and he said I did not wear seatbelt. I was surprised and asked what he meant by that since I had my seatbelt on and only removed it when I went down to ask what the issue was. “He said I saw them before wearing it. Then they started dragging my steering. On getting to Adelabu, I told them to allow my wife alight because she was already late for work. “But I remembered that I didn’t give her transport fare to return home in the evening and I quickly ran after her to do so. Before I could turn back, they had driven off with my taxi. Since the money I had was inside the car, those officers made me trek from there to their Iponri area office. “On getting there, I did not see my car and I did not see the two of them. I was told to go to a nearby beer parlour and that was where I saw them drinking beer that early morning. “I asked them why they would do something like that and they said I should go and bring N10,000 or else they would give me ticket of N50,000,” the driver said. He said his appeals fell on deaf ears, as the men were not ready to listen to him, adding that he was also not ready to allow them waste his entire day. “I had to run around to raise the money. I even called my wife to help borrow money and send, which she did. I gave them so that I could start work. But as I was about to leave, someone told me that they had broken my headlamp. I checked and it was true. “I asked them why they would do that to me, knowing that I did nothing wrong, but they said nothing. They even shared the money inside my car and left.”