A civic technology organisation, BudgIT and three other civil society organisations have called on the National Assembly to amend the Universal Basic Education(UBEC) Act 2004 to cover from primary to secondary education, which will be 12 years of free compulsory education, as against the present nine years. The civil society organisations said this step would reduce the country’s number of out-of-school children which stands at 10.2 million and ensure efficiency and development in the education sector. The other CSOs included Connected Development (CODE), Civil Society Action Coalition on Education For All (CSACEFA) and Basic Rights Watch (BRW). They urged the ninth assembly to carry out the amendment and extend the free, safe and quality education clause from primary to secondary school. BudgIT Program Manager, Tolulope Agunloye, who read a statement jointly signed by the CSOs, at a briefing in Abuja, said that intervention fund from the Universal Basic Education Fund are not accessed by most state governments. He said: “We task the federal and state governments to adequately utilise the funds for education for the development of the sector. The budget performance is on a decline as funds targeted at the sector are under-utilised. “The number of out-of-school children as of April 2019 is 10.19million according to the Federal Ministry of Education. Funding plays an important role in the sector and it is necessary to end education tourism and develop our school system. “We urge the ninth National Assembly to amend the Universal Basic Education Act (2004) to extend its coverage to junior and senior secondary education. That is, from first nine to first 12 years, thereby guaranteeing free, safe and quality education with increased UBEC fund.” Agunloye explained that education budget performance was on the decline as funds targeted to the sector are either not accessed or under-utilised by state governments. Also CODE’s Programme Manager, Lucy Abagi, said that the percentage allocated to the sector has decreased over the years, with 7.9 percent allocated to the sector in 2016, 6.2 percent in 2017 and 7.1 percent in 2018. She said: “The budgetary allocation for education in the last four years (2015-2018) shows that a total of N2.07trilion was allocated which stands at 7.67 per cent of the total budget for four years. The percentage allocation has decreased over the years with 7.9, 6.2 and 7.1 per cents in 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively. “In 2018, the Presidency reeled out what the Muhammadu Buhari administration has done in office. But little achievements were recorded in education in terms of funding.” 