The Anambra State government has expressed its readiness to partner with the private sector towards revamping its health care system. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Vincent Okpala dropped the hint when members of Akpo Development Association (ADA) in Aguata Local Government Area of the state paid him a courtesy visit in his office in Awka. He said efficient service delivery and governance were among the six major building blocks a functional health care system was predicted on. He said the goal of government was to create diverse medical tourisms in view of the funds released by the Federal Government in the tune of over $2billion annually. “Health care system based on the World Health Organisation (WHO) definition has six building blocks which include service delivery and governance and leadership. “In Anambra State for example, we have 34 general hospitals and we want people to assist the government to optimise care in these hospitals,” he said. According to Okpala, there were lots of diaspora physicians from the state willing to come home, but were looking forward to a government not just ready to show leadership, but create enabling environment for them to invest. He said, “We’re trying to sponsor a policy on Private Public Partnership. We’re already negotiating with consultants who had worked with the World Bank and WHO with a legislative backing that will outlive this government. “Once these investors know you have a political backing, they don’t have any other option but to come in. “I’m happy that our state is the safest state in the federation, and I’m also excited to be working with a principal who doesn’t take the issue of security lightly.” The commissioner further revealed that his first few weeks of assumption was visits to health facilities across the state with a view to accessing their states for immediate interventions. His words, “My background is emergency medicine. The first thing you do at accident scene is “scene size up” which means to understand what you’ll dealing with. “My visit to the health institutions in the state is to get firsthand information on the real situation of the facilities. “The goal is to access their true situations, evaluate, strategise and find ways of deploying interventions.” Earlier, the leader of the delegation and President General of the Association, Nze Henry Caius Dim, said they were at the commissioner’s office to congratulate him on his new appointment which he described as not only timely, but well deserved. He urged him to take advantage of his tenure to better the lots of the health sector in their community and the state in general, including upgrading of the existing health facilities.