Commercial activities were crippled on Wednesday after transporters including commercial motorcyclists popularly called okada blocked access roads leading to Oja Odan market and parts of Ilaro in Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun State, in protest against  alleged extortion by law enforcement agents. The protest triggered a traffic gridlock as vehicles conveying  traders and buyers  from several towns in the country and the Republic of Benin to the market could not move from where they were parked. The protesters accused policemen, customs operatives and vehicle inspectors of extortion at checkpoints on the roads. Holding leaves in their hands and chanting solidarity songs, the protesters asked the appropriate  authorities to dismantle the  checkpoints. Some of the transporters told  The Nation that the law enforcement agents had formed the habit of intimidating  and harassing motorists and commercial motorcyclists. A commercial bus driver, Ismail Alarape said “We have appealed to the security forces several times to no avail. We have been paying heavily at the checkpoints manned by the police, customs men and vehicle inspectors. “The bulk of what we make from fares paid by passengers goes to these law enforcement agents as bribe while we have little or nothing left to for  ourselves and family members. We don’t want checkpoints here anymore because of the extortion by law enforcement personnel.’’ An okada rider identified simply as Deyemi said: “We don’t carry hard drugs, yet we are constantly harassed for money. I am a graduate, but there is no job available in the country, that is why I work as okada man to make ends meet but the police have made life unbearable for us here. We want them removed from our roads. ‘’Many of us got our motorbikes on loan and it has been difficult paying back our creditors because of police extortion.’’ A trader, Jolayemi Ojo lamented that she could not carry out transactions at the market because of the lock down. “It is sad that this is happening on a day like this when many people from various parts of the country and neighbouring Benin Republic have come to this market for trading activities. “Every entry point to the market and access road have been blocked and no one can enter the market. Some of us have sold our perishable goods at cheap prices because we cannot take them home and that’s a huge loss to us.’’ Police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP)  said normalcy had  returned to the areas. “It was a protest carried out by some transporters who asked that checkpoints be removed from their neighbourhoods. The Police Area Commander has since addressed the protesters and normalcy has been restored.’’