APRIL 2017 Nigerians were greeted with jaw-opening and eyes-popping news, stories and details about fellow Nigerians’ deaths and sufferings in Libya. There was unison in belief of the gory stories. Those who made it alive back to the country were the narrators. There have been several batches of Nigerians trafficked to Libya, who have been returning to the country since April 2017. And many more trafficked Nigerians are still stranded in Libya and several other countries such as Egypt, Morocco, amongst others.  TOBORE OVUORIE, who has been following the lives of trafficked persons and survivors, brings to the fore lives of trafficked Nigerians before, during and after their ordeal. This first part of the series occurred 10 years ago to a graduate of the University of Benin. BEDROOMS, RETURNEES’ PRISONS “It was difficult to smile these past few days. I had lost my drive, my spirit and zest for life and it appeared my world was crashing all around me. “I had to force myself to do anything – force myself to eat, to get out of bed and tell myself that I needed to forge ahead,” Mr. Osita Osemene narrates in ‘Chasing A Mirage’ his book published in 2012 in which he narrates his search for an oasis. After several years of joblessness, notwithstanding a good first degree from the prestigious University of Benin, he decided to leave for the United Kingdom. He paid an informal travel agent to secure him a UK visa and international passport. He was very excited, at last, a better life was smiling at him and coming so cheap, too. He was more excited when given his travel documents and his transformation began even while still in Lagos Nigeria. His accent changed – faking how Britons speak, though had never boarded an aircraft all his life at that time. The D-day arrived for his departure but Osita was almost arrested at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport. An airport official hinted him he was about to be arrested; for his visa and passport were fake. Osita fled the airport leaving behind his friends who had accompanied him to say their goodbyes. “My room had become a prison of some sort. The only time I came out was when everyone else had left the house and I would scout through the kitchen and eat anything I could find and return to the solitude of my room before anyone arrived. “I couldn’t show my face on the streets or at my regular hangouts. I had told everyone that cared to listen that I was going to the UK and I wasn’t coming back home till I made it big. How could I ever face them? Everyone thought I was already in the UK. I hated Nigeria even more.” In his bedroom, all Osita did was stare at the white ceiling boards above him. Lying on a lump of skinny mattresses, he tried to do everything he could to prevent lapsing into a state of uncontrollable grief. His eyes always moved around in slow circles, trailing the lazy rotation of the rusted ceiling fan blades above him. He never held back any tear that threatened to fall. They rolled down his cheeks freely as if being flushed out by angry sweepers. NAPTIP says in Nigeria, the two most reported human trafficking cases are foreign travels which promote prostitution and employment of children as domestic workers while inflicting grievous harm. Most of these victims are women but children and men these days, now consist larger shares than they did 10 years ago. The anti-trafficking agency’s 2017 report states in the country, 0.1 percent of trafficked victims are men while 25 percent are females. Globally, 51 percent of trafficked persons are females and 21 percent are males. The report indicates traffickers are often males but women comprise a large number of convicted offenders. NAPTIP in a 2014 report stated children comprised 28 percent of detected victims, and men, 21 percent. Thus, 51 percent were women. It indicates about four in 10 victims detected between 2012 and 2014 were trafficked for forced labour, and out of these victims, 63 percent were men. TRAFFICKING RETURNEES COME DOWN WITH SOLITUDE SORROW Mr. Adeniyi Abdulsalami a Local Migration Expert with The Migrants Project says trafficking returnees isolating themselves could be due to “solitude sorrow.” This, he described as returnees or families of trafficked persons keeping details of unsuccessful journeys overseas away from the public. “But if the person returns, maybe with his wife or a white woman, who possibly is by far older than him or he buys a car, they would put tent outside and throw a big return party. “The sorrow that would have served as a lesson that would have discouraged other people, they hide it. They hide stories, situations and events that would have served as examples to discourage illegal migration. They hide and bear the sorrow alone,” he said. According to him, the Nigerian culture is a major contributor to this as it is a belief in many parts of the country that people should bear such sorrows alone. Failure, he emphasized is an orphan, while success has many friends. CHASING THE MIRAGE BEGINS For the second time in less than a month, Osita told his parents goodbye. This time, he was heading to Spain hoping to make it big within a month of his arrival then get into the UK. His friend Andy who introduced him to the fraudulent travel agent, again, connected him with Dada a young undergraduate. Osita was shocked Dada was trading his degree for his trip to Spain. “Abeg, leave that one, school cert for jand better pass PhD for Naija,” he remarked. “I fit fashi four years of university for opportunity for Spain.” Ever smiling Dada with a smooth tongue convinced Osita 250,000 Naira was the needed sum for a tourist journey which would get them into Spain. After knocking on doors and his mother scouting around, the amount was complete and two weeks later, Osita and Dada left Asaba for Lagos to board a night bus to Kano state. Before departing Asaba, Dada had assured Osita they would be boarding a plane to Spain on arriving Kano. On arriving the ancient Northern city, he changed the whole boarding itinerary to Morocco. But Osita became suspicious when they went shopping for supplies in Kano. “To my amazement, Dada bought garri, milk, sugar, spaghetti and geisha. Something was not right here. I had a terrible feeling in my gut. Why are we buying garri? I asked Dada. What exactly is going on? I thought we were meant to be in a luxury bus and the organisation was paying for all our meals?” The joyride became tense and overtaken by torrents of quarrels and fights between Osita and Dada, as the former later discovers he had been handed a pack of lies like a bowl of his favorite Nsala soup. He had gullibly swallowed everything only to learn from a fellow passenger there was no airplane anywhere but trips through dangerous deserts. Hell was let loose when Osita again discovered Dada cheated him. The trip was originally N100,000 but Dada inflated the price to make up for his own travel expenses. Osita spent the next 40 days on the road traveling through deserts, deserted spaces and dangerous territories. From Zinder to Agadez, then Duruku, onto Quatron and being stuck in the desert begging women for their urine as his source of water while walking barefooted for over 10 hours across the desert. He saw how his fellow Nigerians, some who had become his very close friends, were raped, tortured, sold into prostitution, robbed and murdered by rebels, soldiers and Chaldeans. He too was not spared as he lost all his money to desert bandits. The deaths hit him closest as he helplessly watched Dada die in the desert. He had defended and taken bullets for Osita when attacked by desert armed bandits. A part of him went numb when Temi- a seven year old boy, who had become his friend, was killed by hunger, thirst and severe heat in the desert. Images of the little boy’s father crying and staying back in the desert with his dead child still haunts Osita till date. Osita had survived thus far: every danger, deportation raids and made it to Tripoli. There was only a push between him and Europe. One ship ride. Standing at the port looking at the large ships, he had wondered which of them he would be traveling in. There were many people waiting there with him and moving in the shadow of the night. Their guide, an average sized Libyan with a limp, had instructed they waited for the lampa-lampa. The crowd awaited the boat. Osita was expecting a large ship, but was shocked to see a dingy boat coming up shore. It could take about 20 passengers but there were 150 people scheduled to board the boat. As the boat stopped, people scrambled to get on it, and he watched the lampa-lampa dance upon the waters unsteadily. About 100 had scrambled in, while 50 of them were yet to get in. He watched a young Nigerian in the lampa-lampa, holding unto a pole, swaying with the boat. A loud horn distracted him and he turned. A ship was coming in, and the Red Cross offloading bodies of people who had drowned while trying to cross the Atlantic. They had also been traveling in a lampa-lampa and it capsized drowning everyone. “I had navigated on land, and almost died of a heat stroke. I wasn’t going to risk bobbing about in a little boat, and getting lost in the middle of the sea. I was torn between two worlds. “I had overcome a lot, seen the harsh weather, had to survive drinking my own urine, endured the death of people I had come to know and I was faced with the ocean.” Osita stood at the port for a long time, his resolve growing; this was the mid point, the final step between him and Spain. Then, he remembered Temi, Dada and other friends he had lost on the journey. “Somehow, within me, I knew I had to go back. I knew I had to tell people about the unforeseen dangers, the unimaginable hours and the web of deceit that they had been lurched into. Someone needs to tell their stories.” Osita shook his head. There was no way he was getting on that boat. He stared at the lampa-lampa, and willfully, deliberately turned his back on his ticket to Europe and headed in the opposite direction. Home. Back to Nigeria. ONE YEAR LATER He could hear drumming, wailing, weeping and distant sweeping sound of sand as a desert storm began. He heard the piercing screams. It was starting all over again. He woke up covered in sweat and his heart throbbing. He had been dreaming again, of everything. All the terror that befell him and other Nigerians journeying through the desert to Europe. When Osita returned to Nigeria through the help of his elder sister who sent him transportation fare while stranded in Libya, he went to Sokoto state and lived there for over a year instead of going back home to Benin city, Edo state. “My sister knew where I was, but there was no way I could show up looking the way I looked. I was a shadow of myself, more than 20 kilograms smaller. I had lost my confidence and my self esteem had been shattered. I had left Nigeria thinking I would return with enough money to throw around, but I had come back to Nigeria dirt poor – wearing a faded slacked t-shirt, a pair of trousers and tattered slippers. My wallet was all I had in my pocket,” Osita, 10 years later still narrates. “I looked like a criminal and no one would want to have anything to do with me. I needed to clean my act up, pull my head together and take care of myself.” And he did just that. Got menial jobs in Sokoto while sleeping in an uncompleted building. He still had nightmares, almost every night. The nightmares continued for a long time. He knew he would spend years fighting them. TRAFFICKED RETURNEES SEEK INSTANT CLOSURE Mr. Arinze Orakwue, Director, Public Enlightenment, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking In Persons (NAPTIP), says upon return to the country, a trafficking survivor is a mixed bag of frustration arising from collapse of dreams; unrealized aspiration to migrate and settle in Europe where the streets are supposedly paved with gold; stigma from family who consider her a failure, guilt and shame from the experience which tend towards depression, pain and bitterness of betrayal if it was the madam that reported her to the authorities. According to him, the close shave with death and traumatic experience of the journey leaves a ghastly experience that needs time to process and get a closure on it. All these means and requires she does not engage in needless celebration that will lead to hurt and more pain. “They don’t share their stories because it is too painful to disclose. They seek a closure instantly from the trauma. They just want to move on with their lives, minding their business and not tell tales that will bring back memories flooding into them. Remember that these girls were also subjected to oath of secrecy, which they swore at the shrine where they dropped their finger nails, pubic hair, piece of their clothing and a sample of their blood menstrual pad. All these are the means to exert control over the girls.” RETURNEES’ ISOLATION, SYMPTOM OF MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS Dr. Bolanle Ola, Consultant Psychiatrist and Head of Psychiatry, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, says the returnees could develop trauma-related mental health problems such as anxiety disorders, depression and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). According to him, some of the returnees could have been vulnerable to developing mental illness before embarking on the dangerous journey, while others may not have had any history of mental health problems. He however noted there is a strong indication of mental illness for both group when exposed to very hazard situations such as what obtains in Libya. STREETS OF EUROPE NOT PAVED WITH GOLD Mr. Orakwue advises Nigerians that migration is their right, however, the streets of Europe are not paved with gold. When an offer is too good to be true, it certainly is not true, he cautions. “When an offer answers all questions, please run. Look before you leap. The amount of money it will cost you, your time, health hazard, if not your life, had better be invested here.” The only jobs available to any illegal migrants, according to him, is insertion into prostitution, or the 4D jobs. These jobs are Dirty, Dangerous, Difficult and Demeaning. Osita Osemene is now the founder of Patriotic Citizen Initiatives; a Nigeria based non-governmental organization. Through the International Organization for Migration (IOM), he currently uses his indent experience in his 91-day journey through the Sahara desert to create awareness about irregular migration, trafficking of all sorts and the quests of getting quick wealth outside the shores of Nigeria. This story is produced with support from Code For Africa through her Wana Data Project. 