Electronic or e-commerce has taken a deep root in Nigeria in spite of challenges associated with cost of data, logistics and others. Frontline e-commerce Jumia Technologies AG said it discovered that some of its independent sales consultants, JForce, connived with some sellers and employees to inflate sales figure to gain additional commission. In spite of this, it posted impressive result in its second quarter (Q2). BUSOLA ARO reports. Jumia Technologies AG  has discovered that some unscrupulous independent sales consultants connived with sellers and employees to inflate figures to gain additional commission. At the presentation of its Q2 report, it said this was one of its findings from a probe it carried out between January and June this year. The report reads: “We received information alleging that some of our independent sales consultants, members of our JForce programme in Nigeria, may have engaged in improper sales practices. “In response, we launched a review of sales practices covering all our countries of operation and data from January 1, 2017 to June 30, 2019. “We have terminated the employees and JForce agents involved, removed the sellers implicated and implemented measures designed to prevent similar instances in the future. The review of this matter is closed.” In the report, Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV), gross profit and increase in number of active consumers to 94 per cent was recorded. It also announced its  new partnership with the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) to improve its level of delivery. Its co-CEO and co-founder, Sacha Poigonnec,  said: “ Comparing our Q2 in 2018 and Q2 in 2019, we  have done much more this year than we did in the last quarter, and this is  actually better than what we had stated in our financial strategy. We did great in  our revenue growth this year as we have improved from 51 per cent  to 69 per cent this year. We have focused in driving a strong  monetisation improvement, already visible in the Year-on-Year (YoY) of  94 per cent increase. We also have improved in our cost efficiency of about 5.62 percent.” The firm which is striving to increase its level of active consumers, is focused on finding more efficient  ways to reach customers; showing strong improvements with additionat 589,000 active consumer. Jumia Nigeria CEO Juliet Anammah said: “We have partnered with NIPOST to improve our level of delivery services in places that our logistics can’t reach. Also between Q1 and Q2 this year, We’ve had an increase in the number of consumers compared to the same period last year where we had 211, 000. So we’ve done much more this year than we did last year. We are happy that we have attracted more consumers despite the uneasy times in Nigeria and that’s why we are making the platform easy and convenient for our consumers.” Poigonnec said the firm witnessed great momentum in the business, especially as it delivered on four major pillars which are to grow GMV topline, increase monetisation, drive Jumia pay and improve efficiency. During the period under review, Jumia operated with a profit of 6.2 per cent, grew marketing and advertising by 17.5 per cent. ” We’ve increased our marketing  advertising services this year and have gotten a much higher growth because we did more of that this year. The commission has been rosy as well as our value added services. The goodnews is that we had break even positive in the first half of 2019 despite the reduction in our gross profit and what we have always promised is that we would break even by the end of 2022 thereby surpassing our financial strategies. We saved 562 basic points (bps) in 2019 compared to last year,” she said.