Ministers of Education, Adamu Adamu and Emeka Nwajuiba Wednesday resumed briefly at the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja. The ministers both arrived at about 2:45pm after they were inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa on Wednesday. Buhari had retained Adamu as the main minister and named Mr. Nwajuiba as the minister of state for education. The duo were welcomed by excited staff of the ministry led by the Permanent Secretary, Sonny Echono and some directors in the ministry. Malam Adamu, in a brief remark, hailed Echono and directors of the ministry for their support during his first stint in office. He said both him and the former Minister of State for Education, Prof. Anthony Anwukah had worked hard to put together the Ministerial Strategic Plan (MSP 2016-2019) to the point of implementation before their tenure ended on May 2019, 2019. The minister said: “We had laboured over the time on the strategic plan for the education and only to the point of implementation then we had to leave. I had the opportunity to remind President Muhammadu Buhari that the nation was expecting so much from him. “When we were sent here the first tenure, it took me one and half year to understand the ministry; it also took me as a surprised when I was re-assigned to the ministry of education. I had thought I would be sent to another ministry where I would have to learn all over again. Now, I know that I am coming back to a family. “You all are my teachers and hopefully we will work well together again. “The reality is the confidence I reposed in the Permanent Secretary. When I came here I had to get the idea of what education is and I could only see what is happening here after a year and half.” Adamu noted that Nwajiuba had abandoned his Doctorate programme to serve in the cabinet of President Buhari as minister, adding that his appointment as minister of state would be helpful. Nwajuiba was Chairman, Board of the Tertiary Education Trustfund (TETFund) until his appointment as the minister of state for education. Nwajuiba said he was at home at the ministry. “I am comfortable that I do not have to go to another ministry but here with my senior brother at the ministry of education I can be tutored and well directed,” he said. The ministers were presented with the handover notes by the permanent secretary after meeting with workers. They left immediately after the presentation. They are expected to resume fully tomorrow and brief the press on their programmes.