A group, Ondo State All Progressives Congress (APC) Youth for Good Governance (OSAYGG), has advised party stakeholders to be wary of Abuja political lobbyists ahead of next year’s governorship poll. The group, in a letter to the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, after its meeting in Akure, the state capital, urged him to shun those trying to mislead the National Working Committee (NWC) into taking wrong decisions that would bring misfortune to the party. The group, led by Adeola Ajayi, said the APC could only win by fielding credible candidates in the stronghold of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ajayi said: ”Figures don’t lie. We buttress our submissions with statiscal facts and figures of the past successive elections result in the state to assist  the party’s leadership in arriving at evidence -informed decisions. “Our interest in this is nothing personal, but how APC will win the forth coming gubernatorial election in the state.” Ajayi lamented that Olusola Oke and Ife Oyedele, who are from Ondo South, are planning to exploit their connections with Oshiomhole and President Muhammadu Buhari. It noted that Ondo South is the base of PDP, stressing that any APC candidate from the zone may return to the opposition party. OSAYGG said: ”Majority of Ondo APC stakeholders have agreed that Ondo North should still produce the next APC governorship candidate, but such a person must be credible and acceptable by majority party members. ‘’It is even more shameful, barbaric and disheartening  to hear that Action Alliance(AA) defeated APC during the last senatorial election, even in the polling unit of Governor Akeredolu;   Unit Six Ward Five, Ijebu-Owo, where AA scored 125, APC 33 and PDP 13 votes” The group sought the support of the national leadership of the party to present a popular candidate, stressing that, for now, the party can only win 30 percent of votes in the state. Copies of the letter were sent to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo,APC National leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Senate President, Ahmed Lawan,Speaker,House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Deputy Senate Leader, Ajayi Boroffice and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha.