Students of the Ekiti State University(EKSU), Ado-Ekiti yesterday took to the street to protest the  alleged harassment and unlawful arrest of their colleagues by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) operatives. The students barricaded the institution’s entrance gate, thereby affecting academic activities as most of the lecturers and other staff could not access the campus. They appealed to EFCC Acting Chairman Mr. Ibrahim Magu to order his men to stop harassing innocent students under the guise of being involved  in cybercrime. The protest, which began at about 8:15a.m. and lasted till 2:30p.m., affected free flow of traffic on the Ado-Ifaki dual carriage way, where the aggrieved students gathered to express their displeasure. Those travelling outside the state capital and those coming in through the route were affected by the gridlock created by the students. The travelers had to take alternative routes to their respective destinations. Addressing the students, the Director of Welfare, the institution Students’ Union Government, Temitope Aladejare, described the alleged arrest as illegal and unconstitutional. He added that four of his colleagues were arrested by some policemen on Wednesday. “They just came to the hostel in front of the EKSU’s main gate and arrested four of our members. Two of the victims were even naked and they were in their rooms, when they pounced on them. “When they came, they introduced themselves as operatives of the EFCC and forcefully bundled the victims into a van and took them to an unknown destination. “We are calling on governments to call them to order,” he said. EKSU Public Relations Officer Mr. Bode Olofinmuagun said he was not on campus and that he didn’t have first-hand information about the arrest and the protest by the students. Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command Caleb Ikechukwu, a DSP, confirmed that arrest were made, which triggered the students to embark on the protest. Ikechukwu added that the police swung into action to restore orderliness by ensuring the removal of all blockages on highway for smooth human and vehicular movements. “The students protested and they blocked the major highway and prevented commuters from moving in and out of the state capital. This we will never be condoned  because that road is not within  the confine of the university.” “They obstructed vehicular movements for hours, but we have been able to remove those blockages and restored peace and order around the school premises,” he said. Few weeks ago, over 40 youths, some of whom were students of higher institutions, were arrested in Ado-Ekiti by EFCC and whisked away to Ibadan, Oyo State for alleged cyber fraud.