Chemeka Okoye, popularly known as Frodd, may be disqualified from the ongoing BigBrother Naija show, going by what took place between him and fellow housemate Esther. Frodd was caught on camera on Saturday night, half naked and romantically involved with Esther while she was asleep. The 28-year-old Frodd waited for other housemates to fall asleep before making the move, but Esther did not entertain Frodd sleeping in the nude on her bed. And to show she wasn’t making an empty threat, she dragged the duvet off Frodd and pushed him off. Frodd’s bare butt was visible as the duvet came off, with Esther ordering him to put on his underwear. The incident took place after one of the housemates, Joe, who marked his birthday, had most of the contestants in a state of stupor. However, Frodd was later summoned into an emergency diary session by Biggie, though viewers were not allowed to see what transpired in the session. But Frodd after emerging from the diary room silently went back to his bed to sleep. In 2017, a similar act took place in the house and Kemen was disqualified after he was said to have romanced fellow housemate TBoss without her consent while she was asleep. Kemen was, however, banned by the organisers who noted that his move was not mutual and his action was an infringement on TBoss’ right. Unlike Esther, who reacted to Frodd’s advances, TBoss remained stoic throughout the night with Kemen. The action has marred the latter’s career till date. Biggie is yet to state the verdict on Frodd’s act, which viewers are awaiting. However, the last weekend’s eviction was different. Biggie changed the process by introducing the A-game and nomination challenge, whereby the team that loses will be up for possible eviction. After the nomination challenge that held last week Monday, the Icons lost and their teammates were put up for eviction. However, Diane, who had the veto power, replaced Sir Dee and put up Joe. For the eviction on Sunday were  Joe, Enkay, Khafi, Frodd, Tacha, Cindy, Elozonam, Ike and Omashola. At the end of the last Sunday’s eviction show, host Ebuka announced that Joe and Enkay had been sent packing from the BBNaija house. After spending several weeks in the BBNaija House, Joe was evicted and lost out on the chance of winning the N60 million prize. Meanwhile, Khafi one of the nominated housemates, who was in the news last week, following her employment saga in the United Kingdom (UK), disclosed that she would like to get evicted from the show after she was involved in an argument with Jackye. 