Enyo Retail and Supply and Bosch, a global supplier of technology and services, have deepened their relationship through the signing of a partnership agreement. The agreement will entail the operation of Bosch standard centers as in Germany, South Africa and in all Enyo Vehicle centres throughout Nigeria. “The partnership is in the early stage, but we are now at the stage where it is clear to us that we must deepen the relationship beyond equipment purchase where we get better trained by them. It is a full gamut of services,” said Enyo Chief Executive Officer, Abayomi Awobokun. “Bosch is number one globally. We want to be one of the best in the country so our aspirations led us to the best company in the space. The Bosch benchmark Enyo is targeting is not just about its quality spare parts, but trained mechanics, first-class centres, great diagnostics and whatever you expect to get anywhere in the world is what we hope to deliver locally and we feel that Bosch is the best partner and teacher. You will get Bosch service quality in all our locations,” Awobokun said. Before now, Bosch has been using export model where local companies from Nigeria deploy their products and services in the market with plans open a full-fledged office in Nigeria with local content and local invoicing in naira by October 2019. “Nigeria is one of the biggest markets with high population in the continent and we want to explore the potentials. We are glad to have Enyo as our local partner. They have competency and the sites and we bring the technical competency and the spare parts so there is a lot of synergy between Enyo and Bosch,” said Julien Lacoste, Regional Director, Automotive Aftermarket, West and Central Africa. The number one manufacturer of automotive parts worldwide and the largest manufacturer of OE systems said they bundle all their spare parts and OE systems in their after-sales services. “Our deployment come under three main pillars; spare parts, workshop equipment and workshop services. Within the scope of workshop services, we have soft wares, technical hotlines and technical trainings. This is what we are going to roll out in Nigeria”, said Thomas Winter, President, Automotive Aftermarket, Sales Workshop Concept and Services.  