Dufil Prima Foods Plc, makers of Indomie Noodles, has fulfilled its promise to sponsor the surgery of Master Daniel Pepple in India. Master Daniel is diagnosed with cerebral palsy. Daniel’s story got the attention of Dufil in 2018 when his brother – David Nengi Ayomide Pepple – won the Social Bravery category at the 11th edition of the Indomie Independence Day heroes award (IIDA), a Corporate Social Responsibility initiative of Dufil Prima Foods. Nine-year-old David from Port Harcourt won the award for using his artistic talent to seek financial assistance for the treatment of his younger brother, Daniel, who needed surgery to able to walk. While David went home with a N1 million scholarship money, Dufil Prima promised to fully fund Daniel’s treatment abroad. Today Daniel has travelled to Sir H. N. Reliance Hospital in Mumbai, India, for surgery. Chief Operating Officer of Dufil Prima Girish Sharma said the gesture was a promise kept. “Dufil is proud to be a part of the process of restoring the health of young Daniel, and also a way of lending a hand to his family in taking care of him. “As a brand, we will continue to encourage children, such as David, whose dream is to set up a foundation to cater for those in need of medical assistance, not to relent in their efforts. At Dufil, through our dedication to the growth and development of the Nigerian child, we will continue to cater to their well-being, making them strong and healthy.” Daniel’s father Mr. Hamilton Tamuno Pepple thanked Dufil for fulfilling her promise to sponsor his son’s treatment. “Full sponsorship of such an expensive surgical procedure by Dufil within the current economic climate is an indication that the company is indeed out to make life better for everyone. You are our angel of help. God bless you,” he said. The surgery and treatment is expected to last for about two months. With the assurance from the team of surgeons, the brand and the Pepples are trusting for a positive response from the treatment.