In a multi-ethnic society like Nigeria, there will always be conflict. While the country should develop the capacity to manage the conflicts as they arise; more importantly the leaders must seek the ability to minimize the incidents or causes of conflict. When conflicts are properly managed or prevented, there would be peace, and when there is peace the society prospers. So, developing the ability to manage or prevent conflict should be one of the trainings our leaders should be exposed to. A leader who does not possess the capacity to manage or prevent conflict will stumble from one crisis to another; unfortunately to the detriment of the people he or she leads.  In this enquiry, let us appreciate some of the key terms from different perspectives. Peace is defined as: “freedom from disturbance”, “agreement and harmony among people.” It relates to: “tranquillity, calmness, restfulness and quiet.” Interestingly, a former president of United States of America, Ronald Reagan, said: “peace is not absence of conflict; it is the ability to handle conflict by peaceful means.” On the other hand, conflict is defined as “a serious disagreement or argument, typically a protracted one.” It relates to: “dispute, quarrel, squabble, differences of opinion.” Most of the conflicts afflicting Nigeria are political, but in recent times, we now have more of religious, cultural and social conflicts. On its part, conflict prevention has been explained as “a peace operation employing complementary diplomatic, civil, and, when necessary, military means, to monitor and identify the causes of conflict, and take timely action to prevent the occurrence, escalation, or resumption of hostilities.” Conversely, conflict resolution “is conceptualized as the methods and processes involved in facilitating the peaceful ending of conflict and retribution.”  It is also defined as “Intervention aimed at alleviating or eliminating discord through conciliation.” There may be a dispute as to the number of ethnic groups in Nigeria, but there is no dispute that the number runs into several hundreds. Perhaps that explains the multi-layers of conflict that afflict the country, ranging from the minor to the more serious ones that threaten the corporate existence or foundation of the country itself. In definitional terms, “an ethnic group or an ethnicity is a category of people who identify with each other based on similarities such as common ancestry, language, history, society, culture or nation.” To manage or prevent conflict in a multi-ethnic society like Nigeria and thereby engender peace, the panacea is simply “to do unto others as you will want others to do unto you.” But a more pragmatic process of ensuring that conflicts are prevented or managed, have been developed by Rotarians. It is called: “the four-way test.” According to Wikipedia: “The Four-Way Test of the things we think, say or do is a test used by Rotarians world-wide as a moral code for personal and business relationships. The test can be applied to almost any aspect of life.” It is made up of 24 words, and was developed by Herbert I. Taylor an American from Chicago as his ultimate plan to save a dying company Club Aluminium Products Distribution Company from bankruptcy, way back in 1930s. Taylor offered Rotary his 24 words when he became a director of Rotary International in 1940s and Rotary adopted it as a moral code for personal and business relationships. The test asks us to test every action, word or step by asking first: “is it the truth, is it fair to all concerned, will it build goodwill and better friendships, and finally will it be beneficial to all concerned?” Rotarians recite the four-way test at every Rotary meeting. In my humble view, it is perhaps one of the greatest gifts of Rotary to the world, because the 24 words are eternal guide to life and relationships. There is no doubt that the four-way test is a variant of the golden rule: do unto others what you would want them do to you. For Christians, and I believe Moslems and Animists may have a variant, Jesus Christ taught the golden rule in Matthew 7:12, when he said: “so in everything, do to others what you would have them do to you, for this sums up the Law and the Prophets.” In a multi-ethnic country like Nigeria, conflict would be minimal if not completely eliminated, if leaders and followers regardless of ethnic membership relate with one another truthfully, fairly, with the motive to build goodwill, to encourage better friendship, to act in a manner beneficial to everyone within the community and even beyond. When an issue affecting persons of different ethnicity in the country arises, leaders and followers can resolve such disputes by simply applying the four-way test to the complaints, testimonies, presentations, accusations and disagreements. They can justly end the dispute by applying the four-way test in their decisions, judgments, resolutions and instructions. Of note, the four-way test can be used to eliminate fake news, which has become one of the new causes of conflict in multi-ethnic communities. For instance, those who forward volatile messages that could ignite ethnic passion should first ask themselves whether the content is true; whether it is fair to all concerned, whether it will bring goodwill and better friendship, and finally whether it will be beneficial to all concerned. Once the message does not meet the requirements, a person wishing to build peace or prevent conflict or resolve an existing conflict should not forward such a message. Pastors, Imams, Babalawos and other religious leaders can also apply the four-way test to the messages they deliver to their congregation. By applying the principles of the four-way test, messages which can ignite unruly passion will be eliminated. The four-way test of the things we think, say or do can also help to eliminate the scourge of hate speech in a multi-ethnic community. No doubt, any message which meets the four-way test cannot be a hate speech. To deal with hate speech, Rotary should offer our beleaguered country the four-test as antidote. Power buffs, like chiefs, obas, council and state government officials will provide efficient leadership by applying the four-way test in their relationship with members of the public regardless of their ethnic origin. It will help them treat members of the community equally. Applying the four-way test would help promote love and peace in a multi-ethnic community.   As Mahatma Gandhi said: “whenever you are confronted with an opponent, conquer him with love.” He also said: “The day the power of love overrules the love of power, the world will know peace.” On his part, Albert Einstein said: “Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.” Finally, as Mother Theresa said: “Peace begins with a smile.” Happy Sallah Nigerians.