Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) member Chief Lanre Rasak spoke with reporters on the performance of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, national secuirty and how the ‘Next Level Agenda’ of President Muhammadu Buhari can succeed. Musa Odoshimokhe was there. What is your assessment of the Sanwo-Olu administration in the last three month? From May 29, the governor hit the ground running and that is why work has commenced on the reconstruction of the abandoned Mile2- Badagry expressway. He has resuscitated the project, not because the people protested, but because it is part of his plans to alleviate the suffering of motorists and commuters moving from Ijora, Ebute Metta, National Theatre to Badagry and Seme border. Contractors are already working on the project. These critics should realise that in road construction and other capital projects, you need to provide good design which must be cost effective and enduring. And these I am sure, are the necessary steps the governor had taken which required a few weeks and it is the right thing to do as a government. So, I can confidently say that the governor had been performing from day one. If he is faster than this, we don’t pray for a crash. He is taking his time to provide good plans, ensure that the plans he is fine tuning are the ones that are easily applicable, cost effective and sustainable. I believe that given his background coupled with the governor’s experience, we should expect a lot of socio-economic transformation in the state in the next four years; they require very solid collaboration and teamwork to deliver on governor’s master plan. Another point is that officials need to do some costing after projects’ designs are prepared before execution. I appeal to all Lagosians to give all the necessary support to the State Government for the Sanwo-Olu’s administration to succeed. You have been part of the development strides in Lagos State as an indigenous contractor. What has been your experience? Righteous Construction Company Nigeria Limited, my company has been partnering with Lagos State government in the road sector. But, Governor Sanwo-Olu believes that government should further encourage and patronise Nigeria’s indigenous contractors for them to fully develop and that we should not continue to rely on foreign construction giants for the construction of roads and bridges. The reason is that oftentimes it is the commitment and honesty of a road builder that determines its durability or not. A good example is the Ago Hausa-Itoikin stretch of Lagos – Ikorodu road which my company constructed in 2003. It is the only section of the road that has not gone bad since it was built about 16 years ago. That shows that an indigenous contractor knows the terrain very well and did a good job that has stood the test of time. More importantly, we have added a very important item in road construction, asphalt which many have been complaining is scarce. We have acquired an asphalt plant in partnership with the Federal Government located at Ijora Olopa, in Lagos Mainland and I can assure you that our product stands out to be the best. So we are looking forward to government patronage so that our company will continue to be part of the success story of building good and enduring road network in Lagos State. I have discovered that over time the foundation of some of the roads built over 30 years ago have gone bad and needed to be fully replaced which is why it won’t be enough to just provide palliative work on such roads; they require total reconstruction. We are confident that Lagos State will address the issue of some deplorable roads in parts of the state because it is a government of the All Progressives Congress (APC) a party that is totally committed to the welfare of the people. It is an egalitarian administration which believes in doing the greatest good to the greatest number of people. Apart from roads, the government is also working seriously in other sectors like education, health, transportation that require special attention. The government will spread development evenly across the state and the people will be happy they voted APC both at the state and federal levels. The transport sector comprising roads, the ferry services and the blue rail are receiving adequate attention from the governor. Government wants to synchronise all transportation modes across the state in order to give Lagosians the best system in the country as a Centre of Excellence. How can Nigeria resolve the security challenge? My take on this is two- fold. The first question we should be asking ourselves as Nigerians is: why the sudden upsurge in insecurity? I say this because there is an adage that ‘if you don’t stop the cause of war, you can’t stop the war’. So what are the remote and immediate causes of the sudden escalation in insecurity? Is it due to the poor economic situation in the country? Could it be the non-employment of our graduates? Are there political reasons? Is there any involvement by foreign nations? Sincerely I believe government should investigate these posers and come up with appropriate responses and strategies moving forward. The point I am making here is that security is the business of every Nigerian, not only that of President Muhammadu Buhari, governors and the security operatives. As a matter of fact those perpetrating violence and other criminal activities are not ghosts but human beings who stay in our communities and live among the people. So I want to urge every Nigerian with credible information about such criminals to volunteer same to the security agencies so that they can act very decisively against the hoodlums. I believe that if you have a job to do and can feed yourself and your family, giving  them three square meals a day without allowing them beg  for alms, such person will not easily become a tool in the hands of terrorists and people recruiting idle hands for banditry or Boko Haram. The people should volunteer information to security operatives for them to adequately safeguard lives and property. I am glad too that the issue of N30, 000 national minimum wage is being addressed. Our governors should not consider the amount too much rather they should sit down and think outside the box to generate additional revenue from internal sources required to implement the pay rise. They should not only wait for their monthly statutory allocation from the Federation Account. Some states have comparative advantage in some agricultural produce and if they invest massively on agriculture the produce will be very satisfying to make more money to their coffers. They should grow rice, cotton, ground nut, palm oil, palm kernel and other cash crops to make more money for their states. They shouldn’t rely on taxes alone but diversify their revenue base to farming and fishery because that is the only way they can generate more funds for them to take care of the needs of their people in the states. We remember the good old days when Chief Obafemi Awolowo was in charge of Western Region, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe in charge of the Eastern Region and Sir Ahmadu Bello, the Sardauna of Sokoto was in charge of the Northern Region. I keep wondering what happened to the groundnut pyramids of those days in the north. We should return to land, we in the South West should improve on cocoa production while our brothers in the South East and South South should embark on new palm tree plantations. I urge our President and governors to intensify their efforts in promoting agriculture in the country. We should deliberately concentrate on the production of some key agricultural products to generate additional revenue to meet the needs of Nigerians rather than relying on crude oil. Before now, there were calls for the dualisation of the Lekki— Epe road to facilitate movement in the Lekki Free Zone. What is the latest development on the project? Nature is a wonderful thing. There are developments that should trail one another. With the establishment of the Lekki Free Zone, the government fully understands the need to provide an enabling environment for businesses to thrive and facilitate the movement of persons and goods. If I may ask: what are the factors that will make the environment attractive and meaningful to the people of the zone? Let me assure that we can’t have such massive industrial hub with a refinery, petrochemicals, fertiliser and a host of other industries in that corridor without an expressway. Plans are also in the pipeline to build an airport while work is progressing satisfactory on deep seaport. I want to state categorically that the Lagos State government under Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu will dualise the road to fully maximise the opportunities and potential that will be available to Lagosians, Nigerians, foreigners and the Lagos State government there. I am confident that this massive industrial development requires a standard road and the government will definitely construct one to meet the needs of the people of that area and those who are coming to transact business. In Lagos State, we have been lucky to have such very good leaders as Alhaji Lateef Jakande, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and others in charge of government. Governor Sanwo-Olu will not disappoint the people and will do his utmost best for the people around the Free Trade Zone to be happy because he knows what is required and expected of him. So we are confident that the road from Lekki to Epe as well as the road from Eleko junction to Free Trade Zone will be dualised. It is when that is done that we are going to have a very conducive environment for the new industries to thrive and not face transportation difficulties. So I am personally convinced that the Sanwo-Olu’s administration will execute these projects for the benefit of the people. 