Lawmaker representing Badagry constituency in the House of Representatives, Babatunde Hunpe, on Sunday urged residents to remain calm over ongoing Joint Border Security Exercise in the area. Hunpe made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) following complaints by his constituents over the restriction of movements at Seme border ordered by the Federal Government. According to the federal lawmaker, the joint exercise was aimed at securing the country against trans-border crimes and criminality. He said that the exercise was going on in all border communities in 25 states across the country and appealed to people in the areas to remain calm and supportive. Read also: Fed Govt begins repair of Seme road “It is not only Seme border that is affected by the Federal Government’s directive, it also affects many communities in 25 states across Nigeria. “I want to appeal to my people to let peace reign by going about their normal daily activities peacefully. “Badagry communities should cooperate with the special task force created by the FG to enable them achieve their aims,” Hunpe said. The lawmaker said that he was aware of the difficulties being experienced by people as a result of the exercise in view of the cordial business relations existing between the people of Badagry and Benin communities. “The traffic jam experienced daily by motorists and passengers along Seme -Badagry road due to the activities of the task force is hectic, we know. “But, all things work for good, as I am sure the country will overcome all the challenges it is currently facing,” he said. He urged residents of Badagry and other border towns not to engage in smuggling of contranbands into the country through the border. He restated his commitment to the fulfillment of his electoral promises which included provision of water, road, schools and empowerment for youths in the border communities. “I am determined to make an impact in these areas through robust legislations and advocacy for the plight of our people,” said the lawmaker. NAN reports that the Customs Spokesman, Joseph Attah, had in a statement said that the joint border security exercise was being conducted in 25 states across the South-South, South-West, North-Central and North-West zones. He explained that the ongoing exercise was to tackle trans-border crimes and urged the public and travellers to go about their businesses without apprehension, stressing that “those with legitimate engagements should have nothing to be afraid of”. NAN reports that many travellers and vehicles were stranded for hours at Seme border post following the exercise as incoming travelers and vehicles were being thoroughly searched by additional security personnel drafted to the area. The joint border security exercise, code-named ‘Ex-Swift Response’, was ordered by the Federal Government and was aimed at securing Nigeria’s land and maritime borders. The exercise commenced last Tuesday and was being jointly conducted by the customs, immigration, police and military personnel and coordinated by the Office of the National Security Adviser. (NAN)