The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has set up a reconciliation committee to resolve the crisis in the Lagos State chapter. The panel headed by Senator Ben Obi has met with aggrieved chieftains. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE examines the prospects and constraints of the peace moves. THE Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been embroiled in  crisis for a long time. The division is responsible for the setbacks it is facing as an opposition party. But, what the PDP is facing is not different from what other parties are facing, except that the warring factions have refused to embraced peace. The internal squabble affected the party during the 2015 general elections. Political analysts say the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has taken advantage of the gap to further expand its coast. The division is responsible for the exit of some notable chieftains from the party, including former chairman Moshood Salvador and Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe. Observers say if the PDP fails to reconcile its factions, more damage would be done. The PDP needs to evolve a well-organised crisis management strategy, where all parties involved in the imbroglio must be made to sheathe their sword and face the reality. They are of the view that the factions must drop their extreme positions and embrace unity. Die-hard supporters of the party believe peace is achievable, if necessary steps are taken to carry everybody along. According to them the combatants must be willing to end the crisis, because as long as the crisis lingers the party is not likely to forge ahead. There may be no membership drive and chance of winning future elections. The fortunes of the Lagos PDP have drastically depreciated in the face of the intra-party squabble. The National Working Committee (NWC) sent a delegation headed by Chief Ben Obi, to reconcile the warring factions. The delegation, which met behind closed doors with the combatants, was unable to broker peace. Sources said the committee could not achieve what it set out to do, but succeeded in getting the message across to them. The former Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George, was absent at the reconciliation meeting. Those present include former governorship Jimi Agbaje, Dr. Adegbola Domini and Mr. Segun Adewale. Though the committee may not have achieved its objective, PDP stalwarts said it was a right step in the right direction. They urged the party to intensify efforts to end the protracted crisis. All eyes are on the committee, which is made up of tested mediators and party loyalists, to bring the protracted crisis to an end. But, other observers say it is not possible to reconcile the aggrieved chieftains, because some of them have become sworn enemies. A chieftain said: “Some of them have even personalised the issue and are not ready to change their positions. For instance, members of one faction vowed that as long as the Lagos PDP leadership remains with Chief Olabode George they he will have nothing tangible to do with the party.” The Vice National Chairman, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, said the party would bounce back. He said the division is due to external intrusion, adding that the APC has used the resources at its disposal to poach members and set them against one another. Olafeso said immediately after the general elections, the NWC met and reviewed the developments in Lagos. He said the recommendation from the reconciliation committee would restore peace. He said: “We set up a committee headed by Senator Ben Obi, who is more or less a Lagosian by birth. We are very confident that his recommendation for a new beginning will make better contribution and impact for Lagos PDP. “We are aware that since 1999 the PDP has not won anything substantial in Lagos, despite its entrenchment and the massive support it enjoys from the people of Lagos. So, making the party better in Lagos is what we are trying to do. We have taken a look at the circle of conflicts. “We want to stop that at this moment, so that we can have a three clear years of united party that will come into the general election in 2023. We are doing this in one single focus for winning Lagos State for the PDP. We are doing the best to put our leadership in good shape.” The Southwest leader urged  stakeholders to cooperate with the committee. He said those who were ready to sell their birthright for a pot of pottage should think twice. Olafeso said the conflicts is resolvable. He said everybody must be ready to make sacrifice. He added: “So, immediately after the sitting of the Ben Obi committee, we set up a reconciliation committee that is working hard to end the division. We are urging all our people to come together. Part of the problems of the PDP in Lagos is the infiltration by the APC into our rank and file. “They use the resources available to them to divide us, but now that the people have seen consequences of being divided, I think it is about time for those who are selling themselves for pittance to come together as one. For us in the Southwest, I think the leadership is determined; there is no option than to have a formidable leadership in Lagos. “That is what we are going to do and we are committed to ensuring internal democracy, committed to scout and hunt for quality leaders. We will continue to ensure we manage our own conflicts in such a way everybody will see himself as a stakeholder.” Stakeholders also believe that Lagos PDP would not face any tough challenge in resolving its scores. They are of the opinion that the leadership must follow due process. According to a chieftain, “As long as the various factions recognize the fact that some people sacrificed to build the party and made quantum contributions to the growth of the party, then the problem is half solved.” Former Minister of Transport Ebenezer Babatope said George could not be wished away in Lagos PDP. He said those trying to find fault in his leadership are missing the point. He said there was no crisis in the chapter, adding that some people are merely trying to bite more than they can chew. He added that, if those pitching their tent against George retrace their steps, peace will return to the party. Babatope said: “I must be frank with you; I don’t see any division in the Lagos PDP. Those who are creating problems are those who are have something to hide. They believe that without them nobody can do it. I must urge them to rally round the leadership of Chief Olabode George and everything will be okay; instead of beating about the bush. “I strongly believe that if they support the leadership of Olabode George, there will be no problem. I do hope that they will retrace their steps, because Bode George is always there for all of them. I am not from Lagos State, but having been in Lagos for many years, I will urge them to unite. “I want to appeal to them to go and study very hard the Ben Obi panacea for resolving the crisis.” The Publicity Secretary, Mr Taofik Gani, said the NWC had intervened in the crisis. He said the Obi committee met with the factions. He said: “The issues are being resolved. The NWC has waded in. That is why the Obi team was in Lagos and they met the parties, including the PDP governorship candidate, Jimi Agbaje. Stakeholders spoke their minds and it was a fruitful meeting. The team is back to Abuja to submit its reports. “The NWC will get back to us on the way forward. The party will overcome its present challenges and bounce back in the state.” Gani said the disagreements were normal in politics, adding that the feuding camp have shown commitment to work towards unity. He said the chapter would be repositioned after the reconciliation, to play its role as an opposition. Much is expected from the Obi committee because past efforts to end the lingering crisis failed. Stakeholders are watching with keen interests to see how the chapter can bounce back. This will depend on the success of the reconciliation committee. 