The Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) on Wednesday, raised the alarm that the Federal Government has prevented doctors from treating its leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky in Madenta Hospital, India. Secretary General Academic Forum of the IMN, Abdullahi Musa, who briefed reporters in Abuja on the current development in India disclosed that the Federal Government is forcing El-Zakzaky to accept to be treated as a criminal. It was earlier reported that El-Zakzaky and his wife Zeenat, have started receiving treatment at the hospital. The duo arrived in India on last Tuesday with their relatives, security operatives and government officials. Doctors said El-Zakzaky is suffering about eight ailments, including glaucoma, symptoms of Ischemic heart disease, which could lead to Myocardial infraction, severe cervical spondylosis, which has resulted to nerve root compression and causing insomnia, among others.
He said the sect leader also has pellets lodged in his body since the 2015 clash with soldiers in Zaria. These pellets, according to him, are said to be causing lead poisoning in his blood. Musa said after the arrival of Sheikh Zakzaky and his wife at Madenta Hospital in New Delhi, India, Federal Government through it’s security agents that escorted him: “acted in contrary to what was earlier stated in the Kaduna High Court by devising new types of plots to frustrate his Doctors from offering emergency treatment to the Sheikh whose health has seriously deteriorated as a result of the gunshots inflicted on him by the Nigerian army and his subsequent poisoning during his detention in kaduna where he was illegally detained and deprived Medical attention for years. As I am speaking with you, the Federal Government has given El-Zakzaky two hours to accept to be treated as a criminal.” His words: “We will start by thanking those that are participated in the struggle for the freedom of our leader Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky within and outside Nigeria, we hope the struggle will continue until he is free. “They refused to allow the doctors he requested to treat him and his wife access to them completely. “Sheikh Zakzaky himself in an audio clip from the hospital indicate that the security agents are colluding with foreign security agents believed to be working for the interest of American government thereby violating the Nigerian Court ruling. “Earlier, even before the Sheikh arrived the hospital, we gathered from competent source that officials of American embassy in India instructed management of the hospital not to admit the Sheikh there for treatment. “The source added that even as the doctors were enthusiastically waiting to receive the Sheikh to save his life, the American secret agents have threatened the hospital officials not to go ahead to treat the Sheikh at the hospital. “It is mandatory for the Nigerian Government to immediately do the needful and allow Sheikh Zakzaky to see his Doctors and shun all interests of any entity that doesn’t care for the well being of Nigeria and humanity as large . “We are also calling on the international community and people of conscience and humanity, especially those that facilitated the travelling of the Sheikh to India for treatment to prevail on the Nigerian Government and it’s western Masters to stop playing with the life of the innocent leader and who is victim of their continuous plot to ensure that he dies.”