Goods worth millions of Naira were destroyed Monday morning when fire gutted Gatankowa market at Super bus stop in Agbado/Okeodo Local Council Development Area of Lagos State. Although nobody died and no one was injured, over 32 makeshift stalls and clothes were razed. Generators, about five deep freezers, drinks, fruits and buckets were also destroyed. The inferno, which started around 3:20 am, razed the fairly used clothes’ shops opposite the Central Mosque. It was put out about 6am. Officials of the Lagos State Fire Service, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency Response Unit, police and traders were on ground to quench the fire and prevent it from spreading to other parts of the market. The Nation learnt that the fire began when electricity was restored around 3:20am. The power was said to have sparked, leading to the inferno. The fire was, however, said to have been escalated by the generators with fuel, which were locked up in the stalls. At press time, many of the victims were picking debris from their stalls. Read Also: A victim, who owns a shop where he irons clothes, Yahyah Kaali, said his customers’ clothes meant for ironing had been destroyed. He said it was electricity supply to the area that caused the fire. “I sleep in this market. It was when power was restored to this area that something sparked, leading to fire outbreak. My shop was razed too,” Kaali added. A resident, Ekundayo Onilude, said about 32 stalls were destroyed. He said: “They majorly sell jeans in this section of the market and most of the stalls affected are owned by the Hausa. Many jeans, among other clothes, were burnt. Five deep freezers and drinks, a big generator and other small generators locked in the shops overnight were also destroyed. It was the generators that fuelled the fire.” Onilude said the fire started around 3:20am when electricity was restored, noting that there was a spark. “Officials of the Fire Service at Ile Epo came and said there was no water in their tanks. So people at the market tried to put out the fire before those from Alausa arrived around 5am. By then many stalls had been burnt. They quenched the fire around 6am. “Everybody here said it was the supply of electricity to the area that led to a spark and then the fire outbreak. A fruit seller, who preferred anonymity, said her fruits, buckets and other goods she sold in the market were destroyed.