Gernot Rohr’s mien puts you off at first contact, although his wiry look suggests that he thinks round the clock about his job. Rohr isn’t scared to talk about his job. He listens and waits to answer questions, showing his depth and willingness to improve on his work ethics. He comes across as a man who is determined to meet his targets, except those set for him by his employers, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), given the potential of our players. NFF’s mandate to Rohr showed gross misunderstanding of the brand that they had. Otherwise, how do you task Rohr with a semi-final mandate at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, where 99 per cent (Only goalkeeper Ikechukwu Ezenwa plays in the domestic league) of his boys play in Europe. The argument that Nigeria had missed the last two editions is laughable and can the likened to doubting the predatory instincts of the lion simply because it had been ill. Nigeria, given the abundance of talents in the country’s 774 Local government areas should win the continent’s biggest soccer diadem in default – it should be our birthright. The 2019 Africa Cup of Nations is over with Nigeria belittling herself with a bronze medal, largely because we make our players look like they are indispensable. Little wonder they are easily provoked and ready to upset the applecart for lucre. They pour odium on the country over things they dare not do in their European clubs. The best way to stop this show of shame is for both the NFF and Rohr to drop the ringleaders. Besides, those who have spent close to six years in the team should be eased off, if we are sincere in our quest to excel at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. It isn’t enough to bask in the fact that Nigeria fields the youngest set of players at competitions, like Rohr always says. It will be worth celebrating, if these young lads qualify Nigeria for the Qatar 2022 World Cup final. Such a feat will open new vistas for the players and persuade foreign scouts to visit Nigeria in search for budding talents. The invasion of the country with foreigners will elicit good business deals which will invariably rub off on the quality of our domestic leagues and competitions. The spiral effects of attending big soccer tournaments have been lost on us because our mentality of perpetually rebuilding our teams after every failed adventure. Winners of tournaments are built from generations (at least two) of previous appearances), hence the fluidity in their games. The growth pattern is such that engages the good players in their age grade teams when a vacuum exists. This transition is possible because coaches at the age grade levels are integrated into the senior from when the country’s playing style evolves. Nobody can fault this NFF board in terms of getting quality matches for the Super Eagles. Unlike in the past when such Grade A games are played mostly on the pages of the newspapers, this new NFF get their friendly games confirmed by the opponents to throw into the dustbin any thoughts of it being fake news. The September 10 international friendly between Nigeria and Ukraine in Dnipro is a superb test for the Eagles since the Ukrainians are presently ranked 25th in the world unlike Nigeria which is 33rd. Yet, this game provides the best test for our goalkeepers comprising Francis Uzoho (Anorthosis Famagusta, Cyprus); Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Heartland FC) and Emil Maduka Okoye (Fortuna Dusseldorf, Germany). Not a few Nigerians have celebrated the exit of Daniel Akpeyi, with a few others pleading that he shouldn’t return to the team, if the coach knows his onions. This latter group are not raising the alarm over nothing since we have this tendency of unearthing forgotten stars under the guise of trying to tap from their experience. I always ask when the younger ones will garner such experience when they are benched by older but ageing stars? I can’t fault Rohr’s preference for Emil Maduka Okoye (Fortuna Dusseldorf, Germany) because we watch him weekly where he has distinguished himself in matches. I wish we had a more vibrant domestic league administered by people who can be challenged to ensure that Super Eagles is populated by home-grown players by 2022, not those who remember the league exists, only when the season begins. Goalkeeping has been Eagles’ bane. Rohr needs to recruit a renowned goalkeeper’s trainer to drill those invited, although his Nigerian assistants were goalkeepers for the same team. Clemens Westerhof did that for the Eagles and it worked perfectly. It is laughable that our goalkeepers at the Africa Cup of Nations set a defensive wall, yet they stood behind it, leaving sufficient gap for the strikers to score the goals. If Rohr feels comfortable with his assistants, then he should insist on inviting only those who play regularly in Europe. One of the problematic areas of the Eagles at the 32nd africa Cup of Nations was its defence. Our defenders were slow to react to passes and lacked the pace to outrun the strikers. I thought Rohr would address this problem. Yet, Rohr re-invited Leon Balogun for the September 10 international game against Ukraine, even as he hasn’t played a game for Brighton this season. The coach invited the same defenders, giving the impression that they are indispensable. These defenders wouldn’t feel challenged to improve, if they are selected regularly. What beats most pundits hollow about Rohr’s choices, is that he has repeatedly stated that he will overhaul the team’s defence. Is this how he wants to do it? Rohr’s employers should remind him that he should develop the domestic game, which can only happen if he lives with us. He can’t be defining his job schedule when we know that the bulk of players he is banking on began their game here. They would never have played for Nigeria, if the coaches who discovered them relied entirely on foreign-based players. Rohr insulted our sensibilities by sticking with these leaking defence comprising of Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy); Tyronne Ebuehi (FC Benfica, Portugal); Chidozie Awaziem (FC Porto, Portugal); William Ekong (Udinese FC, Italy); Leon Balogun (Brighton & Hove Albion, England); Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain); Jamilu Collins (SC Padeborn 07, Germany); Oluwasemilogo Ajayi (Rotherham United, England). Only Ajayi and Collins are playing active soccer, while the others are either torn between getting new clubs and training for the new season. No prize for predicting that Ukraine will beat Nigeria. It’s the reason Rohr should take risk on some of the good defenders in the domestic game. The argument that it is always difficult to get them entry visas is weak since these logistic details should be embedded in the contract signing documents for such international friendly games. It is true that our foreign legion can easily storm Dnipro in Ukraine. But it doesn’t foreclose the need to impress it on countries willing to pay against Nigeria to consider our domestic league players. I would rather home-based players accompany the team to Ukraine than the litany of Agbada-wearing administrators who have not added value to the game’s growth. The time to plan for the Qatar 2022 World Cup is now, using the qualifiers for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations and the Mundial. No changes in the midfield except for Joe Aribo  who plays for Glasgow Rangers in Scotland. I’ve my reservation for his choice even though I’m not a coach. The Scottish isn’t competitive. the only plus here is that they are in this year’s UEFA Champions League. Only Rohr can explain Aribo’s choice because not many of us watch the Scottish league. I sincerely hope that his choice is spot-on. The midfielders picked such as Alexander Iwobi (Everton FC, England); Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England); Oghenekaro Etebo (Stoke City FC, England); Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City, England) and Joe Aribo (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland) are good. My worry is the placement of Iheanacho as a midfielder. Coaches who have worked with Iheanacho have identified him as the straight-jacket central striker, who cannot function elsewhere but as the traditional number 9. Perhaps, Rohr has something in Iheanacho which others haven’t. But it is important that he plays in the position he trains weekly for his club. The trio of Ndidi, Iwobi and Etebo did well in Egypt. But Rohr needs bigger players in that department, although our smaller ones are good battlers for the ball. My other worry will be their predictable style, which many countries can exploit. We need better players to give them good competition and increase our options during matches. At the Africa Cup of Nations, Eagles struggled with high balls and couldn’t handle situation in between the defence and the midfield. It accounted for the free kicks taken against them. Perhaps, Rohr needs a defensive midfielder to literally sit in front of the two central defenders to plug the holes created by ball dropped behind the midfielders. Rohr has picked  strikers who on their day could win matches for the country provided they get good passes released to them early from the midfield. Forwards such as Ahmed Musa (Al Nassar FC, Saudi Arabia); Victor Osimhen (Lille OSC, France); Moses Simon (Levante FC, Spain); Henry Onyekuru (AS Monaco, France); Samuel Kalu (Girondins Bordeaux, France); Paul Onuachu (FC Midtjyland, Denmark) and Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal FC, Spain) are coaches’ best bets to wreak havoc on any opposition. They are good runners, dribble well but their last touch on the ball, most times are faulty. Rohr would need to place more emphasis on how our boys redouble their efforts when they get towards the opposition’s defence. Only enterprising teams can outrun closely knit defences. Such tact to unlock such defences come with a  lot practice coupled with the resilience of the attackers. Our players should be taught how to be selfless and give the players in the best positions to score the goal the ball. goals count in matches not missed chances. Beating Ukraine in Dnipro is achievable but will require a lot of tact and zeal to win by our players, because they are a very  good team.