Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY) radio  is set to begin transmission in three week. Its Rector, Dr Samson Odedina, said plans were underway for smooth take-off of the medium, which will be christened ‘MAPOLY Radio’. Odedina said this on the sidelines of the 2018/2019 matriculation, which held at Otunba Gbenga Daniel Hall for both full time and part time students. The matriculating students were both national and higher national diplomas. He said the broadcast regulatory body, National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), has granted MAPOLY a license for the station with frequency 99.7FM, noting that management has also set up a committee that would ensure a smooth take-off. “I can tell you that we have a licence and the equipment are already secured. We have a committee that has been given four weeks to come up with modalities for bringing MAPOLY Radio on air.” He said plans were also on to offer two new programmes-Agricultural Science and Fishery as from the 2019/2020 academic session. Odedina said the new Polytechnic Act, which now places the institution at the verge of becoming a degree-awarding, has further empowered it with a new mandate to graduate high-level manpower. He said: “We’re sitting on more than 9,000 hectares of land. At present, we’re not running any agricultural program. We are keying into government policies of agro-based job opportunities. I can tell you that in the next six months, we’ll be inviting NBTE (National Board for Technical Education) to inspect our facilities for agricultural technology and fisheries. That’s where we’re starting from and then we move to Agricultural Engineering. It’s a sure way to go for us. “And if you look at the new Polytechnic Act, polytechnics are not meant to graduate middlemen manpower again, we’re now at liberty to be at par with the university to graduate high level manpower. I can boldly tell you that at MAPOLY, we’re at the verge of becoming a degree-awarding institution.” He described MAPOLY as a reference point in the entrepreneurial, scientific and technological industry, adding that the institution’s graduates have over the years proven to be job creators and role models. He urged students to be focused, committed and ensure discipline in order to graduate in flying colours.