Students’ of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta (MAPOLY), have warned members of the Abeokuta Club to desist from playing politics with their future. The Students’ Union body is telling members of the club not to be a clog in the wheels of  Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun’s plans to restore the 40-year-old institution to status quo by reversing its upgrade to Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology (MAUSTECH), as done by his predecessor. In a statement made available to CAMPUSLIFE, MAPOLY  Students’ Union President Samson Omoniyi expressed displeasure at the club’s position on MAUSTECH and MAPOLY. Omoniyi accused members of the club, led by its president Tokunbo Odebunmi of politicising the issues surrounding the two institutions. CAMPUSLIFE learnt that the club issued a statement where it urged Governor Abiodun not to reverse the law that created MAUSTECH. The club reportedly accused the governor of working against the interest of the Egba, which, according to them, did not have a university. “We wish to express our displeasure towards the position of members and leadership of Abeokuta Club, which we strongly believe consists of intellectuals. However, we consider their actions as an attempt to politicise the good intention of the state government,” Omoniyi said. He continued: “We want to state in clear terms that if the members of Abeokuta Club or any other group refuse to stop playing politics with our school, academics and life, we won’t hesitate to take them on. “The plan by the governor to restore and retain MAPOLY is the best decision and the greatest display of fairness by the governor in the general interest of the state. “We believe that democracy can only be strengthened when stakeholders are not biased along religion and ethnic lines in their analysis of issues bordering on national development. Sentiments will only weaken our democracy. “It is so saddening that a group that failed to lend a voice when the creation and conversion of these institutions, in a mess, now clamours for the retaining of MAUSTECH at the expense of 40-year-old MAPOLY. It will amount to foolishness to kill a 40-year-old king because a prince was born.” “It should be recalled that the motives behind the creation and conversion of Ogun State Polytechnic, MAPOLY and MAUSTECH contributed to the brouhaha that rocked the process which adversely affected academic activities of the institution and the economic fortune of the region.” The Student Union stated that MAPOLY students have suffered enough over the fate of the institution. “We have suffered enough from the confusion that emanated from the creation and conversion process. We cannot afford to experience such again. “MAPOLY, our heritage, must be sustained, strengthened and transformed to improve its quality. “We want to commend Governor Abiodun for his swift response to every issue that affects MAPOLY and the education system in general. We also look forward to his intervention on the bad state of the road that links the school’s gate from Iyana-Oloke junction,” the students concluded.