Twenty graduates of an Itsekiri Regional Development Committee (IRDC) sponsored ‘agripreneur’ scheme have become beneficiaries of N12 million business support grant from the committee. The beneficiaries, who underwent one year intensive training in cassava, plantain and aquaculture production, were unveiled and presented with the grant of N600, 000 each, at a ceremony in Warri, Delta State. Speaking at the graduation ceremony, the Chairman of IRDC, Austin Oniyesan, explained that the N12 million grant was given to the beneficiaries to enable them to use agriculture and agribusiness as means to generate income and provide employment for youths. Oniyesan commended Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL), the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), the PIND Foundation and members of his executive committee for making the pilot programme a huge success. He advised the beneficiaries to reflect on the experiences they garnered during the training, even as he urged them to make good use of the start-up grant. In his address, the General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs (PGPA) of CNL, Mr. Esimaje Brikinn, explained that the Agripreneur Project was specifically designed to empower youths, “in target RDCs to embrace agriculture and agribusiness as an income-generating activity, provide opportunities for stimulating socio-economic development in the selected communities, offering secondary benefits to the larger society as a whole”, as well as “boost the availability of agriculture produce for local community suppliers”. Mr. Brikinn, who was represented by the Area Manager, PGPA, Field Operation, Warri, Mr. Sam Daibo, noted that CNL partnered IITA in the Agripreneur Project, “to stimulate socio-economic development in the Regional Development Committees under the Global Memorandum of Understanding”. While noting that opportunities for large-scale employment of labour in the oil and gas industry are “extremely limited”, he revealed that another set of 40 people are set to commence Agripreneurs’ training. The Youth Consultant, IITA, Arome Alfa, stated that some of the graduates have already commenced agro-based production as a result of the training programme, adding that the Agripreneur initiative has the “production and design into value addition and service provision”, stages. Four of the graduates; Jemide Joseph, Austin Ikpi, Oris Ugbameta and Blessing Afini, shared their knowledge in plantain, cassava and fish production as well as plantain micro-propagation.