Big Brother Naija (BBN) Season 4 housemate, Khafi Kareem, simply called Khafi, has demanded an immediate retraction of the publication by The Sun UK (United Kingdom) and a public apology to her within the next 48 hours. Khafi, who, as part of the rules in BBNaija reality show, did not have access to phones, reacted to the story published by The Sun UK on August 13, through her management. Khafi’s management said legal options were also being considered. They described the story as brazenly sensational and defamatory, written in poor taste without considering the ethics of journalism, which seeks balance and objectivity. The statement reads: “The attention of Khafi’s management has been drawn to a publication by The Sun UK of Tuesday, August 13, titled: ‘LOIN OF DUTY Met Police “poster girl” faces sack for “having sex” on Nigerian Big Brother after being told not to take part’. “At no time did The Sun UK send a mail of inquiry to Khafi’s official email, which is blasted across her social media platforms under active management, to confirm or refute the claims in the publication. “Khafi’s side of the story is deliberately and conveniently omitted to sell a pre-conceived narrative while responses from ‘outraged colleagues’ and ‘other papers’ riddle the publication. “This comes from a repressive culture of shaming and characterising women for their sexual decisions and life choices. “We find The Sun UK’s publication repulsive and damaging to the image and livelihood of our client. “Khafi is a proud black female police officer who prides herself in her work and has dedicated her youthful years protecting and serving with her many skills, which include the ability to speak at least five international languages.” Khafi, a Metropolitan Police officer in the UK, is currently under investigation for appearing on the reality TV show without permission. According The Sun UK, the BBNaija contestant was on unpaid leave granted “for an unrelated ­reason”. “The Met is aware that the officer has since appeared on the show without authority. The Directorate of Professional Standards has been informed and will be carrying out an investigation into the circumstances. “The Met does not support the officer’s appearance nor does she represent the Met whilst appearing on the show. “All officers have a duty to behave with professionalism and in a manner that does not bring the Met into disrepute, whether on or off duty.” The report concluded that she would be dealt for alleged misconduct proceedings. Khafi’s flirting with a fellow housemate, Gedoni, might have added to the query, as the duo were always spotted together on several occasions.