Immediate past Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on National Social Investment Program, Ismaeel Ahmed, has been named among the 100 global Most Influential People of African Descent (MILDA) Under 40, it was learnt. He thus joined 99 other global leaders to be recognised with the special recognition as one of MIPAD Global in the Politics and Governance category. It was also learnt that Ahmed is expected to ring the closing bell of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in Lagos on August 30, as part of the MIPAD celebration of excellence. The former presidential aide, who has officially joined the ‘MIPAD Class of 2019’, will receive his honour in September in New York City, the United States of America (U.S.A), following the opening of the 74th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). He will push for the support of the implementation of United Nation’s International Decade of African Descent 2015 -2024. According to MIPAD, a New York-based organisation, Ahmed was honoured based on his “commitment to excellence”. The recognition also comes in line with the first pillar of the United Nations International Decade for People of African Descent: RECOGNITION. Among those to be honoured in New York are: Naomi Osaka from Japan, Prince E. A. of U.S.A, Kamissa Camara from Mali, Lukwesa Morin of France/Zambia, King Rukidi IV of Toro from Uganda, William Heard from U.S.A, among others. Joining Barrister Ismaeel in the ringing of the Closing Bell of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) are Abisoye Ajayi-Akinfolarin, founder, Pearls Africa Youth Foundation; popular Nigerian songwriter and singer, Asa Bukola Elemide; US Foreign Service Officer, Visa Chief, US Embassy, Abuja, Carolyn Joy; CEO of Del-York Creative Academy, Linus Idahosa; Director-General, Franco-Nigerian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Moses Umoru, and amongst others. MIPAD is a global civil society initiative in support of the United Nations International Decade for People of African Descent, focusing our efforts on the 1st pillar; RECOGNITION. MIPAD publishes a unique global 100 list that identifies high achievers of African descent worldwide, pairing those based across the Diaspora with their counterparts inside Africa, across various verticals, annually until 2024.