Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, has again reassured that Nigeria’s future is bright going by the progress being made by the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). He spoke on Thursday night during the 2nd National MSME Awards 2019 Next Level, held at the old Banquet Hall of the State House, Abuja. At the event, Anambra State was named as the most supportive MSME state in Nigeria. Also at the event a new Hyundai Creta jeep and N1 million was won by Olatayo Ifeoluwa of Soupah Limited for the MSME of the year. Hyundai Accent car for the Male outstanding MSME participants of the year was won by Aminu Miko of Hajaraihsan FZE. He also got N1 million. The third car, also Hyundai Accent car for the Female outstanding MSME participants of the year was won by Onwuasanya Norah of Norahkulture Creations, with N1 million cheque. Osinbajo congratulated all the winners as he stressed that they have been recognized for their innovations and achievements. He said that over 1,500 micro, MSMEs, are to benefit directly from the first phase of the Nigerian government’s shared facility scheme, which commences in the first quarter of next year. The project will provide MSMEs with affordable shared access to essential amenities such as power, high quality operating equipment, broadband connectivity as government works to reduce the cost of operation of these small businesses across the country. According to him, the scheme would be executed in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, the Bank of Industry, BOI, the Nigerian Export and Import Bank, NEXIM, and other private sector organizations. Osinbajo said that already two of the shared facilities have been established in Bauchi and Oyo states, explaining that the scheme would be extended to all states in Nigeria. “Each of the 36 states and the FCT (Federal Capital Territory) will have a minimum of one shared facility, which will be located in identified clusters, where MSMEs already operate in significant numbers,” Osinbajo said. According to him, the identified clusters included Ogbunike, Anambra State; Ikot Abasi, Akwa Ibom State; the Computer Village, Lagos State; Ukum, Benue State; Wamakko, Sokoto State; Soba, Kaduna State; Egbe Eyewa, Ogun State and Arochukwu, Abia State. Osinbajo said government’s efforts were geared towards changing the orientation of regulators to bring them in line with the Buhari administration’s policy of driving the growth of MSMEs in the country. “We recognize that our future national prosperity will be consummated by the handshake between the business environment and talents and creativity. Continue on page 2