Anambra-born Nollywood actor, Stanley Ebuka Nzediegwu, popular known as Stan Nze, is a trailblazer who has defied all odds to be famous in the movie industry. In this Interview with BRIDGET ONWUNEME, the Tinsel-actor who was recently featured on BBC Igbo, speaks on his pet project for kid actors, called ‘Kids Can Act Project’ and how watching some top Nollywood actors encouraged him to pick interest in acting. Excerpts. Can you share your grass to grace story? I basically started acting without knowing anybody in particular. I can remember that when I started, they used to say, ‘you need to know someone, either a producer, director or a film star’, but I did not know anyone. What I had was talent to give and I believed in God and was hoping that something good would come my way. When I started, it was hard for people to believe in me. I did not know where I was heading to. I was just like every ordinary boy who could not do so much for himself, but striving hard to be heard. Then, one of my aunt’s had said, ‘this boy would not be able to act’. As God would have it, it’s been 10 years down the line. I started from the bottom and now I am here. Although, not yet where I would love to be, but for coming this far in my career, I am grateful. What inspired you to go into acting? Basically, one thing that inspired me into acting was watching TV. I remember that when I had finished secondary school, I saw a couple of things on TV. One of those programmes were ‘Arise Africa’. I also saw an opening which read, ‘if you want to act, contact us’. Then I saw a couple other people around me who were into acting.  One of those persons was Oge Okoye. She actually stayed in the same compound with us back then. She was a sort of inspiration to me as well because I could see her go out every day, and saw her  living that life that really got me interested. I saw how she differentiated her real life from that which she interpreted in her roles as an actress. I thought that was something I would like to pull off. Another actor who inspired me was Mike Ezuronye. I felt his acting was phenomenal and really hoped to replicate that if I ever got into the movie industry. So, those were some of the inspirations that launched me into my acting career. Which movies brought you to limelight? There is no one I will say in particular that brought me to limelight. At different points in my career, different films I featured in have changed my life in some ways. I’ve done different things on different sets. One of my first major breaks was Tinsel. I got in on the set of Tinsel in the year 2011. It was the biggest thing on TV at that time, if not now. It was a big deal for me. I had auditioned for season two, but was not picked. I auditioned again for season four and got a really good role. Even till now, people still recognize me as ‘Ohakanu’ of Tinsel. That did a lot for me. After that, I did my first major movie titled ‘Murder in Prime Suite’, which stars Joseph Benjamin, Keira Hewatch, Okey Uzoeshi, Chelsea Eze and myself. That was the first time I was in a film, playing a supporting role. I got a couple of nominations after that at the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards (AMVCA) and African Movie Academy Awards (AMAA). After then, I acted  in a film titled, ‘Just Not Married’ in 2016. That, I’ll refer to as another major break. It was screened at the Toronto International Film Festival, and it gave me my biggest nominations so far. I was nominated as best actor in Best of Nollywood Awards and Best Actor for Zulu African Film Awards (ZAFA). Basically, the year 2016 was a break-out year for me. I also got nominated, and won Most Fashionable Fast Rising Actor at the Nigerian Model Achievers Awards. It was like the year everyone said, ‘Oh! Eyes on Stan Nze’. All of the awards and nominations came because of the glamour, promotions and how people loved and received the movies. Tell us more about the ‘Kids Can Act Project’? The ‘Kids Can Act Project’ is one for children from age eight to 14. I initiated the project to discover kids that could act, train them and launch them into Nollywood. For this year, we had the kids sending in videos  because in as much as we want to train these kids, we need to be sure that they have some talents already. That’s why we asked them to send videos. We had close to  100 videos, out of that we screened and selected about 23 of them, who would eventually get into the camp. We did trainings for the kids for two weeks, and had actors like Chinedu Ikedieze, Somadina Adinma, Samuel Ajibola, and Ebele Okaro coming to encourage and give them a boost. We did a short film with them titled ‘Beautiful Things’. We wanted to give these kids a real Nollywood experience as well as prepare them for the industry through this film. It was amazing and phenomenal. I’ve already been receiving calls from people requesting for kid actors. How do you gather these kids and what facilities do you have to equip them? We had put out promotional materials on Instagram, Facebook, and WhatsApp asking people to share, because we wanted to give every child an opportunity into the Nigerian movie Industry. Are you currently working on any other project? This year I have been trying to work on different things aside acting for films. I have got a training I did in May in which I shot a short film myself and I am also working on a stage project. I am actually rehearsing for a stage play called ‘Night Food’, which is going to be showing every Sunday in the month of September at the Terra Culture Arena. The stage play will be shown there every Sunday, except September 15th. The rehearsals have been intense and tiring. I am pretty nervous and sometimes develop cold feet, because this is not my terrain. I am not used to stage plays but have always been acting in films. This nervousness is happening because for films, if I make a mistake, the director could always cut and make me take it over again, but it’s not so for stage plays. This is a one-take thing, and it freaked me out a bit. How was it working on the set of Tinsel? I have not shot on Tinsel in almost three to four years now. Although my experience then was fun, it was one of the greatest experiences I have had. It was such a professional set and it thought me a lot of things. I had even learnt producing, work ethics, and different other things. The actors on set were wonderful. I am glad I was exposed to such knowledge in the early stage of my career. You were featured on BBC Igbo recently, tell us more about that? Yes I was on BBC Igbo. Actually, they had been trying to get me on the show for quite a while, but my schedule was a challenge. I finally made it for the show this month and it was pretty fun. The show is a cool and relaxed platform, were I just had to express myself in Igbo language, answer the questions thrown at me to the best of my ability, making it fun for my fans. I enjoyed every bit of it and hope to do more. Aside acting, what else do you do? Well, aside acting, I produce films and also model. I have actually been producing films since 2015. I produced my first film titled ‘Backdrop’. It stars Kalu Ikeagu, Sandra Eze, Mary Lazarus and I. Before the ‘Kids Can Act Project’, I had formed a management for kids, where one can get qualitative kid actors anytime, anyday. What has been your source of inspiration this far? My greatest source of inspiration is God. He can never fail me. He is my run-to person anyday and anytime. He is the one I talk to when I begin to experience some sort of crossroad or roadblock in my life. Asides that, I get really inspired by my community and environment. I learn from everyday stories. I take stories out of gist which I might eventually turn into a film. Inspiration can come from anywhere, but God is my major inspiration. You once said you were not ready for marriage, have you changed your mind on that? (Laughs) that interview where I said I was not ready to get married took place like five years ago. I am ready to settle down now. It’s one of the things on my mind. That is the much I can say about that. How do you handle advances from female fans? For that, I actually ask God everyday for the grace to handle advances. Sometimes I ignore, other times I try to act nice, but of course I cannot reply every DM, chat, or take every call. I try as much as possible to be there for my fans, because they are the reason am doing this, and for being relevant in the society. If they say they are no longer watching my films, I might as well pack my things and go back to my village. They are the ones that keep me going and I try to give them the attention they deserve. What is the craziest experience you have had with a fan? I have a lot of decent fans. Although I’ve met a couple of ladies once in a while who would see me in public places and exclaim, ‘Oh my God, is that you? Can I get a hug?’ and things like that. I try to grant that request most times though. Once, I went to buy bread at a bakery and one of my female fans had spotted me there. The lady was just all over me and it was like the only thing left for her to do was to follow me home that day. That very experience was a bit embarrassing though. But it still gave me joy to know that I am loved by people and they actually love my works. I have not had any extreme embarrassing moments with a fan. Can you share something we do not know about Stan Nze? One thing a lot of people do not know is that I am a lover of God. Like I love Jesus, I love God with all my heart. God influences my decisions and my career. Some people think I am a bad boy, because of some roles I play in movies. I am a cool, calm, and calculated gentleman. The notion people have about me being a bad boy because of some movie roles, is wrong. I am gentle. Who are your role models in the industry? I love RMD so much. He is one person in the industry I look up to. My other role model is Mo Abudu. She is an amazing person.