Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari has said that the gas pipeline that ruptured in Delta State would not affect power supply in the country. A gas pipeline was reported to have exploded in Otu-Jeremi in Ughelli South Local Government Area of Delta State. The Abuna Crude Truck Line at OML 34 is jointly operated by the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), the production arm of NNPC and ND Western, an indigenous oil firm. Mallam Kyari dispel rumour that it was gas explosion but a rupture that would be fixed within three days. Speaking to Journalists in Benin City shortly after performing the ceremonial tee-off of the 2019 NNPC Upstream Golf Tournament, Kyari said, “It was not an explosion but a rupture. Our team have moved to site and in three days we are going to fix it. We have contained the spill that is coming from that rupture so it is a rupture and not an explosion “There is no fire on that place. It will also not have effect on power supply because we are going to fix it three days.” On the NNPC golf tournament being held at the Benin Golf Club, Kyari said “This place is very important to NNPC because majority of or so much of our operations take place in this area, our staff live here and thy are part of the usual practice of golf to relax and enjoy themselves in their spare time that is why we are very interested in this place and not only that, the creme de la creme of the society live around here in the town and our operation require the help and support of everyone to succeed so therefore we always see it as an opportunity to always meet with our stakeholders so that they can help us make sure that the objective of the collaboration which is to grow production, to grow reserve and peace in the Niger Delta is achieved.” On his part, Captain of Benin Golf Club, Prince Aghatise Ereduauwa commended the relationship the Club has had with NNPC. He said “The relationship has been very cordial and the have meet up with their social responsibility, we have cooperated for so many years”