Renowned media personality and member of the Nigerian Guild of Editors, Kingsley Osadolor, has urged journalists in Nigeria to be committed to their role as watchdogs of the society to protect the nation’s democracy. Osadolor, who made the call in Nsukka, at the 12th Jackson annual lecture of the Department of Mass Communication, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN), said the phenomenon of gagging the media was a primary threat to the ability of the pen profession to exercise its constitutional and professional mandate with respect to global best practice. The ‘84 set of the UNN Mass Communication graduates are regarded as ‘Jacksonites’ Delivering a lecture entitled: “Media freedom: Utilitarian imperative and the pursuit of democratic ends” Osadolor, also a legal practitioner and the 1984 best graduating student in the department, noted that the fourth estate must constantly remind itself of its mission as the ‘watchdog’ and not the ‘lapdog’ of the society. He said: “Though media offerings may be mediated by ownership and editorial policy, the goal of the media should remain one of providing the citizens the information for effective participation in civic affairs. “The media can promote new ideas, thoughts and instigate actions through its watchdog role”. He continued:“Perhaps the greatest impediment to the full realisation of the watchdog role is media capture, which results in deference and subservience to the other realms and influential citizens, including powerful corporations, over whom the fourth estate is supposed to play the role of sentinel. Ownership, commercial influence, ideology, governmental and partisan political pressures, as well as advertiser blackmail, are key factors in media capture.” Osadolor, also a former Editor of The Guardian on Sunday and South Africa correspondent of The African Guardian, added that as long as democracy was practised in any country, the media would continue to witness challenges and weaknesses of democratic government. He urged media practitioners to brace up and face the responsibility of ‘seeking and telling the truth’. Earlier  during his visit to the office of the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Charles Igwe, Osadolor had admonished management to fastrack a request by the Jacksonites alumni for a portion of land for the proposed School of Communication and Media Studies project. Responding, Prof Igwe had  vowed to make available the said land within two weeks. Said Igwe: “We will invite the (university) Director of Physical Planning. That land must be given to you in the next two weeks. You will secure possession of that land in the next two weeks so that these Jacksonites when they come, we will show them the piece of land. “I think we have a lot to learn from the Jacksonite because so far, they have made the right move and we are encouraging graduates of other departments and faculties to learn from them.”