FORMER Lagos State Governor Babatunde Fashola is minister of works and housing as President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday inaugurated his second term cabinet. The ministry of power which he supervised was carved out and assigned to Sale Mamman as minister and Goddy Jedi-Agba as minister of state. Dr. Chris Ngige (Labour & Employment), Geofrey Onyeama (Foreign), Chibuike Amaechi (Transportation), Lai Mohammaed (Information), Hadi Sirika (Aviation) Adamu Adamu (Education) and Zainab Ahmed (Finance) retained their portfolios. The Finance minister got an added assignment of running Budget and Planning. Former Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola got the ministry of Interior while Mr. Sunday Dare is the minister of youths and sports. The southwest zone also holds the ministries of mines and steel headed by Mr Olamilekan Adegbite and Labour (State) Senator Tayo Alasoadura. The second Kwara state representative in the cabinet, Gbemisola Saraki, is minister of Transportation (State). The ministers unfolded their plans  after President Buhari constituted his second term cabinet Forty three ministers including seven women were inaugurated and assigned portfolios. Many of the ministers were at their ministries after taking the oath of office. Dr. Ngige, promised to clear the cloud over the implementation of the new national minimum wage. He said: “We have so many outstanding issues to be addressed, some of them urgently too. As we speak, SSANU, NASU are on strike and the university system is not bubbling, but going comatose. So, we have to address that issue urgently. “We also have the issue of minimum wage consequential adjustment. My Permanent Secretary is handling it and they have made some progress. By tomorrow (today), we will get the hand over note from him and myself and the Minister of State will study it and know how to key in.” Aregbesola pledged to work with the staffers and Service Chiefs to ensure internal security of the country. He noted that the issues of insecurity, economic development and the fight against corruption remained the policy thrust of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. Aregbesola said security would be given the highest focus, adding that he would support the staffers to be more efficient in their duties. The minister expressed happiness for the rousing welcome from the staffers, saying “they gave me the best African welcome ever”. Minister for Police Affairs Mohammed Dingyadi pledged to work with staffers to fight insurgency and other forms of instability in the country. He promised to work in line with the cardinal objectives of the Buhari administration. He expressed optimism that the ministry would give priority to fighting insurgency in the Northeast and other parts of the country, noting that nothing positive could be achieved without peace. Inspector General of Police Muhammed Adamu expressed joy for having the Police Affairs ministry re-introduced by President Buhari. “It is a great joy for me that the Police has its own ministry out of the ministry of Interior. We are very happy today,” he said. Minister of Mines and Steel Development Mr Olamilekan Adegbite promised to lift Nigerians out of poverty by developing the nation’s endowed natural resources. “I intend to learn the robes quickly with the Minister of State, so that we can contribute our quota to the development of the country, especially with regards to lifting people out of poverty. “Mr President has promised to lift 100 million people out of poverty in 10 years, at the end of tenure of this administration which is four years. We want to at least achieve 40 per cent of that,’’ he said, adding: “I intend to learn quickly from all of you. I have been following the progress of Dr Kayode Fayemi, the immediate past minister of this ministry who did a lot of work. Adegbite expressed optimism that the administration would achieve a lot at delivering the dividends of democracy. The minister said he would stamp out corruption in the sector in line with the agenda of the Buhari administration. He said: “Corruption fight begins with all of us, if we can be disciplined in the little things we do in our privacy, it will be easier to fight corruption in the country. Dr Uchechukwu Ogah, the Minister of State for the ministry said: “We will all work as a team to take this ministry to an enviable position.’’ Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, promised to work with aviation unions to advance the sector and position it to meet emerging challenges. . The minister commended the unions and staff for welcoming him warmly into office, declaring their support and solidarity as “amazing”. “I promise that there will be good understanding between you and me to drive the activities of our industry towards enhancing national development. “I will do everything possible to make the ministry grow up. “This task, I think, is for you as well; not for me alone. It is for all of us. “We will continue to hold stakeholders’ meetings with the unions, staff and the management. “We will make what you are doing better. The roadmap is there; we will make things better including your welfare,” Sirika said. According to him, Nigeria will work together with other countries to promote the aviation sector globally, pointing out that the sector contributes much to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of any country. He also said that efforts would be made to improve safety and security in the sector. Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola (SAN) advised the staff of the ministry to consider how they could reduce cost and  wastages. The minister said he expected all departments, agencies and parastatals under the ministry to evolve ways of cutting costs during project  implementations. The minister said the measure would assist the government to ensure utmost prudence in handling projects. Fashola also advised the staff to always ensure thoroughness while preparing the ministry’s annual budget to boost efficiency. “For this reason, members of staff will need to make their travelling   and going on annual  leave falling within  October and November very flexible to ensure successful budgeting,” he said. Minister of State, Abubakar  Aliyu, said  he had a long working relationship with Fashola, adding: “ I pledge to work harmoniously with him and the staff of the ministry.” Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio pledged his commitment to ensure effective development of the Niger Delta region, especially  infrastructure. “I love leaving marks wherever I visit, it is a great privilege on our part being selected to work with you, to see how we can turn around the fortunes of the Niger Delta region. “Of course you know why this ministry was set up, specifically that region would have been like a golden egg but has been neglected for long. “If not because we’re just coming for the first time, I would have asked for your achievements so far,  especially in the areas of construction of bridges,  employment and others. “Being a Niger Delta person, I will ensure that things are better for further and effective development of the region.”    