Miss Masenengen Targba, a 10 year-old Tiv girl from Guma Local Government Area in Benue can said to be an unfortunate female child, as life has not been kind to her. Miss Targba lost her father at the age of five and her young mother immediately re- married another man. Attempt by Miss Targba to co- habitate with her stepfather and mother ended in fiasco as she was severely maltreated beyond description,while her mother could not protect her . When the suffering became unbearable, Miss Targba had no choice than to wonder into the streets of North Bank area of Makurdi, the capital city of Benue, where she begged from house to house looking for daily bread. The Nation gathered from some of her close relations that some times she slept with people just to feed her self . Finally, she met a 17 year-old boy, Terna Tags, a Senior Secondary School 1 student in Nassarawa state in December last year, who had sex with her and got her pregnant at the age of 10 . The matter would have been swept under the carpet but when it became clear that Miss Targba was in a painful labour, her neighbour’s became afraid, thinking that she may die, they immediately took her to General hospital in North Bank and disappeared. But the nurses observed that she can only deliver through caesarean and nobody or relation was present to buy the basic needs of a pregnant woman who was in labour. The general hospital staff raised alarm . Some one posted her condition on Facebook and a Social Media Activist and Humanitarian, Ukan Kurugh saw the post and followed it up by moving the girl to a more standard private hospital called Foundation Hospital in Makurdi. There was an uproar as the man who impregnated her was no where to be found, but police launched a manhunt and he was arrested and detained at by CID at the State Police Command Headquarters in Makurdi. The 10 year-old gave birth to a baby girl through a caesarean operation in Foundation Hospital with the effort of Dr Mdichael Ejiko, at 12 midnight . Parading the suspect before newsmen, the man responsible for the pregnancy told newsmen that the girl came into his room twice to beg money for food before she made love to her on the third time last December . He also admitted that he did not rape the girl as she gave her consent. He further told newsmen that at the time he had sex with her, Targba was not a virgin, but he was ready to take responsibility as a good husband. Police spokes person, Kate Sewuese Anene said investigations is still in progress. Meanwhile the hospital where Targba delivered had been taken over by security personnel and journalist barred from speaking to her . Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development has also taken over the matter as the girl is under their care and custody.