As a school marked its golden jubilee in Kwara State, a clergyman urged the pupils to work hard and shun the craze for money. Rev Ayo-Maria Atoyebi, a retired bishop of the Catholic Church, Ilorin Diocese, was speaking at St Joseph Nursery/Primary School, Ilorin, the state capital, as the school marked its 50th anniversary. Established by the Catholic Church, it was celebration galore for the Ilorin Diocese Catholic family as a whole. During the occasion no fewer than 43 pupils drawn from both nursery and primary sections of the school graduated. In a remark, retired Bishop of Ilorin Diocese, Catholic Church, Rev Atoyebi urged the pupils to imbibe the culture of hard work. Rev Atoyebi added that Jesus Christ was going about preaching the gospel of hard work and industry. “It is the work of your hands that will demonstrate to people who you are. Jesus Christ himself enjoined us to work industriously. It is therefore incumbent on us to do the same. “The sun rises in a place and sets in another place. I therefore urge you to use your intellect well. Don’t follow Yahoo Yahoo boys who want to amass wealth by all means. Children be full of new ideas and follow same by bringing good fruits from positive thinking,” Bishop emeritus added. Guest speaker at the event and a product of the school, Area Commander, Nigeria Police, Ahoada, Rivers state Ladi Sulyman (ACP) reechoed the importance of private sector education in the technological, industrial, economic and political advancement of any nation. ACP Sulyman added: “Nigeria needs more private school sector intervention to enhance its development. Nigeria has tremendous potential resources which can be appropriately developed to make Nigeria one of the most advanced countries in the world. “I see in you (pupils) the Dangotes of tomorrow, the Adenugas of the future and successful and future leaders of tomorrow. These are not impossibilities but what can be achieved with ingredients such as focus, dedication and total commitment. “Against this backdrop, I want to appeal to you to face your study squarely, shun bad group and gang. Say no to cultism, drug and substance abuse as well as all forms of social vices because they will constitute impediments to achieving higher heights in life. If you can do this, I can assure you that the sky is going to be your starting point.” Impressed by the quality of moral and academic education being inculcated in the pupils, the assistant police commissioner said, “I have not been disappointed by the news filtering in about our alma mater, available records show that it is still one of the best in the state in terms of quality of teaching and learning as well as extra-curricular activities. “In some schools, their alumni associations build blocks of classrooms, sporting facilities, staff quarter, transportation, etc, as a way of giving back to their schools which have has made them what they are. This is the area I want our alumni association to look at and I use this medium to call on our past pupils of this school to come and join the association to contribute to the development of the school that nurtured them.” Earlier, Sister-in-charge/head teacher of the school, Rev Sr. Mary Okafor said the school had stood the test of time, adding that “it is still waxing stronger and more relevant as the years roll by.” She said, “I can only imagine the joy of the founding fathers of this prestigious institution whose vision it was to create an educational fortress in the heart of Ilorin, for the betterment of the immediate community, the state and country at large. It is pertinent to note that most schools that later came into existence during those early days have ceased to exist. “The school’s greatest accomplishment is witnessing its students plying the road of success and seeing them display profound wisdom in their actions and maintaining clarity of thoughts in their decision-making. Many of our prodigies are thriving in various fields within and outside the country. “Today, as we celebrate our jubilee graduates and our alumni who have done well to represent the school exceptionally in their respective fields, I want to encourage you young ones to strive hard to become shining examples of this great citadel of learning, so that in a few years to come we will all gather to celebrate you too.”