More condemnation on Monday trailed the attack on former Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu by suspected members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Germany. He was to give a keynote address at the Second Annual Igbo Cultural Festival and Convention organised by Ndi-Igbo in Nuremberg, Germany, on Saturday. IPOB claimed responsibility for the attack in a statement on Sunday, saying it ordered its members in 100 countries to attack Igbo leaders when they see them. Its spokesman Emma Powerful said: “In keeping with the long-standing directive from our leader to hound all instigators of Operation Python Dance, IPOB is glad to report that Ike Ekweremadu was confronted and duly hounded out of a so-called New Yam Festival event in Germany.” Reacting to the attack, the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday asked the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to apologise to Nigerians for supporting IPOB. APC National Publicity Secretary Lanre Issa-Onilu described PDP’s reaction to the attack as hypocritical. The statement reads: “The APC strongly condemns the attack on Senator Ike Ekweremadu…by members of the outlawed IPOB. “Those involved in the despicable actions and the organisation they represent are unworthy in character. “No Nigerian should be assaulted in the manner Senator Ekweremadu was. It is an indecent action and it is below the acceptable standard of behaviour expected of our citizens, whether in Nigeria or abroad. “It is, however, regrettable that some of the people and organisations that had offered these irresponsible elements open support in the past are raising their voices now. “It would be recalled that the main opposition party, the PDP and its leaders, chose to play politics over a matter that called for collective patriotic actions when IPOB raised a terror group in the Southeast. It is clear that PDP and its other short-sighted co-travellers who were the main cheerleaders of IPOB owe this country an apology.” Southeast Governors’ Forum Chairman and Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi said that the problem with the members of the IPOB is illiteracy. He said that majority of them were suffering from illiteracy and needed to be enrolled in school. Umahi made this known while addressing stakeholders of the state during the flag off/ launch of Better Education Service Delivery for All, BESDA, that took place at Akanu Ibiam international conference centre, Abakaliki, Ebonyi state capital. He said: “We have 13.5 percent dropout of school children in Nigeria, this is very dangerous. For me, education is everything. Education is health, education is security. “Those that attacked him were not medical doctors or engineers or lawyers or chief executives of parastatals or industries. “Even if they were least educated people of IPOB members, they wouldn’t do what they did. And so, it is lack of education.” The Senate committee chairman on sports, Senator Obinna Ogba representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial zone, has tasked the German police authorities to prosecute the attackers of Ekweremadu to avert further occurrence. “What happened was a serious security threat to Igbo leaders and must not be treated with kid glove. “It was a national embarrassment and the miscrants must not be allowed to go unpunised” he said. Also, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council, OYC, Secretary General, Okwu Nnabuike, said its investigation showed that the action of the IPOB members and their pay masters was all about the 2023 elections. “It is a slap on our face for anyone to visit such animalistic treatment on him under whatever guise,” he said. Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media Relations Fidelis Soriwei, described the attack as regrettable, uncivilised and unfortunate. He said the former Deputy Senate President deserved respect rather than humiliation, adding that the attack was an assault on “our collective ideals”. He described Ekweremadu as a leader with great understanding and unflinching commitment to good of the Southeast. The statement reads: “The attack…was shocking and condemnable and I join Nigerians of good conscience to condemn it. “As a leader, Ekweremadu has shown great understanding of the issues affecting the Southeast and has been consistent in the pursuit of the interest of the Southeast.” This is as Ekweremadu’s kinsmen, under the aegis of the Enugu West Peoples Parliament, called for thorough investigation, arrest and prosecution of those who attacked the senator. At a briefing, they demanded an explanation by the Festival’s organisers as to why adequate security was not provided for guests.