The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State, Daniel Nwafor, has accused the state government of witch-hunting and vendetta. He said the few actions taken by Governor Emeka Ihedioha have proved that he was not prepared for governance. He said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led administration does not know how to fulfil its campaign promises. Nwafor said: “All we have seen in the last two months is vindictiveness and a desperate attempt to demonise the previous administration. It has become obvious that they are not there for the people. Government is a continuous process. they should sustain the achievements of the previous government. trying to erase the legacies of the former administration does not help in anyway. “The PDP administration is confused. what they are doing is the reverse of their campaign promises. Imo is becoming unsafe, workers are complaining, people are scared to invest in the state, the interim government should get to work, while we await the outcome of the court. “This is nearly hundred days in office and there is nothing to point at, except maligning and pursuing after former governor Rochas Okorocha”. But, the PDP Chairman, Charles Ezekwem, said the previous administration destroyed every sector of the economy. He said Ihedioha inherited a devastated state, adding that it can only take a man of his experience and prudence to rebuild the ruins. Ezekwem said: “the Okorocha administration ruined all sectors of the state, leaving it broke and in a terrible shape. But, the governor is not relenting; he has taken up the enormous challenge of rebuilding the state. If you drive around the state, you will observe that the entire roads are in terrible shape. The state was raped and left broke. The eight years of the APC government were the worst in the history of the state and nothing close to that will ever happen to our state. He added: “It might shock you to know that the governor is still operating from a small apartment because the government house is in total ruins.” The administration in the last two and half months has focused on the recovery of ‘stolen’ government property and demolition of structures. One of the structures was the Akachi Tower, said to be built at a whooping N700 million, according to contract papers released by the government. The state government has also been preoccupied with the removal of the iron works on the streets of Owerri, the state capital.