The Kwara State Deputy Governor, Mr Kayode Alabi, has said that the present administration will work assiduously to ensure the growth and development of the state. Alabi gave the assurance while speaking at a thanksgiving service held at the 2019 convention and fund raising of First ECWA, Oro-Ago, on Sunday. He pledged that the present administration would not engage in any corrupt practice or financial recklessness, adding that the cardinal focus of the government would be to ensure the transformation of the state. “I call on you our people to support the government with prayers so that we can succeed. “It is only God who gives power. I implore you to believe only in His wonderful ways of doing things and I believe Kwara will be great again”, he said. In his message, Pastor Sunday Awokoya charged Christians to play significant roles in the spread of the gospel and the building of the church. Awokoya, who titled his sermon “Go up into the mountains and bring down timber, and build this house”, quoted copiously from the scriptures to support his appeal for people’s financial contributions to the church building project. According to him, nothing is too small to contribute to the building of the house of the Lord. The cleric called on well-meaning individuals from Oro land to impact their community positively and ensure the early completion of the church. He urged those in the Diaspora to come home and invest in the state to ensure its socio-economic development. Awokoya, while praying for the success of the present administration, charged it to be upright and fight corruption to a standstill in the state. He urged the people of the state to cooperate with the Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq-led administration to succeed in the task of taking the state to greater heights. The Oloro of Oro-Ago, Oba Olanrewaju Dada, in his address, pledged the support of his people to the present administration. He prayed God to continue to use the governor and his deputy for the progress and development of the state. The royal father also called on the sons and daughters of the town in the Diaspora to contribute their own quota towards its development. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the President of Oro-Ago Development Union, Mr Tunji Kadir, presented a copy of the Holy Bible to the deputy governor, on behalf of the community, in appreciation of his visit. NAN also reports that the event was attended by a former deputy governor of the state, Mr Joel Ogundeji and traditional rulers from Kwara South Senatorial District, led by the Olomu of Omu-Aran, Oba Abdulraheem Adeoti, among others. (NAN)