There have been outcries over the recent invasion of Azagbene community in Ekeremor Local Government Area of Bayelsa State by the Nigerian Army. Soldiers reportedly stormed the community following the alleged killing of two of their colleagues guiding an oil platform in the area. Armed hoodlums attacked soldiers in the facility killing two of them and stealing their arms. Reacting to the development, the army deployed soldiers to the community to fish out the perpetrators. But the community raised the alarm that the soldiers destroyed their properties, burnt down their homes, stole their valuables and attempted to rape their women. While condemning the killing of soldiers, different people and groups lampooned the army for allegedly violating rules of engagements. The commentators, including the Kennedy Olorogun-led Ijaw Youths Council (IYC), Central Zone, wondered why the army would burn down a whole community, including the only storey building in the area because of the sins of few youths. Following large-scale lamentations from the community and other stakeholders, the army, through the 16th Brigade acknowledged that soldiers were deployed to the community to fish out the killers of their colleagues. But the spokesman of the Brigade, Major Danjuma Jonah, said the soldiers did not burn any house in the community. He said: “Our men did not burn down houses in Azagbene community. We were only combing the community and neighbouring towns in search of one soldier that was missing as a result of the attack that led to the death of two other soldiers. We are carrying out the search for the missing soldier in conjunction with the leaders of the community. So, that is what is going on now. I cannot give you the details of the operation until it’s over.” But a prominent Human Rights Lawyer in Yenagoa, the state capital, Wisdom Adike, contradicted the claims of the army. Adike recently undertook what he described as a suicidal journey through secret canals in the creek to get to the Azagbene community. He said soldiers blocked the major waterways to the community and prevented him from passing through it. Adike, who said the army lied, shared his experience with the Niger Delta Report in the following interactions.  We learnt you went to Azagbene community in an investigative tour. How did you access the community? I can’t divulge how I went there. I followed a secret canal. The canal is known by only the community people. An insider took me through that path. The main access has been blocked by the Nigerian Army. They are trying to cover up what they did in that community. They destroyed all the houses. They burnt down the only storey building in that community. It has come to a stage where we have to put all these people in check. If we do not do all these things, we have failed the society as human rights lawyer. I don’t believe in just telling people. I believe in going to the scene.  In your investigations of what happened in the community, what did you observe? I saw a state of confusion in that community. People are homeless. They are so afraid that once they heard the military is coming, everybody runs into the bush. Soldiers are now threatening and intimidating them. The matter is similar to the Odi case. There was an allegation that two to three soldiers were killed by unknown gunmen. Upon hearing these things, these community boys fished out two of the suspects, but one escaped. They handed one to the Nigerian Army. But the army told them that they should ensure that they bring the other one. Before the next morning, soldiers came and burnt down houses in the community. They even attempted to rape a girl. I have her witness statement. I have taken everything on record.  When did the soldiers invade the community? It was early in the morning. It was between 5:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. This thing happened on the July 23. They invaded the community, burnt down their properties. In fact, they assaulted old women and children. They attempted to rape one.  What did the people tell you were their reactions when they saw the soldiers early in the morning? When they saw about 15 military gunboats according to eyewitness reports l got in the community, they ran because the soldiers were not coming in a friendly manner. They soldiers told them that if they failed to provide the second suspect, they should take whatever they see.  Don’t you think the anger of the soldiers were justifiable since their colleagues were killed by people they believed were hiding in the community? Soldiers lose their lives in the cause of doing their lawful duty. Then if there is a suspicion that maybe one or two youths might have committed a crime, by virtue of the rules of engagements, the law provides that the duty of the military is to investigate and bring those culprits to justice. Why do we have the military intelligence?  The essence of the intelligence department is to investigate and get the information they need for an operation. You can’t just begin a full-scale action that has made many people in the community homeless. It is even against the rules of engagement. In the treaty of the United Nations, the rules of engagement state that where the two forces are similar, the military can undertake this kind of action in defence of the nation. But in this instance, two or three suspects went out to commit a crime and the community being lawful, went after those people and caught one of them and handed the person to the army, the next day the army went to destroy the properties. In fact, the only storey building in the community was destroyed. It also violates their rights to life and property enshrined in the Constitution. The duty of the military is to defend the people not to put their lives under threat. Read sections 42 and 44 of the constitution, the rights to own properties are expressly provided. This is another Odi scenario in a low tone. The difference between Odi case and this is that people died in Odi case. But this other one, people are homeless and injured. Some are treating their injuries. My human rights friends all over the world are on this case. I have sent some facts to them.  How are the people in the community coping? It is unbelievable how they are coping. Most of them sleep on the streets. Most of them squat in people’s houses. And the properties they burnt were worth hundreds of millions. Following the facts that most of these communities are in the waterways, they don’t have access to banks. So, most of them keep their money in their houses. Most of them are wood dealers and farmers and they save a lot of money in their houses. One of them told me that apart from his destroyed properties, the money he saved was worth more than N1.5 million. Another resident said the soldiers stole his money because where he kept the money, fire could not have destroy it. So, they even went there to steal, which is a breach of their oaths of office. We are ready to face them within the ambit of the law. We are not scared of anybody. In fact, with what I have seen on ground, the military lied. They lied in totality. In fact, the military misled the Nigerian state. They breached the trust of Nigerians. I am not saying this to favour anybody. I am stating the fact because I was on ground. It took me days to the creeks. The question we should ask is: if the army knows they have nothing to hide, why did they block the waterways to the community? They are still going to the community to check and put fears in them.  How did you know they blocked the access? I was supposed to pass through the main access to the community, but they stopped me. I have to turn back through one community called Agudiama. I followed a secret path that the community doesn’t reveal to outsiders because I had recommendations and the community viewed me as a human rights lawyer. They know me that whenever I am handling a matter, I do it sincerely. I don’t play pranks and I am not a politician. I don’t belong to any political party. I am purely a human rights practitioner and I earn my living from my private legal practice.