Anambra Governor Willie Obiano has cautioned communities in the state against casting aspersions on their traditional rulers. He said the office of the monarch was a revered one which must be accorded the respect it deserved. The governor spoke through his Special Adviser on Security, Safety and Emergency, Chikodi Anarah during a solidarity march by the people of Umunya, Oyi Local Government Area of the state in support of the traditional ruler, Igwe Kris Onyekwuje. The march followed earlier protest by some indigenes of the community under the aegis of ‘Odumodu Ebenabo Improvement Union’, at the Government House over alleged highhandness by the monarch. Addressing the protesters, the governor pledged quick resolution on the matter to guarantee peace and justice. He said: “We need to respect our monarchs the way it’s done in the West and Northern parts of the country. Casting aspersions on any traditional ruler will no longer be tolerated. “When the other group came here on Monday to protest against the monarch, I told them that I must hear from the other side because it takes two to tango. “Those who were present during the protest would think the monarch was a devil, but today that I have heard from you people, I can say that Igwe is not the problem. “The Igwe is not claiming anybody’s land; he just intervene to make peace. Nobody should denigrate him for that. I assure that we shall handle the matter and ensure peace reigns.” Spokeperson for the community, Ichie Wilson Ikwuka told the governor that those accusing their monarch were individuals interested in sale of lands in the community land for their selfish gain. He said: “We here today in solidarity to our Igwe because some people came here last Monday to accuse him of intimidating, harassing and detaining them. “We are here to tell the government and the public that the Igwe did not create any problem but rather those who want to milk the community dry. “We want the government to quickly intervene in this matter
to avert blood shed.”