Still on the video which went viral over the weekend of some girls seen dancing naked, which musician Tekno noted was not to promote any negativity, Director General National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba segun Runsewe has thrown his weight behind Lagos government decision to fish out brains behind the Lekki public naked dance, saying the show negates the beauty of Nigerian culture and way of life. Runsewe who has zero tolerance for attitudes and culture unbecoming of well brought up Nigerian young persons, described the Lekki public show as unacceptable. The NCAC boss whose major forte is to reposition the true gains and pictures of Nigeria’s diverse cultural history and impact, noted that the Lekki debacle must be used as an example to officially clamp down on promoters and influencers of strange entertainment from the pit of hell, adding that Nigeria will never succumb to imported cultural pastime or to blackmail, tailored to destroy centuries old and rich Nigerian culture. “This dizzying madness can’t and would not be allowed to turn Nigeria to destination for sex and illegal drugs tourism. Enough is enough, and for God sake, where is this coming from?” Runsewe laments. Alluding to various reports and calls to his office on certain alleged offences against Nigerian culture promoted by a pay TV station, the hardworking culture exponent who also Doubles as Africa president of World Craft Council, disclosed that his office is investigating the allegation against the  TV company and would work with other relevant government agencies to find lasting solutions to any foreign cultural infractions and  subtle attempts to colonize the minds of the Nigerian young persons. He called on traditional rulers to join hands with government to check the open rage and rape against Nigerian culture with possible consequences of the unimaginable. “In Nigeria, we love and respect our mothers and sisters, women in general and therefore will not condone deliberate acts or actions that would betray the values of our culture and make our heroes past to turn angrily in their graves)”, Runsewe explained. Runsewe also sent a strong message to state governors to create and empower agencies and departments of culture to arrest the organised assault against established and respected Nigerian  way of life, adding that we must be proudly Nigerian and resist vigorously attempts to insult the Nigerian women.