Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege has restated the need for oil companies operating in the Niger Delta region to relocate their headquarters to their areas of operation in the region. Omo-Agege stated this on Sunday when he addressed reporters during his visit to his country home at Orogun in Ughelli North Local Area of Delta State. The Deputy Senate President stressed that oil companies that left in the wake of the crisis in the region about a decade ago should also come back in view of prevailing peace and accelerating development of the region. Vice-President Prof Yemi Osinbajo had made a similar call about three years ago when he visited the Niger Delta region. A statement by his Special Adviser (SA) Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga, said the senator reiterated his condemnation of an alleged plot to move the headquarters of the Nigerian Gas Company Limited in Ekpan-Warri to Abuja. He noted that the relocation of the headquarters of multinational oil companies to the Niger Delta region would speed up the development of the area, create jobs for youths and reinforce the atmosphere of peace in the region. Omo-Agege said: “I’m sure the message has been sent that they cannot move; they must remain. And for those who have left, they must give a serious thought to relocating back to the Niger Delta. “What I’m saying now is not really news; even the Vice-President, not too long ago, I believe, enjoined all those companies that left the Niger Delta to relocate back. So, what I’m saying now is just following suit.” Also, Ovie Omo-Agege said the just-concluded screening of the 43 ministerial nominees sent to the Senate by President Muhammadu Buhari was to ensure that they complied with the minimum constitutional requirements to become cabinet members. The senator said the former had passed through the crucible of security screening before their names were sent to the Senate, in line with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). He said: “President Muhammadu Buhari, having contested and won the election, is entitled to work with whoever he wants. Our job in the Senate is not really to examine the nominees but just to ensure they meet the barest minimum qualifications, as required by the Constitution. “We all know what it is: for you to be a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, you must have the minimum qualifications. With the membership of the House of Representatives and following the provision of the fourth alteration we made in the Constitution, it has reduced the age qualification to contest for the House of Representatives…”