Relationship with God is the ultimate achievement in life with lasting benefits, President of Lagos Mainland Conference of Seventh-day Adventist Church in Nigeria, Pastor Ibraheem Jimoh has told Akute members in Iju District, Lagos. A statement by Public Relations Consultant of the church, Dave I. Emelike, said Jimoh spoke while delivering a sermon titled “testing time” during the organisation service of the church. He noted that trusting and depending on God particularly when the nation in passing through many challenges will make Him send angels to protect them. He said when Christian face trials like Job, they are bound to be victorious. Jimoh reminded them that Job was a man after the heart of God because of his good work and trust in God. The cleric charged the congregation to take care of their sons and daughters as well as pray for them as Job did for his children. He congratulated them on their ability to meet the requirements that made the organisation of their church possible, asking God they are fully prepared for the second coming of Jesus Christ. The Treasurer of Lagos Mainland Conference, Elder Adeyemi Adedokun implored the members of the church to always look unto Jesus and Jesus alone. He assured them that Jesus will not let them down. The activities that took place  during the occasion include: review of the fundamental beliefs of Seventh-day Adventist Church, forming of nucleus, acceptance of membership by votes of nucleus, special prayer for members, dedication of church officers, orientation of new Elders and Deacons, request to receive the church into the sisterhood of churches of the next local conference session among others. Addressing the newly elected Elders and Deacons, the Evangelism and Sabbath School Director of Lagos Mainland Conference, Pastor Aduranire Sofowora, urged them to be of good behavior within and outside the church. He said that they must show good leadership qualities at all times and urged their wives to always support them. The Executive Secretary of Lagos Mainland Conference on his part, charged the members to take the study of their Bible serious to enable them stand strong. He also encouraged them to learn very well, the fundamental beliefs of the church. Iju District choir led by Elder Francis Chidera added colour to the event with the spirit lifting and melodious songs.