Multi Award-winning music producer, ID Cabasa, whose single, Totori, is currently topping the charts, speaks with OLAITAN GANIU on how he got Wizkid and Olamide to feature on the song, the health status of his colleague, Lord of Ajasa, as well as the future of Nigeria music industry. Excerpts IS Lord of Ajasa recuperating now? I intentionally did not respond to many reports that friends neglected Ajasa on his sickbed because I discovered that when you keep responding to people on the internet, it is as if you are fuelling the fire. Lord of Ajasa is on sickbed and people started saying he was neglected by friends while some said he mismanaged the money he had made during his active days. Social media is a funny court which you don’t want to take your case to. Everybody just wants to come online and comment what they feel and what you think or feel is not always the truth. It is the person that is going through a challenge that knows the truth. Ajasa did not put up a post to solicit for fund from anybody but someone who is closer to him did which I later called the person to end the campaign. I know Ajasa very well, he is not just my artiste, he is my friend and we have become family. He does not like to be a burden to anybody. So, I was pained with people that are saying he squandered the money on Indian hemp and all that. The question is, how much do we make as a musician? Ajasa’s era was when artistes did not really make huge money. I think people need to understand what sickness can do to somebody. It can render a person useless. I implore fans to respect people’s privacy. On the issue that he didn’t get his colleagues’ support, it is untrue. Olamide, 9ice, Jahbless and other colleagues gathered money to support and we will still support till he gets better. He is definitely going to be on my new album. As a legend in the industry, what investments do you think ‘rave of the moment’ musicians could venture into? I think most of these young acts are wiser now. A lot of them are involving investment bankers to help them in making business decisions and also open artistes mind to many business opportunities. Already, they have seen the mistake of the previous generation, so they are learning and investing. However, my advice to those who yet to start investing is, the crown does not endure for long, no champion is forever. Even while Michael Jackson was alive, there was a time that other people were reigning. You need to understand that, if money is not put into a profitable business, it will soon finish. In as much, which you invest in your music career, you also need other streams of income too. A lot are investing in real estate but I urge them to be wise because there are lots of businesses to be done even within the music circle that don’t involve you singing. So, put your money into an investment that will yield profit. Let’s talk about your hottest single, ‘Totori’ where you have two heavyweight champions in the Nigerian music circle, Wizkid and Olamide. (Laughing) I’ve been getting loads of comments from fans, requesting for my music. But as for me, I was moving on to way bigger than music. Though, I know I still have so much to offer when it comes to music and I was thinking maybe I should just sign a young artiste but because I don’t have that strength to be jumping around. So, what I intend to do now is to create a platform for upcoming acts to be on the same song with one of their favourite A-list artistes. This will give them a leverage to be famous. I did that when I released my ‘Identity Album’ to promote artistes like Olamide, Seriki, Kayefi and others. I’m also doing the same thing again. In this particular album, I might sing or not. As you can see, the one I did with Wizkid and Olamide, I didn’t sing. Of course, I am going to be working with my unusual people – Olamide, Reminisce, Ajasa, 2phat, Seriki and other rising stars. Another which I am about to release off the album will feature 9ice and Fireboy. I’m also going to have Davido, Zlatan because I happen to be Zlatan story when he won Airtel One Mic. So, how did you manage to bring Wizkid? Well, Ayo is an international artiste now but he is a young (man) that still cherishes and respects old friends. He understands that be famous does not make you forget the people you have relationship with. A lot of people see these young artistes as arrogant, but I don’t see them as such. I just believe that if you know how to speak their language, they will do what you want them to do. The day he came to Olamide’s place, I was overwhelmed with the show of love between the two of them. This is something that upcoming acts need to learn from them. Olamide actually made the song, ‘Totori’, happen. For many Fuji/Juju musicians, music is more of spiritual. Does this apply to hip hop artistes too? There is a difference between being literate and being educated. We have a lot of uneducated-illiterate in Fuji/Juju genres. Being literate means, I can read and write but being educated means, I am well-informed. There are a lot of them that are literate – they can read and write but they are not well-informed with what is happening. They see things happening but it is a mystery to them due to their mind-set. Most of them carry a mind-set of a survival. Few who are able to step-up the game were always criticised by this set of person. For example, look at the way Pasuma is packaging himself as if he bagged PhD or doctorate degree which is not but he has the mind-set of a young person. He always updates himself by following what’s trending. He noticed that the hip hop artistes are reducing their songs to two minutes and uploading for streaming and he joined them, also his dressing and the calibre of people he moves (with). This is because he understands time and season. Same also goes to Saheed Osupa. He is educated and full of wisdom and even Sir Shina Peters who is over sixty; he is still making himself relevant in the music scene because he has a winning mindset and few others too. I think these are the attributes our upcoming Fuji/Juju musicians need to understudy because the day you stop learning is the day you start dying. Many of (the) forgotten Fuji/Juju musicians are not old because of age but they are old because they’ve stopped learning. What do you think could be done to secure better future of Nigerian music industry? Our so-called veteran artistes need to start understanding that for you to claim that you are a great musician, you should have imparted so well on the rising stars. But rather than this, a lot of these old musicians were still competing with the young artistes and they often claimed that the young ones lacked respect. If these young acts’ music carried lewd lyrics, it shows that the old generation of artistes have failed to teaching them because they are the ones who are supposed to mentor the upcoming ones but, no, they rather are competing with them. And that is why these guys don’t respect veterans because they see them as their fellow competitors. Until we start to understand the journey of purpose, for example in football, there is a time a footballer plays on the pitch. There’s time to retire and become a head coach, a time to step up to become sporting director, a time to become a football pundit and a time to own a football club. I am not declaiming the fact that the older artistes grow, the better they are but I am saying you need to bring more wisdom when you are singing. So, we need to create the balance of honour, the old generation artiste needs to start encourage the stars of today and the new generation should also respect the elderly ones. But recall that Ruggedman recently tried to caution one of these budding acts on social media and he received backlash from angry fans Ruggedman is my very good friend and Naira Marley is also close to some people that I am close to. We need to view things from different perspectives. The Naira Marley that I know is an exuberant youngster  who came into Nigerian music scene from the United Kingdom and has been able to make money off music. On the other hand, the video uploaded by Ruggedman then, was just to caution him. Ruggedman is doing what the elders in the Nigerian music industry are supposed to be doing. Personally, I would prefer if Ruggedman had reached him privately to educate him on the matter. I am sure, if that was done, it wouldn’t have gotten to that level then because respect is reciprocal. Also, we have to look at it from the Ruggedman angle. It is usually painful when as when Nigerians carrying a passport to foreign country and people (see) us as a fraudulent nation. That pain would have been what propelled Ruggedman to utilise the social media. Kudos to Ruggedman, Daddy Showkey and few others. They are great when it comes to social justice. Do you think the censors board can eradicate this menace? I’m not sure censors board can actually do much because they cannot censor what is online. They can censor on television or CDs. What is the problem with the Nigerian record labels? The problem with Nigerian record labels is not just the record label but also the Nigerian artistes and it is a reflection of corruption in the country. There are some record labels that want to suck the artiste dry and there are some that are sincere but the artistes are not being truthful. So, until we have that mutual truth and understanding that things can really work fine. Again, people should not just be setting up record labels because they have funds they want to play with. I think they should be coming in with proper system or structure that works. Once they have these, even if the artiste or the record labels want to misbehave, the structure will serve as a guide for both. I think Nigerian government should (make) laws that will protect both the artiste and record label.