The University of Ilorin football team, otherwise known as Warriors, defeated the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti team, known as Dazzlers, in the Higher Institutions Football League (HIFL) with five goals to one, last week. The HIFL is an annual football competition for higher institutions in Nigeria. The league is open to all member-universities of the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) and winners of the league are scheduled to represent Nigeria at the Summer Universiade of the International University Sports Federation (FISU) games. Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, Philip Orege, a FUOYE student, expressed his dissatisfaction at the outcome of the match and attributed their loss to lack of professionalism. “We lack professionalism. We lack adequate facilities, communicative skill and experience,” Orege said, adding: “Unilorin team played very well. The adequate facilities they have showed in their performance.” A key player of the team, who pleaded anonymity, expressed his dissatisfaction with the match. He said the poor outcome was due to lack of management’s support in addition to some personal technical errors, which they are sorry for. “What I can only let you realise is that the participation was because of love for football and the commitment was based on our own personal careers too. We have been representing the school very well so far, despite their unfavorable attitude and gestures to us, but we did not look at those,” he said. He continued: “We have played different matches and won, it is just unfortunate this time. We cannot blame our loss on any FUOYE (poor) facilities because it has always been like a situation where we lack almost everything, yet God was always by on side. Students should have a strong belief and should shower us their support in the next match.” “We prepared well for our game even when there was no allowances for the players. Majority of us, including myself, could not travel home for the break just to prepare for this match. The support pulled by Unilorin students really saddened my heart because the way they handled sports over there is not the same way in FUOYE. Their Vice Chancellor was even present to watch their match,” he added. He appealed to the management to pay more attention to sports. “I just hope the university would do better by paying little more attention to sports in FUOYE. It is part of what universities teach students, of course, the main purpose of teaching is to bring out the unique potential in students to prepare them for better future and personal skills students possess are also part of it.” The source, however, urged FUOYE students not to lose hope in the team. “We have been representing you well and we are still hoping that by the next leg, we shall be victorious. We promise to play with all our strength to make sure we make it to the next stage of the competition.” When contacted, the coach of the university’s football team, Mr Ojo Blessing Ayodeji, said the team was well prepared before the match, adding that their preparations fell short due to dearth of facilities, which could guarantee better performance. He decried the lack of good football field among others. “Unilorin players used the advantage of a larger field (breath of the field). FUOYE’s field is not up to the standard field, therefore the players are adapted to where they train every day,” Ayodeji said. He continued: “There should be camping of players to be able to have enough time for training before the competition, which other institutions do in readiness for their games. Here (FUOYE) we couldn’t because of lack of finance and it’s having side effects on our players. So to end it up, the readiness was low due to logistics.” “Among other things, the management should provide a standby vehicle that will be forsporting activities only so the players can be transported easily to training venues and match locations. This has has been giving them much stress every time.” All efforts to get through to the Student Union Sport’s Director proved abortive.