Stakeholders in the textile industry have praised the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for prioritising job creation in his second term in office, using the textile sector as launch pad. Describing the administration’s policy direction in favour of reviving the comatose textile industry as a welcome development, the stakeholders said the move has raised hope of bringing back the sector’s lost glory as the second highest employer of labour after the government. President Buhari had, during a visit by representatives of the National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers (NUTGTW), led by its President, John Adaji, at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, recently, said his priority in his second term in office is to create jobs for the teeming population of unemployed Nigerians. Stakeholders in the textile industry, including youths, who warmly received the cheery news, expressed hopes that a rebound of the textile industry would not only create millions of jobs, but also earn the nation huge foreign exchange, while also creating a multiplier effect on other sectors of the economy. Some of them, who spoke with The Nation, recalled that the closure of textile factories across the country opened up the evil doors of crimes among which are robberies, cattle rustling, kidnappings and drug abuse, among others, adding that worst hit is the North, largely due to its large population. They also recalled that in the early 1990s, the textile industry was the largest employer of labour after agriculture and oil & gas sectors. This fact, according to them, was reaffirmed by the NUTGTW delegation, which is a critical stakeholder in the industry. One of the stakeholders, who pleaded anonymity, said Buhari’s decision to ride on the crest of a revived textile industry to create jobs was an addition to previous job creation policies put in place by his administration. He listed some of them to include import restrictions that offer affordable and accessible capital incentives to both small, medium and large cottage industries dotting the country, the Presidential Executive order that seeks to encourage the procurement of made in Nigeria goods. He also said the President had directed that all security agencies- Police, para-military, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and other uniformed agencies that import textiles materials for their uniforms should henceforth source their materials from within the shores of Nigeria. While noting that such strategic policy directions set the stage for massive employment of Nigerians especially in the textile sector, he said there should be a sustainable industrial policy emphasising the need to add value to cotton rather than importing finished goods or textiles from abroad. The stakeholder added that government should grant tax holidays to manufacturers operating in the textile sector to reduce their tax burden. “This will likely empower them to have access to funds to improve their production capacity. “Secondly, government can also make foreign exchange available to enable operators import the necessary machinery and equipment for the comatose industries and set up new textile plants, while also ensuring uninterrupted power supply to existing and new plants,” he stated. Encouraged by the president’s pledge to bring back the good old days of massive employment by the textile sector, the Union, which was full of commendation for Buhari, decorated him as its Life Patron.