That’s right, you can have an exotic meal underneath the sea while relishing the view of different species of fish that swim beside and over you. If you think eating below the sea is reserved only for fishes and marine creatures, think again. Now you too can have breakfast, lunch and dinner with the fishes. All you need is a good knowledge of where the underwater restaurants are located and most importantly, money – loads of it.
Check out these restaurants and make a choice:
* Ithaa Undersea Restaurant
Under the Indian Ocean off the Conrad Maldives Rangali Island is the world’s first all-glass undersea restaurant, Ithaa. It is situated 16 feet below sea level and so requires a long walk down a staircase to the restaurant. *5.8 Undersea Restaurant
This is an all-glass underwater restaurant. Located in the Maldives at the luxury Hurawalhi resort. The name 5.8 stems from the fact that the restaurant is located 5.8 meters below water. The restaurant is designed for intimate conversations as it accommodates not more than 10 couples. * Poseidon Mysterious Island
This underwater structure is a full package; it is an undersea resort! It is situated on a small island in Fiji. This resort has on land facilities as well as underwater facilities. Poseidon promises an enchanting environment undersea with her undersea restaurant and undersea chapel and dance floor. This means, you can get married undersea! So years later when your children ask you where you got married, you can sing The Little Mermaid’s ‘Under the sea” with all understanding. *Subsix
Subsix is located at the Niyama Resort in the Maldives and is renowned as the world’s first underwater club. With a floor to ceiling windows, you can enjoy a meal, sway to some cool music and relax, all while drinking in the beautiful oceanic view below the Indian Ocean. *Under
Recently opened in 2019, Under is the largest underwater restaurant in the world and Europe’s first underwater restaurant. Located in Norway, the restaurant looks like a large concrete tube submerged in the North Sea. The fascinating structure called Under means “wonder” in Norwegian. The wonder begins with an eight meter flight of stairs surrounded by huge transparent windows which leads to the dining area. On off hours, the building will double as a marine research So ladies and gentlemen, load up your bank accounts and get ready for an “Under the Sea” experience.