Veteran actress Mrs. Idowu Phillips, fondly known as Iya Rainbow, on Saturday said to prevent the film industry from extinction, the Federal Government should give actors and actresses financial aid. The octogenarian spoke in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, at a ceremony to herald her 77 birthday organised by Gulf Platform, tagged “Unveiling Mama Rainbow at 77 in Dubai.” The tour will take place in October and November. Phillips regretted that said the advent of social media, Internet and modern technology had negatively affected the industry. “It is worrisome that most producers and film makers run at loss after producing home videos, because most of the films would have been on the Internet before they are released.” Phillips stressed that the Federal Government should save the industry from extinction due to the adverse effects of Internet and social media. “I appeal to government to support us to avoid this profession going into extinction. I don’t want it to go into extinction. We are begging the government; we are urging them to look at our side. The marketers are the ones giving us money in the past, but we don’t get what we spend on the film now, that is one of the reasons we don’t get support again. Before a film is out, it is already on the Internet.” “I am appealing to the government to make money available to us as loans. It is the marketers that are borrowing us money and we don’t get our money back again. You will see a situation when someone will spend two million for a film and in return he gets N600,000 because the film would have been on the Internet before it is even out for sale.” She added that the introduction of Internet had reduced patronage for home videos, making many actors, actresses and producers to be in debts. Philips deplored the attitude of young actors flaunting their wealth on the Internet. “It is those who are not wise that are showing their wealth on the Internet. How can you be showing that you have N15 million when you don’t have five million? Those who are still exposing their bodies, we are still talking to them at locations because we do not like it. “I don’t want them to go astray. God said that we should cover our body, why do you have to expose yourself. Lack of role models and masters is another issue. ‘’In the past, we have masters who train people and many upcoming actors and actresses will be under that person, but now someone with money would just come without enough training, and is accepted. That is one of the things killing the industry.” Directors of Gulf Platform, Mr. Olusegun Davids said the organisers decided to celebrate the octogenarian because of her contributions to the theatre in Nigeria. “…we are kicking of the 77th birthday of Iya Rainbow. We are gathered here to appreciate her contributions and that is why we are honouring her as she turns 77 on October 16.” At the event were the  Chairman, Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State chapter, Mr. Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye; Nollywood actors: Saheed Balogun; Peju Omobolanle-Ogunmola; Toyin Adegbola; Razak Olayiwola; Yemi Sonde; Mr. Olusegun Davies; and Mrs. Juliana Afonrinwo; among others.