Over 100 robbery suspects were arrested on the Mile 2-Badagry Expressway between January and this month, Lagos State Police Command has said. Deputy Police Commissioner (Operations) Mr. Mohammed Ali made this known yesterday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. He was reacting to public complaints about incessant robberies on the road. Ali said the command’s security strategies were still in place, yielding positive results. He said at peak periods, Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers (DPOs) are to monitor traffic situation under them, to decongest traffic and check criminals operating during such period. “Our major challenge on the Badagry expressway is the bad road and the articulated vehicles and tankers parked on the road from Mile 2. They are not helping security. “The tankers block the expressway. Heavy traffic is built up daily and this attracts robbers. “Yet our men are moving round to secure people. “Our monitoring men are in parts of the metropolis,’’ Ali said. He added: “We have officers sent out from morning till night for traffic control, to complement other traffic officials and monitor black spots.” Ali debunked the allegation that the police always looked the other way when some military personnel and their wards were involved in robbery on the expressway, particularly around Ojo. Said he: “It is not possible for anyone to commit crime and the police will look the other way. No matter who you are, you will be arrested if you commit crime. “No one is above the law, even if you are a uniform person. Over 100 robbers have been arrested on the Badagry Expressway this year.’’ On rape cases, Ali said over 60 persons, including some men who slept with their daughters and got them pregnant, were arrested and arraigned. “We don’t waste time on rape cases. Once arrested, there is a special court in Ikeja where the suspects are arraigned. “Rape is a special offence that needs special attention,’’ he said. Ali said the police did not have to wait for 24 hours before beginning investigation in a case of a missing person, adding that such was not the practice of the command. “The Commissioner of Police did not give such an instruction that the police should wait for 24 hours to start investigation whenever people report a case of a missing person. “That is dangerous to the survival of the victim. We believe that within 24 hours, such a victim should be found. “When any officer receives a report of a missing person, the first thing to do is to make a radio announcement to alert the command, so that if such person is kidnapped, the men on the road can search all areas, vehicles and not wait for 24 hours. “If anyone is found to do that in Lagos Command, such a person will be dealt with, because that is not our practice,’’ he said. On the activities of “No Salary Boys”, Ali said more than 30 of them had been arrested in the last one week, noting that the police were arresting them daily and would continue to raid them. The “No Salary Boys’’ have been on the rampage in the last two weeks at Igando. They go from house to house robbing people of their belongings and inflicting injuries on some residents.