• Nigeria’s former leaders should go beyond rhetoric to battle the scourge Putting aside political acrimony and antagonism that often characterise the relationship among leading elements of Nigeria’s governing elite and their supporters, President Muhammadu Buhari and three former Nigerian leaders have united in advocating a concerted effort against the scourge of cancer, one of the deadliest killer diseases in the country. The venue was Toru Orua, in the Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. The event was the official launch of the Governor Henry Seriake Dickson Foundation as well as ground- breaking ceremony of the Gold Coast Dickson Cancer Centre, an initiative of the governor to honour his late mother’s memory on the first anniversary of her demise. Obviously realising that cancer does not recognise or respect ethno-regional, partisan, religious or even class boundaries, the three former leaders – General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd), former presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and  Goodluck Jonathan –  joined President Buhari in lauding Dickson’s gesture. Represented by minister-designate, Dr. Chris Ngige, Buhari promised to support the project, which he described as a step in the right direction to prevent avoidable deaths, and one in tune with the aspirations of his administration in the health sector. General Abubakar, chairman of the occasion, described the initiative as a worthy humanitarian cause deserving of support, and appealed to Nigerians of means to donate generously towards the actualisation of the governor’s dream. He stressed the need for a well-coordinated action against the disease. Obasanjo, who presided over the launch and ground-breaking ceremony, noted that anyone who had come close to victims of cancer and the traumatic pains they suffer, would appreciate the Bayelsa governor’s concern for such people. Also going down a painful memory lane, Dr. Jonathan recalled the death of his erstwhile special adviser on strategy and documentation, and reputable environmental activist, the late Dr. Oronto Douglass, who succumbed to cancer despite the availability of resources and the latter’s determined fight against the disease. Noting that Douglass died because the disease was not diagnosed early for meaningful treatment, Jonathan also emphasised the imperative of collaborative effort against cancer. Did the former leaders do enough to battle cancer and other deadly diseases in the country during their tenures? That may be a moot question now. But it is certainly not too late for them to follow their own advice of supporting the venture financially and morally because they are well-heeled members of the society. In its 2018 report on cancer in Nigeria, released in May, 2019, the Global Cancer Observatory gave an indication of just how grave the cancer crisis is in the country. It reported, for instance, that there were 115, 950 new cases of diverse forms of cancers in both sexes and all ages that year. These included breast cancer, cervix uteri, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer and Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. The total number of new cases in males of all ages was put at 44,928 while in the case of females of all ages, the figure was put at 71, 022. On its part, the World Health Organization (WHO) reported that 41, 000 persons died of the disease out of 166,000 recorded last year. This is why it is commendable that Governor Dickson stressed that a key function of the centre would be to undertake research on all aspects of the disease with a view to taming the scourge in Nigeria. Of course, Dickson’s efforts can only be a tiny drop in the ocean. But it is important that others follow his example. In particular, there is need for intensive enlightenment on the causes of the disease, which include immoderate consumption of alcohol and tobacco, excessive consumption of red and processed meat as well as a lifestyle devoid of adequate exercise. We urge all stakeholders, including the Federal Government, state governments as well as development partners to recommit themselves to adequately funding and effectively implementing the National Cancer Control Plan (2018-2022) for which a budget of N93.321 billion has been proposed over the five-year period.