Some elders in Nando community, in Anambra East local government area of Anambra State, have invoked ‘curses ‘ against those allegedly instigating crisis in the area. They debunked the claims that the state Governor, Chief Willie Obiano and his wife Ebelechukwu, had been involved in the acquisition of their lands. The community had been in turmoil for the past one week over illegal acquisition of their land by unknown persons, which resulted in the protests by the Youths of the area. 75-year-old Chief Obukwelu Ikeora, from Isi-Inyi Nando, commended the state government for coming to their rescue,by putting Caretaker for led by Sir Anthony Mary Amali. Ikeora, while exonerating Obiano and his wife from the land acquisition allegations, invoked curses on those, who according to him, were stirring the peace of the community. For Mr Donatus Ajamma, the National Youth Leader of Nando, he expressed displeasure over the crisis and allegations, and enjoined the community to support the new leadership and Anambra state government for peace and more government presence. Addressing his people Saturday , the President General of Nando Development Union NDU Caretaker Committee, Amali, dismissed allegations of selling of lands to Governor Willie Obiano’s wife. He described it as unsubstantiated allegation aimed at tarnishing their image and that of their son, Hon. LeoOgbuefi. According to Amali, as an Ogbunike born daughter (referring to Obiano’s wife) of their matriarch named Iguedo, the governor’s wife needed not to hide under any guise to acquire land title from Nando if she so desired. He observed that governor Obiano had shown special affection to the natives through the 20 million naira community infrastructure (Choose-Your-Community Project), in addition to construction of roads traversing Ikem – Nando – SARS Awkuzu; Nado – Igbozunu – Aguleri – Achalla – Igbariam road. He said some miscreants were hired and mobilized to the Nando market to disrupt the peace of the community which paralyzed business activities on Monday. He commended the community for the show of solidarity, assuring that his executive would engender relative peace and unity, as well as stop any unauthorized sale of land in the community