The Enugu State Police Command on Friday paraded the suspected killers of two Catholic priests of Enugu Diocese as another escaped assassination by unidentified gunmen. Reverend Fr. Paul Offu and Fr. Clement Ugwu were killed on August 1 and March 14, 2019 respectively by suspected gunmen. While Fr. Offu was killed by Fulani Herdsmen on August 1, 2019 along Ihe-Agbudu Road in Awgu Local Government Area of the state, Rev.  Fr. Ugwu Parish priest of St. Mark Catholic Church, Obinofia Ndiuno in Ezeagu Local Government Area of the State was kidnapped and killed on March 14, 2019. The police also paraded the suspected kidnappers of the traditional ruler of Obom-Agbogugu, Awgu Local Government Area of state, Igwe Sunday Orji and his wife who were kidnapped on Sunday August 3, 2019 along Enugu – Port-Harcourt Expressway. Meanwhile, barely two weeks Fr. Offu was killed another Priest, Rev. Fr. Chimezie Ani was attacked and escaped by whiskers on Thursday along Ugwuomu road after Caritas University. The gunmen who was said to have been chasing another vehicle when Fr. Ani’s car ran into them, had his vehicle pelted with bullets and windscreen shattered. Fr. Ani who spoke to reporters thanked God for his mercy and protection that he was able to escape unhurt from the assailants. According to him: “the attack happened after Caritas University towards Ugwuomu that I ran into them firing at the SUV in my opposite direction but miraculous I drove on my reverse for a very long distance before turning.” Confirming the incident to Saturday Punch, the Director communications, Enugu Catholic Diocese, Rev. Fr. Benjamin Achi said, “yes the incident happened along Ugwuomu road as you heard. We are very grateful to God that he was not harmed, he was able to navigate on reverse to a safe distance.” The Police Commissioner, Suleiman Balarabe who paraded the suspected killers of the priests alongside other 30 suspects, who were arrested for various criminal offences said that the command has devised measures to protect Catholic priests from such incident in the future. He said that one Ibrahim Adamu 25yrs from Taraba state and Idris Tobe 28yrs were arrested in connection with the killing of Fr. Offu while three other suspects are still at large. The Commissioner also said that one Idris Umaru was arrested for the kidnap and murder of Secretary of Uzo-Uwani local government area, who killed in March 2019. On the kidnap of Igwe Sunday Orji and his wife the Commissioner said that three suspects, “Garba Basulugu, Mohammed Lagu and Mojunpan Duna were arrested in connection”. While fielding questions from journalists, Balarabe promised that those who attacked Fr. Ani would soon be arrested as his men were already after the hoodlums.