SOUTHEAST governors have initiated relief measures to soften the pains for travelers as a result of the closure of the Akanu Ibiam Airport in Enugu for runway repairs. The governors will meet tomorrow to fine-tune the plans, Enugu and Ebonyi State Governments said yesterday. Some of the measures partly unfolded include giving security cover and transportation to people flying into the region through the Oerri airport and the Asaba Airport. Enugu State Government, according to a statement by Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya, said: “Following the closure of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu for repairs, Enugu State Government is deeply concerned about the plight of air travelers from the state, who have to travel through Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri, Imo State and Asaba Airport, Delta State to get to their various destinations. “The state government is specifically concerned about the challenges of transportation and security the air passengers will face. “In the light of the above, the governors will meet on Saturday, August 31, 2019, to among other issues, deliberate on the challenges and come up with a regional plan to be adopted. “After the meeting, Enugu State government will announce its palliative measures and strategies to cushion the effect of the challenges on the air travelers.” The Ebonyi State Government said in addition to the security escorts it will provide free transport services and accommodation for its citizens in Owerri, the Imo state capital. It, however, called on indigenes of the state to reduce their trips, pending the completion of the renovation of the Enugu Airport. A statement issued by the Secretary to the Ebonyi State Government, Kenneth Ugbala, urged indigenes to be security conscious while traveling until all the palliative measures have been put in place within two weeks. The government urged its citizens to route their air travels to the alternative airport in Owerri, Imo State pending the completion of the renovation of Enugu Airport. The statement said:  “Ebonyi State Government under the leadership of Governor David Nweze Umahi, has expressed great concern over the safety of Ebonyi citizens and visitors to the state following the closure of the Akanu Ibiam International airport, Enugu. “Government also calls on her citizens to minimize the rate of traveling as much as possible within this period and being security conscious while traveling until all these palliative measures are put in place within two weeks from now”. “Following this closure and its attendant challenges on air travelers from Ebonyi State, the state government is making the following palliative measures for her citizens as long as the renovation works last.”