The newly-appointed Acting Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Dr. Enyia Akwagaga, has called on the entire Niger Deltans to work together to move the region forward. Akwagaga, who until her elevation was the Director at the Edo State Office of NDDC in Benin City, spoke Friday during the maiden news conference at the commission’s corporate headquarters in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. The Prof. Nelson Brambaifa-led management team of NDDC was dissolved on Tuesday by the Federal Government, while a board, to be chaired by a former Deputy Governor of Edo State, Dr. Pius Odubu, was put in place, with the members yet to be screened and cleared by the Senate. The new acting managing director, who hails from Bayelsa state, but she is married to a Rivers state man, said: “Following the dissolution of the interim management board of NDDC, I have been mandated to oversee the smooth running of the commission, until a substantive board is brought in and until the members resume office. “I have been instructed to report to the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha. “Let us work together to see that this gift of the commission that is given to us will progress and prosper. We should work together to see that the goals of setting up this commission are achieved.” It will be recalled that mixed reactions trailed the appointment of a new board for NDDC, with some Niger Deltans seeing the decision by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as a welcome development, while some stakeholders insisted that the Federal Government’s interventionist agency was now being used to play politics, without strictly adhering to the NDDC’s Act of year 2000. Niger Delta governors also met in Abuja on Thursday night and kicked against the newly-nominated members of NDDC’s board, vowing through their Spokesman, Seriake Dickson, of Bayelsa state, to seek audience with President Buhari on the sensitive matter, to ensure peace and development.