It is more than where people buy fish or pepper. Gosa Market offers such pocket-friendly prices that the haves and the have-nots often unite in a feast of commerce. VICTOR OLUWASEGUN reports A sea of heads, kaleidoscope of umbrella colours, rumble from jumbled traffic, loud buzz of haggling voices and waves of flaunted wares signpost Gosa market along the Airport Road, in Abuja, the Federal Capital City (FCT). Thousands flock to it weekly. Gosa’s profile is fast rising among Abuja markets, such that it can now hold its own and boast of customers that rival Wuse market or Garki New Modern Market, Utako, even Karmo Market. And it is contending with Dei Dei, and Kabusa among others. Is it still appropriate to call Gosa, a farmers’ market? Soon, Gosa will be crowned the king of markets to which all others must bow in the Federal Capital City, like Joseph’s biblical sheaf. But this is provided the Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC that manages the affairs of the market can get its acts right. The truth is: what Gosa lacks in infrastructure, it has made up in content, prowess and goodwill. And this exponential growth and newfound respect and royalty is attributable to a factor that grips all impending converts by the jugular, something all prospective customers must succumb to: its low prices. So, given the right incentives, this market won’t be just another stretch of virgin land, and muddy roads dotted with ditches and swampy pools. It won’t be a place of unplanned garages, with unregistered commercial buses, cars and hundreds of irksome motorcycles and the ubiquitous garage boys and urchins; Gosa will be respectable, and armed with the right infrastructure, will be respected. The fledging market has been able to bridge the divide between the rich and the poor in the Capital City, by removing the cancer of Shylock middlemen. It showcases describable and indescribable wares, edible and non-edible at sometimes half the existing prices. This gives the market robust flesh and fresh blood, and is responsible for the active life and strength it flaunts. Every week on Fridays, it beckons to residents from Asoro, Maitama, Central area, Lugbe and environs and further to Kuje and beyond and they flock to Gosa like penitents with tributes of cash. Monday’s are for those interested in purchasing meat and associated livestock materials. “The reason I come here from Kuje is that the prices are cheap. You can get goods here at 50 percent off the price, especially the food items,’ a lady called Aisha said. Gosa is like a foetus in its early stage of life, that requires care, a giant with immense revenue potentials, a cash-calf with the possibility of becoming a cash-cow. But already, there are fears that It will be ran aground like poor administrators are wont to do, and that mismanagement will stop its giant pulsing heart in its infancy. Hence, causing the people, the blood that gives it life, to be spilled in all directions. The fears seem to be crystalising. Its immense potentials notwithstanding, Gosa, sadly, is a place of confusion. Owners of spaces in the market said multiple payments, a blurred administrative organogram and incessant demolitions are threatening the growth of the market. It’s divine destiny, they claim, is at risk Onyemaechi, who said he had been in the market for ten years said that ownership of a space in the market is confusing. According to him, AMAC collected N5, 000. (Five thousand Naira) for initial allocation, but that they had had to pay varying sums as authority kept shifting from hand to hand with the approval of AMAC. “What they told us is that if you want space, you go to AMAC and they will give you space, you pay N5000 for space measuring 8 feet by 8 feet and this was eventually demolished.” He said the land was given to a market manager who sold the same space for N24,000, N64,000, 80, 000 and eventually N100, 000, at different timespans. The sheds built “were eventually destroyed,” he lamented. Another space owner, Mr. Onyemachukwu corroborated the story. However, the AMAC Gosa Market Manager,Josiah Goni, while speaking with The Nation said it wasn’t true that anyone paid an amount above N5,000 for space in the market. HE SAID, “I’m Josiah Goni, the new manager and I came in from August, last year. The land mass of the market is up to 5 hectares and my job as the market manager, is to coordinate the affairs of the market and ensure that everything runs smoothly. I have a supervisor and a cashier that help me coordinate the market.” On the Process of administration, he said he reports to the Chief Market Manager, who reports to the DHR Revenue who reports to the Chairman of the Council. On the process of allocation, he said: ‘there is no proper allocation given to an individual here. But the sheds have been given to them pending when it will be made permanent. The fees paid is N5000 which is for development levy. And there is N50 daily ticket.” On the claim of different amounts being paid, he said: “Actually, regarding that, the one I know is N5000; I don’t know of any other amount.” According to him, the greatest challenge of the market is people refusing to come into the main market and displaying their wares by the road side. If you go inside, you will see market spaces empty.” He said they have set up task force for enforcement of rules with limited success, he said. He said, “This place has not been compensated to the owners, though the assessment has been done but the payment is yet to be done. He said the minister’s prerogative is required on if or not Gosa becomes a full-fledged market with the necessary complements of infrastructure. In the interim, Gosa’s fame continues to grow as it basks in this new-found limelight, attracting thousands with its shimmer and low-prices allure. But the question on the lips of market watchers and economic analysts is: how long will this allure endure?