The reconciliatory moves embarked upon by the Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde received a boost on Monday as the Olubadan high chiefs paid the 91 year old monarch homage at his Popoyemoja, Ibadan palace without beaded crowns . Among the nine high chiefs, six were present at the Olubadan Popoyemoja, Ibadan, palace on Monday. Those absent included; the Osi Olubadan , Senator Rashidi Ladoja, Asipa Balogun, Lateef Gbadamosi Adebimpe and Ekerin Olubadan, Biodun Kola Daisi . The absentee high chiefs were said to have earlier sent their apologies as they were said to be out of town. Before now, the estranged high chiefs have vowed to retain their beaded crowns as kings, claiming that their promotion from high chiefs to beaded crown wearing Obas were backed by relevant laws, while the Olubadan insisted that they must be stripped of their crowns before they can be recognized as members of the Olubadan Advisory Council. However, the visit of the high chiefs to the monarch on Monday was an indication that the high chiefs have finally bowed to the wishes of the Olubadan, resolving the two year old royal tussle. At about 1.30pm Monday, the high chiefs led by Otun Olubadan, Lekan Balogun who came to pay homage to Olubadan include Balogun Owolabi Olakulehin; Osi Balogun Tajudeen Ajibola; Asipa Olubadan Eddy Oyewole; Ekarun Olubadan Amidu Ajibade and Ekarun Balogun Kola Adegbola. Decked in flowing gowns, beads and various caps to match, the high chiefs arrived the palace amid drum beats, songs and trumpet sound. They joined the Iyalode of Ibadanland, High Chief Theresa Oyekanmi, Agbaakin Olubadan, Senior Chief Lekan Alabi, Chief Adeyemi Soladoye-led members of the CCII, several Mogajis and Baale from all the 11 Local Government Councils in Ibadanland to celebrate the joy of the day with Olubadan who clocked 91. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, the Ekarun Olubadan, Amidu Ajibade congratulated the first class monarch on his 91stbirthday anniversary, saying Olubadan had made history for himself, his family and Ibadanland. He seized the opportunity to let Olubadan know that Ibadan is one under the leadership of Kabiyesi and they all are his high chiefs and are proud to be associated with him. The Balogun of Ibadanland, High Chief Owolabi Olakulehin then led the Chiefs on Balogun line in the traditional knock on the door, requesting Kabiyesi to kindly approve the promotion of the chiefs in the Balogun line. After consenting, he paid, on behalf of the chiefs, the mandatory sun of N200, 000 to Olubadan. They then resolved to begin to participate actively in the Olubadan-in-Councils deliberations. Olubadan thanked them profusely and invited them to the promotion exercise of chiefs in Iyalode line which is expected to kick off on Friday 30 August, 2019. Saying the secretary of the Olubadan-in-Council would get back to them.