Issues bordering on accreditation of programmes run by the Ogun State College of Health Technology (OSCOHTECH), Ilese, Ijebu Ode, have pitted the academic staff union and students against the management of the college reports KUNLE AKINRINADE All is not well at the Ogun State College of Health Technology (OSCOHTECH) between the academic staff members, students and management of the college which became a monotechnic in 2006 during the tenure of its immediate past provost, Dr Tunji Dawodu. The college, which was established in 1976 to train health inspectors and hygiene officials in order to ensure clean and healthy environment safe for all to live, has lately been infected by alleged indiscretions that have fouled its landscape amid fruitless efforts by the authorities to deodorise instead of disinfecting it. Top on the crisis rocking the institution is non-accreditation of programmes which has pitted major stakeholders, including academic staff under the aegies of ASUP, against the management. ASUP has since penned petitions to the state government and House of Assembly, urging them to rescue the college from the dwindling in fortune the non-accreditation of programmes has caused the college lately. Can of worms Unlike his predecessor, the current provost of the college, Dr Abiodun Oladunjoye’s administration, according to a petition filed by the ASUP of OSCOHTECH, is gravitating towards abysmal failure that may be difficult to redeem if he is not checked on time. The conscious transition of the college from a certificate awarding institution to a National Diploma (ND) and Higher National Diploma (HND) had boosted its enrolment since 2006. But that may soon become a thing of the past as virtually all of its courses for ND and HND programmes are currently not accredited by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), following the indifference of the college authorities to warnings and notices from both NBTE and professional regulatory agencies requesting renewal of accreditation according to the law. Currently, programmes run by the college have been delisted from NBTE’s accreditation list, meaning that the present batch of its students who are participating in the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme might be the last unless something urgent is done to restore its accreditation. The college’s accreditation by the Health Records Officers Registration Board of Nigeria has since expired too, same with the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria. The de-accredited programmes are 11 in number as shown on NBTE’s official website where their accreditation status are published.- HND Public Health Nursing accredited in 2010 expired on October 1, 2012; HND Community Health which got accreditation in 2013 has expired since October 1, 2015; HND Dental Technology accredited in 2013 expired on October 1, 2015; HND Dental Therapy accredited in 2013 expired on October 1, 2015 and HND Environmental Health Technology which was accredited in 2013 lost its accreditation on October 1, 2015. Others: HND Health Information Management, which got accredited in 2013 expired on October 1, 2015; ND Community Health accredited in 2011 expired on October 1, 2013; ND Dental Technology expired on October 1, 2013; ND Dental Therapy expired on October 1, 2013; ND Environmental Health Technology expired on October 1, 2013 and ND Health Information Management expired on October 1, 2013. All of them have not been accredited many years after they were de-accredited. To remind OSCOTECH authorities of the need to secure fresh accreditation for the affected programmes, NBTE wrote a letter to Dr Oladunjoye asking him to ensure proper accreditation of its programmes in line with laid down regulations. The management of the college was to provide a sum of N2.6 million to renew accreditation for the 11 programmes. The NBTE expressly stated that the amount should be paid through Remmita, the official electronic payment platform, into the coffers of Federal Government. The letter dated December 8, 2017 and signed on behalf of the Board’s Executive Secretary by the Acting Director of Monotechnic Programmes, Ms Helen Oduntan reads: ”Following the expiration of the accreditation granted to the programmes in your college, I am directed to inform you that the Board has approved the accreditation visit to your college for the following programmes: HND Public Health Nursing, HND Community Health, ND Dental Technology, HND Dental Therapy, HND Environmental Health Technology, HND Health Information Management, ND Community Health, ND Dental Technology, ND Dental Therapy, ND Health Information Management. “You are therefore requested to remit to the Board the sum of N2,620,600 (two million six hundred and twenty million, six hundred naira only), being total amount only for the visitation.” Nothing was however done to comply with the NBTE’s request as the programmes remain de-accredited. Worried by the failure of the management to renew accreditation for its major programmes amidst other decrepit infrastructure, the leadership of the college’s Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic (ASUP) wrote a letter dated April 24, 2018, to the former Governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, asking the governor to, among other requests, rein in the provost and other management staff, but to no avail. The letter was signed by the then ASUP chairman, Comrade Abiodun Abiodun and General Secretary, Comrade Babatunde Yussuf. The unionists however lamented that no action had been taken with regard to their petition (s) to the appropriate authorities in the state. Like the NBTE, other regulatory and professional examination bodies have either threatened to delist the college or bar its students from writing their examinations in the light of the lack of seriousness exhibited by the management of the school towards renewing accreditation of its relevant programmes. One of such is the Dental Therapists Registration Board of Nigeria (DTRBN) which warned that students running dental programmes in the college would not be allowed to enroll for its 2019 professional examination. The decision of the board was communicated to the college via a letter signed by its Registrar, Mrs. M.O. Ojo. DTRBN in the letter with reference number DTRBN/162/ 317/ Vol III/19 and dated June 27, 2019 entitled “Non-compliance to statutory regulations” said the Board noted with dismay the disregard for re-accreditation of dental programmes run by the college despite its several correspondences on the issue. The copy of the letter sighted by our correspondent reads: “The Dental Therapists Registration Board of Nigeria has observed with dismay the flagrant disregard of your college to its statutory responsibilities on the training of dental therapists and dental technicians. “This is to reiterate that your college has consistently refused to comply with the directives of the Board on the accreditation of your two (2) dental programmes under the regulations of the Board in spite of several letters written to your college on the matter. “This is to inform you that the management of the Board has decided not to collect the Year 2019 examination forms of your students, and know that your students will not be enrolled for the examination.” However, following the inauguration of the new administration in the state, the aggrieved academic staff unionists followed up on their petition to the state House of Assembly. It was learnt that the Education Committee of the state House of Assembly had engaged the furious leadership of ASUP on July 23, while the embattled provost had also appeared before the committee on July 30, during which he was subjected to questioning over the allegations made against him. ”I can confirm to you that the aggrieved academic staff members and unionists appeared before the Education Committee of Ogun State House of Assembly on July 27,while the embattled provost was summoned by the committee to defend himself on the weighty allegations on July 30,” a source said. It was learnt that in order to douse the tension, Dr Oladunjoye’s loyalists in the college staged a solidarity rally on July 31, asking the academic staff members to leave him alone. Luxury amid bleeding facilities At a press briefing held on August 4 in Abeokuta, top academic staff members led by Comrade Abiodun again lamented the lethargy on the part of the college’s management with regard to renewal of accreditation of programmes amid alleged maladministration. Comrade Abiodun called on Governor Dapo Abiodun, and Ogun State house of Assembly to urgently save the institution from going into extinction due to the alleged incapability and financial recklessness of the provost. He blamed the provost for failing to take necessary steps despite several correspondences by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). He said: “In a letter to the provost in December 2017, NBTE urged the management of our college to expedite action on the renewal of accreditation of programmes it lost a few years back. Yet, the management has not deemed it fit to do so. “We heard the management said it lacked the funds for the accreditation exercise and that the state government has not released funds for it.” The distraught ASUP leader noted that curiously, while the college bleeds from loss of accreditation of its programmes and decaying infrastructure, the management allegedly sought approval for the purchase of multi-million naira posh automobiles for the provost and others to luxuriate. “Perhaps to give veneer to the controversial purchase, the approval for the first batch of the purchase was sought by the management vide a letter forwarded to the state’s Ministry of Education dated January 4, 2019 and addressed to the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, and it got approval for the purchase of a Toyota Camry car and Hummer bus for the official itinerary of the provost for a princely sum of N13 million. The purchase was granted by the ministry few weeks later. “Again, the management sought and got approval from the same ministry on March 6, 2019 for the purchase of a Toyota corolla 2019 model and Toyota Camry car 2009 model vide a letter signed by a director in the ministry.” The vehicles, which cost over N21 million, were for the official use of the Provost and Registrar of the college. Isn’t it an irony that the management that could not source the sum of N3 million for renewal of accreditation had the courage to seek approval for the purchase of luxury vehicles for the use of top management staff, especially the Provost who already has good vehicles as official cars? “Like we noted in our petition to relevant authorities including the state ministry of Education, Science and Technology as well as Ogun State House of Assembly, that the indiscretions of management of the college led by Dr Oladunjoye could destroy the education sector, and by extension the health sector in Ogun State. “Oladunjoye spent N13 million to procure second hand (not the approved tokunbo) hummer bus and a 2004 model Toyota Camry (Orobo) for Mr Ogunbanjo an unconfirmed staff in the library which is valued at N1.1 million. Mr. Provost should show purchase receipt that tallies with the N13 million received for these vehicles.” In similar vein, “Oladunjoye got approvals to purchase a 2019 Toyota Corolla but ended up buying a cheaper Toyota Camry 2017 model. It should be noted that as at 16th March 2019 that the approval for the Toyota Corolla 2019 & Toyota Camry 2009 was given by Ministry of Education, there was no commissioner in place, as she had resigned to contest election. “It was the Permanent Secretary that approved the N21.990 million for the cars. Did the PS have such wide powers?” Copies of the approval for the purchase of the vehicles by the state Ministry of Education, Science and Technology sighted by our correspondent were dated January 4 and March 6, 2019. Abiodun added: “The management has also been collecting the sum of N10,000 as convocation fess from graduating students, yet no convocation has been held since 2014 when the Provost was appointed. “Also, the major road in the college purportedly built with over N20 million collapsed a few months later, just after a downpour. “We want the state government to rein in the management of the college before things fall apart completely in the institution.” Abiodun, who was joined by two former ASUP chairmen, Adeoye Kuku and Abiola Ojure, lamented the illegal award of an access road contract in the college, which he claimed collapsed a few months after the road was built.. “The Provost claimed he resurfaced the only access road in the college with granite; less than a kilometre of road for N25 million, which was washed off by flood in just eight months,” he said. Students react A cross section of students of the college expressed their disappointment with the accreditation crisis and maladministration rocking the college, with many of them blaming the festering imbroglio on the management of the college. A student of Dental Technology department, who craved anonymity, said he was shocked that the programme had no accreditation from both NBTE and DTRBN. He said: “Of all the problems facing the college, what is so shocking to hear is that my course is not accredited by the NBTE and DTRBN, which iare the professional regulatory agencies for the programme. “What that means is that we have been short-changed by the authorities of the college and our future looks bleak in the face of non-accreditation of the programme. The management cannot afford to shy away from its responsibilities, because it would amount to jeopardizing our future for no clear reasons other than negligence on their part.” Another student in the Environmental Health Technology department, who also spoke in confidence, said the management had been unfeeling to the plight of the students arising from the failure to renew accreditation for programmes in the school. “The management should pursue vigorously re-accreditation of the programme and restore the confidence of students, as many of us have been demoralized by the news of de-accreditation of programmes in this college,” he said. A student union leader, who asked not to be named, told The Nation that non-accreditation of programmes in the college was a disservice to the students. He said that students of the college would soon embark on protests to force the management to expedite action on renewing the accreditation of affected programmes. He said: “We are also worried that the management of this great college, led by the Provost, had been silent on the lack of statutory accreditation of programmes in the last six years or thereabout. What this means is that we might not get jobs when we graduate from the college, and it is nothing but wickedness. “The student union as a body will soon embark on rallies and protests to compel the provost and his management team to do the needful.” Contacted, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the college, Mr Ayodele Alaga, initially queried the motives behind the request for his reaction to the allegations on August 1. Although, he promised to revert to our reporter, he did not respond to the enquiries in spite of a reminder sent to him on August 4. The enquiries the reporter sent to the mobile telephone of the provost of the college on August 8 also received no response. When our correspondent again contacted Dr Oladunjoye on his mobile telephone on Wednesday August 14, he said he was in a meeting and promised to revert to the reporter. He, however, had not done so at press time.