Newcastle United defied the odds in the sunshine to stun Champions League finalists Tottenham Hotspur in their own backyard. The Magpies nervously arrived in London as massive underdogs with Steve Bruce feeling some early pressure. But they jetted back to the North-East with smiles on their faces as Joelinton secured a valuable and famous away win . History was made in the capital as Bruce managed to follow through his vow to “shut up” some of his critics although, United had to fight for the right to record their first win of the campaign. Indeed, United absorbed the early pressure that Spurs laid on in this Sunday afternoon clash, but the Magpies were struck by an early injury blow on 15 minutes. After winning a free-kick down the right-hand side, Matt Ritchie played it quickly to Allan Saint-Maximin. But it was clear he’d felt a twinge in his hamstring and was soon replaced by Christian Atsu. However, it did not deter Newcastle in the first quarter of the game and while Spurs had 82% of the possession the first big chance of the game fell to the team in orange. Joelinton latched on to the ball just inside the Tottenham half and released Sean Longstaff with the midfielder driving his way into the box. Longstaff had a clear sight of goal – despite having Atsu as an option over his shoulder – but the Geordie boy forced a fine save out of Hugo Lloris on 23 minutes. It was a moment that appeared to give Newcastle some belief too. Four minutes later, Atsu dinked a fine ball into the path of Joelinton who cushioned the ball perfectly before rolling past Lloris to open the scoring and send the 3,000 travelling Geordies into ecstasy. Much has been made about Joelinton’s heavy £40million price tag but with the thermometer displaying 32 degrees in London, the Brazilian was the coolest man on the park as he beat the seasoned French international. United had to rely on the brilliance of their own stopper Martin Dubravka on 33 minutes. Heung-Min Son’s rasping effort struck the ground and troubled the Magpies but the Slovakia star was on hand to push the ball away from danger. Son was causing problems again on 39 minute as he danced down the left before drilling the ball wide of the post. United had to endure some nervy moments before the half-time whistle but they went in with a slender lead. Spurs started the second half on the front-foot and Ritchie then found himself in the book for a challenge on Kyle Walker-Peters. But Longstaff rose well to clear the resultant free-kick. Spurs continued to press Newcastle but on 55 minutes Lucas Moura was only able to head it on to the top of Dubravka’s net. The home side tried to change the flow of the game by introducing two subs shortly after that as Christian Eriksen and Giovani Lo Celso came on. Moura then hit one wide with 64 minutes gone as Newcastle clutched on to their advantage. With 17 minutes to go Spurs had another glimpse of goal as they worked the ball into the final third and carved an opening for Lo Celso, but he could only send it wide. History then unfolded on 78 minutes as Newcastle were involved in their first ever VAR check. Lascelles was adjudged to have fouled Harry Kane but his collapse was deemed accidental and play continued – much to the joy of the travelling Geordie fans. Lascelles though was unable to continue and was replaced by Federico Fernandez for the closing stages. With three minutes to go Joelinton was replaced by Yoshinori Muto with the Brazilian booked for time wasting on his way off. With six minutes of added time, United had to fight tooth and nail for the points, and a last gasp clearance from Krafth summed up their desperation. Yet Newcastle and Bruce held on for dear life and eased the pressure with a fantastic road trip victory.