Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde on Wednesday lauded the immediate past administration led by Senator Abiola Ajimobi for establishing the School’s Governing Board (SGB) to uplift school’s infrastructure and enhance learning. The governor explained that the novel initiative would be appreciated and be taken to the greatest height by his administration. Makinde, who was represented by his deputy, Rauf Olaniyan at a capacity-building seminar organised by the Old Students’ of the school in conjunction with its SGB body, said the state of public schools facilities  was pathetic. He reiterated the administration’s readiness to take the all-encompassing education policy to a greater level. Giving kudos to the past Administration School Governing Board education policy, Makinde hailed the Old Students’ Association of Ibadan City Academy, Eleta, Ibadan and its School Governing Board (SGB) for having expended over N40 million on the rehabilitation of 15 structures, including classrooms, laboratories and the school’s library while another five structures were presently under renovation. The school has six teachers under the employment of the alumni to take care of various subjects like English Language, Mathematics and sciences to support teachers under the Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM) and a borehole was sunk for the students’ population to have access to portable water. “On behalf of the government and the people of Oyo State, I want to appreciate the alumni of Ibadan City Academy and its SGB for their efforts to complement government in uplifting education in the State. “Government cannot do everything. We urge people in and outside the state to inculcate this laudable effort and contribute to the growth of education in the state to propel the needed effect on other aspects of human life. “Let me give kudos to the last administration for bringing SGB onboard, but I want to add here that our administration will take the policy to a greater height. On behalf of Oyo State government, I have the privilege to tell you that we are ready to partner with you because we know that no matter the cost of building structures in schools, if the capacity of teachers is not updated, then the buildings are nothing. “I want to add that with what we have seen here, by the time you come here next year, we would have done our own bit that you will have a good story to tell, ” the governor promised. The old students’ body of the school had invited five education experts from the United Kingdom from the popular Association of Nigerian Academics in the United Kingdom (UK), among whom, was a member of the alumni. They took over hundred teachers through the modern and up-to-date requisites of teaching methodologies and learning styles that could enhance students’ performance.