It is argued that the most important day in a person’s life is his or her birthday. This is because it is historic particularly as it marks the beginning of one’s sojourn on earth. Sadly, there are people who do not celebrate their birthdays. Some do not even remember the day, and for those who remember, they just let it pass like a normal day, doing nothing special, either for themselves or for other people around them, to mark  their special day. A birthday is a day that comes once a year and it should be celebrated for several reasons. Here are five reasons you should celebrate your birthdays. It is a time to be thankful Your birthday is a time to celebrate birth itself. It is an expression of thanksgiving to God for being born and still being alive. You are not better than those that are dead. It is also an occasion to rethink your life. It is a great time to reflect on the past, evaluate your present and make plans for your future. It is a time of new mercies To reach another year is an achievement. Another opportunity of blessings is open to you, as you begin a new year. It is a time to reflect on how much love and kindness you have enjoyed from God in the past year. Think of how many nights God allowed you to lie down and sleep and how many mornings He has awakened you with brand new mercies. It is a time to bond with people Your birthday is a good opportunity to bond with people, your family and your friends. Usually people make a special effort to be nice to you on your birthday. Birthday presents are good, but a wish that comes from the heart is worth all the presents in this world from those who truly love you. It is a time to be celebrated It is a “mini-judgement day”, a day your records are usually counted, but this time, only your uniqueness and the positives are celebrated. If you have influenced people, you have touched a life, your good deeds are usually recalled and celebrated. That is why people go extra miles to organize surprise parties for people, buy gifts (some with their last penny), send messages and wishes, all to celebrate the goodness of the one celebrating his/her birthday. It is a time to take up new responsibilities You are a year older on your birthday, and so, life will throw new challenges at you which you should accept. Your birthday is a reminder to be more responsible, and accept more challenges of life. People celebrate their birthdays in diverse ways, some throw a party, and some do a small celebration amongst two or more people. But the most important thing is that it is marked and celebrated.  It is important to note that you are important. Your existence on earth is important; to you, your loved ones and strangers you haven’t yet met. You deserve to be celebrated. Do not hide your day. Celebrate it, because you deserve it. 