EKITI State Governor Dr Kayode Fayemi has said that the state would resume the hosting  of  Ekiti State Festival of Arts and Culture, (EKIFEST) in December. He disclosed that the state will also establish Arts and Craft Village at Ado Ekiti with cluster outlets in some communities across the state. Governor Fayemi who was represented by Head of Service Hon Deji Ajayi at the Ekiti Arts abd Council Stakeholders Forum said: “We are going to organise Ekiti State Festival of Arts and Culture in December this year to enhance our capacities in crafts, dancing, weaving and other vocational areas of arts. “We should not forget to teach our children those values that will make Ekiti to remember their heritage and sustain our culture as a people.” The chairperson of the event, Erelu Bisi Fayemi noted that activities in the creative sector nosedived in the last four years when her husband, Dr Kayode Fayemi went on sabbatical. “The arts and culture industry is one of the areas through, which we believe we can identify and develop talents  and create opportunities for our teeming youths in the creative industry, ” she added. Erelu Fayemi urged stakeholders to collaborate with the government particularly the State Council for Arts and Culture for  the development of  the sector. Director General Ekiti State Council for Arts and Culture, Mr. Wale Ojo Lanre assured that  the government  was committed to  the  promotion of all cultural festivals in the state to empower the people for  economic gains. ”We are also going to partner Nigeria Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), National Council for Arts and Culture and other national and international bodies to promote our arts and culture in Ekiti. Some of them will be enlisted as national festivals. “We are also going to engage creative arts entrepreneurs and accomplished   artistes of Ekiti origin to mentor our budding stars. All these are what  Governor Kayode Fayemi is ready to do to promote our arts and culture industry and make it a force that can generate revenue for individuals and the state”, he said. Prof Ishola Olomola, Prof  Rasaki Bakare, and Dr Mike Adeoye in their presentations stressed the need for consistency, sustainability and working with passion