The Executive Secretary, Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) Gambo Jibril has assured Abuja residents that very soon they will ensure all the streetlights work maximally to ensure full security in the city. Gambo disclosed this during a visit to the President, Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN) Mr. Ali Rabiu in Abuja, assuring that the council at this time is making efforts to ensure all street lights in Abuja are working. He said, “If you look at the Airport Expressway we have had challenges in the past but that is gone now, for the Nnamdi Azikiwe which is Ring Road 1, we are at the verge of completing it and ensuring its street lights work, similar thing is happening on Ahmadu Bello way and others. There is a lot of effort in getting back the street lights, in the central area there are some places which we now bring back the Solar system to complement. “Some of the activities of this developers are infringing on the water courses and the right of way, the development control is not going to sit on the fence we have had it we have started removing the ones that are the menace. “On building collapse, we have set up an investigation panel to know what exactly is happening, we have not sanctioned anyone in 2019 because the panel has not sat. The registry is working towards getting the panel to sit, they are about 6-8 cases to investigate. The COREN President, Ali Rabiu said the FCDA team is doing a great job by actualising its core mandate. This involves a lot of planning, designing, construction, supervision and maintenance of the infrastructure that the FCDA has provided. “For a city like Abuja, there are challenges like security, traffic management, flooding and others. It is the responsibility of FCDA to be proactive in such issues, would still like them to look at issues of street lights. Most areas have been thrown into darkness not because there are no street lights but because of lack of maintenance. The FCDA should resuscitate the street lights to maintain good security in the city. “FCDA like you heard is the core developer of this city and COREN is the regulator of the entire engineering subsector, so we must partner together to make sure that citizens understand our responsibility visa vies what COREN does Dealing with quacks for us is a challenge before the amendment of our Act, now even with the amendment of the Act the challenge is already overcome. The Act is not fully implemented yet we are still working out modalities for its implementation. I want to use this medium to say our members are not expensive but they are well trained to do the work on ground.