The Ogun State Police Command on Wednesday paraded three suspects who allegedly murdered one Ahmed Obisanwo, 400-level student of Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye. The Command also recovered guns from the suspects who claimed to be members of local community Vigilante group. The Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, who paraded the suspects at Eleweran, the Command’s Headquarters, said the three suspects Idowu Ayodele, 53, Segun Ogunsanwo, 53, and Akeem Salisu, 55 would be charged with   murder. Makama said the suspects invaded a hotel in Ijebu-Igbo, the Headquarters of Ijebu North Local Government Area of the State on August 8, dispossessing people of their valuables during the attack. The Police boss in the state added that  the suspects also seized two young men while the robbery lasted, stressing that one of the victims  escaped from the suspected criminals, while the other remained with them. He said: “These suspects went into a hotel and told everyone to lie down, dispossessing them of their valuables. They seized two people and didn’t return them. After a while, one of them came back and said he had escaped. When we asked him about the second person he was abducted with, he said, he was dead. It is six weeks today, that person has not returned. “There was a complaint and we worked on that which led to the arrest of these people and the recovery of these weapons. On further interrogation, they said the other person that was taken had been killed. They said he had been thrown into a river. We asked them to identify the river so we can go there and conduct a search and recover his remains.” “One of them claims to be a member of safe corps but the boss has out rightly denied that. One of the weapons is painted in police color. They will be made to face the full wrath of the law.” But one of the suspects, Akeem Salisu told reporters that he didn’t kill Obisanwo. Salisu claimed the Vigilante group where he is part of, was constituted by the community to rid the area of cultists and thugs. According to him, his group usually arrests cultists and thugs in the community and drop them at the Police Station in order to ensure peace and security in the area.