LIVERPOOL dominated the UEFA awards in Monaco on Thursday evening, as Virgil Van Dijk picke up two awards and Alisson picking up one. Van Dijk and Alisson were heavy favourites to win in their respective positions, but the Dutch defender winning the Men’s Player of the Year may well come as a shock, as he beat Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo to the major gong. Sportsmail takes a look at all the award winners, at the event where the Champions League group stage draw was also revealed. VIRGIL VAN DIJK Van Dijk picks up the major award, beating Lionel Messi and Crisitano Ronaldo to UEFA’s major men’s gong. Van Dijk had a terrific season, and was integral to the Liverpool side who won the Champions League in Madrid in June. He was the PFA Player of the Year last season, but this individual honour may well rank higher given who he was up against. LUCY BRONZE England and Lyon’s Lucy Bronze won the UEFA Women’s Player of the Year. After playing an integral part in Lyon’s run to winning the Women’s Champions League, right back Bronze was a vital cog in the England women’s side which reached the semi-finals of the Women’s World Cup in France – she scored a memorable long-range goal in the quarter-final against Norway. ALISSON BECKER Liverpool’s number one was named the 2018/19 UEFA goalkeeper of the year at the awards in Monaco, following a fantastic first season at Anfield. Alisson kept a clean sheet in the famous comeback second-leg victory against Barcelona, and made a string of important saves in the final against Tottenham, as Liverpool won the competition for the sixth time. VIRGIL VAN DIJK Virgil Van Dijk was a colossus at the back for Champions League winners Liverpool last season. The Holland captain scored a crucial away goal in the Reds’ last-16 tie against Bayern Munich, and marshalled the defence all the way to the final, where he was named the official man-of-the-match against Tottenham Hotspur at Wembley. Van Dijk can add this award to his PFA Player of the Year prize for last season. Midfielder of the 2018/19 Champions League season FRENKIE DE JONG Dutch midfielder Frenkie de Jong won the midfielder of the year, after playing a vital part in Ajax’s impressive run to the semi-finals of the competition last season. The Dutch giants beat holders Real Madrid in the last-16 after a historic 4-1 win at the Bernabeu, before knocking out Juventus in the quarter-finals. They fell just short in the semis against Tottenham, but de Jong’s performances in the centre of the park earned him a move to Barcelona, for £65million. FORWARD OF THE 2018/19 CHAMPIONS LEAGUE SEASON LIONEL MESSI Lionel Messi took home the forward of the season award, after scoring 12 goals in 10 Champions League appearances. The Argentinean forward scored a sensational free kick in the semi-final first leg against Liverpool, and although he couldn’t quite guide Barcelona to the final, the captain had another brilliant individual season, scoring 50 goals in 51 appearances in all competitions.