President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday assigned portfolios to newly inaugurated cabinet. Below is the full list of ministers and their portfolios:
1. Abia – Uchechukwu Samson Ogah – Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development 2. Adamawa – Mohammed Musa Bello – Minister of FCT 3. Akwa Ibom – Godswill Akpabio – Minister of Niger Delta 4. Anambra – Dr Chris Ngige – Minister of Labour and Employment 5. Anambra – Sharon Ikeazu – Minister of State, Environment 6. Bauchi – Adamu Adamu – Minister of Education 7. Bauchi – Ambassador Mariam Kategu – Minister of State, Trade and Investment 8. Bayelsa – Timipre Sylvia – Minister of State, Petroleum 9. Benue – George Akume – Minister Special Duties 10. Borno – Mustapha Baba Shehuri – Minister of State Agriculture and Rural Development 11. Cross River – Goddi Jeddi Agba – Minister of State, Power 12. Delta – Festus Keyamo – Minister of State, Niger Delta 13. Enugu – Ogbonnaya Onu – Minister of Science and technology 14. Edo – Osagie Ehanire – Minister of Health 15. Edo – Clement Agba – Minister of Budget and National Planning 16. Ekiti – Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo – Minister of Industry Trade and Investment 17. Enugu – Geoffrey Onyema – Minister of Foreign Affairs 18. Gombe – Isa Ibrahim Patami – Minister of Communication 19. Imo – Emeka Nwajiuba – Minister of State, Education 20. Jigawa – Sulieman Adamu – Minister of Water Resources 21. Kaduna – Zainab Ahmed – Minister of Finance 22. Kaduna – Mohammed Mahmud – Minister of Environment 23. Kano – Sabo Nanono – Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development 24. Kano – Major Bashir Sani – Minister of Defence 25. Katsina – Hadi Serika – Minister of Aviation 26. Kebbi – Abubakar Malami – Attorney General and Minister of Justice 27. Kogi – Ramatu Tijani – Minister of State, FCT 28. Kwara – Lai Mohammed – Minister of Information and Culture. 29. Kwara – Gbemisola Saraki – Minister of State, Transportation 30. Lagos – Babatunde Raji Fashola – Minister of Works and Housing 31. Lagos – Adeleke Mamora – Minister of State Health. 32. Nasarawa – Mohammed Abdullahi – Minister of State, Science and Technology. 33. Niger – Zubairu Dada – Minister of State, Foreign Affairs 34. Ogun – Olamilekun Adegbite – Minister of Mines and Steel Development 35. Ondo – Tayo Alaosuadura – Minister of State, Labour and Employment. 36. Osun – Rauf Aregbesola – Minister of Interior. 37. Oyo – Sunday Dare – Minister of Youth and Sports. 38. Plateau – Pauline Talin – Minister of Woman Affairs 39. Rivers – Rotimi Amaechi – Minister of Transportation 40. Sokoto – Mohammed Dangidi – Minister of Police Affairs 41. Taraba – Sale Mamma – Minister of Power 42. Yobe – Abubakar Aliyu – Minister of State Works and Housing. 43. Zamfara – Sadiya Umar Farouk – Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management.