A former president of the Nigerian Football Federation, (NFF) Alhaji Sani Lulu Abdullahi, has promised to turn around the fortunes of Kogi State if voted into office as the next governor. Speaking after he purchased the All Progressives Congress (APC) nomination form to contest for the party’s governorship, Lulu, who was in charge of the NFF between 2006 and 2010, said it was incumbent on him to work tirelessly to bring smiles to the faces of Kogites whom he said have become despondent in the last three and a half years as a result of hunger, deprivations, and economic disempowerment. “It is a known fact that I inherited a debt of N300 million when I assumed office at the Glass House as the president of NFF  in August 2006 but left a robust N2.8 billion at the end of my tenure in 2010,” explained Lulu. “A state like Kogi in dire straits today needs an experienced, focused and one that has zero tolerance for corruption like me, at this point in time.” Meanwhile, a close confidant of Lulu, Alhaji Abdullahi Ndanusa, has enjoined Kogites to work collectively to ensure that his friend of over 40 years wins his party’s ticket and the overall state election, describing him as one of the most focused, down-to-earth and egalitarian administrators he has ever related with. He lamented the current situation in Kogi, saying it has degenerated to the level that the people of the state can no longer fold their arms and allow the situation to deteriorate further. Speaking in a similar vein, Otunba Adekunle Olawoyen described the aspirant as a household name in the country and one that has made his mark in sports and other spheres. Olawoyen said Lulu is the man that will rescue the state from its grinding poverty and general backwardness even as he charged the APC card-carrying members in the state to effect the real change by voting Sani Lulu as the party’s flag bearer in the coming primaries. Women Leader of Lulu’s Campaign Organisation, and a front line of Buhari/Osinbajo Support Group, Ambassador Fatima Adams, equally described Lulu as the best person to take over the reins of leadership of the state, describing him as a tested and trusted administrator. “He is a calm and accessible person. He has a listening ear, he has tasted power before but he does not allow that to intoxicate him; Kogi State will turn a new leaf with Alhaji Sani Lulu Abdullahi in charge,” she noted.