DUFIL Prima Foods, makers of Indomie Noodles, has supported the Leadership Empowerment and Resource Network (LEARN) summer initiative through the donation of educational materials and cash. The Group Public Relations and Events Manager of Dufil, Temitope Ashiwaju, who made the donation at the LEARN centre in Surulere, said the firm has partnered LEARN in the last 12 years because the initiative has been consistent in its effort to better the people’s lives. According to Ashiwaju, coordinators of the initiative have proven to be faithful, consistent and credible, so Dufil has continued to partner LEARN because its outcomes are evident in the lives of the beneficiaries. He said: “We believe in the programme because of what the students are benefiting from it. The coordinators are also credible with usage of funds and materials donated for the initiative. It’s not just about academics, but the programme makes the beneficiaries all round individual as they learn about hygiene, home making, and other extracurricular activities they are not taught in school. “Our brand is happy because its working and we are committed to a continuous partnership. The resources put into this programme are worth millions of naira so it’s not just about today’s one-off donation of N500,000 but our long standing partnership with LEARN. “We believe in the programme because of what the students are benefiting from it and Indomie will keep supporting and empowering young people who need to be equipped with the much needed skills to help them become future leaders. We will continue to partner with LEARN to educate, create opportunities and a better future for Nigeria’s youths.” The Chief Operating Officer of LEARN, Mrs. Ronke Oguntoyinbo, thanked Dufil for its continuous support. According to her, Dufil’s effort shows the level of dedication and sense of duty it has towards the educational development of Nigerian youths. She promised that LEARN will utilise the donations effectively. A pupil, Vera Nwabueze, said she is happy to be a beneficiary of LEARN as she has been equipped with vocational skills. She also thanked Dufil for its support and encouragement towards the summer initiative programme. LEARN is a non-profit initiative committed towards leadership development, entrepreneurial skill acquisition, sexuality education, character development and vocational skills acquisition. It is an initiative of the former First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs. Abimbola Fashola.