Members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) are generally posted to schools, hospitals, local government areas, ministries, agencies and departments owned by the government to assist in rendering essential services to the society. They are mostly grouped to perform Community Development Services (CDS). Most of the CDS groups select and undertake projects that could improve infrastructure in their domains. But a set of corps members took everybody by surprise recently. The corps members performed a rare act of kindness; an uncommon generous display not known among their peers. Their CDS is medical and charity. They lived up to it. They paid a surprise visit to Mr. Tarawa Gagariga, a retired teacher who is down with stroke and abandoned by everybody. Gagariga has been living in penury and everything around him smelt poverty. He was hopelessly waiting for death to take him when the corps members came calling. They restored hope and belief in the old man, who spent a significant part of his life serving his state. Investigations showed that Gagariga retired from the Bayelsa State Universal Basic Education Board. His retirement letter was written and signed on August 26, 2008 by the then acting Chairman of the board, P.J. Atukpa. But he had nothing to show for his years of hard work. About 22 corps members in the CDS group visited the decrepit home of Gagariga in Odi, Kolokuma-Opokuma Local Government Area. They spent the whole day attending to the old man. They cleaned the environment, the walls of his house; washed plates and pots as well as his cloths. One of them lifted him and took him to a place where they bathed him. They changed his cloths and fed him. The corps members brought new household items such as food, toiletries and other accessories to the ailing man. They gave him new shirts, knickers, rice, beans, garri, groundnut oil, palm oil, detergent, toothpaste, toothbrush, tissue papers, soap, bread, milk and other beverages. The corps members, who spoke through their Community Liaison Officer, Moyosade Olayemi, said their gesture was borne out of the motto of the NYSC, Service and Humanity. “So, the purpose of NYSC is national integration and service to humanity as a way of giving back to our communities. Sequel to this, all our humanitarian services and kindness in our host community Odi Bayelsa State  is for God Almighty who rewards men,” they said. Olayemi said it was not the first time the corps members showed such kindness, adding that in June, they undertook a medical outreach which touched the lives of over 200 people in Odi community. “Putting smiles on people’s faces, especially the less-privileged is our aim because we are sure of God’s reward”, they added. The corps members, who took part in the exercise, are Ajana Feranmi, Johnny Joyce, Emmanuel Deborah, Anyiema R. Ishioma, Ekwueme Vivian Udoka, Moyosade R. Olayemi, Nnamdi U. Victoria, Adigun Ismael Oladapo, Okpozo E. Blessing and Moses Emmanuel C. Others are Omorodion Loveth, Awhopuye Bradley A, Akamune O. Talenta, Efedjare Merit, Ekhoye O. Michael, Kukogho B. Tejiri, Anagor Perpetual, Suleiman A. Nasiru, Hicks Grace Modupe, Bolarinwa Damilola, Oyedemi T. Blessing and Ebie Confidence C. The act of kindness did not go unnoticed as many people took to their social media platforms to pour encomiums on the corps members. Bishop Awolumate Favour said God would reward their contributions to rescue the old man. He said: “All your contributions to rescue the man from this obnoxious and unpalatable situation are noted. God, in His infinite mercy, will continue to be with all of you that God used at this critical time for this man.” Also Anifowose Joseph called on heads of local authorities in the area to advance the efforts of the corps members. He said the local government chairman, a member of the state House of Assembly, including the Speaker of the House, Tonye Isenah, who hails from the area should help to sustain the efforts of the corps members. Adewuyi Rita further prayed God to provide good jobs for the corps members. “God will bless you all and when you finish your service, God will provide good jobs for you,” she said.