The Truth Platform, a Benin City based non-partisan group, has risen in condemnation of the harassment of the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The group described the harassment of the APC chair as the handiwork of self-centred party stalwarts who are bent on destroying what they could not get. The group, which made its position known via a press release made available to the press after its meeting, described the incident as an attempt to muzzle one of the most credible voices of democracy in the country. According to the release signed by its president, Israel Ejilense, harassing the party chairman is not only a calculated affront on his efforts to sanitise the conduct of some of its members in order to reposition the party for greater achievements but also a part of a bigger game plan by enemies of the country’s democratic process to truncate the party’s preparation for a successful outing in the 2019 general elections. It described it as a great distraction to the chairman and other members of the National Working Committee of the APC, adding that it is a dangerous development within the APC family that must be nipped in the bud. Ejilense added that the harassment is part of a grand design to work against the re-election of President Muhammad Buhari, adding that the Presidency must be careful and watchful. Ejilense said: “We condemn in its entirety the harassment of Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole. “It is an assault on democracy, and we call on all well-meaning Nigerians to rise in condemnation against it. “If nothing else, the action is part of the grand plan against the re-election of President Buhari by enemies of the county who are hell-bent on truncating recent efforts by Oshiomhole to instil democratic best practices in the county’s body polity.” While appealing to President Muhammad Buhari to investigate the assault in order to bring the instigators to book, the group also urged Oshiomhole not to be deterred in his determination to make the ruling APC a model of true democracy where unblemished internal democracy is a tradition. “We appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to quickly set up a panel to investigate and unravel those behind the devious act. “We do so in the belief that it will help curb the excesses of certain fifth columnists bent on making mockery of genuine attempts to strengthen our democracy. “We equally appeal to Oshiomhole to remain steadfast and not be deterred in his determination to reposition his party. “We want him to realise that what happened on Wednesday is part of a bigger design by the country’s enemies to retard our democratic process.”