Tolaram Group has made its entry into the fruit drink market with the launch of “GoodLife Magik” fruit drink. Tolaram Group is one of the largest conglomerates in West Africa, which has over the years laid an indelible footprint especially in the Nigerian landscape with the introduction of numerous successful brands. The company’s latest brand, GoodLife Magik, is a healthy fruit drink that rides on three unique selling propositions of “Healthy, Nutritious and Great Taste”. The fruit drink is targeted at children who require all the beneficial nutrients they can get, to grow and function optimally. The brand comes in three variants: Orange, Watermelon & Mango and is fortified with key nutrients such as Vitamin-C and Glucose that improve immunity and give energy. The new product offers a great natural taste and comes in unique and attractive packaging. Tolaram Group Managing Director Chief Harkishin Aswani assured Nigerians that the company will continue to maintain the reputation of unwavering quality which the group has established over the years. “Tolaram Group is one of the largest manufacturers in Nigeria and the group has consistently produced strong household brands keeping in mind the consumers’ needs. Keeping the same philosophy of being consumer-centric, we hope that this new addition to the group will create another success story,” he said. Aswani, however, appealed to Nigerians to continue supporting the group as it grows, while assuring them of its commitment towards creating another Nigerian success story with the GoodLife Magik fruit drink brand. Wife of Ogun State Governor, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, who was special guest, praised the group for its efforts in putting smiles on the faces of Nigerians through the introduction of numerous brands which have over the years expanded so large and are actively topping the charts in their respective categories. “There is hardly anyone in this hall who has never consumed the Indomie brand,” she said, describing it as an evidence of a brand’s success. “It must also be mentioned that the Tolaram Group’s marketing doggedness and product innovation culture is quite admirable and strong, hence, I am confident that this latest addition; GoodLife Magik fruit drink will also grow big and perform well in the Nigerian market just like the rest of the brands from the group “ Bamidele said. Also speaking at the launch in Lagos, during the week, President, Nutrition Society of Nigeria, Dr. Bartholomew Brai, said: “We are excited to be a part of the launch of the GoodLife Magik, which has come with the proposition of healthy nutrition for Nigerians. “Nutrition Society of Nigeria has always been in support of the Tolaram group brands not because of their market dominance, but because they have consistently demonstrated interest towards the promotion of health. “We are always happy and open to support any brand that promises to promote healthy nutrition which is what the society largely stands for.” GoodLife Magik is being manufactured by Tolaram Nutri Beverages Ltd under the Tolaram Group. It is a healthy fruit drink which has just been launched into the Nigerian beverage segment.