The National President, National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), Mr. Lucky Amiwero, has said the Lagos ports at Apapa and Tin Can Island are not overwhelmed,  neither are they close to breaking point. He was reacting to a statement by the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, who during the public hearing by the House Ad Hoc Committee to determine why Eastern Ports were being underutilised in Abuja, last Friday, said the ports were nearing breaking point. Amiwero, also an international freight consultant and customs agent, in a telephone chat with The Nation, however, said the ports operation were being furstrated by government bureaucracy, a development that has put the facilities in  a sorry state. According to him, most of the ports in Lagos, especially the offdock terminals, are empty. This, he said, was because the government is not bothered about genuinely developing the ports by making it efficient. He argued that having a workable port is not about the size of the complex but about how efficiently it is run.This would mean putting in place solid infrastructure, such as roads and other inter-modal means of transportation in the ports. Amiwero said the Lagos ports are not positioned to be efficient because the government has failed to develop their facilities. He said while countries, such as Ghana, has spent $1.8 billion to develop her port, Nigeria  has not spent somuch. He said the authorities managing the port sector had not prepared the ports for the global trend. Amiwero said vessels now have capacity for 20,000-foot Equivalent Unit (TEU). The effect of this is that such vessels make for greater turnaround in cargo movement. But for such high volume- cargo carrying vessels, the drought level of a port is of significance. Nigerian ports, he said do not have capacity to accommodate such vessels because of the shallowness of her waters. For instance, while the Lagos port boasts of the deepest drought of 12.5 meters in the country, Amiwero said Ghana port is heading towards attaining 19 meters drought, he explained. “Ninety per cent of the problem in Lagos port is from government. They fail to provide infrastructure for these ports; the problem of Lagos ports is not capacity but infrastructure. The situation places the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) under intense pressure to carry out their duty,” he said. He urged the government to consult experts with experience and knowledge in running ports if the country is to maximise the potential of its maritime industry.