Lagos State House of Assembly on Monday confirmed 35 out of 38 of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s nominees for commissioners and special advisers. The exercise was after the final screening and adopting the recommendation of the ad-hoc committee on screening as the resolution of the whole House. The three nominees who were denied confirmation are: Prince Olanrewaju Sanusi, Mr. Obafemi George and Ms Adekemi Ajayi-Bembe. Speaker Mudasiru Obasa said the governor was at liberty to represent them to the House. The committee report, which was read by the chairman of the ad-hoc committee, Chief Whip, Hon. Rotimi Abiru, recommended the nominees be confirmed by the whole House according to section 192 (2) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. Obasa however cautioned the cabinet- designate that the House would not hesitate to pass a vote-of-no- confidence on any of them found wanting after they assume office. The 38 nominees had been screened by a 16-man ad-hoc committee set up by the Assembly for the exercise They were however called individually on Monday to appear before the whole House at plenary to introduce themselves fully. The speaker told the nominees that the House would not fail in its oversight to ensure that each performed his responsibility to the people of Lagos. Urging them to prioritise service to the people, saying that the House would not hesitate to pass vote of no confidence on anyone found wanting. The speaker added that the House was not concerned about the academic qualifications and oratory prowess of any of the nominees but readiness and commitment to serve the state. “Even after the confirmation, we will continue to monitor whatever offices you are assigned to ensure value for public fund. We will continue to oversight your activities. “We will not hesitate to pass vote of no confidence any time anyone is found wanting,” the Speaker said. Those cleared as commissioners and special advisers are: Mr Oladele Ajayi, Mr Oluwatoyin Fayinka, Mrs Yetunde Arobieke, Mr Kabiru Abdullahi and Mr Joe Igbokwe. Others are Mr Bonu Solomon Saanu, Mrs Lola Akande, Prince Anofi Elegushi, Mrs Solape Hammond, Mr Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, Mrs Shulamite Adebolu, Mr Tokunbo Wahab, Mr. Rabiu Olowo Onaolapo, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, Professor Akin Abayomi, Dr. Idris Salako, Mr. Tunji Bello, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka and Mrs. Bolaji Dada. Others included: Mr. Lere Odusote, Dr. Frederick Oladeinde, Mr. Gbolahan Lawal, Dr. Wale Ahmed, Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN), Mr. Hakeem Fahm and Mrs. Ajibola Ponle. Also confirmed were Engr. Aramide Adeyoye, Mr. Segun Dawodu, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, Mr. Sam Egube, Ms Ruth Bisola Olusanya, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, Mr. Tunbosun Alake and Mr. Afolabi Ayantayo. The rejection and confirmation were done through a voice vote supervised by the Speaker. However, the swearing-in and inauguration of the cleared nominees have been fixed for Tuesday at the Adeyemi Bero Auditorium in Alausa, Ikeja by 10 am.