OFFICIAL kitting company of the women Basketball national team, AFA Sports has unveiled a new jersey for the D’Tigress who will begin their Afrobasket title defence on August 9 in Dakar, Senegal. At the unveiling on Sunday at the corporate headquarters of AFA Sports, members of the team were on hand to model the new jersey to the admiration of the guests who were present. According to the Chief Executive officer of AFA Sports, Ugo Udezue, the jersey was designed putting the weather of the host country into consideration. He said the jersey is light which will enable the players to excel even in intense heat, while a touch of African prints has been added to it. He assured the players that the jersey will bring out the best in them, while noting that all other apparels have been designed to make them look smart on the court while doing their country proud. “The idea behind the design is to make the players excel while on the court. It has been designed with the players comfort in mind so that they can give their best at all times. All other apparels have also been designed to help the players perform optimally,” Udezue added. Udezue also urged the players to do their best at the championship and defend their title with gusto. “I am sure the team has the players to do the country proud by winning the back-to-back title. It won’t be easy but with the Nigerian spirit, you will beat all comers to retain your title.” Captain of the team, Adaora Elonu, who modelled the jersey alongside, Evelyn Akhator, commended AFA Sports for the jersey and the support given to the team since the sponsorship began. She stated that as an African brand, AFA has continued to excel with its top-class sportswear. She also stated that the team would go to Senegal to do the country proud. “It will be tough in Senegal but we are prepared to give our best and retain our title. We have been training hard to be in top shape and I am sure we will all be fit when the championship begins.” She urged Nigeria to support the team as they gun for a back-to-back title in Senegal. Nigeria is drawn alongside Cameroun and Tunisia in Group B.  Read Also: I am back in D’Tigers to learn more- Nwamu