The Lagos State Government on Tuesday evening sealed off a building at 10A, Alexander Road, Ikoyi for alleged felling of trees without a permit. This, the government said, contravened the Greening Law. The enforcement for compliance, jointly carried out by the Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK) and Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), was on the executive directive of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu after the property owner refused to comply with the abatement notice earlier served on him by LASPARK. Speaking during the enforcement exercise, LASPARK General Manager Mrs. Bilikiss Adebiyi Abiola and her LASEPA counterpart Dr. Dolapo Fasawe said the action became necessary to establish the need for property owners to comply with the greening provisions of the Lagos State Government. Abiola said: “This building was sealed off for infringing on the established law after the owner cut down trees without approval by the government. This act contravenes the Greening Law and as such attracts legal action.” She said the government had served the building owner a notice, offering him the privilege to engage the government, but his refusal to do so prompted the government to enforce compliance. This, Abiola said, would act as a deterrent to others. She said the government is committing resources for the expansion and maintenance of its greening project, adding that the least she expects from anyone or institution is to support the mission and not to act contrarily. The LASPARK boss urged other property owners, who have also violated some of the greening provisions, to promptly make necessary amendments; otherwise they should be ready to face legal action. She said the government remained resolute in ensuring that private and public infrastructures were green compliant. “In the face of this continuous sensitisation by the Lagos State Government through LASPARK, LASEPA and other agencies, henceforth defaulters of this provision will be sanctioned,” Abiola said. Fasawe recalled that the two agencies swung into action by visiting the property to authenticate the validity of a claim and surprisingly met the gate under lock, hence the need for the action. She hailed the citizen, who alerted the government and enjoined the public to support the greening vision of the state by serving as environmental watchdogs in the preservation of nature, in the interest of all. “The government is simply being responsive to all acts against its authority, acts that undermine its effort towards promoting environmental sustainability and economic prosperity. The benefits of preserving and maintaining trees are enormous and Lagosians should avail themselves of this opportunity, by religiously protecting these trees and imbibing the culture of planting, nurturing and preserving them, to protect mankind and mitigate other harmful effects associated with climate change,” Fasawe said.