Soldiers drafted to secure Kara market have allegedly killed three people and injured six. The incident occurred on Monday during the Isheri Day Festival in Ogun State. The Nation learnt that the festival was held at the Local Government Primary School, Isheri Olofin. The villagers told our correspondent yesterday that before two of the soldiers, who escorted Babalola Tirimusiu, the son of the market owner,  arrived the venue of the festival, they were allegedly drunk, adding that the soldiers harassed people, slapping and pushing some to create access for their principal, Tirimusiu. Among the victims were Nurudeen Jimoh alias Tayese, alleged to have been shot and taken to Gent-Gilbert Hospital in Isheri, where the soldiers allegedly saw him when they came for their injured colleague and stabbed him to death. Other victims were identified as Adelani Dare, allegedly shot dead while urinating about 300 metres from the venue; an unnamed guest alleged to have been hit in the chest by bullet. He allegedly died while being taken to hospital; as well as Saheed Ojekunle, Rasheed Adeleke and one old man identified as Michael, who sustained injuries. Recalling how the soldiers allegedly stabbed his brother to death at the hospital, Saheed Jimoh said they were four. He alleged that they dragged him on the floor while stabbing him. Jimoh alleged that the soldiers also pointed a gun at the doctor, who was treating the victim, adding that a friend of his, who helped in taking his brother to hospital, was stabbed in the hand and he fled. He said: “Tayese was my younger brother. We were having our carnival here and it was very peaceful until Tiri (Tirimusiu) brought in the soldiers. I heard that they had been drinking at a hotel before they came to our carnival. “The two soldiers and Tiri were drunk before they entered the primary school venue. They slapped people when they got to the venue. “Before they killed my brother, they had already shot a man in the leg. I ran for safety. It was while I was running that I heard my brother had been shot and his intestine came out. “I went back to the place, he was with my motorcycle and my friend helped me to carry him while I drove the motorcycle. We got to the hospital that is not far from here, the doctor attended to him. “While there, four soldiers came in. Apparently, the community people had fought back and injured one of the soldiers and they (soldiers) brought their colleague to the same hospital where my brother was admitted. “When the soldiers arrived and saw him, (my brother), one of them pointed his gun at the doctor treating him. Others brought out their knives and stabbed my brother till he died. “They dragged him on the floor as they were stabbing him. My friend, who protested what was happening, was stabbed in the hand. They left him there, saying they would bring a vehicle to take him away. “My friend ran away and I took my brother to Shagamu General Hospital mortuary. “We don’t have power and we don’t know anyone. I am only begging the government to help us.” Efforts to speak with the hospital management were not successful last night. Spokesman for the 81 Division, Olaolu Daudu, a Lieutenant Colonel, denied that soldiers were responsible for the deaths and injuries. He said the soldiers were invited by the community to rescue them from a cult clash, adding that they did not fire gunshots while there. Rather, one of the soldiers was injured by the residents while responding to the distress call, Daudu said. Ogun State Police Commissioner Bashir Makama has vowed to bring the perpetrators to justice. He corroborated Tayese’s brother’s account of the incident at the hospital. A statement by spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said Makama has ordered investigation, adding that the military authorities in Ogun State have been contacted. He said: “Police Commissioner Bashir Makama has ordered investigation into the “Isheri Day” shooting in Ogun State. The incident occurred on August 12. The shooting was carried out by suspected soldiers believed to be from the Ikeja Cantonment, with a view to bringing the suspects to justice. “Information at the disposal of the command has it that on the fateful day, four soldiers believed to be from the Ikeja Cantonment and posted to Kara market, left their beat and went to Isheri Olofin, a border town between Lagos and Ogun states, where the indigenes were celebrating their annual ‘Isheri Day’. “The soldiers, on getting there, had a minor disagreement with some youths, which made the soldiers to start shooting sporadically into the air. Consequently, one Damilare Adelani was hit by bullets and he died on the spot. “The incident infuriated the people on the scene, who reacted violently against the soldiers, leaving one of the soldiers and three civilians injured. “The soldiers took their injured colleague to a hospital where they met one of the injured civilians being attended to by a doctor. “A statement by the hospital workers showed that the soldiers ordered the doctor at gunpoint to leave the injured man and attend to their colleague. They then dragged the patient from the bed and stabbed him to death with a knife. “The command has contacted the military authorities in Ogun State and efforts are on to ensure that the suspected killer(s) are brought to book.”