Some property owners in Efab Estate, Lokogoma District of Abuja, have blamed the officials of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) for allegedly conniving with the developer of the estate to fraudulently sell houses to them. The estate recently came to limelight after a series of flooding led to the destruction of houses and valuables, including the death of a teenager. The devastation was so bad that some affected property owners resorted to squatting with relatives, others vacated the estate and insisted on compensation from the FCTA and the developer. The Nation learnt that the FCTA has asked residents of Lokogoma District whose buildings are along waterways to vacate the areas, saying the buildings were the cause of perennial flooding in the area. The administration said most of the buildings were built without approval and that the owners were allocated where to build on by the FCTA, but that they left the original allocations and built on waterways. In a twist, some of those affected by the flooding and those that may eventually lose their property to demolition by the development control department of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), criticised the FCT authorities for doing nothing when the houses were being built by the developer. The victims said they were not comfortable with the plan by the FCTA to demolish the structures before compensating them. The Nation reports that in the Efab Estate, most of the houses near the major waterway get flooded whenever it rains. At least three major floods occurred between June 6, 26 and July 25, 2019, which led to  the destruction of property worth millions of naira and the death of a 17-year-old boy. The Nation observed a narrow stream within the estate that is not properly channeled and usually fills up whenever it rains thereby flooding houses along the waterway and environs. One of the affected residents, who did not want his name in print said he  moved into his apartment in the estate in 2010, but that in August, 2011, the first major flood occurred in the area. He said: “It flooded my house and fell the fence and did a lot of damage. Thank God, a friend who lived in my boys’ quarters travelled just a day earlier because the major debris fell directly on his bed in the early hours of the morning.” Since then, he said, the estate always witnessed flooding two to three times yearly. He recalled how the Residents Association entered into what he called a gentleman’s agreement with the promoter of  the estate, Chief Fabian Nwora, with part of the agreement stating  that they would  either relocate or compensate the residents even if it is partial,  after  advising him on the need  to  build a canal to check flooding in the expanse estate. He regretted that it wasn’t done, but what the promoters of the estate did was to only temporarily excavate  sand out of the stream for about two years. He maintained that the developer did not execute the agreement it reached with the residents’ association. He revealed that after the June 26 incident, the residents’ association met with the developer and the FCTA with   the FCTA saying the owners did not have approval for the buildings.