The Ogun State Sector Commander of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Clement Oladele, has urged individuals to contribute their quotas to reducing road traffic crashes in Nigeria. He decried worrisome the rising rate of fatal crashes, especially, at the construction sites on Lagos/Ibadan and Lagos/Abeokuta expressways and  attributed the causes of the crashes to impatience, over-speeding, drunk/reckless driving and lane indiscipline. The Sector Commander spoke at the stakeholders’ Forum with the theme: ‘Reducing road traffic crashes in Nigeria, a shared responsibility,’ organised by Ota Unit Command of the Corps in conjunction with Shell Nigeria Gas at Ota, a surburb of Ogun State. He said all Nigerians, irrespective of status and professions have roles to play in the reduction if not total termination of road crashes on Nigeria roads. “No fewer than 80 casualties have been recorded so far in the second quarter of this year in the state, compare to 72 in 2018, also 196 crashes were recorded in the second quarter of 2019  compared to 148 crashes in 2018. “FRSC rescued 505 victims in various crashes that happened in the state in 2019 compared to 481 person rescued in the 2018. This is worrisome because the number of  people that died increased by 4 per cent in 2019.” Oladele stressed the need for the FRSC to increase and strengthen enforcement on safety especially on all construction areas and some accident prone environment within the state and any driver caught violating traffic rules would be arrested and prosecuted. “Human being are not produced in factory and FRSC would not fold its arms and allow drivers to continue wasting peoples’ lives unnecessarily on the roads,” he added. Ota Unit Commander, Akeem  Gainyu, said crashes were not caused by spiritual forces but by human errors. Noting that over 90 per cent of road are being caused by non-adherence to traffic rules and regulations. He lamented that drivers do not obey traffic rules despite knowing the dangerous consequences of such attitude. He said safety on the highways should not be left to FRSC alone but should be a collective responsibility and to include passengers and all stakeholders in the transport industry. He also implored motorists to consider other road users safety while on the wheel and always plan their journey to suit the present condition of the roads before embarking on any trips.