IT is the duty of government to provide social amenities, as well as security of lives and properties, and an enabling environment for business to grow and thrive. This is precisely what the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, has been doing without much noise or political hogwash. When the citizens of a state are gainfully employed, and when the vast majority of the populace comprising youths are busy with their legitimate jobs during the day, then we can all sleep at night with our two eyes closed, because gainful employment helps in reducing crimes drastically. Section 176(1) & (2) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria provides that ‘there shall be for each state of the Federation a Governor, and, The Governor of a State shall be the Chief Executive of that state.’ The sanctity and dignity of the office of the governor of a state must be preserved and respected by all and sundry. This is to enable a state governor to be focused and not be distracted in the delivery of the onerous task of good governance, because the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government, anything to the contrary such as political in-fightings, or acts of character assassination and personal aggrandizement is a clog on the wheel of progress. Sovereignty belongs to the people of Nigeria from whom government through the 1999 constitution derives all its power and authority. Therefore, the basic primary purpose of government is to hold power in trust for the people and serve the people. In Edo State, the facts speak for itself. Enter Mr. Godwin Obaseki with the golden wand in his hands and everything he touches turn into gold. The governor of Edo State is a man of few words with lots of action. He is a man that has shown that action speaks louder than words, and indeed in Edo State the numerous works of the governor are speaking very loudly for him. The governor of Edo State has been able to restore peace, order and sanity in the state. Citizens can now drive around in peace, and carry out their legitimate business activities orderly, without fear of molestation and harassment. This was, however, not the case prior to this very time. To all intent and purpose, the governor has been able to touch all sectors of human endeavour. In his efforts to promote the political objectives of government as contained in the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy as provided by Chapter 2 of the 1999 constitution, the governor has been an advocate of unity and peaceful co-habitation irrespective of place of origin, sex, religion, status, ethnic or linguistic association or ties. Edo State is indeed home to all. Irrespective of partisan or party affiliation, the governor is a true friend to all; that is why he is greatly loved and appreciated by all Edolites due to his magnanimity, humility and respectful disposition. He has been able to carry on with the business of good governance of the state with great calm and optimism, despite repeated distractions from political quarters. On the basis of economic objectives of government, Edo State is fast transforming into the economic hub of the nation. A visit to Edo State shows an egalitarian economic system that does not permit the concentration of wealth or the means of production and exchange in the hands of a few individuals or group, but rather an economy where means of production is evenly distributed. In spite of the positive effects of good governance, this has been the major challenge that the governor is facing because some selected few individuals still feel that the collective patrimony of Edo State should be under their control. However the Edo State governor is not a pushover, and he is equal to the task of securing the state and protecting its resources. The governor has been able to discover new economic grounds and fully harness the resources of the state for an efficient and dynamic self-reliant economy for the good governance of the state. This has led to a massive and total overhaul of virtually all sectors of the state both in human resources development, educational development, social development, as well as foreign policy objectives of government. The continuous inflow of foreign investors to Edo State lends credence to the fact that development and economic growth can only thrive in an atmosphere of peace and good governance. It is the duty of government to provide such a conducive environment for business to thrive, and this, Governor Godwin Obaseki is doing to the best of his ability. The traditional institution has been given the relevant pride of place in the state. Respect for elders is now the order of the day. In Benin City, the Edo State capital, the Oba is truly king and highly revered. Contributions of the Edo State traditional institutions led to the curtailing of social vices, notable amongst which is the disbanding of Community Development Authorities (CDAs) whose brazen rascality had hitherto defied all forms of security measures. The importance or necessity of the traditional institutions in development of any society cannot be overemphasised. The Edo State governor is a governor to all and he takes advice from his elders.  In Edo State, the government works side-by-side with the people and traditional institutions; it is indeed government of the people for the people by the people. Social infrastructures all over the state are now wearing a new look. From the judicial sector, to the legislative sector, from the educational sector to roads and infrastructural development there is evidence of good governance. Rural developments have never had it so good. Local government administrations are now enjoying both financial and administrative autonomy and this has led to massive development in the local government areas across the state. It is the general belief that if all the states of the federation are well developed, then the nation at large will be fully developed and Nigeria will be a better place to live in. Edo State governor nicknamed ‘the wake and see governor’ is doing his best for Edo State and he must be supported. Security of lives and properties has been given top priority and this has helped in reducing crimes drastically in the state to the barest minimum. The synergy between the Edo State Government and security operatives is quite commendable. Only recently, the Edo State governor made resources available for the clearing of a large expanse of bushes at both sides of the Benin/Ore highway which hitherto were hideouts of criminal elements such as kidnappers and armed bandits. This has helped in checking the excesses of such criminals. To this end, the Peoples’ governor of Edo State should continue with his developmental strides, and should be supported by all well meaning Nigerians including the president of Nigeria. Edo State is home to all Nigerians and investors are welcome to the heartbeat of the nation.   