In recent weeks the national media has been overspread with strange happenings from Edo State, where a protégé – Governor Godwin Obaseki, has been at daggers-drawn with his political mentor, the former governor of the state and national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole. When rumours of a rift between the two personalities began just before the primary election season in 2018, many observers silently dismissed them as attempts by interlopers to cause disaffection between the pair. It was the bizarre set of shambolic events leading up to the purported inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly in June that finally announced to the world that indeed, ‘a handshake had gone beyond the elbow’. What could have caused such a glaring breach? Many well-wishers of the pair wondered. Then appeared Governor Obaseki in a press conference to imply that he wanted to sack some kind of ad-hoc staff and Oshiomhole disapproved and that Oshiomhole did not consult him before appointing Edo State indigenes into federal positions etc. That was the beginning of my disappointment with Governor Obaseki. His statements exposed his political naivety and a fledgling ego. I was in Benin-City at the beginning of the campaigns that elevated him to the Edo State governorship, and after hearing him speak at a rally, one of my friends dismissed his viability as a governorship candidate. But I explained to him that Obaseki was an invaluable administrative genius who helped Oshiomhole resurrect Edo State from the economic and infrastructural miasma of the PDP years, and propelled it into a shining example of prudence and effective governance. I assured him that Oshiomhole would handle the political work and when the time came for the governing of the state, Obaseki would shine effortlessly. And from afar, in the past three years, I have watched closely as my prediction unfolded. Governor Obaseki has been, in my reckoning, an excellent administrator. He has accelerated the pace of infrastructural development in Edo State However, Comrade Adams did not retire from politics. He was actually promoted to the national chairmanship of the ruling APC, the platform through which Obaseki became governor of Edo State. And this is where Governor Obaseki got it horribly wrong. Here is a governor who has powers to make over 3000 appointments of his own – secretary to the state government, chief of staff, commissioners, heads of agencies, permanent secretaries, advisers, assistants etc, complaining that he wasn’t allowed to make federal  appointments. Wouldn’t you consider this to be akin to a man in possession of fresh elephant carcass, yet scratching holes in search of crickets for food? On the issue of the inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly and election of its principal officers, Governor Obaseki’s political naivety is even more alarming. As explained earlier, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is not a retired politician, but in fact, now occupies what might be regarded as a higher political position. So, the same way Obaseki was helped into the governorship by Oshiomhole, many teething politicians in Edo State would still consult him for the advancement of their careers. So if Oshiomhole happened to have thrown his support behind a particular legislator for the speakership of Edo State House of Assembly, I expected Governor Obaseki to concede to him as his political leader. But if Governor Obaseki decides to exercise his prerogative to support another candidate, who can blame him, it is after all, a free democracy we practice. But what is an outrage, a grievous insult to Oshiomhole, a desecration of the democracy that we practice and a slap on the face of APC as a political party, is the attempt by Obaseki to illegally and immorally force nine members of the Edo State House of Assembly to rule as majority over the remaining 16 members. This attempt has already laid bare Governor Obaseki’s moral weakness to the disappointment of many admirers of his, like my humble self. I suspect he has opened his ears to too many court jesters and sycophants, who have whispered the value of power to him and bandied gossips of possible impeachment against him. I think Oshiomhole, more than anybody else, comprehends the full administrative genius of Obaseki. Why else did he employ him and did so much to have him elected as governor? I don’t think he would support such a digression so long as Obaseki is not precipitating a crisis that would benefit PDP in Edo State. Even at this stage, it is not too late for Governor Obaseki to pause and reflect, cease his embarrassing childish whining and vituperations and without further delay, bring back democracy to Edo State House of Assembly, concentrate on the fundamental objectives of his governorship and prepare for re-election to extend the good times for the people of Edo State.   To continue on his current intransigence is to obscure his mastery of administration and gorge the public with the notion that he is a political simpleton and a moral pretender. 