Crystal Palace stunned Manchester United with an injury-time winner to record their first victory at Old Trafford since 1989. Full-back Patrick van Aanholt scored in the 93rd minute, smashing in as the ball broke loose following Wilfried Zaha’s burst forward. Daniel James thought he had rescued a point for United when he curled in a delightful equaliser in the 89th minute following neat build-up from Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial. But Rashford will rue striking the post from the penalty spot – the second spot-kick the Red Devils have missed this week. Jordan Ayew had scored the opener in the first half against the run of play, latching on to Jeffrey Schlupp’s flick-on and coolly converting Palace’s first goal of the campaign, before the late drama. Elsewhere, Substitute Harvey Barnes’ majestic strike helped Leicester City inflict a first Premier League defeat of the season on Sheffield United in a pulsating affair at Bramall Lane. Six minutes after coming on, Barnes fired a half-volley from the edge of the box which flew past home keeper Dean Henderson to dampen what had been a spirited United fightback. The superb finish came just eight minutes after the home side had cancelled out Jamie Vardy’s first-half opener, when record signing Oliver McBurnie found a first goal for the club after coming off the bench. McBurnie’s header, low into the bottom corner, sent Bramall Lane into raptures and United appeared to have momentum. But Barnes then lashed in to give Leicester a first league win of the season and Chris Wilder’s side only their second defeat in 21 matches. Moussa Djenepo scored moments after coming on as a substitute to help Southampton secure their first win of the season at Brighton, who had Florin Andone sent off. The 21-year-old Malian broke the deadlock in the second half, cutting inside from the left wing before curling a sumptuous effort past Mat Ryan and into the far corner. Southampton sealed the points in second-half stoppage time when Nathan Redmond slid home Sofiane Boufal’s cross from close range. Brighton had been reduced to 10 men on the half-hour mark when Andone was shown a straight red card following a high, rash challenge on Saints defender Yan Valery. The Seagulls had looked comfortable up to that point, with Neal Maupay and Martin Montoya going close to breaking the deadlock in the first half. Lewis Dunk thought he had given the hosts the lead seven minutes before the interval, but the goal was ruled out by VAR for offside against defender Dan Burn. Second-half substitute Jurgen Locadia struck the post for Brighton late on, but Redmond’s late goal sealed the points for the visitors. BBCSports 