Former Central Bank of Nigeria Deputy Governor, Mr Obadiah Mailafia has called for the adoption of an industry standard in the built environment  sector to address incessant building collapse in the country. Mailafia stated this in Abuja during the 13th Abuja International Housing Show award with the theme: Driving Sustainable Housing Finance Models in the midst of Global Uncertainty, which ended yesterday. He said the country had made  progress in the building sector but needed to do more to prevent building collapse. Mailafia said industry standards are a set of criteria within an industry relating to the standard functioning and carrying out of operations in their respective fields of production. He said it was high time the country began the building of a Nigerian ideal home that reflects its culture and identify. Mailafia urged the Federal Government to fashion out strategies that would ensure that every home has a solar system. He added that if solar was made available in every home  problems, such as joblessness and lack of electricity, would be solved. Former Minister of State, Health, Gabriel Aduku called on Nigerians to have a change of attitude to move the country forward and achieve better things. Aduku said that if things were done as expected, the country would be exporting artisans with the attendant effect of creating jobs. On transportation, he advised that River Niger should be utilised to its full potential to improve the transportation system. Coordinator of the show Festus Adebayo said the government had shown interest in improving the housing sector through various policies and programmes. Adebayo said it was time for action, adding that “we have been talking, doing lots of advocacies so we need action now”. He advised the incoming Minister of Housing to focus more on formation of policies rather than building houses. “The new Minister needs to work with private sector in providing houses, liaise with state governors in providing access to land for private developers and getting the House of Assembly to pass bills relating to housing,” he said. Adebayo said all the resolutions reached at the three-day show would be forwarded to the government for consideration and possible implementation.