Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has reaffirmed the government’s commitment to partner private sector to revive the agriculture sector. He said the administration would do everything possible to make agriculture the mainstay and bedrock of the state’s economy. The governor spoke on Monday during a facility tour of Bob Jones Farm Limited, at Obadimu community, Orolu Local Government Area. Oyetola, who described agriculture as the most sustainable means to growing the economy, said no stone would be left unturned to turn around the sector for the betterment of the people. He said the administration’s revolution has been designed to make the state sufficient in food production, and by extension, have enough to export. The governor explained that government had mapped out necessary strategies to properly involve youths in agriculture and integrate them into mechanised farming. This, he said, would help to eradicate societal menace such as unemployment, poverty and hunger among others. He added that the state under his watch will bring innovation and modern techniques into farming to make the sector more attractive, proficient and profitable to all. He hailed the owner of the farm, Chief Bisi Adegoke, for his foresight in bringing back the lost glory in the agriculture sector, saying the initiative is remarkable, worthy of emulation and capable of aiding the state in the implementation and actualisation of its agricultural policies. “Agriculture is essential and it pays. This is the way to go if we are serious and genuine in the quest to stimulate our economy. “Agriculture is a lucrative business, unlike before, when subsistence farming was the order of the day. Now, agriculture had gone beyond that, as mechanised and digital farming have become the order of the day. “As a government, we have been working assiduously to breathe a new life into agriculture sector, and make it the most vibrant and profitable means of stimulating and advancing the economy of the state.” The owner of the farm, Chief Bisi Adegoke, said his decision to invest in the agriculture is aimed at empowering the people, particularly the young ones.