President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday in Batsari, Katsina State, vowed to fight insecurity and other attendant challenges facing the country to a standstill and ensure that perpetrators of banditry and kidnapping attacks are brought to justice. The President who made the pledge while on a sympathy visit to 1,050 internally displaced persons, IDP, selected from the affected 8 frontline local government areas bordering the Ruga Forest in the state, said those kidnapping, maiming lives and calling God are not true faithful because ‘’it is either they don’t know God or disagree with Him’’ He said” what brought me here is to condole you over the recent bandit’s attacks affecting not only you but all of us. I have nothing to add on what the Emir had already spoken extensively about, but all what leaders should do right from home is ensure justice’’. ‘’I assure you that we sleep and wake-up with the sad moment of banditry and kidnapping activities in the state and country. By the Grace of God, we will use soldiers, police and other public servants to end banditry’’ ‘’All those whose activities is to kill people and saying “Allahu Akbar” are lying because God is not wicked. You can’t carry bomb or gun, sword or knife to go and kill innocent somebody and say “Allahu Akbar”. This implies that you either don’t believe in God or you don’t know what you are saying’’. ‘’There is popular Hausa adage says” it’s the rat in the house that tells the rat outside that there is fish in the house, so within yourselves, your neighbours and even your relatives there are informants.’’ ‘’So in this case, both you and I don’t know them, it’s only God that knows them, we can’t do anything here rather intensity prayers for God’s intervention by exposing them’’. He urged the people to remain patient with Government and assured that with their collaboration with the top to bottom authorities comprising ward, village and district heads, Emirs and the governors, normalcy will be restored in the shortest possible time. Basari local Government Headquarters is generally regarded as the hotbed of banditry and kidnapping attacks amongst the 8 front line local government areas of Katsina state Earlier in his welcome address, the Katsina state Governor, Aminu Bello Masari said the amnesty and offer of dialogue granted by the North West Governors, plus improved security collaboration, has helped in scaling down attacks in the state He also acknowledged that the large expanse of Ruga forest offered the bandits an unfettered opportunity to unleash attacks on hapless citizens and assist them in changing locations easily whenever they are repelled by security forces The Emir of Katsina Alhaji Abdulmumin Kabir Usman warned against reprisal attacks and called efficient information dissemination between the people, Traditional rulers and the Government on security matters