Nigerians seeking to obtain travel visa to the United States (US) would have to pay more from Thursday. The US government on Tuesday announced a revised visa reciprocity scheduled for Nigeria.
Consequently, beside the normal visa fee, Nigerians are expected to pay for each visa issued. The fee is however for those whose visa applications are approved. In a statement, the embassy explained Visa issuance fees are implemented under the principle of reciprocity, meaning when a foreign government imposes additional visa fees on U.S. citizens, the United States will impose reciprocal fees on citizens of that country for similar types of visas. The embassy blamed the Nigerian government for hike, saying it had engaged Nigerian government on the need to remove the additional cost imposed on its citizens without success. The statement reads: “Effective worldwide on 29 August, Nigerian citizens will be required to pay a visa issuance fee, or reciprocity fee, for allapproved applications for nonimmigrant visas in B, F, H1B, I, L, and R visa classifications. The reciprocity fee will be charged in addition to the nonimmigrant visa application fee, also known as the MRV fee, which all applicants pay at the time of application. Nigerian citizens whose applications for a nonimmigrant visa are denied will not be charged the new reciprocity fee. Both reciprocity and MRV fees are non-refundable, and their amounts vary based on visa classification. “U.S. law requires U.S. visa fees and validity periods to be based on the treatment afforded to U.S. citizens by foreign governments, insofar as possible. Visa issuance fees are implemented under the principle of reciprocity: when a foreign government imposes additional visa fees on U.S. citizens, the United States will impose reciprocal fees on citizens of that country for similar types of visas. Nationals of a number of countries worldwide are currently required to pay this type of fee after their nonimmigrant visa application is approved. Nigerian to obtain a comparable visa to the United States. The new reciprocity fee for Nigerian citizens is meant to eliminate that cost difference. “Since early 2018, the U.S. government has engaged the Nigerian government to request that the Nigerian government change the fees charged to U.S. citizens for certain visa categories. After eighteen months of review and consultations, the government of Nigeria has not changed its fee structure for U.S. citizen visa applicants, requiring the U.S. Department of State to enact new reciprocity fees in accordance with our visa laws. “The reciprocity fee will be required for all Nigerian citizens worldwide, regardless of where they are applying for a nonimmigrant visa to the United States. The reciprocity fee is required for each visa that is issued, which means both adults and minors whose visa applications are approved will be charged the reciprocity fee. The fee can only be paid at the U.S. Embassy or the U.S. Consulate General. The reciprocity fee cannot be paid at banks or any other location. “The complete reciprocity fee schedule, organized by visa classification, can be found below. Class      Reciprocity Fee B1          $110 B2          $110 B1/B2     $110 F1           $110 F2          $110 H1B        $180 H4         $180 I $          210 L1          $303 L2           $303 R1          $80 R2          $80