FOUR Permanent Secretaries in the Niger State Civil Service are allegedly involved in an age falsification scandal, it was learnt yesterday. The permanent secretaries allegedly falsified their ages to enable them stay beyond the mandatory 60 years in the civil service. Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello had been forced to set up a committee to look into the matter to punish those involved. Preliminary investigation by the committee revealed that the permanent secretaries and some senior directors in the state civil service were involved in the scandal. A source, who craved anonymity, said it was discovered that the affected people changed their dates of births to enable them remain in the civil service beyond the mandatory period. The source said two of the permanent secretaries have been asked to leave the civil service when evidence showed that they doctored their ages. The Nation learnt that one of the affected permanent secretaries had sued the state government before the National Industrial Court, challenging his “premature retirement from service”. The other civil servant involved is said to be in the process of convincing the government and committee that the civil service had given him a notification to remain in service up till next year. The source said going by the age in his birth certificate, the affected permanent secretary ought to have retired in 2018. “In 1990, when he joined the state civil service, he quoted in his declaration of age that he was born on September 22, 1958, and this is what is contained in his first appointment letter, meaning that he should have left the service last year, 2018 after attaining 60 years of age. “But surprisingly, he submitted another statutory declaration of age in 2010, where he claimed that he was born on October 15, 1963, meaning that he has five more years to spend in service,” the source said. However, from the office of the Head of Service and the Civil Service Commission, it was gathered that the notification claimed by one of the embattled permanent secretaries was fraudulently obtained. “There is no law in the civil service backing that one’s date of birth can be altered after 20 years in service,” a civil servant said. Efforts to reach the Head of Service, Hajiya Salamatu Abubakar, were futile as she was said to be attending a course at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies in Kuru, Jos Plateau State. However, the immediate past Head of Service, Alhaji Yabagi Sule, confirmed to The Nation that two permanent secretaries have been asked to leave the service after an investigation showed that they had overstayed in the service through falsification of their ages. Sule also confirmed that the notification being claimed by the third permanent secretary was suspected to be wrongfully gotten since the affected permanent secretary did not pass his application through the office of the Head of Service, which is supposed to be informed of such step, if it were to be taken. The lower cadre of the civil service is not taking the matter lying low as it was learnt that series of petitions have been written along with various calls for investigations.