OYO State Governor Seyi Makinde said on Monday that he has always been in constant communication with his predecessor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, over the past administration’s policies in the overall interest of the people. Makinde spoke yesterday while playing host to a delegation from Foursquare Gospel Church, which visited him in his office in Ibadan. He said it was the responsibility of any administration to provide good governance, adding that his government would not hesitate to sustain any good policy of his predecessor in a bid to enhance the living standard of the people. The governor said he won the election without godfathers, adding that this had helped his administration to stabilise. Congratulating the church on the successful election that brought about the new leadership of the church, Makinde said politicians and election management bodies have something to learn from Foursquare Church on the peaceful conduct of elections and smooth transition. “I am also glad to note that the General Overseer, Rev. Felix Meduoye and the General Overseer-elect, Rev Sam Aboyeji, are together and that you actually held an election. “You didn’t impose your successor and you allowed a free and fair process, probably we have one or two things to learn. “Also when I was elected and became governor-elect of the state, I actually reached out to the governor on the seat at the time and I told him that if it was all about the development of Oyo State;  we must share the vision. “Even now, we still try to reach out to them (past administration) to say that some of the policies that they put in place were really good, some we need to tinker with, and some were outrightly anti-people. “But, if we don’t talk, we may not know some of the thought processes that went behind some of those policies.” Meduoye, who had earlier recalled the visit of Makinde to the church camp site for its convention prior to the election, noted that the prayer for the governor at the convention was fruitful. He said the church considered it necessary to introduce the new General Overseer to important people in different locations as a way of getting him ready for the task ahead. Aboyeji, the fifth indigenous General Overseer, who was elected on July 20 and to be inaugurated on November 17, expressed happiness at the reception by the governor. He said the church was setting the pace for others, especially in the area of a smooth transition. Also yesterday, Makinde said his administration is not only for the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) alone but for the development of the entire state. He made the remarks yesterday while swearing in three additional commissioners for the state, saying he has assembled the best he could lay his hands on in the state. The event is coming less than two weeks after swearing-in of 14 commissioners to complete his 17-man cabinet. The three additional commissioners who took their oath of office and oath of allegiance at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s office, Agodi secretariat include Professor Raphael Afonja (Works and Transport), Mrs Faosat Sanni (Women Affairs, Poverty Alleviation and social development) and 27-year-old Oluwaseun Fakorede (Youths and Sports).