Experts in the construction industry have said the country is yet to tap the potential of its forests. According to them, Nigeria with its massive forest resources has barely scratched the surface on the potential of the forest as veritable sources of national revenue. Based on this, top professionals in the industry are putting together a wood expo to find ways of harnessing the potential of the forests. The maiden Wood Expo Nigeria,  with the theme, “Forest to wealth” will to hold in Abuja, in October. “Wood Expo Nigeria is expected to create awareness and promote the sustainable use of wood and wood products, bringing values to wood specialists, wood manufacturers, wood equipment/machinery fabricators, and professionals by providing a platform to access quality trade and professionals resources as a way of attracting required investment to the sector especially to reforestation and economic management of forests,” the organisers said. A statement signed by the adviser to the organisers, Seni Bello, explained that the Wood Expo Nigeria would enable the country to qualify for certification as a timber exporting nation, joining the league of sustainable forest nation and also encourage national tree planting project and campaign which could trigger the creation of three million productive economic plantations. The statement read in part, “This is quite in line with the government’s agenda on National Economic Recovery Growth Plan to diversify the economy resulting in the development of various sectors, the wood sector inclusive by exploring wood potential in the country. “The Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) is actively involved in the Expo to give its support and endorsement. This specialised fair is expected to be a convergence point for suppliers, manufacturers, and machinery companies to showcase their products, innovative technologies, production scenarios and large scale machinery to key players in the wood and wood working machinery in Africa and sub -Saharan region. ”It added that scientists and construction professionals would also be available to highlight the various academic aspects of the wood value chain.