Poor implementation of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) is responsible for the failure to achieve universal health coverage (UHC) in Nigeria. This verdict came from medical experts who gathered at the Muson Centre in Lagos to mark St. Nicholas Hospital’s 50th anniversary and proffer ways the country can achieve UHC. It is only a functional NHIS that can guarantee UHC for all Nigerians, they said. The experts also blamed poor funding, lack of political will and inappropriate practices by the regulatory agency for the failure of the scheme. They also linked the country’s failure to achieve UHC to inadequate legal framework for a successful scheme and poor implementation of the Health Insurance Act, which made enrolment optional. Besides deliberating and proffering solutions to UHC, the event also provided an opportunity to celebrate the life and times of Dr. Moses Adekoya Majekodunmi, who founded St. Nicholas Hospital. He was Nigeria’s minister of Health in the First Republic. He died in 2012 at 95. In his keynote address, Dr. Ebun Bamgboye, clinical director, St. Nicholas Hospital, lamented that the failure of the NHIS was due to non-realisation of the objective of making quality healthcare available and accessible to all Nigerians at an affordable cost. He stressed that more than 70 per cent of Nigerians still pay out of their pockets for medical expenses, as only three per cent of the population are registered on the NHIS. This, he said, has continued to expose many families to catastrophic health expenditures and poverty. According to Bamgboye, who said St Nicholas Hospital had performed 300 kidney transplants, among other achievements, the NHIS and UHC were pioneered by the late minister in the 1960s when he presented a bill to the then House of Representatives. Unfortunately, this never came to fruition, he said. “We had a National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) conceived by our founder decades ago, but it did come to fruition. If NHIS is functional as it should be, it will certainly help improve the quality of healthcare we give as a country. Our hope is that at the end of the day government will actually improve on the service that the NHIS provides and also help improve on the quality of care that we give our citizenry,” he stressed. The Lagos zonal coordinator of NHIS, Olufemi Akingbade, said many of the laws in Nigeria on healthcare financing were not workable. This, he noted, is hindering the achievement of UHC. He said lack of financial mechanism to protect the health of the citizens and optional health insurance scheme had limited the progress of the UHC. Mrs. bClare Omatseye, president of Health Federation of Nigeria, stressed Nigerians should prevail on the ruling class to ensure the new health insurance bill is signed and implemented. She said only five per cent of the  budget was allocated to health, noting that there should be a provision for ‘catastrophe health fund’ to provide finances for medical equipment, infrastructure and others.