Former Ogun State Governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, has appealed to youths to remain focused and be tenacious in pursuing their dreams and entrepreneurship ideas, adding that fortune only favours the brave. Daniel spoke at the third annual Young Leaders Entrepreneurship Conference (YOLEC) organised by Sparklight Entrepreneurship Show which held at the Afe Babalola Hall, University of Lagos. The event tagged: ‘An entrepreneurial mindset: A solution to the high unemployment rate in Nigeria’ brought together hundreds of students, youth corps members, and unemployed graduates within and outside the university system. It featured a seminar, breakout sessions, CV Review, mentoring session and sessions on digital skills and technologies like data science and analytics, cyber-security, cloud computing, block chain. Daniel, who praised the organiser for putting the event together, mentored youths on the importance of leadership training and how youths could be financially independent as entrepreneurs. “Above all, if you look at the lives of successful entrepreneurs in the world, there is one thing that’s common to them all- perseverance. None of them gave up at any point in time,” he added. He noted that challenges and obstacles will always come but successful entrepreneurs are people who never give, but are rather tenacious in achieving their dreams. Earlier, a lecturer in the Department of Business Administration and Acting Director, Entrepreneurship and Skills Development Centre, University of Lagos, Dr. Sunday Adebisi, said the University of Lagos has turned all its courses to entrepreneurship. He said:”We have started to support entrepreneurship ideas among the students and provide the needed institutional support to grow those ideas. Our desire is to create as many Mark Zukerbrg in UNILAG,” he said. He, however, stressed the need to create an eco-system that will make entrepreneurship to thrive in Nigeria as the rising spate of unemployment is mind blogging. He said Nigeria is the second country with the highest rate of unemployment in Africa with over 46 million active citizens unemployed or underemployed. He called for a national entrepreneurship policies that would guide and give the youths the impetus that their ideas and aspiration are been supported. “We need an entrepreneurship starts up bank that will provides soft loans with less encumbrance for five years. This will help to develop the skills ideas and accelerate its benefits within a short period of time because the eco system is favourable,” he said.