Kogi State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirants, Princess Hadiza Ibrahim and Yakubu Mohammed, on Wednesday called for free and fair primary. The two contenders, who hail from Igala ethnic group, hailed the Appeal Committee for cancelling their disqualification by the Screening Panel chaired by Senator Hope Uzodinma. Hajia Ibrahim, who spoke on phone, said having been given the nod to contest, “there is no retreat and there is no surrender”. She frowned at the earlier verdict of the screening committee, saying that Uzodinma was behaving as Governor Yahaya Bello’s campaign manager. Hadiza said: “I was disqualified. But, the Appeal Committee disagreed with the screening committee on the grounds for disqualification. I was disqualified along with 12 aspirants because they said I did not contribute financially to the party. “I disagreed. I asked them: do contributions expire? I gave evidence of my contributions. I showed to them my 2015 screening certificate. I am a product of the University of Lagos. I am a successful businessman.  The Appeal Committee agreed.” She added: “I will emerge winner. I think there will be a peaceful primary. Security will be provided. The Screening Committee, led by Uzodinma did not do well. He was using the committee to campaign for Bello, out of sympathy.” Also, supporters of Mohammed, veteran journalist and aspirant from Igala, said power should shift to Kogi East. In a statement, he said the push for power shift was premised on the need for equity and justice. The statement reads: “The Chief Judge, Nasir Ajanah is from Kogi Central. The Speaker of Kogi State House of Assembly, Mr. Matthew Kolawole, is from Kogi West. Governor Yahaya Bello is from Kogi Central. The minister from Kogi State, Mrs. Ramatu Tijjani is from Kogi West. There is no one from Kogi East occupying any of those positions. “As it stands, any party that fields a candidate from Kogi East (Igala land) will be the favorite to win the election because of the numerical strength of the district.” A source said the outcome of the APC primary may be an important factor during the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) primary. A political analyst, Enejo Shuaibu, said: “Bello did not do well in his first term. The issue of owing salaries and making the state uncomfortable for anyone who opposes him are his major obstacles.”