The Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by Hope Democratic Party (HDP) and its candidate Ambrose Owuru against President Muhamadu Buhari’s election for being unmeritorious. A five-man panel, in a unanimous judgment, held that the petition’s first leg was outside the court’s jurisdiction, and that the petitioners failed to prove the second leg. In the first part, the petitioners sought to be declared winners of the last presidential election. It was on the ground that they won a referendum purportedly conducted on February 16, the date earlier scheduled for the presidential election before it was held on February 23. In the second part, the petitioners claimed that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) unlawfully excluded them from the election, their candidate having been validly nominated.  The Presiding Justice, Justice Mohammed Garba, who read the lead judgment, held that the court lacked jurisdiction to hear the aspect of the petition relating to referendum. He said the court, under Section 239(1) of the 1999 Constitution, exercises original jurisdiction in presidential election dispute to determine whether or not a person was validly elected, not the outcome of a referendum. Justice Garba noted that the only part of Constitution where referendum was provided for are in sections 69 and 110, which deal with the process of replacing a recalled legislator, and not for the election of a person into the office of President. He added that the Constitution also makes provision for how the outcome of elections should be contested. According to him, no provision exists in the Constitution that allows a petition to challenge the outcome of a presidential election by alluding to a purported referendum. On the petitioners’ argument that INEC lacked the power to postpone an election, Justice Garba said Section 26(1) of the Electoral Act allows the commission to do so and fix dates, provided the reasons are cogent and verifiable. “Since INEC is empowered to postpone an election and choose election date, the power to decide matters of postponement is outside the jurisdiction of this court,” the judge said. While further holding that the court lacked jurisdiction, Justice Garba noted that since the act of postponement occurred before the election, which was held on February 23, it was a pre-election matter that should be decided at the High Court within 14 days. “Being a pre-election matter, which is not within the jurisdiction of this court, and having not been filed within the stipulated 14 days, the jurisdiction of this court cannot be invoked to determine this case,” he said. On alleged exclusion, Justice Garba noted that in some of the exhibits tendered by the petitioners, it was obvious that the petitioners were not truthful about their claim to have been excluded from the election. He noted that from the final list of candidates made by INEC, which the petitioners tendered, Owuru’s name appeared as number 69, while its logo was conspicuously printed on the ballot papers. Justice Garba held that the petitioners did not prove allegation of valid nomination and unlawful exclusion from the election. He dismissed the petition, but declined to award cost against the petitioners as prayed by the respondents – President Muhammadu Buhari, INEC and the All progressives congress (APC). The court, in three earlier rulings, upheld the respondents’ preliminary objections.  The court held that it lacked jurisdiction to hear the petition and that it constitutes an abuse of court process. According to the PEPC, the issues raised in the petition were similar to those raised in two suits numbered FHC/ABJ/CS/221/2018 and FHC/ABJ/94/78/2019 pending before the Federal High Court in Abuja.