On August 21, President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated his 43 team of Ministers, among them were seven women. In this report, Olayinka Oyegbile, Deputy Editor, profiles the women of history THE way women are regarded in the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has been ambivalent and unclear. He has many times run into storms of controversies concerning his perceived views of the womenfolk and his aides have had to issue statements trying to explain his stand. But the explanations most times clear no doubt in the minds of observers. However, the most telling testament of his regime about his views on this may perhaps be his classic answer to a question while on a visit to Germany in 2016. He had been asked what his reaction was to the allegation that his government had been hijacked by a so-called cabal, an allegation that was equally echoed by his wife, Aisha. In reply to the question, President Buhari told the audience which included the German Chancellor Angela Merkel that “I don’t know which party my wife belongs to, but she belongs to my kitchen and my living room and the other room.” This response was greeted with shock not only because it was made abroad but because it was made in the presence of one of the world’s most powerful women! This has today become a butt of many jokes at public functions by citizens and stand up comedians. Last week therefore when the president constituted his cabinet the focus was on the women who made the team. In the last cabinet there were only six women, while this time around despite the increase in the number of cabinet ministers, the women folk was only able to add one: they now have seven slots in 43. In fairness to the president, he never at anytime promised to make any appointment to favour women more than others. However, in November 2018, in the run-up to the election, the President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation had promised 35 per cent participation of women in the Federal Government if he was re-elected. The organisation, had as part of events to officially launch the President’s 2019 campaign tagged ‘Next Level’ listed its promises in a chart titled ‘Next Level road map’ via a Twitter handle, @TheNextLevelNG. However, on July 23 when President Buhari sent his list of ministers-designate to the Senate, there were only seven women on the list. These were Hajia Sadiya Umar-Farouk, Hajia Maryam Katagum, Mrs. Sharon Ikeazor and Senator Gbemi Saraki. Others were Ramatu Tijjani, Dame Pauline Tallen and Hajia Zenaib Ahmed, who is not new in the cabinet. She is playing along in the second coming of the president, but this time more powerful. All the other six women are new in the federal cabinet except Tallen who was a minister of state during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s first coming in 1999. THE PRESIDENT’S NEW WOMEN ARE: ZAINAB AHMED She is unarguably the most powerful woman, if not minister, in the new dispensation. As minister of Finance, Budget and Planning, she is returning to a familiar turf. The trained accountant first made her way into the cabinet in 2015 when she was appointed as the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning. In September last year, she stepped in as substantive Minister of Finance when the former occupant Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, who had been embroiled in an alleged forged National Youth Service Corps discharge certificate scandal unceremoniously resigned and went back to England. Ahmed who hails from Kaduna State, had her secondary school education at Queen Amina College, Kaduna, and got her Accounting degree from Ahmadu Bello University in 1981. She from there proceeded to the then Ogun State University, Ago Iwoye; now Olabisi Onabanjo University for her MBA. Since she is coming in not as a fresher and with a three-barrelled portfolio, she is expected to be a formidable force in the formation of monetary, budgetary and planning policies of the federal government. She has a minister of state for buget in Clement Agba. SADIYA UMAR FAROUQ She is making her debut in the cabinet as Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. In view of the level of conflicts that have seized the country at its jugular in recent times, the creation of this ministry is coming at the right time. There have been Boko Haram killings leading to the proliferation of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and camps, which have brought untold hardship to citizens. Farouq is coming from a background that eminently qualifies her for this new assignment. She is a former Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI). At the commission, she was reputed to have developed a strategic roadmap of action to reposition the Commission as a government agency responsible for coordination, protection and assistance of persons of concern. The road map is to draw up modalities for assisting those in distress. The indigene of Zamfara State is also an alumnus of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. She holds the university’s Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration, specialising in Actuarial Science. She also holds the institution’s two Master’s degrees in International Affairs and Diplomacy as well as in Business Administration (MBA). MRS MARIAM YALWAJI KATAGUM The new Minister of State in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment was until her appointment an Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Nigeria to UNESCO, the world cultural and education body. She was appointed as Permanent Delegate of Nigeria to UNESCO in June 2009.  The widely experienced diplomat has served on a number of national and international committees and panels. These include as a Member of the Board of Trustees of the African World Heritage Fund (2009  2011); Chairperson of the West Africa Group in UNESCO (2009-2012); Chair of the E-9 Group at UNESCO (2010-2012); Member, representing Nigeria, on the UNESCO Headquarters’ Committee (2011-2013); Temporary Chairperson of the PX Commission of the Executive Board, 191st Session (2013) and Chairperson of the Preparatory Group, of the  Executive Board, 197th Session (2015). She is also an alumnus of both Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and University of Lagos with a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in English, a Graduate Certificate in Education and Masters in Administration and Planning, respectively. She has served as Member and Deputy Chair of the Board of Governors of the Commonwealth of Learning (COL) and Member, representing Nigeria on the UNESCO Executive Board. SHARON IKEAZOR Posted to the Ministry of Environment as a Minister of State, Ikeazor was until her new placement the Executive Secretary of Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD). She was appointed in September 2016.  The University of Benin trained lawyer is reputed to have bagged the appointment based on her sterling performance at PTAD. Despite her new assignment at the Environment Ministry, she recently promised that, “If one pensioner complains to me, I will blow the alarm and we have to continue doing that work. To the pensioners, let me say that you now have a voice at the Federal Executive Council. I may be at the Ministry of Environment. But Pension issues, whether Military of Civil, I am still madam pension. My father taught us to hate injustice and fight against social injustice. Non payment of pension after a man or woman has worked several years is grave social injustice.” At her new ministry she has to fight for environmental justice for the whole country. GBEMI SARAKI Senator Gbemi Saraki is a scion of the powerful Saraki dynasty of Kwara State. Against the run of play, she lined up against her brother, former Senate President Bukola Saraki, to join the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) whirlwind of O to ge (Enough is enough) that dislodged the hold of her family’s political structure in the state. She is to function as minister of State in the Transport Ministry. She attended University of Sussex, United Kingdom and holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics. In 1999, she was elected into the House of Representatives to represent Asa/Ilorin West Federal Constituency, Kwara State. She is reputed to be one of the most philanthropic politicians from the north central on the account of the number of people whom she had awarded scholarships. She is a grassroots mobiliser and manager of resources, an asset that would serve her well in her new ministry. RAMATU TIJANI The new Minister of State at the Federal Capital Territory Ministry is coming to her new assignment with a solid pedigree. A banker of many years, she is an alumnus of Ahmadu Bello University. She has a first degree in Urban and Regional Planning, and Masters Degree in Public Administration from Nasarawa State University, Keffi. With her background in urban and regional planning coupled with public administration, the former All Progressives Congress (APC) National Woman Leader is expected to function flawlessly in her new assignment. She has lived for long in the federal capital territory and this is expected to inform her duties to make the city better. She is also currently doing her Ph.D in Security and Strategic Studies. PAULINE TALLEN Mrs. Tallen designated as Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development is making her way back to the federal cabinet for a second time. In 1999, she was Minister of State for Science and Technology during the first tenure of former President Olusegun Obasanjo. In 2007 she became Deputy Governor of Plateau State, thus becoming the first woman to hold such a post in the north. In 2011, she contested the governorship seat against former governor Jonah Jang and lost. She is immensely popular in the state, especially in the fractious Jos North local government which was a hotbed of crises during the tenure of Jang. In fact, it was reported that in the heat of one of the crises in the local government, she was the only government official who visited the place and was welcome by the warring parties with open arms. She is reputed to be a bridge builder and peace maker extraordinaire. She is a graduate of Sociology from the University of Jos. The one-time commissioner is not new to administration. She is also a close friend of the president’s wife. Speaking during her maiden visit to the ministry after being sworn in, she said, “This is a holistic ministry as the woman takes care of the home, children and husband. I am giving you all a charge that things will be done different henceforth. We are all resolved to work as a team from our recent retreat. This ministry is multi faceted and has a lot of responsibility to touch the lives of the vulnerable. We have the mandate to of the ministry and demand of the president.” SHE SURELY HAS HER PLATE FULL. THE TASKS AHEAD These seven women who have been saddled by the president among a majority of men to walk along with him to deliver the much talked about NEXT LEVEL of the administration, are really going to be under pressure to deliver and show that the place of women is not only in the “other room” but at executive and policy tables. The tasks ahead of them are no doubt enormous and herculean.