Practitioners in the tourism industry have reacted to the temporary closure of Nigerian borders, most especially the ever-busy Seme border. Last Wednesday , international travellers arrived at the Seme  international border early in the morning to discover that the Nigerian side of the border has been shut down. There was no prior information on the closure, leaving many travellers stranded and unable to get to their destinations while the closure lasted. One of the stranded commuters in a video post had lamented: “Since 4a.m. this morning, I have been at the Seme border.  We came to the border and found out that the Nigerian Immigration Service had actually shut down the border without prior notice. As you can see, there are a lot of people travelling from different places that are affected. We can’t pass. “The Benin people are not stamping our passports, same as the Nigerian side. There are many Nigerians that have been waiting. We have not eaten; we have no water and no one has come to tell us anything. People are just standing here waiting, nothing to do, no help, no official statement from anybody. We want to understand what is going on; we really need help.” Speaking on the incident, the Public Relations Officer of the Nigerian Customs, Seme border, Mr. Saidu Abdullahi,  said the closure was based on orders from above. He said: “A joint task force by all the relevant security agencies was deployed, and once they come, they need to ascertain who and who they would allow to pass. That is why it is assumed there was a temporary closure. But one of their major assignments there was to regulate irregular migration, meaning that for you to pass, you must validate your documents.” On the time many international  travellers spent before crossing with no prior information, Saidu explained: ”The task force is manned by the Office of the National Security Adviser. When you are going to treat an issue that concerns national security, you don’t just go and announce to the world that tomorrow I am going take over the border. The criminally minded would have been given notice.” Operators in the travel and tourism industry have been reacting to the temporary closure. The President, Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN), Alhaji Saleh Rabo, said: “Generally for us in tourism, that is not a good one. It is not encouraging. Even if you are going to close border or there is something like that is going to happen, they need to give prior information so that people would be aware and prepared. “You see, when they attach security to it now, it brings a dimension because where there is an issue of security, sometimes you cannot question because they know more than we know. Probably there is a reason why they have to take that action, but it is always better to give prior notice, especially if it is going involve an international border. Only God knows in terms of trade what would have been lost.” Nigeria’s foremost tour operator, Chief Jemi Alade, commented on the issue: “It is something good happening. The only issue is that notification should have been given because people have business transactions across the border. If you just close the border, it will affect their business transactions. That is the only thing I see wrong with it, but I think it is high time they declared a state of emergency and close the borders. Let us know who belongs to Nigeria and who does not. In a situation where the border is  porous and the government does not see anything wrong with it, is worrisome, but I think it is timely.” The FTAN Vice President South West, Chief Ayo Olumoko, reacted to the closure: “Certainly within the period the border was closed, Nigeria would have lost a lot revenue, but lives are equally important. We have heard about so many things coming through the Seme border for example.”