The fourth season of the Nigerian version of the global reality TV show, Big Brother, is currently being aired live on DSTV’s channel 198. The maiden edition of Big Brother Naija (BBN) was aired for 90 days from March 5, 2006. The 2019 version started on June 30 and would run for 99 days. This year’s version is code-named ‘Pepper Them,’ a term rooted in the Nigerian social parlance. In a meeting with the President of National Council of Women Societies, Gloria Shoda, the Director-General of National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Mr. Segun Runsewe, said that the government is already in talks with StarTimes, another cable network provider in Nigeria, to start a state-owned BBN that will reflect the Nigerian culture and kitchen. He added that the agency is preparing to send a nudity bill to punish sexual acts as displayed on BBN. The name Big Brother was coined by George Orwell in his extremely popular book 1984, a political satire about repressive governments. A Dutch man, John De Mol, decided to build a TV reality show around the concept based on Dutch TV series in 1997. It consists of a group of housemates who live in seclusion and under strict rules with 24-hour camera monitoring and required to wear their microphones all the time. They are watched by viewers who ultimately determine who wins the grand prize. The Big Brother franchise is in many countries and follows almost the same rules as most adult entertainment programmes because it is rated 18 and the age limit for participants is 21 years. For Big Brother Africa and BBNaija seasons, there have been allegations of sexual impropriety against some of the housemates by some government officials, religious groups and individuals, as they argue that it is negatively affecting the youths who are the major viewers of the programme. We recognise the social impact of any sexual act on impressionable minds on the continent, and especially Nigeria. However, there are major positives of the programme as it is a major job creator. It has helped most participants, losers and winners alike achieve career goals that might have been undiscovered. The current host of the programme, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, a lawyer came to prominence in the entertainment industry, having taken part in the maiden edition in 2006. The winner, Katung Aduwak is now a major film producer working with Multichoice, Gideon Okeke a former participant is a successful actor today. We believe that the government should not throw the baby away with the bath water through a holistic condemnation because of the alleged sexual indiscretion of a few housemates. Being a reality show, it signposts the possibility of real life behaviour on the programme. We would rather the government dialogue with the managers of the programme to either blur certain explicit sexual actions or give direct instruction to the housemates about the cultural implication of certain actions within the limits of freedom of choice. Before airing the Big Brother Reality Show the franchise owners must have signed a contract with some government agencies like the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), etc., and we believe that they would have made them agree to certain clauses depending on the concerns they have. Initiating another BBN with another cable company just because you frown at the alleged sexual impropriety seems a flawed and precipitate reaction. No government around the world plans its entertainment or cultural programmes based on some spontaneous dissatisfaction with some housemates’ indiscretions. The D-G of NCAC said, “Having love affairs on screen is not part of our culture at all”. Love affair and unedited sex scenes are not the same thing. But then, the government needs to do more to protect and showcase the values of Nigerian cultures in ways that promote them to the youths so they too can promote same in return. More pervasive and youth inclusive programmes to promote culture must be the focus of government and its agencies rather than just starting its own brand of BBN. The youths have unfettered access to the internet, even without TV. The government is free to start its own entertainment programmes but we equally believe it should not be a priority or a panacea for the alleged sexual impropriety in the current or past Big Brother shows or in society. If government is not satisfied with the reality show as it is, it can encourage others to compete with the present one. 