Every parent knows that raising a child is one of life’s most fulfilling challenges. Although the emotional price of raising a sick child can be devastating, it’s only part of the picture. During the trying times, parents become overwhelmed by medical expenses and this, to an extent, hinders them from giving their children adequate medical care. Hope came alive for many sick children in the paediatric ward at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi Araba, Lagos, when the Committee of Friends for Humanity (COFFHA) visited for its quarterly charity to the hospital. During the visit, the charity group gave cash gifts to 25 sick children. Some of the parents could not hide their joy when they received the cash gift. One of the parents whose children benefited from the charity thanked COFFHA for the kind gesture. The cash gift will go a long way to offset some of the medical bills for their baby, said Mr Joseph and Mrs Joseph whose 18-day baby was born prematurely and still in the incubator. On the essence of the visit, Mrs Carolyn Akum-Ufere, president of COFFHA), pointed out that the group usually organises quarterly charity visits to orphans and sick people and gives out cash and gift items to them as a way of supporting those in need. “We usually organise quarterly event whereby we give out cash food and gift items to orphans and sick people in our midst. This time around, we decided to come to Lagos University Teaching Hospital and see babies that are indigent. This implies that their parents cannot afford to pay their medical bills as well as all the medication that has been listed out to them. We have gone round the paediatric ward and give out cash to their parents,” said Mrs Akum-Ufere. She said the visit was the third this year, adding that her group also organised medical outreaches. “Aside the charity visit, we also organise health outreach. We organised one last year and over 200 women benefited from the outreach. We still intend to organise another health outreach later this year,” she said. On how much the charity group spends on each quarterly visit, Ufere said it varies. “There was the case of a boy who had cancer and COFFHA decided to sponsor his medical bills all through. We spent over a million naira on the boy. At least quarterly, we raise N1 million or more to take care of indigent people in the society.” She urgged well-meaning Nigerians to help those in need. “We should be grateful to God for being alive; we should try and lend a helping hand to the less-privileged among us and you will not lose your reward,” she said. The Chief Nursing Officer, Mrs Okwuobi Edith, who received the team, lauded COFFHA for the gesture, enjoining others to emulate COFFHA by assisting the needy. 