The nine newly appointed permanent secretaries for the Lagos State Civil Service were sworn-in on Monday by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja. Sanwo-Olu told the appointees that they should deliver their best to the state as well as the residents. The permanent secretaries and their portfolios are: Mrs. Sanyaolu Kikelomo Morenike, (Civil Service Commission); Sodeinde Olalekan Nurudeen (Office of Drainage Services); Mrs. Shitta-Bey Titilayo Khadijat (Solicitor -General/P/S Ministry of Justice); Mr. Musa Mooruf Olawale (Ministry of Transport); Mrs. Durosimi-Etti Olorunkemi (Cabinet Office) and Mrs. Kalesanwo Olayemi Yewande (Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation). Others are: Agoro Moruf Olawale (Ministry of Waterfront and Infrastructure Development); Mrs. Odeneye Belinda (Ministry of the Environment) and Mr. Olawale Mesewaku Babatunde (Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture). The governor urged the appointees to continue “to give your very best first time and all of the time”. He assured Lagosians that they were in for a renewed and re-enhanced public service to take the state to a higher level. The governor said he is just meeting most of the appointees for the first time but that he has seen their quality of work, which earned them their appointments. “You have displayed a high level of professionalism, integrity, capability and capacity as well as competence,” he said He urged them to continue to develop “yourself, don’t give up and continue to strive harder. We are sure that all of you truly deserve this appointment and Lagos will be better for it with the full team, which will be completed tomorrow with the inauguration of the cabinet”. “And at the end, it will be said that we truly delivered on all our campaign promises and better the lots of generality of our citizens by ensuring that equity, justice and fairness continue to play out in the civil service. “Go out and deliver on the quality of service for which you have been appointed today,” Sanwo-Olu urged the new perm secs.