Professor of Thermo-Fluids Engineering Prof Mufutau Waheed has identified inadequate electric and energy production and lack of technology for self-reliance of the country as the bane of her economic development. The 60th Inaugural Lecturer of the Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), disclosed this while delivering his inaugural lecture titled: “Man, Energy and Environment: The Exigent Remediation” at the Ceremonial Building of the University. He called for the decentralization of energy generation to allow states, cities and even individuals produce electric energy that can be fed into the national grid through the concept of distributed generation. The don said appropriate energy mix system should be adopted for different locations based on the comparative advantages of the available primary energy, saying it would facilitate the development of the country’s energy industry with greater focus on renewable energy for sustainability. He disclosed that as an emerging economy, Nigeria had great potentials to harness and meet the challenges of the global economy and be like other developed countries such as China, Brazil, India, Indonesia, and Argentina. The Inaugural Lecturer recommended that the country should utilise its large and growing human resources who serve as a ready market, as well as its abundance of natural resources which can be harnessed for production and other productive uses. The former Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academics) called on the government to stimulate local production of equipment and machines through appropriate policies; develop the country’s indigenous technology; and discourage importations of some items, which are causing serious unemployment crisis. He added that there is the dire need for materials, tools and instrumentation industries without which the country cannot produce some class of machinery, devices or technologies, stressing the need for government to support and assist investors in this area. Advocating for better linkages and support, the Inaugural Lecturer said: “Government has to give more support to research institutions and universities to pursue their research and developmental drive.  No nation will truly develop without the injection of adequate funds for research.” Waheed equally canvassed for the establishment of a National Centre for Applied Mechanics and Computational Fluid Dynamics to support research and development activities in exploration and prospecting of natural resources, compulational works in fluid dynamics, energy studies, solid mechanics, structural work, development of software for petrochemical and oil exploration. He suggested that the interest of young people in Vocational Technical Education should be stimulated through robust reward system and incentives to retain them in the industries. In his Remarks, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Kolawole Salako described Waheed as an outstanding scholar, excellent team player, leader, and a renowned researcher who has contributed to more than 100 Journal articles, 42 Conference Proceedings and 15 internal reports to various National and International Journals, Conferences and Workshops.