 With less than 24 hours to the close of transfer window in England, analysts and stakeholders have intensified permutations, while some have gone memory lane to compare and contrast. Interestingly former Super Eagles striker Peter Odemwingie’s ill-fated transfer to Queens Park Rangers from West Brom in 2013 topped what has been dubbed craziest deadline day dramas. The Nigerian international who quit the game early this year after last featuring for Indonesian side Madura United, had gotten fed up with delays over his much talked about January 31 2013 exit from West Brom, said his good byes and drove straight to QPR but was dramatically stopped from entering the club as both teams could not reach agreement before the curtain was drawn. In what has now become an infamous scene whenever transfers are talked about, the former Lokomotiv Moscow ace was forced to sit outside Loftus Road in the car park because he was refused permission to enter until a deal was done. With the whole football world watching, the deal fell apart and images of Odemwingie sitting out in the dark and cold was beamed around the world. Odemwingie was fined £75,000 for arriving at Loftus Road without permission and remained at the Hawthorns. That was however not the end of the story as the former Stoke City ace had to stomach a little bit of mockery. David de Gea’s collapsed swap deal on deadline day in August 2015 also featured prominently.  Keen on a move to Real Madrid, it seemed as though the Spanish stopper had finally got what he wanted as the day went on. Keylor Navas was on the way to Old Trafford as part of a £29m deal but Real failed to register De Gea in time for the deadline. Madrid issued a 10-point statement alleging that United instigated negotiations to end the long-running transfer saga and were at fault for holding up the deal. United hit back with an official statement of their own, insisting that Madrid made the first move with an opening offer believed to be in the region of £11m plus Navas, and were to blame for registering De Gea too late.