THE Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Wabote on Wednesday said the Local Content Act cannot be fully complied with because of the economic realities in the country. Speaking with reporters in Abuja, he said the Act says that all fabrication must be done in-country and that all the steel materials used in the industry must be sourced locally, he said adherence to the law would kill the industry since the fundamentals are not yet in place for full compliance. He said there is no functional steel mill in Nigeria, no regular power supply, other logistics are lacking. He said: “If the board has to comply strictly with the Act that all fabrications must be done in-country and that all the steel used in the industry must be sourced in-country, there might be no project in the country. Wabote said: “Let’s be honest, if today they ask you to do all the fabrications in-country, you will not have any project; we don’t even have a functional steel mill; logistic is a problem; and power is a huge challenge. “Our cost of project development will hit the roof because each project has an economic value. If the project cost is more than the economies of investments, will anybody put his money? So, because of our knowledge of the industry, we try to see how we balance the process in a win-win situation in order to continue the exploration. “Don’t forget that 90 per cent of our foreign exchange is from oil and gas. If you use this as a bible and say this is what the law says, you will kill the industry. So we must apply a greater level of intelligence.” According to him, in terms of compliance and enforcement, the board has put in place  seven companies to assist it in carrying out specific and specialised monitoring and compliance functions in the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors of the industry. The board, according to him, has deployed chartered accounting firms to carry out forensic audit of NCDF remittances. He said Section 104 of the Nigerian Content Act says one per cent of the value of contracts awarded in the upstream sector of the oil and gas industry must be remitted to the NCD Fund. Wabote said the Forensic Audit started in November last year and has shown huge amounts of non-remittances from operating and service companies. He said: “At the moment, some companies have owned up to their indebtedness and have started addressing their infractions. “On the other hand, a few companies have remained recalcitrant.” 