National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has explained why Lagos remains the magnet point for investors within and outside the continent. He said investors are attracted to Lagos because it is succeeding. He spoke while answering questions from reporters when he paid a surprise visit to the Eko Hotel &Suite Ikoyi venue of the four-day retreat for Commissioners, Special Advisers and Permanent Secretaries in the state. The former Lagos governor said: “We have highly talented people running the affairs of the state and that is why we have other past governors and public officeholders coming to the retreat to mentor the new appointees.” Tinubu charged the cabinet members to see their appointment as opportunity to serve the people of the state. “I am very proud of what has been put together by this government as a retreat, bringing talented and resourceful individuals from private and public sector to address the cabinet is a very good idea….in terms of leadership and commitment to develop….it is a road map to succeed. And we are very proud of that,” he stressed. He told the 22 Commissioners and 13 Special Advisers to consider themselves lucky to be selected among other qualified Lagosians “My experience can only be shared with you as time progress. You are a team of selected few to serve the people of Nigeria and Lagos. “This is an important state and the heartbeat of Nigeria, anything that goes wrong here is a cancer to Nigeria. To serve Lagos is a great honour and opportunity for you. “It shows you have been deemed to be one of the able professionals in your fields with great character,” Tinubu said. He added: “However, talent can only give you the opportunity and recognition away from your peers but it can’t pave the way for the well being of the society. Talent without character is zero. “There are so many unrewarded talents across the world. Your appointment gives you huge opportunity unavailable to the rest of the people. Always place in your mind that honour and opportunity comes with great responsibility. “Residents of Lagos must have confidence in the government that is in place for them, the residents have seen the government as prepared to do a marathon commitment in development for them. “There are some developments that cannot be seen physically, they are not just the bricks and mortars but there are so many of it. If the smart city emerges, you have more investments, prosperity and revenues.” The Minister of Works and Housing Babatunde Raji Fashola, who paid the surprise visit with Tinubu, advised the new appointees to work more, read a lot rather than resulting to prayers in the discharge of their duties. ” You have to read a lot. You can’t do this business without reading. I welcome you to a life of service to your nation and state. Forget prayers, it’s what you do that matters. “You have signed up for a difficult job but it’s a noble undertaking to serve your people, you have to prove you deserve to be here. “Some of you have been in politics, some are technocrats. You came here on a political platform so you all have become politicians,” Fashola said. The former Governor urged them to develop working relationship with political structure in their wards and state. “Don’t leave the area from where they picked you, you are the ears and eyes of the governor from where you are picked,” he told them.