A neurologist from the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) Dr. Bankole Murtala has called on the Federal Government to employ specialists that will attend to chronic ailments, such as epilepsy, in the primary healthcare centres (PHCs). Murtala stated this in an interview during the Warriors Unite, a programme organised by the Epilepsy Foundation of Nigeria in Yaba, Lagos. According to him, epilepsy is one of incurable illnesses that deserves better attention at the PHCs, adding that the country is witnessing a growth in the number of those affected by it, especially in rural areas. As a major brain disorder, epilepsy should be considered a public health priority, he said. The expert lamented that many patients often wait a long time before they could access medical care in tertiary hospitals, adding that it is difficult to secure appointments to see doctors because there is limited space, which makes it hard for new patients to get bed space. He noted that a neurological patient, referred to any tertiary hospital,  had to travel long distances for a doctor’s consultation or investigation in the main city Murtala said things would be better, if a larger percentage of epilepsy is diagnosed and managed at primary and secondary healthcare levels, adding that this requires employing specialists and other competent public health personnel. He stressed that strengthening the capacity of healthcare workers would help to identify and initiate treatment in patients before such cases deteriorate. Although the neurologist admitted that the government is spending much money on cancer and other deadly diseases, he said epilepsy should also be pririotised as more patients are recorded in the hospitals while resources to support and help them are poor and limited. “Every day in every clinic and teaching hospitals, we get people reappointed because the doctors’ hands are full with people living with the condition,” he said. Founder and executive director of the foundation, Seyi Aragbada, said the programme will provide support for people living with epilepsy and their caregivers to express themselves and the challenges they face, adding that a lot of ‘warriors’ feel better after opening up about their epilepsy. She called for support for persons living with epilepsy because there are 45 kinds of seizures, which are the symptoms of person living with epilepsy. She said: “We have  three million people living with epilepsy in Nigeria and that is the size of a country and, unfortunately, it kills more than breast cancer. The more seizure epilepsy patients have, the more the brain gets damaged.” She, therefore, appealed to the Federal Government to do more to support people living with the condition so that they could lead a better life. “We are creating awareness, treatment and care to those suffering from the neurological condition, support families and individuals impacted with epilepsy, seizures and convulsion,” she said. Mrs. Aragbada lamented that due to the stigma attached to epilepsy, a lot of people living with the disease avoid talking about it. She urged caregivers or families with epilepsy to endure and be patient because it is hard to accept diagnosis.