THE Head of Harmonised Vigilante Group in the Southwest, Alhaji Rilwan Yasalam Hussein, has urged the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, to prioritise the re-arrangement of the nation’s internal security architecture. In a statement he personally signed, Hussein stressed that Nigeria’s internal security arrangement needs to be overhauled. The vigilante leader said an heterogeneous society like Nigeria cannot effectively police itself without the active participation of all members of the society. Hussein, who advised the minister to set up a virile committee that will monitor the nation’s porous borders and find a lasting solution to it, said the menace had contributed to internal security challenges. He said: “I am convinced that the new Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, will take the issue of community policing serious and give it necessary attention and consideration, going by his antecedents in Osun State in the area of security. “By the mandate of his office, he must strive to come up with a robust arrangement for internal security that will make a difference and reflect community participation. “Paramilitary organisations, like the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), among others, are strong agencies that could be used to effect formidable internal security arrangement in collaboration with communities. “The minister made this work in Osun State while he held sway as governor for eight years. He came up with virile security measures that gave responsibilities to all strata of the society to be vigilant and involve in policing their communities in collaboration with security agencies. “My group played a significant role in this arrangement, and it turned out to be a huge success as the state under Aregbesola was peaceful all through. “I will want him to work closely with the Ministry of Police Affairs and other security agencies to thoroughly fine-tune modalities for the implementation of community policing.” 