The Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Edward Ogundoyin, has urged the youths to perceive politics as a vocation and not an occupation. He said: “It is not advisable to go straight into politics without first working. It is good to have a second address.” Ogundoyin urged youths to emulate Governor Seyi Makinde, who he described as a dynamic governor with a new orientation. He said the governor worked hard to earn a living before venturing into politics. The speaker spoke in Lagos, shortly before the commencement of the conference of 36 Houses of Assembly Speakers organised by the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies. He said: “Youths should know that the time is ripe for us to get involved in politics. But, politics should not be seen as a means of enrichment, but sacrifice and public service. “The perception that people go to politics to get money and become rich is wrong. That is why some people, after their tenure, become poor. Youths in politics should not focus on financial reward. They should be interested in solving the  problems of their communities. They should fight the infrastructure battle. They should empower people. The more you empower, the more those being empowered will empower others. “We should join politics, not for financial gain, but for the empowerment of the people.” Ogundoyin maintained that it is not good for youths to join politics without first establishing themselves in occupations of meaningful value. He said politicians who lacked second addresses exposed themselves to future risks. The Speaker said his expereince as a farmer has further enriched his public service experience, adding that he has utilised it to offer constructive advice to the governor on agriculture. He added: “I went to the Republic of Benin with the governor to study agric-business. We want to transform Oyo to African business hub. We need people with expertise and ideas. “I have given some input from the perspective of youths in agriculture. We should encourage youths to embrace agriculture to boost our GDP and IGR.”