The mental fireworks for season five of the Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematics television quiz show sponsored by Cowbell Milk, the flagship brand of Promasidor Nigeria Limited, began last weekend in Lagos with high expectation on the part of the participating students and their teachers. With a grand prize of N2million and bragging right at stake, the 108 students, who scaled the hurdles of the qualifying examination in February 2019, were optimistic about their chances of becoming the 2019 Cowbellpedia champion. The contestants are also aiming at beating the record set last year by Miss Faith Odunsi of The Ambassador College, Ota Ogun State, who solved 19 Mathematics questions within the 60 seconds of fame segment of the competition. The quiz show, which will run for 12 weeks, is divided into nine preliminary stages, and three semi-finals before the grand finale in November 2019. The organisers also promised that this year’s edition would be more educative and fun-filled as Cowbellpedia is committed to “nurturing great inventors”. In the contest last weekend, Master Okafor Ebubechukwu of Saint Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu, Lagos, and Master Salami Ayorinde of Princely Academy, Ota, Ogun State, moved into the semi-finals of the junior category. The senior category produced Master Uche-Nwichi Jessey – the 2017 junior champion and Master Iroghama Uyiosa both of Graceland International School, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, as semi-finalists. Aside the N2 million grand prize, Managing Director of Promasidor Nigeria Limited, Mr. Anders Einarsson, disclosed that the winner in each of the categories, (junior and senior) will enjoy an all-expenses paid educational excursion outside the country at the end of the initiative. In addition, the first and second runners-up in each category will receive N1.5 million and N1 million respectively, while the teachers of the top prize winners will be awarded N500, 000. Those of the first and second runners-up will receive N400, 000 and N300, 000 respectively. The 2019 edition of Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematic TV quiz continues this weekend. It will be aired on DSTV Africa Magic Family Channel, AIT Network and other six television stations across the country.