The Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) yesterday warned rooftop riders against endangering their lives. The corporation said it would no longer treat the offence with levity. NRC’s Lagos District Manager Jerry Oche told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the corporation was not pleased with the rate miscreants ride on top of moving trains. He said: “We are not encouraging anybody to join the train at all cost; it is not the last resort. “I want you to be my customers, but I will not want you to endanger your life because of a train. If you are injured or dead, the society and your family will suffer the loss. “The train is the cheapest means of transportation, and it is the fastest in Lagos State, as far as traffic is concerned. But, please, there is no substitute for life.” The district manager said take rooftop riders would face the wrath of the law. Oche said: “We have about 15 coaches on a train for every trip with 90 people in a coach. This is about 1,350 passengers on a trip at a peak period. “Right now, most of our trains are filled up to full capacity with passengers standing. But we don’t encourage those hanging and those sitting at the rooftop of a moving train.” The district manager said the corporation had announced the termination of its Mass Transit Train Service (MTTS) at Agbado Station due to ongoing construction of a standard gauge. He said the contractors needed to move the construction materials from place to place to fast-track the completion of the project. Oche said the operations had also received speed restrictions where the construction was taking place to avoid casualties. “So, all these challenges have hindered our full operations, especially between Agege and Iju to Agbado, where there are speed restrictions. “In fact, in these places, we crawl because of the standard gauge equipment. “The NRC management would have stopped operations, but passengers will suffer for it. So, we have to consider their plight,” he said. NAN reports that the Lagos District, on August 1, announced the termination of the MTTS at Agbado Station, following the ongoing construction of standard gauge. The termination of the MTTS was announced by Mrs Khadijah Aroyewum-Adekomaiya, the District Public Relations Officer (DPRO). The MTTS service, which starts from Apapa/Iddo Stations in Lagos State, usually terminates at the Ijoko/Kajola Station, as against Agbado Station, both in Ogun State. She added that instead of Ijoko, the termination station would be at the Agbado station.