African wrestling champion, Reuben Hannah, has attributed her rising profile to the Nigerian Army’s unparalleled support for her. Though she will be missing out in the forthcoming 12th All Africa Games to be held between 19th and 31st in Morocco, despite claiming gold in the 69kg at the Governor Dickson National Classics, her silver medal feat at the 2015 edition of the quadrennial championship in Brazzaville is still fresh in her memory. The Olympian said: “The Nigerian Army are really trying in their own way because what other support will be better than the privilege to train? I don’t think there will be another support that will be better than releasing me for competitions and that’s been the reason why I am growing in the sport. “If they did not release me and all I do is to stay back in the barrack with my Army duties. The release alone is better than the money they will give me as support. Training is what a sportsman needs and that is what they are giving me and I am being paid in my primary assignment. “My primary assignment is to perform my duty as a soldier and which I do because I go out to train in the morning and come back to the office by 10am. When there is competition, they will now release me to go and train. I will remain grateful to the Army.” A gal of many parts, Hannah had previously participated in boxing, swimming and judo before specialising in wrestling. The Olympian, who is a lance corporal with the Nigerian Army, shares her sporting experience along with her military regimen with correspondent AKEEM LAWAL. Below are the excerpts…  Joy of reclaiming national title in Bayelsa It was not that easy to win the gold medal at the Governor Dickson National Wrestling Classics. All thanks to God, it came out to be what I really wanted. I won gold and that is what I had been praying for so that I can qualify for the All Africa Games. Actually, I switched to the 69 kg despite the fact that I’d previously moved up to the 72kg category. In fact, 69kg was the weight I wrestled at the 2018 Africa Championship held in Port Harcourt. Interestingly, Sunmisola Balogun was in the 69kg category before moving to the 72kg for the Governor Dickson National Wrestling Classics. Sunmisola, against Reuben Hannah? You can’t compare the two names. Yes, she is an up-coming wrestler but I’m already at that high level. I had also competed in 69kg at the 2016 Rio Summer Olympics in Brazil before they changed the weight categories after the Games. I just went for 72kg at this year’s African Championship in Hammamet, Tunisia, because I don’t really want to shed weight for the competition.  Between 69 kg and 72kg weight categories Actually, before the African Championship in Hammamet, it was cold in Zaria at that particular time coupled with other reasons like work, Army duty, training, the stress and all that. So I just decided to go up and just wrestle. So I joined my Army team in Lagos and after two days, I checked my weight and it was 66kg. I asked my coach if I could go for 65kg and he said no, that they’ve already done the entry and there was nothing they could do about it. He said I should just go for the 72kg. I said ok and that was why I wrestled in that 72kg, it’s not that I cannot go for my normal weight. I am a kind of person that when it comes to my weight, I am always conscious about that. I don’t eat anyhow. Because one reason why I joined sport is to always feel good with myself whenever I appear. It’s not that I was scared of anybody.  Postcard from Brazzaville 2015 If it was about preparation; my preparation for the last All Africa games in Brazzaville was fine and I was at my good competition spirit. In the fight against Ennas Khourchid of Egypt, I knew I made some mistakes. I was leading and I did something and it led to another thing and the lady pinned me there and I lost. So it wasn’t good enough for me though. The Egyptian and I have already wrestled again after that Africa Games. Ever since I lost to her, every day I see myself, I see that scene of losing to her. So I came back and had to step up training. I went to You Tube and the United World Wrestling to get her video. I asked people that were at the last All Africa Games of my mistakes and they told me. Even the Nigeria Wrestling President, Honourable Daniel Igali, told me that I wrestled well and what was important was that I was tired. There was no sign of tiredness and that alone just gave me that courage. If not for the mistake, maybe I would have won the match. So I came back, stepped up preparation and defeated her 8-2 at the Olympic qualifiers.  My breakthrough with wrestling If anyone had told me I would be a wrestler today, I would not even accept despite the fact that no one knows tomorrow. Actually, I was doing other sports. I was doing Judo and I was able to go for some competitions. At my teenage, I was fat that time because I was weighing up to 75-77kg as at then. So I did wrestle upper class. I would go for competitions, they would beat me, I would go again, they would beat me and it went on like that. Before then, when they did trials for judokas for the Gateway Games 2006 National Sports Festival here in Bayelsa and I was defeated. However, they had to take me there so that I could get the experience. So when I got there, the wrestling coaches asked me to join them. But because they had done the entry I could not compete for them. So we came back and in 2008, I started doing boxing. While training with my boxing coach, Enepkedekumo Okporu one morning, a wrestling coach, the late Ibo Ozite, said ‘do you know you are a wrestler?’ He said further: ‘Just look at your physique, you are a wrestler, you are just wasting your time.’ He then had a bargain with my boxing coach that I would do boxing in the morning and then wrestling in the evening. So we started it that way. I would train boxing in the morning while I did wrestling in the evening. Because we were just four persons then, I was like is it only me doing it but he told me that the senior team went for competition that I shouldn’t worry about it that I would have a lot of people to train with. My baptism in Lagos That same year September I went for junior wrestling championship in Lagos State and won silver. I was beaten by a judoka, Augustina Esther. When we came back, he said if I could win silver for junior just within few preparations that if I can come and endure I can achieve more in wrestling. But the pressure at home was not helping me. Don’t go to sport complex, concentrate on your studies and all that. As God would have it, I continued like that until 2009 again we went for Kada Games where I won a bronze medal. I went for my first championship at senior level, the National Championship in Ebonyi State. I was thrashed as if I and my opponents had other issues. So I lost. After that we went for the 2011 championship in Port Harcourt and I won my first gold medal, then I was still representing Bayelsa State. Again at Eko 2012, I won gold. Ever since then it has been either me or Aboy. If she goes up, I will win the gold. Then finally 2011 in Ibadan I became the number one in the 67kg  category. I continued till 2017 when I lost to Kemeasuodei Dressman before they changed the classes again. I went to 65kg. It was at the 2018 Africa Championships in Port Harcourt that I got my first African title. So that’s how I got into wrestling and I am not regretting it. My parents didn’t nearly stop me from sport My school was a stone-throw from my house and it was only a fence that demarcated my school from my house. There was one other boys’ school close to that primary school, UBE Township Primary School. We made a hole exit on the fence and sometimes we passed through it to play football against them. I just go, train and my parents would beat me when I get home. The next day I would still go. I attended training every day after school and when they wanted to beat me, I usually ran to my step mother’s place because she was the only one who supported me. The beating continued and the training continued. The funny thing is that my father doesn’t know what I was coming for. If you asked him he would tell you I was playing football. When he found out that I was doing swimming, he was against it, saying that water is not good and I left that sport. He finally got to know that I was doing wrestling because it got to a stage where my coach followed me to the house to talk to my parents. He only met my mum at home and she told him that she didn’t have problem with me doing sport but it was my father that was against it. But as time went on, my dad started supporting me too. When I returned from my first invitational competition in India, whenever my dad saw me at home he would ask me: ‘Why didn’t you go for training? Is there no training today?’  My foray into the Nigerian Army One day after training, I got a call from somebody who told me that he wanted to see me. I said ‘ok, please who are you?’ then he said I should not worry that I knew him. He said he is a brother to our president. I went there after training and when I got there he was someone I knew. He told me there was a job slot given to his uncle who didn’t have anybody to fill the space and he wanted me to take the offer. I told him I only had my school certificate then but he said with that I could still acquire the job. Then I asked him what the job was and he said military. I told him I couldn’t do it because at that particular time, I had  hatred for military.. Then I went back to consult my coach, who advised me to get the form and go for the screening. I also asked Blessing Oborududu too because she is someone I confide in whenever I want to do anything. She also told me it was an opportunity which I must not let it pass. She said there was nothing like job opportunity at the sports council and I should just go for that one. So getting the job was to help myself and assist my family.  Switching from civilian to military lifestyle Since I joined the military,  it has been another way God used to open up a lot of things to me. When I was a civilian I couldn’t get any title; I did not go to Commonwealth Games, not even the Olympics. When I got into the military, it opened way for me. I had my African title, went to the Commonwealth Games and others. They released me to go and train whenever there was any competition. I believe the military is where God designed for me to go and start shining.  My steady promotion in the Nigerian Army For you to be promoted in the Nigerian Army, there is a specific year you have be in the service. In the military, when I joined, it was every four years to get a rank. So when it got to my fourth year, I got my rank. Though it was not that specific four years because it was the year that would make it five that I got my lance corporal rank because of some mix up when they were doing the nomination as I was in training camp that time. Coping with advances from men It is a normal thing to get advances from men. When it comes to man and woman issue, it is normal. But ever since I joined the military I have not gotten myself into any trouble because I have been busy. When a lady is focused, she wouldn’t get carried away by such things. It is all about self-esteem and the way you comport yourself. If you are the type that minds your business, do what you are assigned to do, I don’t think anyone will come and harass you. It is the same way you have responsible people in the civilian, they have it in the military too.  Settling down with a military or civilian Settling down! I don’t want to answer that kind of question because if you are talking about a soulmate there is no specification. You cannot specify that it should come from the military or civilian. Marriage is something designed by God, it is Him that makes it work. So if you want to decide where your soulmate will come from you will get it wrong. You’re not the one to design where your soulmate will come from, but for me if it comes from military, fine; if it comes from the civil world, fine.  Advice for up and coming athletes For the up and coming ones, my advice for them is that they should try and identify only what God wants them to do. When you identify it, it works and helps. At first when I started, I use to come here to do swimming, boxing, judo, squash to the extent people will say ‘na ashewo sport person you don become’, But it got to a stage now that everyone is saying they are happy and they are proud of me, seeing the person I became. Things are very difficult, not only in this country but world over. Teenagers out there, sport is one thing that can help youths out there to become what you want to be. When you come into sport, it builds you and develops you. For me at work, I am this soft type, I don’t even like arguing even when I am right. But coming into sport has added something to me because I can now defend myself. When you are wrong I tell you immediately. You are going to feel bad but it is best I tell you the truth. So I will advice youths out there, even if there is a close space or field, they should start up somewhere. I believe every individual has a particular talent that has to do with sport. If you cannot swim, you can do karate, play football and so on. Not only that, if you identify this sport, you have to apply patient and have to be discipline. You must not listen to people’s criticisms because people will come to condemn whatever you are doing. Youth should come into sport and also focus on their studies because it works hand in hand.  On Nigeria Wrestling Federation The federation under Honourable Daniel Igali has done a lot on the development of the sport in the country. Like the Governor Dickson Classics, there were lots of talent that were discovered. People that never wrestled before but just trained for some weeks and they performed wonderfully well even beyond my expectation. So there are lots of talent out there and the Nigeria Wrestling Federation is catching them young, making sure the youths out there can see what is happening. And when they join the sport, the federation embrace and support you to make sure you put your mind into it. The federation are doing great.