Six police station projects embarked upon by the Edo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (EDSOPADEC) have been abandoned. EDSOPADEC was constituted to receive and manage the 13% oil derivation funds for oil producing communities in the state. The stations built to replace derelict buildings that served as police stations in the communities are in various stages of completion but checks showed that no work has been done on the projects for the past five years. Communities where the projects are located are Ugbekun in Upper Sokponba Road, Ikpoba Okha LGA, Ugbinen Village in Ovia North East LGA, Ekehuan Village in Ovia North East, Urhomehe, Evbarue and Abe communities in Orhionmwon local government.  It was gathered the police station project at Ugbekun was erected on a traditional ground. A visit to the project revealed that the Benin Monarch has erected perimeter fencing on the land, including the police station to prevent further encroachment. Spokesman for the Edo State Civil Society (EDOSCO) Mr. Osazee Edigin, said it was worrisome that projects that were supposed to boost security in the benefiting communities were abandoned. Edigin noted that security personnel can function effectively in a serene environment. He said EDOSCO relied on the Freedom of Information law to request from EDSOPADEC information on the abandoned Police Stations/Posts built by the commission. Edigin stated that the commission opted to engage in legal tussle than to make required information available. According to him: “Whether a court seek to legalise a corruption laden project or not, the point to be emphasized is that, these abandoned police stations were conceptualised to improve security for Edo people. Few persons have pocketed the funds for the project leading to their abandonment for years now.  “It has become imperative that Governor Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki probe this particular projects that our commonwealth have been utilized to construct. The governor cannot be indifferent on this glaring case of corruption. “It has also come to our knowledge that, some of the persons that benefitted from this abandoned projects are the ones currently fighting the state government. “The state government should as a matter of urgency review these projects and others to ensure that Edo people should not be shortchanged by a few criminals.” Chairman of EDSOPADEC, Pastor Kennedy Osifo, did not pick calls made to his cell phone.