Relatives of a medical practitioner, Dr. Conrad Esomonu, have raised the alarm over the recent invasion of his Owerri residence by suspected members of the Islamic terror group, Boko Haram. A younger brother to the medical expert, Ben Esomonu, said that he left the country four years ago following a similar ordeal in Maiduguri, Borno state, where he was practising. He narrated further that suspected members of the Boko Haram sect had attacked his home in Maiduguri but he was lucky to escape. Esomonu, a indigene of Ahiazu Mbaise Council Area of Imo State, was a practicing physician in the Northern part of Nigeria before he relocated abroad after a failed attempt on his life by the Boko Haram Sect. Lamenting that the insurgents have trailed the medical expert to his home, Ben said:  “A group suspected to be members of the insurgent group from the North East part of the country stormed his residence at Plot 45 C Bonbolini Avenue, new Owerri, Imo State without knowing that he left the country because his movement was kept away from many people for obvious security reasons. “Dr Esomonu left the country to the knowledge of very few people following a similar ordeal he experienced about four years ago in Maiduguri,  Borno state. “Trailing and threats of lower magnitude have been hunting the family members which prompted the relocation of his fiancée and children to another part of the country. “It is worthy of note especially that the failed kidnap attempt on his fiancée in Calabar early last year was evident. The failed kidnap attempt necessitated that they flee the country to an unconfirmed destination”. He advised that “exposure to threat by terrorists is becoming increasingly menacing, requiring the Government to step up intelligence gathering to combat the spate of growing insecurity in the country”. Also an eye witness, Mrs. Carol Ugwuegbu, who owns a retail shop close to the doctor’s residence, disclosed that, “six armed men suspected to be members of the Islamic terror group arrived the home of Dr Esomonu in two Hilux vans at about 6:30pm on Saturday 3rd August 2019. “The assailants were chanting incomprehensible invocations suspected to be in Arabic, they were all dressed in flowing gowns (jalandher), a form that suggests that they are terrorists. “On their arrival at the residence, they started shooting randomly in the air and people nearby scampered for safety. “They broke into the premises and shot sporadically into the air but as there was no one in the residence as at that time so they couldn’t get anybody. “One of them who was suspected to be their leader, mentioned Dr Esomonu in his instructions to others while conversing in a strange language. “Then they all jumped out of the premises into their vehicles and escaped before Police could be contacted. “The Police arrived shortly after their departure but no arrests were made instead they inspected the bullet shots around the premises. Also, another neighbour who didn’t want his name mentioned, said that the medical Doctor was last seen about three years ago and wondered why gunmen should attack his residence. When contacted,  the Imo State Police Public Relations Officer,  Orlando Ikeokwu,  a Superintendent of Police,  said that he was going to call the District Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the area for details. However he was yet to call as at the time of filling this report.