The Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, has reaffirmed the commitment of the ministry to handle internal security of the country. He advised the service chiefs under the ministry not to rest on their oars. The minister noted that the ministry cannot afford to fail under him. Aregbesola spoke yesterday in Abuja when he officially took over the mantle of leadership of the ministry from the Permanent Secretary, Georgina Ehuriah. The minister advised the ministry’s workforce and its agencies to adopt President Muhammadu Buhari’s police and ensure the safety of life and property and shun corruption. He promised to make workers’ welfare a priority. Aregbesola said: “We have internal security challenges in Nigeria, but they are not peculiar to us. It is like that all over the world. What is important is how we respond to them. We are adopting President Muhammadu Buhari’s charge to improve the safety of our citizens. “We shall overcome the internal security threats our nation is facing. We must all key into this agenda. We are capable of handling threats affecting the internal security our nation. Nobody should act with impunity. Offenders will never get away with crime. I will make staff welfare a priority. “ “As a result of our commitment to a proactive security agenda for the country, we are going to set up an early warning alarm system in all the geopolitical zones to nip in the bud any security breach before it happens.” The former Osun State governor designed a new acronym for the ministry to work with in actualising President Buhari’s target. Aregbesola said: “We must adopt his (President Buhari’s) slogan in the way that it’s best suited for us. So, we will adopt ‘SET’ in this ministry, which means Security, Economic improvement and Transparency.” The minister assured that with the new method of work, there would be significant improvement in the country within the shortest time. He added: “We are more than capable to keep Nigeria safe.” Ehuriah assured the minister of total support from the workforce, including the service chiefs to enable him achieve his set goals.