The intervention of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund, otherwise known as TETfund, may have provided sucour to most tertiary institutions in Nigeria. Our correspondents, Okodili Ndidi, Owerri, Nwanosike Onu, Awka, Bolaji Ogundele, Warri, Chris Oji, Enugu, Kolade Adeyemi, Kano, and Damisi Ojo, Akure who visited some tertiary institutions in the country, report that although a few of the projects have been abandoned, work is ongoing on most of the projects. In FUTO, two projects are stalled At the Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO), two major projects were abandoned by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETfund) after the university has fulfilled all requirements and awarded the contracts in line with the provisions of TETfund. The abandoned projects are the Research and Technology Park and the Pilot Plant Development Building for the Department of Food Science Technology. According to the Acting Head Procurement, Callistus Esogwa, work stopped on the projects after TETfund failed to release the first tranche of funds. According to him, “we complied with all the requirements, did the proposal and got the approval of TETfund for the projects and subsequently awarded the contracts and the contractors mobilised to site with their personal funds but after waiting for TETfund to release funds to no avail, the contractors abandoned the job while we wait for the release of funds”. Also speaking on the issue, the Vice Chancellor, Professor Francis Eze, said the construction of the Research and Technology Park was approved by TETfund under Bogoro Suleiman as the Executive Secretary of TETfund but was abandoned after he left office. Lamenting the abandonment of the Research Park, the Vice Chancellor explained that, “the project was conceived to stand on a tripod, which is the university, the industry and the government. At the park, we make our inventions, the business community comes to see what we have and the government sponsors our inventions. It is the first of its kind in the country. “It was conceived when Suleiman Elias Bogoro was the Executive Secretary of TETfund; we did the proposal and got the approval and awarded the contract; the contractors mobilised to site but the funds were not released and midway, Suleiman left office and was replaced by Aliyu Na’iya and the project was abandoned after we did everything to access the funds to no avail. But we are hopeful that work will soon resume as Bogoro has returned as TETfund Executive Secretary,” he said. No abandoned TETFUND projects in Anambra The Tertiary Education Trust Fund, otherwise known as TETfund, established by the federal government in 1986, is working perfectly in the tertiary institutions in Anambra State. At the Federal Polytechnic Oko in Orumba North Local Government Area, the Federal College of Education (Technical) Umunze, in Orumba South Local Government Area and Nnamdi Azikiwe University (Unizik) Awka, there is no abandoned projects. However, most of the TETfund projects in these establishments in the state are ongoing, while some had been completed. At the Federal Polytechnic Oko, about four of such projects are still in progress, according to the Public Relation’s Officer (PRO) of the institution, Mr. Obini Onuchukwu. Onuchukwu, described TETfund as the greatest source of development of higher education in Nigeria. He said its intervention cuts across infrastructure and other facilities, such as grants for research, office equipment, conferences, among others. The PRO, counted some of the completed TETfund projects in the institution as the auditorium and virtual library, adding that the school does not have any abandoned project from TETfund. For Mr. Sam Otti, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of FCE Technical, Umunze, the only problem the institution had was getting the take-off grant from the federal government. He said the non-release of this take-off grant affected development in critical infrastructure required in the college. According to Otti, “In FCE(T) Umunze, TETFund completed several building projects, such as the College Micro-Teaching Laboratory, 3-floor computer based test building 1, 3-floor computer based test building 2, virtual library, Dr. Alex Ekwueme Auditorium, Entrepreneurship Centre, College Ceremonial Quadrangle, rehabilitation of the College Library, Academic Staff Office Buildings, and so many other completed projects.” He said TETFund’s interventions also brought about a tremendous improvement in the quality of teaching and learning through the provision of infrastructure. “This huge investment in infrastructure has yielded the expected results for both staff and students.” For Dr. Emmanuel Ojukwu, Director, Information and Communication, Unizik, the story was the same. He commended TETfund for its interventions in tertiary institutions in Nigeria. Ojukwu said the last time he checked, all intervention projects from TETfund in his institution were ongoing, adding that Nnamdi Azikiwe University does not talk about abandoned projects. “Our institution is forward ever, backward never and that is why students are rushing to the place to have the taste of the pudding,” Ojukwu said. Delta: Work on projects ongoing The institutions in Delta, both state and federal, have also been on the favoured side as they do not have abandoned and forgotten TETfund projects. For instance, two of the institutions reached: the Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, and the Federal University of Petroleum Resources (FUPRE), Effurun, say they do not have any abandoned TETfund projects on their campuses. In both cases, the institutions disclosed that they do not have abandoned TETfund projects; rather, TETfund-funded projects in their institutions are progressing as scheduled. Speaking of the projects in his institution, the Public Relations Officer of FUPRE, Mr. Boniface Onyedi, said “We do not have any abandoned TETfund project here at FUPRE; the ones we have, which are yet to be delivered, are moving forward without delay. You can go round to confirm by yourself”. Also describing the state of things on the DELSU campuses, spokesman of the institution, Mr. Freeborn Aganbi, said the only TETFund project in the institution is ongoing satisfactorily. “The Delta State University does not have any abandoned TETfund project; if anything, the project that is available is seriously ongoing. The current Vice Chancellor does not condone abandonment of projects. So as it concerns TETfund, the only one that I know is available here is not abandoned, but ongoing. Work is going on there,” Aganbi said. Enugu: Few abandoned TETFUND projects Apart from the administrative block at the Enugu campus of the University of Nigeria, (UNN), no other TETfund project was abandoned in the university. However, there are on-going projects which include: Department of Architecture Studio and Laboratory, Enugu Campus Faculty of Law Building, Enugu Campus Vocational Teacher Education Workshops and Classrooms, Nsukka Campus Construction of Cultural Centre for Institute of African Studies (IAS), Construction of Auditorium for Institute of African Studies (IAS) Construction of main building for Institute of African Studies (IAS); Construction of Bioprocess Physiology Building (Civic Works), Nsukka Campus. At the Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT), no abandoned TETfund project exists, as confirmed by the university’s head of Public Relations, Ossy Ugwuoti. Also at the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT) Enugu, the Chairman of the Board, Mrs. Ifeoma Nwobodo, said TETfund projects in the institution have uplifted its infrastructure. According to her, the rest have not been touched in the past 35 years which led to the state government voting N810 million as intervention. BUK, KUST hail TETfund for execution of projects Citadels of higher learning, both federal and state universities across the country have continued to enjoy and benefit from the interventions of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund). Among these institutions that have shown appreciation for the good work TETfund is doing, particularly in the area of construction and renovation of infrastructure, are Bayero University, Kano (BUK) and Kano University of Science and Technology, Wudil, (KUST). Apart from testimonies of TETfund projects in the institutions by their authorities, a visit to the institutions by our reporter also confirmed this. Speaking on TETfund projects in BUK, the Acting Vice Chancellor, who is also the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academics), Prof. Adamu Idris Tanko, noted that TETfund interventions in the BUK have tremendously upgraded the infrastructural outlook of the university. According to him, “Bayero University, Kano, has benefited on a number of intervention projects from the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) in the last few years, especially from the year 2015 to date when more than 30 different projects were funded and fully completed by the agency in our university. “As at this moment, the university accessed all funds allocated to it for both physical and infrastructural development, as well as manpower training for both academics and non-teaching staff as well. The university has no case of any abandoned project funded by the TETfund or any other agency or benefactor. This was as a result of an excellent policy adopted by the management of the university in ensuring proper utilisation of all funds received from intervention body and strict compliance with the guidelines attached to such projects. On his part, the Vice Chancellor of KUST, Prof. Shehu Musa, speaking on the issue of abandoned projects, told The Nation  that, “as far as the institution is concerned, we have no single abandoned projects, in which TETFund is embarking upon right now. The only two projects, which are on-going by TETfund presently cannot be said to have been abandoned because workers are on site as l am talking to you. The only thing now is to appreciate the good and quality work TETfund is doing in KUST. With the enormous support we are getting from them, our university is wearing a new look. We wish to thank the current Executive Secretary of TETfund, Prof. Bagoro Suleiman, for what he did for the institution during his first tenure. Now that he his back, we hope to further enjoy his support in his second tenure,” he said. Ondo hails TETFund In Ondo State, like others, the mandate of TETfund (Establishment Act 2011) includes managing, disbursing and monitoring Education Tax Fund for public tertiary institutions. TETfund projects in the federal government-owned Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo, have remained strategic, solving problem of accommodation, inadequate offices, classrooms, lecture halls/theatre and laboratory. It has also helped in the provision of basic learning and teaching tools such as charts, laboratories equipment, electricity supply, furniture for offices, lecture halls, rehabilitation of old and existing structures in the college. According to the college’s spokesperson, Mrs. Oluseto Olaniyi, the institution established in 1963, but officially opened on May 22,I964 by the defunct Western Region Government of Nigeria with 93 students started enjoying TETfund intervention since 2008 and has the agency’s footprints in the infrastructural facilities scattering  within the college expansive premises. It solved problem of inadequate classrooms, lecture halls, and offices for staff. In 2008, TETfund constructed an academic office block with over N17m and was followed with the construction of School of Vocational and Technical Educational building in 2011 with the sum of N131, 500, 417, 30. From that time till now, various projects have been executed through TETfund in areas of laboratory equipment and furnishing of lecture halls and offices, ICT infrastructures, library development, electricity supply, publication of academic journals, staff training and development. Mrs. Olatoye said there was no abandoned TETfund project in the college except the ongoing ones which are being executed without delay from any quarters. She said that through TETfund, the college has received maximum benefits through which there was total transformation of the education-based institution. At the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), none of the TETfund projects was also abandoned. They were all completed and put to use for the benefit of the students and workers. FUTA’s spokesman, Adegbenro Adebanjo, however said details on the projects could only be adequately provided for by the Vice Chancellor, Prof. O. Fuwape, who was not around when our correspondent visited. Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) is another beneficiary of the TETfund projects. Lots of the projects have been successfully executed in the institution, ranging from structures, teaching equipment and others. One of the officials at the information unit of the university, Mr. Dupe Mike Balogun, however declined comment on the level of intervention by the agency, but a source said there was no abandoned TETfund project in the university.