ALL Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government have been ordered to get clearance from the Budget office the Federation (BoF) before  employing new workerss. A circular from the BoF on 2020 personnel cost budget  BD/2000/EXP/S.651/) issued to all MDAs in preparation for the submission of the 2020 budget warned all MDAs that “any provision for new hires/recruitment must be supported with all necessary approvals including clearance by the BoF to recruit new employees.” This, the circular read “is to ensure adequate budgetary provision for the emolument of all new staff.” The circular also noted that consultants, contract staff, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Industrial Attachees, legionnaires and such like should not be included in the nominal roll as they are not permanent/pensionable staff of the Federal Government.” Non-executive board members, the circular pointed out “are not employed in the public service of the federation and they are not to be included in the nominal roll. Allowances and fees payable to these categories of persons are to be included in the overhead costs of each MDAs.” The circular which is another mechanism for checking the incidence of accommodating ghost workers on government payroll said “allowances due to Youth Corpers are provided centrally through the NYSC which is the body charged with the responsibility for paying allowances to Corpers. MDAs are not required to include allowances for Youth Corpers in their personnel cost estimates. Any additional allowances payable to Corpers assigned to MDAs the circular said “may only be paid from MDAs’ overhead cost provision.” With regard to the impending new minimum wage payout by government, the circular maintained that “the personnel cost template for all employees currently earning below N30,000 will be immediately amended and used in preparing the budget for affected grade levels.” However, for other grade levels, it was revealed that “the existing personnel cost will be used. An omnibus service wide provision will be made to cover the estimated cost of the consequential adjustment as and when negotiations are concluded.” The payroll template for all MDAs the circular went to state have been prepared “using the applicable salary structures as approved by the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission (NSIWC). As a result only personnel duly employed in the public service of the federation should be on the nominal roll.” In addition, MDAs were warned that workers due for retirement by  December 31st, 2019 should not be included in the 2020 nominal roll, as “violation will be treated as willful introduction of ‘ghost workers’ which may attract serious sanctions.” It demanded that the list of all staff due for retirement must be submitted to the BoF as such list will be cross checked against the existing nominal roll currently with the BoF. Also captured in the circular are the non regular allowances which the Budget Office said “should only be assigned to those employees who are clearly entitled under the terms of service and circulars issued by the NSIWC.” A staff of the Budget Office who pleaded anonymity on the subject told The Nation that the circular was issued on time to see if the BoF can meet the September date of submitting the 2020 budget to the National Assembly so as to meet the January to December budget cycle as proposed by the legislature and also to “seriously check the sad issue of ghost workers on government payroll.”