Sir: President Muhammadu Buhari’s ‘next level’ ministers are expected to get off the block with their formal swearing-in and inaugural federal executive council (FEC) meeting. This is coming after a two-day retreat meant to acquaint them with the policies, programmes, goals and objectives of the Buhari cum APC administration. There should now be order and discipline in governance  in contrast to the first tenure where there seemed to be no clear cut policy with cabinet members working  at cross purposes; and the president himself generally perceived as not being in charge. To say that the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration had a bumpy ride in its first four years is stating the obvious. This is understandable but not excusable given that the ruling party was an amalgam of various parties that was hurriedly packaged with the sole purpose of wrestling power from the then dominant party that had governed the country for 16 long years. The result was subdued infighting with each group trying to carve out a niche of influence and power centre for itself and talk of a ‘cabal’ within the administration. It was when the party found itself on the seat of power that it began to think of fashioning out a roadmap for realising the president’s three pronged broad objectives of fighting corruption, insecurity and employment generation. What we need from the president this time is decisive actions; he should show that he is fully in charge. He should not shy from exercising his presidential powers firmly by promptly calling to order erring public officials. Neither should he watch aloof, seemingly unconcerned, while party crises linger  at state levels as governors and state officials exchange bitter words with the national leadership of his party and vice versa. Worthy of note is that President Buhari now tweets regularly under his handle. He should communicate more with the Nigerian public. For the ministers, it is noteworthy that benchmarks are now to be set for them against which their performances are to be assessed, periodically ostensibly. They should acquaint themselves thoroughly with the administration’s mandate and follow it strictly. Above all, they should work with a unity of purpose. They should heed the president’s admonition to them, namely, “We must work as a team. Working as a team demands that we know what the next person is doing. You must open communication with your colleagues. Lack of communication leads to lack of cooperation and sub-optimal performance”. Nigerians this time demand a united, committed cabinet working assiduously for the common good rather than for selfish interests.  vikeano@yahoo.co.uk