The Accountant General of the Federation (AGF) Mr. Ahmed Idris has warned the management of National Health Insurance (NHIS) against investing in banks. Idris gave the warning when the management of NHIS led by the Executive Secretary Prof. Mohammed Nasir Sambo paid an advocacy visit to the Treasury House. A statement from the Office of the AGF said the AGF discouraged the management of NHIS from investing in banks for now because of bank rates. Idris told the NHIS team “that their investment request should be made known as accommodation in Treasury Single Account (TSA) is so robust by working side by side with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and discouraged them from investing in banks for now because of the bank rates.” The AGF noted that the “NHIS issues with Aso Savings and Loan Limited would have been averted if OAGF was carried along in the transactions. Consequently, we need to populate your account department with Treasury officers, otherwise you will face the consequences of your action.” Idris promised “to assist NHIS get back their money from Aso Savings and Loans Limited and that the issues of merger will be looked at to confirm the truth, stating that NHIS should be placed under IPPIS.” He said: “The NHIS is a public institution and must be subjected to rules of engagement as far as public institution is concerned, as they are expected to key into all financial policies, no exemption and if you want to operate outside the rules, you are to seek approval. “We will continue to play our role to give you releases as at when due. If there are issues beyond your comprehension, our doors are always open to resolve such issues.” Speaking earlier, Prof Sambo said in every developmental agenda, global health is important, hence NHIS is the organ given the responsibility to handle health care in the country. Prof Sambo said the Federal Government took a drastic decision to establish a presidential fact finding team in order to improve the health sector as well as a white paper which involved the Ministry of Health and Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation to look into details of the financial situation of NHIS. He said one of the goals of NHIS is to achieve universal health coverage and also to ensure that the vote of NHIS is viable to capture the most vulnerable in the society, stating that the Government will not be able to finance the health institution of the masses alone. In addition, he solicited the support of the AGF to help look into the financial system of the NHIS for smooth running of the scheme and for the realisation of their mandate.