A group of corps members in Kogi State has organised a sensitisation programme for women in Lokongoma Market, Lokoja, the state capital. The exercise, CAMPUSLIFE learnt, was to educate the locals on how to take preventive measure against Lassa fever and other epidemic-prone diseases. And as they toured the market,  they  told their ‘converts’ how the fever gradually begins  via general weakness, malaise and after a few days, headache, sore throat, muscle pain, chest pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, cough and abdominal pain. The corps members, under the aegis of Editorial and Publicity Community Development Service (CDS) and medical and health groups, were seen in three groups carrying placards with various inscriptions such as ‘Keep your environment clean’; ‘Don’t allow rodents in your homes’; ‘Fry your garri, don’t dry it’; ‘Keep your foods away from rats’ and ‘rear cats in your homes’, among others. A few weeks ago, Kogi State Commissioner for Health Dr Saka Audu confirmed four cases of Lassa fever, which claimed two of the victims’ lives. Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, President, Editorial CDS group, Mr. Fidelis David, said the sensitisation became imperative, following the recent outbreak of the fever. He added that in heeding the national call, members needed to act fast via enlightenment of their host communities. Fidelis also described the fever as an endemic hemorrhagic disease that has claimed many lives, not only in Nigeria, but in other parts of West Africa. He added that humans can easily get infested when rats make droppings or urinate on foods that are meant for human consumption. Aside the aforementioned, he said other symptoms include fever, general weakness, tiredness, headache, sore throat, muscle pain, chest pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, cough, and abdominal pain, swelling, fluid in the lung cavity, bleeding from the mouth, nose and vagina among other symptoms. Fidelis said individuals, who stand greater risk are those who live in overcrowded environments, slums, and rural areas where sanitation is not only poor, but lacking basic hygene. According to him, their role is to complement Federal Government’s efforts  across various levels by ensuring that all hands are on deck to eradicate the disease in Nigeria. Also speaking, President, Medical and Health CDS group, Miss Oluwafemi Omotayo Blessing advised Nigerians to immediately report any suspected cases to a health care facility. Omotayo also warned residents to avoid eating food or household items contaminated with excretions of rodents or better still, visit the nearest hospital for medical consultation whenever they feel any changes in their system. According Omotayo, Lassa fever is an endemic acute viral hemorrhagic disease, which was first discovered in Sierra Leone in the 1950s, but the virus responsible for the infection was not known until 1969 when it claimed the lives of two missionary nurses. This fever was named after a village called Lassa in Borno State, Nigeria. Reacting, some of the beneficiaries of the enlightement, including Mrs Idris Halimat, Mrs Adebayo Taiye and Mrs Eneojo Grace described the synergy between the two CDS as ‘laudable’, stressing that such sensitisation has equipped them with more ideas on the preventive measures against the fever.