THE Senior Staff Union in Colleges of Education, Nigeria (SSUCOEN) has urged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to dissolve the governing council of Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Ijanikin, Lagos. The advice was given on Monday during a peaceful protest following a query given to some executives of the union, including the branch Chairman, Ombugadu Wumi, by a disciplinary panel set up by the governing council. Executives and members of the union in the Southwest gathered for the protest. They carried placards with the inscriptions: “We say no to governing council usurpation of college management duties”, “Enough is enough to AOCOED registrar’s anti-union activities”, “We say no to administrative rascality”, “Sanwo-Olu please save our souls”, among others. SSUCOEN National Vice President Ogbusuo Nicholas described the decision of AOCOED governing council as illegal, saying the union executives were only exercising their duties. He said the congress held by the union chapter was for conversion of workers in the institution. Ogbusuo said despite the government contacting the institution to allow status quo remain on the congress’ decision, the governing council set up a disciplinary panel, which issued the query. “The congress held by the union is only for conversion of workers, which was subjective. The union wrote to the college and the governing council for them to look into what they have done and be fair to all. As a result of this, they were queried and asked to provide the minutes of the executive and congress meetings of the union. It is not done anywhere because the union cannot release the minutes of the meetings to external bodies. “We had a peaceful meeting with the management. Yet, the disciplinary panel, which was not appropriately set up, held a meeting at the University of Lagos (UNILAG). We told them it is an aberration, why hold a meeting outside the college? “This is why we are appealing to Governor Sanwo-Olu to come to the aid of AOCOED by dissolving the governing council that will be leaving two weeks, so that they will not destroy the good name of the college,” he said. AOCOED branch Chairman of the union Ombugadu Wumi said she and other executives have not committed any crime to warrant issuance of query. 