President Muhammadu’s Buhari’s assent to the engineering registration Amendment Act 2018 into law has broadened the powers of the Council to prosecute members who commit any form of infraction. The President, Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria, COREN, Ali Rabiu dropped this hint last Thursday during a press briefing to herald the COREN Engineering Assembly scheduled to commence on the 19th August 2019 in Abuja, with the theme, ‘Strategic Alliance Amongst Engineering Professionals for Enhanced Opportunities.’ According to him, apart from powers to prosecution of infraction, it also has the powers to ensure capacity building and monitor local content in the Nigerian engineering sector. Specifically, Rabiu said the amendment of the Act 2018 into law enhanced prosecutorial powers, expanding the quality and scope of its regulations, increasing the number of council members and also improving the sources of funds. He added that it will strengthen its administration, strengthening the practice and professional development of engineering profession, as well as help enforce professional discipline. Establishing and engineering regulation and monitoring department within the council and strengthening the definition and concept of the practice of engineering. “It has become a tradition of the council for the regulation of engineering in Nigeria to hold the annual engineering assembly to update the knowledge of members of the engineering family and share ideas on emerging issues on the practice of the engineering profession. “With the theme of the event, strategic alliance is generally cooperation and coordination of designated responsibility amongst engineering and even allied professional guided by codes, ethics and standards and supported by laws to deliver quality and cost effective services, products, processes etc to the satisfaction of the clients.” Among the expected guests is President Muhammadu Buhari as the special guest of honour at the opening ceremony with the governor of Katsina state, Aminu Bello Masari as chairman while the keynote address will be delivered by the immediate past President of COREN Engr. Kashim Ali.