Yinka and Tunde have been married for more than three years. They have a two-year-old lovely baby to show for the marriage. Married life has been a dream comes true for the young couple. They loved each other to a fault. With the way they felt about each other, nothing could possible go wrong, so they thought. Three years into the marriage, Yinka ran into her old flame, Kingsley. A guy she had dated for over seven years of her life. In fact, Kingsley was her first love. Nothing prepared them for what the future was about to unfold. Kingsley started by inviting Yinka out on an innocent lunch date. Yinka, on her part, felt the lunch would be perfectly harmless. Perhaps, she thought, it was an opportunity to catch up on old times. After all, her ring was conspicuously placed on her fourth finger for all to see. Just as she had earlier thought, the lunch went well as planned. They talked on so many issues, old friends and schools they had attended after they parted ways. In the course their discussion, she discovered that Kingsley was still single. After a brief hug, they both exchanged their GSM numbers and bade each other well. Fortunately or unfortunately for both of them, the chemistry that existed between them in the past was still there. They continued to see each other, then one thing led to the other and before she could say, ‘ I am married’ they had resumed their once cherished romatic affair. Yinka was ridden with guilt. When she got home that night, she scrubbed and scrubbed her body in the bath as if she could erase the memory of the hot passionate….. that had transpired between Kingsley and her. She prayed, fasted and even stopped answering Kingsley’s phone calls. She hated herself for her lack of self-control. She thought to herself that she should not have accepted Kingsley’s invitation to lunch in the first place. Now she would live with the guilt fort hr rest of her days. Yinka shared this secret with me as a ‘relationship expert’ (as she addressed me) expecting a wise counsel from me. But I decided to make it public that others out there who find themselves in a similar condition may benefit from the wisdom of our readers who will offer guilt-lifting solution. The question is: is it possible to have a platonic relationship with a ex-lover. Mr. Taiwo O: My sister anything is possible with ex-lover. If she is someone I had loved in the past and maybe we did not break up on a sour note. It is very possible to rekindle the romance. It can only take the grace of God for me to resist her. It is better we do not have the opportunity to tempt ourselves. Mr. Victor Udh: Yes, it is very possible considering the following reasons: Mr. Matthew Kwentue: It is very possible to have a platonic relationship with an ex-lover although not in all cases. It really depends on the particular girl. For instance, I once dated a girl, we broke up due to the long distance that came in between us and coupled with the fact that we were quite young then. We met again several years later and we tried to work things out but the attempt met a brick wall. Since then, we have been nothing but platonic friends.  I believe it is possible for me to make friends with my ex-lover because I might have moved on to building another one. In conclusion, I think it is ideal to keep a safe distance in order to avoid temptation. Mrs. Buhari Juliet: Platonic relationship is very possible with an ex-love. In a case where one of the ex-couple is married, it becomes difficult to rekindle the old flame. On the other hand, if neither of the couple is engaged, they could pick up where they left off. In fact, they could become much closer that it could lead to a lifetime union, i.e. marriage. But when one or both of the ex-couple is married or engaged, they could maintain a platonic relationship. For instance, they could be each other’s confidant. However, it is imperative that one limits the environment or atmosphere that could remind them of old times. This is in order to avoid temptations. To maintain one’s integrity, one could even get introduced to the other’s spouse.