Tragedy struck in Onitsha, Anambra State when two persons lost their lives while four others sustained injuries after an articulated vehicle fell on a tricycle in the commercial city of the state. The ugly incident which occurred around 10 am along Obodoukwu Junction by Onitsha-Owerri road, involved three tricycles and a shuttle bus said to be loading passengers along the road. The incident which was blamed on the deplorable condition of the section of the road, left the victims trapped till about 1pm before they were later confirmed dead. The deceased, middle-aged man and woman apparently left home that morning in search for daily bread without knowing they would never return to their loved ones. For the three hours the victims were under the debris, efforts were being made to offload the content of the heavy container. The Nation gathered that the firm handling the construction of second Niger bridge later arrived the scene after several calls with a heavy duty crane that lifted the container. Those who witnessed the accident attributed it to the poor condition of the road. They called on both the federal and state governments to urgently repair the failed portions of the road to save lives of innocent citizens. One of them, Nkemjika Asumugha, said three tricycles and one shuttle bus were loading along the ever busy road when the trailer carrying a container fell on them. Another respondent, Emmanuel Izunwanne who described the incident as unfortunate, blamed it on poor condition of the road. “After the incident occurred, sympathisers who rushed to the scene, managed to rescue some of the lucky ones who were seriously injured but not dead. “The injured persons in critical conditions were rushed to various hospitals for medical attention,” he added. Combined team of the Red Cross Society, Security agents including the police, Federal Road Safety Corps, Anambra State Traffic Management Agency offered assistance and cordoned off the entire area from onlookers and sympathizers. The state sector commander, FRSC, Mr Andrew Kumapayi said the trailer driver lost control of his vehicle following the deplorable condition of the road. He said, “The poor condition of the road caused the trailer driver to lose control of his vehicle which caused the container to fall on the three tricycles.” He warned tricycle operators to always ensure they parked properly and stay away from loading along the expressway to avoid such disasters. Also reacting, leader of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Uchenna Madu attributed the cause of the accident to bad road. He said, “The Onitsha Owerri road and other portions of road in South East are begging for attention because of long neglect. “We are advising Igbo governors to emulate former governor of Anambra state, Mr Peter Obi in rehabilitation of federal roads. “The current Igbo governors must start rehabilitating the federal roads in their respective states. “It is the Ndigbo that are suffering and dying on those federal death trap roads.” 