Forty-nine international undergraduate students from European, Asian and African countries have been accepted for clinical attachment in various fields of medical sciences by the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital(AKTH). A statement by the hospital on Sunday indicated majority of the attachees were medical students who came for practical attachment with Professors and Consultants while others were pharmacy and nursing students. The  European students were from the United Kingdom, Turkey and Hungry while those from Asian countries were from China, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Students from African countries that were accepted for their elective clinical attachment in the teaching hospital were from Egypt, Republic of Benin, Uganda, Ghana and Sudan. A breakdown of the data on the clinical attachment contained in the hospital’s  2015/2016 Annual Report quoted in the statement  showed that 24 of the students were from the famous October 6 University, Cairo, Egypt; four from Batter Medical College Saudi Arabia while five students came from two Chinese Universities, the Liaoning Medical University and the Southeast University. Two of the students were from the Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge, United Kingdom; three from two Universities in Turkey and one student from the University of Debrecen, Hungry. Three students were attached to AKTH from SEGI University, Malaysia. Universities in Africa that sent their students for elective clinical attachment to the hospital in addition to the October 6 University Cairo, include the Kampala International University and Cavendish University, Uganda; Afriford University, Cotonou, Republic of Benin and Sudan International University. The hospital also accepted 103 Midwifery Students from the Kano State College of Nursing and six from the National Open University of Nigeria for clinical attachment in the reporting period. Clinical  attachment  provides opportunity for medical, pharmaceutical and nursing students  to gain  overview of medical processes   by observing a professor or consultant in a relevant specialty at work. The attachment also contributes in showing that the attachees meet the standards of competence, care and conduct  expected of doctors, pharmacists and nurses.