IF your spouse is explaining an event or occurrence in a vague way with an ambiguous style, giving you assignment in your brain, making you go through so much effort to connect the dots, it may mean he/she is lying. Sometimes if frustration or confusion on how to finish the lie , when the web has confused even the liar , they will suddenly claim anger and become aggressive to drive you away from the issue at hand. If this is regular, I would personally advise you start opening your eyes to the reality of your situation. When you are in a situation where your spouse has to take time to answer your questions, or keeps replying with “ ermmmmmmmmmm, ermmmmmm” more than usual ,  it may  indicate that he/she is being  dishonest at the time and looking for a way out .  When you are saying the truth no matter how bad it is meant to be flawless and consistent, during winter, summer, autumn or spring. Because telling a lie is a creation of an untruth it will take time to come up with it, although I must commend some people who are masters in the game. They breathe, sleep and eat lies. What a tasking life this would be. If your spouse has the habit of answering question with question repeatedly, then you need to watch out. They may fake ignorance of not understanding your question and appear angry because you are not allowing them time to assimilate the question so they can concoct the lie. This may be another way to identify when you are being told a lie. The pause before response to a question means a lot, and when you get to experience this pause all the time, then there is a problem at hand. What to do if you have a liar as a spouse It is not a good thing to discover your spouse is a liar. Sadness and distrust can destroy your joy with that person. It could be overwhelming and emotionally draining. There are certain actions to take when someone lies to you in a relationship. They are addressed below. Don’t go about reporting to people saying: “Do you know my spouse is a liar?”  you will need to settle this amicably without drama or causing a scene, please try, it is not easy but try, start the conversation in a quiet place with very minimal people incase all hell breaks loose, especially if you do not know how to control yourself. Don’t start the conversation shouting and screaming “you are a liar “up and down. You can inform your partner about your findings or tell them what you feel about him/her not telling the truth and how it is hurting both of you. It’s best to take a calm approach not to intensify the tension. You could use stylish language and not be too direct a figure of speech instead of speaking literally to have a reduced effect, so it doesn’t appear you are being aggressive on the issue, if you feel you can’t deal from the start? You have a right to walk away. Most times when people realize their secret has been exposed, they will be surprised. Liars don’t like confrontation, they sometimes believe they will never be caught, this comes especially to the skilled ones who have gained a degree or maybe PHD in telling lies. But I would personally advise you give your partner a chance to explain, try not roll your eyes too much when they start the explanation. What you need to seek for first is the motive behind the lie. Along the lie, they may apologise or express sadness at lying to you, but don’t count on it 100 per cent, as you may not get the apology you expect. If your spouse continues to insist that they are telling the truth, this would now be a perfect time to present your evidence of the issue at hand. This move could either get an outright confession or turn to aggression, if they feel their back is against the wall, be careful when doing this.  When this happens, make your partner recognize that your trust for him/her has been lost. This announcement will make your partner severely humiliated.  A lot of people take trust for granted, it is human, no big deal because it happens all the time. They will either choose then to stop lying to you or call it quits be prepared.