Individuals, groups and corporate organisations have been called upon to continue to support the Nigerian Army for better service delivery, reports Southsouth Bureau Chief, BISI OLANIYI Wife of one of the beneficiaries of the renovated residential accommodation at the headquarters of the 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Mrs. Ibuchim Andrew, was so excited on August 23 during the inauguration of the building. Andrew said: “I feel so happy about the renovation, because rain was always falling on us and our property in the old apartment. It caused a lot of damage to our belongings. Our beds, chairs, electronics and other household items were always soaked with rain water. It was so challenging, but the renovation took place within three weeks. “The environment is now so beautiful and very nice. No more flooding. We are grateful to the company that assisted with the renovation. God will continue to bless and protect the Managing Director and the members of staff.” While also speaking, another soldier’s wife, Mrs. Fatima Auwalu, stated that she and her other beneficiaries appreciated the gesture, praying that God would continue to be with the philanthropist, Chief Ejovi Ogenegaren, who embarked on the renovation. While interacting with reporters after the inauguration, Ogenegaren, who is also the Managing Director of Ejovi Dredging and Marine Services Limited said: “I was motivated to embark on the renovation of the buildings by the wonderful works being done by the military personnel. Their actions ensure that we sleep in our houses and feel protected. We need to appreciate the military officers and men for their good works, especially in the Southsouth zone of Nigeria. We need to support them. “Embarking on the renovation of the buildings was borne out of the consideration of the sacrifices they make on daily basis to ensure our security and safety. “We need to always give back to our society. This is a stepping stone for us. We are going to do more in other parts of the military. We need every Nigerian, who is able, to support the military and the Nigerian system to best develop ourselves.” In his speech during the inauguration, the special guest of honour (Ogenegaren) expressed his gratitude to Almighty God who gave him the opportunity to come up with the idea of renovating the block for the army, which he said would put smiles on the faces of the beneficiaries. He revealed that the initiative was borne out of his personal conviction and feelings that the Nigerian army should be appreciated for the great works the officers and men were doing. The philanthropist said: “It is a fact that soldiers are in every part of our country, contending with different security challenges, including terrorism, banditry, kidnapping and pipeline vandalism, among others. These efforts are to ensure that we all sleep with our eyes closed. “Though, we cannot pay for the soldiers’ sacrifices, we can support and appreciate the Nigerian Army in our little ways.” Ogenegaren also thanked the General Officer Commanding (GOC) six Division, Maj.-Gen. Jamil Sarham, for magnanimously granting approval for him to contribute to the army and the six Division in particular. Managing Director of Ejovi Dredging and Marine Services Limited urged the beneficiaries to ensure they make good use of the facility. In his remarks, Maj.-Gen. Sarham thanked Ogenegaren, on behalf of Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, officers, men and family members of 6 Division, for the laudable gesture, as part of his company’s Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR). The GOC, who is also the Land Component Commander of the Joint Task Force (JTF), Operation Delta Safe (OPDS), said: “No doubt, this project (renovation) will go a long way in alleviating the challenges faced by troops and their families and for that we thank you. “May I use this opportunity to extend the Division’s hands of partnership with philanthropists and other non-governmental organisations (NGOs) operating within the Division’s Area of Responsibility (AOR – Rivers, Bayelsa, Delta and Akwa Ibom states), to as part of their CSR, extend similar projects within the barracks communities. “The reciprocal gesture will definitely give succour to the families of soldiers that work daily to make your business environment conducive.” Maj.-Gen. Sarham also assured that the renovated residential accommodation would be put to good use. With Ogenegaren’s initiative at the headquarters of 6 division in Port Harcourt, other philanthropists, groups and companies should emulate him, in order to move forward and to continue to put smiles on the faces of people.