Senior Pastor with the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Femi Ogbontiba has advised church leaders to embrace whistle blowing to aid transparency and accountability. He stated this at the launch of two books- The role of Accounting, Stewardship and effective leadership in church Growth and Hope for the Hopeless by Pastor Femi Adeyokunu. Ogbontiba, who was the reviewer of the role of accounting, stewardship and effective leadership in church growth, stated that one of the major enemies of church growth is corruption. He said if not tackled squarely with adequate measures enunciated in the book, it could seriously hampered the growth of the church. Ogbontiba stated the book, which comprises 198 pages divided into 13 chapters, provides a simple descriptive and analytic argument based on bible teachings on the role of a good church leader as simplified by Jesus Christ. Pastor Brown Oyitso, who was the chief launcher at the event, also recommended the books for church leaders, especially those in charge of church growth and accounts for better management. According to him, the importance of investment in human capital is critical to church growth. Provost of the RCCG Theological School, Dr. Babatunde Adebibu, who reviewed the second book, stated it is a must- read for all Christians as the author writes perceptively using simple bible verses to drive home his points. According to him, the book ‘Hope for the Hopeless’ exemplifies the bases of Christianity which is- giving hope to the hopeless by bringing them closer to Jesus Christ. Chairman of the occasion, Dr. Felix Ohiwerei, described the author as a fine gentleman and a wonderful pastor. He said the books are guides for all Christians because of their contents and the author’s wealth of experience. “The author is a practitioner at the highest stage. Books by such authors as this need to be read and read again. “What the classroom teaches is different from what one learns from real life experiences. These are books that are full of life experiences. “He is a fine gentleman and a wonderful pastor, a dutiful husband and outstanding father. God has blessed him.” RCCG National Overseer, Pastor Joseph Obayemi applauded the efforts of the author whom he described as faithful servant in the Lord’s vineyard. According to him, both books are spiritual manuals that will be very beneficial to spiritual minded individuals in the country. Obayemi enjoined all Christians irrespective of economic status to get copies of both books for their benefits. Adeyokunu expressed appreciation to the General Overseer of the RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye for his fatherly and spiritual support in making the books a reality. According to him: “Over the years, I have learnt through the various teachings and leadership styles of Daddy G.O Adeboye which I have been privileged to watch directly. It forms the platform for the conception and execution of these works.” He said proceeds from the sales of the book would be used to finance the ‘ The Fiends of Joseph Foundation’ an NGO whose aim is to minister salvation to prisoners, restore hope to the hopeless, youth empowerment through acquisition of skills and many other humanitarian assistance to the less privilege in the society. Describing the book as a timely intervention in knowledge gap, former First Lady of Cross Rivers, Onari Duke said: “Without doubt, it is coming very timely. More than ever before, we need to project new knowledge and mindset among youths and adults. Also it will give people in leadership more grip on accountability, stewardship and effective stewardship. “It is a one-stop resource material. The book will be a veritable resource tool to people of all strata both believers and non-believers.”