Sir: An agricultural engineering method which includes the artificial inclusion of a new (and most times greater) trait to plants as opposed to the traditional cross-breeding is called Genetically Modified Organisms (G.M.O). GM plants are those that have been processed in a laboratory in order to make them resistant to diseases, pests and certain environmental conditions. Selective breeding or artificial selection has been practiced for ages in order to influence the characteristics of organism; however, it was in the 1900s, after the scientific discoveries of DNA that gave rise to GM foods. GM foods cause controversy for a number of reasons and it remains a divisive issue worldwide, especially within Europe. For instance, 19 out of the 28 member countries, including France, Germany, Austria, Greece, Hungary, The Netherlands, Poland, Denmark, Malta, Slovenia, Italy and Croatia are calling for a total ban of the GM foods. So far, the only GM crop grown in the EU (within Spain and Portugal mainly) is the GM Maize MON810; manufactured by Monsanto; an American Multinational Biotechnology Company. There is the fear that GM foods have potentials to cause harm to human and animal health and eco-systems; and due to this, the Green Peace (an environmental activist group) has strongly protested against GM foods. The environmental safety aspect of GM crops varies considerably according to local conditions. These fears range from stability of the gene, the persistence of the gene after such food has been harvested, reduction in the spectrum of other plants, including loss of biodiversity and increased use of chemicals in agriculture. Fears arising from the varied laws governing GMO across Europe have necessitated many groups and individuals to call for the total ban across Europe. In Africa; only South Africa permitted GM foods; Burkina Faso, Sudan and Egypt permitted only cotton of which Burkina Faso later revoked that permission due to issues bordering on environmental safety. Monsanto is an American Multinational Bio-technology Company that offers farmers a wide range of solutions from crops seeds like corn, Soybean, cotton, wheat and sorghum to vegetable seeds crop protection products and data solutions. Monsanto’s role in agricultural changes, biotechnology products and lobbying of government agencies, and roots as a chemical company, resulted in controversial products such as the insecticide DDT, PCBs, Agent Orange and recombinant bovine growth Hormone. Monsato is currently the biggest producer and manufacturers of GM foods. Looking at these, one is left in no doubt why the GM food is causing serious controversies in Europe and the world. Technology is great, technology is an achievement, and technology should be desired and longed for but not all technological advancement creates or adds value to the society. GM foods, is one of those advancements. nwanucci@yahoo.co.uk