The Concerned Parents and Educators’ (CPE) Network, a Facebook group of over 100,000 parents, teachers, school owners and others, has donated school supplies to low-income schools ahead of the new academic session. The CPE, under its low-income schools support initiative, handed over classroom furniture, bookshelves, books, and educational toys to leaders of low-income schools’ association, the Association for Formidable Educational Development (AFED) on Tuesday at Edumark office in Ilupeju. Presenting the items donated by members, CPE Founder and CEO Edumark Consult, Mrs Yinka Ogunde said the donation was to help schools serving low-income communities augment their needs. Mrs Ogunde also handed over N50,000 donated by two CPE members to AFED leaders to be given to a school with great need. “We got N25,420 from a member and about N23,000 from another member but we have rounded up everything to N50,000. We want it to go to a single school that truly needs it. “On behalf of the CPE, we are presenting this token to a school serving low income areas – children in very poor communities,” she said. Mrs Ogunde said, unlike previously when she thought low-income schools, which are usually unapproved should be shut, she had come to realise that they – with charges as low as N2,500-N5,000 per term – play important roles especially in places where there are no public schools or the available ones are overstretched. “There are so many challenges that schools serving low-income communities face that we do not know about. Where do you think those street hawkers go?  Some AFED school owners actually feed some of these children without collecting any money from them.  The school fees most times is less than N5,000.  Some even charge N2,500 per term. And that is why CPE is actually supporting them,” she said. Responding to the gesture, CEO Alphasea Consult and former national AFED President, Mrs Esther Ifejola Dada, who acted as intermediary between CPE and AFED, said the beneficiary schools from the six districts of the state were on hand to receive the items. The beneficiary schools were:  Abari Nursery/Primary School, Agege; Emirene Nursery/Primary School, Ebute Metta; David of God Our Rock Nursery/Primary School,  Laketu, Ikorodu; Yala Nursery/Primary School, Oshodi; Best Legacy Nursery/Primary Sch, Epe; and Future Stars Private School, Shibiri, Ojo. Thanking CPE, Mrs Dada said: “It is not about how much we are collecting but the passion and zeal they have for children roaming about the streets.  Don’t forget the statement by Awolowo that the children you fail to train today will be a problem you tomorrow. “ Mrs Dada told The Nation that AFED would ensure that under the initiative, all needy AFED schools across the state are reached. On his part, AFED National President, Mr Orji Kanu praised Mrs Ogunde for her passion for education and support to AFED. “She is just telling us she is impressed with all we are doing and she has made promises to throw in her weight behind this.   So we say thank you.  The Nigerian child will be happy with you,” he said. Orji noted that the N50,000 would be presented to an AFED member whose school was demolished in Yaba.