Authorities of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State, have condemned the alleged sexual assault on one of its students by soldiers at a checkpoint between Akungba Akoko and Ikare Akoko. The university, after its preliminary investigation, noted with concern and amazement that “a soldier, who is supposed to protect the citizens, can turn round to exhibit such reprobate tendencies.” The institution, while hailing the action taken by the Brigade Commander “on this inhuman and brazen assault on a defenceless and innocent student,” urged the Army to deal with the perpetrator(s) of the act. A statement by its Acting Registrar, Opeoluwa Akinfemiwa, said: “We are not unaware of the security situation in the country. We strongly request that the checkpoint be dismantled and the soldiers moved to between Oba-Akoko and Ose where kidnappings and robberies occur almost on a daily basis.” The university, however, called for calm, assuring students that it will ensure that security measures are put in place to enable them pursue their academic activities without molestation. Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Sunday urged the Army to hand over to the Police for prosecution, soldiers arrested in connection with the alleged rape of the student. He described the alleged offence as callous and mindless, saying it was allegedly committed by soldiers whose presence ought to give succour to the people, especially the vulnerable, in the face of violence and insecurity. A statement by Information and Orientation Commissioner Donald Ojogo said the government would fight “this bizarre menace of rape in the state.” It added: “Rapists or those who wish to traverse this ignobly desecrating path will find Ondo State too hot as a refuge for such a nefarious act. The government shall be firm and decisive.” The governor described as heart-warming, “the arrest of the suspected perpetrators of this case involving the soldiers at the Akungba-Ikare checkpoint.” He praised the swiftness of the Brigade Commander, who ensured the apprehension of those allegedly involved. Akeredolu said the suspects should be handed over to the police for prosecution.