“Revolution Now”  — the protest of Omoyele Sowore and co — how does that fit into a civil protest? Well, to the extent that it is a citizens’ demonstration against an unsatisfactory state of things, it would appear legitimate.  But legitimacy oozes from the law, and the due rights it confers; so long as the beneficiary himself or herself has not run foul of that fundamental platform. But what does “revolution” entail?  An entire and sweeping overthrow of the law.  Now, if you sweep away the law, can you still maintain the action is civil, lawful and legitimate?  Hardly! That is the bind Sowore and co have found themselves.  If Sowore indeed ended up in the DSS slammer, he certainly walked himself into it.  You don’t brag to the state you are midwifing a “revolution” — that is no tea party — and expect the government to send you congratulatory flowers. That said, does that banish the citizens’ right to legitimate protests?  No.  But if you must do one, you must first know your limitations by law.  That mix-up, which perhaps Sowore and co feel people must figure out, would appear fatal to this case. Unfortunately, it could also be ultra-dangerous to the state itself.  When there is high anger, and temper is flaring in the land, open protests act as catharsis to boil off bile.  You holler, insult, abuse, curse and scream, assured in your subconscious that you’re taking out your oppressors — bravo! That could be purely psychological.  Nevertheless, you get it out of your system, feeling you’ve “nailed the bastards”! But you cannot even do that, when the first thing you bawl was “revolution!”  and how you go about recklessly cramming empty walls, in the public space, with “Revolution” written in bold, red(?) letters.  That would be setting yourself up, shooting yourself in the foot, and denying yourself your legally guaranteed right to democratic dissent. Nigeria at present isn’t exactly the dream of anyone.  The current government has its own issues.  But the bulk of the problem comes from bad choices from the past. To make matters worse, the unrepentant champions of those past bad choices now posture as newfound “critics”, in a sickly grandstand to the gullible segments of the masses.  But really, what they do is try sabotage corrective measures, so that they can escape the consequences of  their past crimes. That makes efforts like Sowore’s “Revolution Now” rather harebrained.  What it does is attack those trying to solve the problem (simply because they are presently in government) but leave the old, cold-blooded criminals that caused the debacle alone to plot further plots.  It’s a grand distraction of tragic proportion, indeed. Still, protests are part-and-parcel of democracy.  It’s just that next time, Sowore and co should be smart enough to carefully pick their words. Public protest is serious business.  It’s not some campus aluta, where about everyone regresses into infancy, and mouths childish slogans, to corral attention.