One of Nigeria’s foremost foam-manufacturing company, Mouka Limited, is partnering Supa Strikas in a business deal geared towards projecting Mouka’s Dreamtime baby mattress. The dreamtime mattress which is designed with children in mind will now feature in Supa Strikas comic magazine. Supa Strikas’ platform will be designed to showcase Mouka’s innovative children product monthly, a strategic placement which is meant to promote Mouka Dreamtime mattress. A subsidiary of Strika Entertainment Nigeria Limited, Supa Strikas is a monthly comic publication that provides an avenue for brands to leverage its readership for wider publicity through varied categories of partnership. According to the Brand and Innovation Manager for Mouka, Jide Odelola, this deal is aimed at attracting the target market segment for the Dreamtime mattress as it is set to unveil the unique selling points of the mattress which is one of the innovative designs to beat by competitors in Nigeria’s foam and mattress industry. Odelola added that the Dreamtime mattress is a rare mattress technology in the Nigerian bedding industry. He hinted that the product pits its outstanding features against competing brands in a manner which technically puts it in a class of its own. “Dreamtime is the first mattress of its kind for kids in Nigeria and offers water resistant cover and at the same time, breathable.” Water resistant in the sense that water cannot penetrate through the fabric into the foam. And it’s also breathable in the sense that air can pass through. So it’s a new technology that we used for the production of the fabric. And that is why Mouka Dreamtime is different from Mackintosh because people try to compare it with Mackintosh. The technology behind Dreamtime is far beyond that of Mackintosh,” said Odelola. According to Mouka’s Senior Marketing Manager, Tolu Olanipekun, Mouka is giving a special touch to the mattress design while seeking a huge market share, as it focuses on catering specifically to the sleep needs of a market segment deserving of special attention. ”Dreamtime mattress is made with a special fabric that is water resistant which prevents water from soaking the foam. Sleeping on mackintosh often makes a child uncomfortable due to the texture and heat produced during sleep. Dreamtime on the other hand is covered with a soft and breathable fabric which keeps the body cool at night,” said Olanipekun. Mouka’s partnership with Supa Strikas is a business venture designed for Dreamtime’s positive positioning and poised to entrench brand loyalty with increased market share as dividend of the joint venture.