Gernot Rohr doesn’t want any other coach to benefit from his rebuilding of the Super Eagles, despite the team’s bronze medal at the Africa Cup of Nations. Rohr cherishes labelling the Eagles as the team with the youngest crop of players at most competitions, indicating a new dawn. But Nigerians can’t wait for this meal to be prepared. They want quick fixes, pointing at what befell others who won bronze medals. They are miffed over the ceremony surrounding Rohr, given the ease with which the coach who won the Africa Cup of Nations’ title for Nigeria in 2013 was sacked. Indeed, Nigerians are insisting on the observance of the coaching mantra – a coach being as good as his last match. But do you change a winning team, especially when the players have said Rohr should stay? Possibly, especially where there are issues, such as indiscipline, absence of a discerning future with the coaching crew and the need to upgrade to outwit our competitors, which is critical. Rohr has met all the conditions given to him, which cynics say were the minimal, insisting that such feats had been achieved in the past. The flipside to this is the fact that Nigeria was not at two consecutive Africa Cup of Nations  (2015 and 2017). It is appropriate to fix the minimal standard achievable, before raising the bar. The time to raise the bar is here. A lot of people feel strongly that Rohr can’t meet the standard without defaulting. This school doesn’t want any gamble since we have been rebuilding the Eagles for a while. The rebuilding which has been on in the last two decades is long overdue for completion. It isn’t enough to celebrate parading the youngest team. It will be worth the wait, if the team wins laurels, as this will encourage investors to promote their goods and services using the Eagles. The Eagles are the biggest brand to market if they are excelling in competitions. We need to build this team on solid foundations, but this appears far-fetched for Rohr, given the potentials available at the 774 local government areas. We will forever be rebuilding the Eagles, if our foreign coaches live outside the country. Eagles need nurseries where players to replace the injured and ageing ones are taught the basic skills of the game, through clinics and competitions. No country measures her growth in soccer by listing 22 foreign-based players with one home-based goalkeeper. It raises the poser over the quality of the youth developmental programmes and what the federation is doing with its grassroots programmes. This tardy practice didn’t start with Rohr. It began when we recruited journeymen foreign coaches who insulted our sensibilities by telling us that our best players were in Europe, hence their preference for remaining outside the country under the guise of monitoring our Euro-based lads. Happily, Rohr is different. He visited our players everywhere. Rohr sat down with the coaches which had Nigerian players to find out what the problems were, for those not playing regularly. Even the injured players were visited to show that the manager and indeed, the federation’s chieftains didn’t forgot them. But, that didn’t make it right because the pool of talents needs to be enhanced with new kids. To buttress this point, I need to stress here that England has a succession programme of world beaters at all the levels, except that most of these young kids are Nigeria-born. Little wonder, we are ready to convince them to play for their fatherland – Nigeria. But Nigerians can’t ask Rohr to discover players where they don’t exist. He needs to show up at playgrounds, academies, camping sites of our domestic clubs where kids play competitions and graduate to the senior team. Consider Steven Gerard coming out from the Liverpool youth system to become a world-class star captaining his club and country. England has collegiate systems which work. These systems support certified soccer academies at all levels to groom talents, including coaching institutes, to train and retrain the coaches. Gone are days when school boys played for our national teams. Thrown into the lagoon is the tradition where our local clubs had national team players. Many recall with anguish the yesteryears when soccer faithful left the states to watch IICC versus Rangers International FC either in Ibadan or Enugu or anywhere in the country, simply because they paraded the bulk of the Green Eagles players. Other clubs not lucky to have such a galaxy of national team players, welcomed them to their homes during league games. Such teams smiled to the bank after the game, with  the stadium filled to capacity. With time, local clubs strove to either buy some of the national team players to get the fans to watch them weekly or recruited younger players who gained national recognition, which helped to boost the clubs’ revenue. In those days, playing for Nigeria meant being a Green Eagles star. But FIFA’s developmental programmes threw up competitions for younger lads who eventually played for the country as Flying Eagles, Golden Eaglets, CHAN Eagles, U-23 Olympic Games etc squads, which were essentially filled with products of the Principals Cups, Governors’ Cups, National Sports Festival, state sports festivals, NUGA Games, polytechnics games, etc. The system made conscious attempts at training coaches at all levels. It also sent overseas those who were interested in coaching. These educational exchange programmes helped the coaches at the grassroots to update their knowledge. Such solid foundation for the coaches impacted on the athletes’ development to compete with the best anywhere. We cannot continue to rely on new lads from Europe. Otherwise, the emerging players will sneak out of the country to play for countries of their choices. We must fix our domestic leagues and make them competitive. We must encourage our retired stars to take to coaching and urge the clubs, states and local governments to recruit them. Many of our former stars live in penury. A system where they can go to school and be gainfully employed such that our new lads can learn from their practical experiences is very important for growth. It will help develop our budding young talents and produce a crop of young talents that will be available to our national teams coaches for selection. Despite some of these inadequacies in the nation’s football, Rohr must seek for greater rapprochement with the coaches and young players at the grassroots. It is not just enough to assume our best legs are overseas.  This might not be true because almost monthly, quality players from Nigeria sneak out in search of greener pastures. They measure up abroad and become stars that national teams coaches call upon for national assignments. The flip side, however, is that some of these talents end up with unfavourable contracts that destroy their careers.  This defeats the argument that there are no good players in the country. A better structure for the discovery and nurturing of these players must be put in place. It will help the country and these young players since it is easier to guide them at this early stage. The mistake most of our foreign coaches who don’t work in Nigeria make is that they judge the game from the achievements of the clubs and academies that they see in place, forgetting that they were founded under frivolous circumstances. How many of these academies, for instance, have trained coaches and the right logistics to do the business? Do you expect an untrained coach to transfer the right skills to the talents under his tutelage? Can such poorly trained players compete with the well trained ones in Europe? No way. Hence, Gernot Rohr must live here and set up his own structures which others can key into to standardise the process. Some of the monies accruing to the country for the game’s development can be channelled into building centres of excellence for football. In other countries, this process ensures that all the national teams play the same way. Players discovered are nurtured, exposed and monitored when they eventually become big stars. The essence of having good cadet teams nurtured from these nurseries is for them to grow and garner the experience needed to graduate into the senior national team. A situation where Rohr shuts the gates against our cadet stars leaves them with one option – to play in just any country under the guise of playing overseas. The NFF should organise competitions for professional clubs’ youth teams as obtains in Europe. We know of competitions, such as the FA Cup and League Cup, among others involving youth teams of Manchester United, Liverpool, Arsenal, Tottenham, etc, organised by the English FA. The result of this is that the youth club players are constantly kept in top shape making them ready to fit into any position available in the senior teams.