The Network of Pro-Bono Lawyers (NPL) has called for increased access to justice for pre-trial inmates. It noted that the prisons are filled with inmates who cannot afford legal representation. The group also called for better of enforcement of women and child’s rights, in view of rising cases of violence against women and children. NPL warned against suppression of press freedom in any manner. These were part of agenda set for the government at the end of the Network’s second leadership and capacity building workshop for legal aid providers in Nigeria. Its theme was: Setting the agenda for access to justice campaign in Nigeria. The network was founded as an initiative by three Mandela Washington Fellows: Gbam Janet, Ahmed Adetola-Kazeem and Katumi Oboiren, all lawyers involved in provision of free legal aid to indigent persons. Speakers at the workshop, which held at the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in Abuja, spoke on the need to decongest the prisons, guarantee a free press and protect rights. NHRC Executive Secretary Tony Ojukwu, represented by an assistant director Iheme Richmond, in the keynote address, praised the Network, saying their work would help bridge the justice access gap. He reiterated the Commission’s commitment to the plight of indigent Nigerians who cannot afford legal representation. A young magistrate, Majid Oniyangi, urged courts to build contacts of pro bono lawyers and contact them when necessary. The Network’s Program Manager Tony Oche Onazi said more should be done to tackle the alarming issues of rape, gender violence, sexual harassment, persecution of journalists and rising number of pre-trial inmates. The workshop featured a group discussion anchored by Adetola-Kazeem and Onazi. Executive Director of the Network, Janet Gbam, expressed gratitude to NHRC, Legal Aid Council and Accountability Lab Nigeria for supporting the workshop. She said the workshop, first held last year in Lagos, Kano and Abuja, was aimed at training legal aid providers and pro bono lawyers to build capacity for effective service delivery. “The theme this year was influenced by the fact that the plight of indigent persons in accessing legal representation rests solely on the shoulders of pro bono lawyers who have dedicated their time and expertise to serve humanity,” she said. Gbam urged members to remain committed to providing quality and accessible legal representation to the most disadvantaged. Also at the event was a human rights and labour lawyer, Anthony Itedjere, who delivered a paper on Playing the devil’s advocate.