Lille Olympique Sporting Club (LOSC) new signing, Victor Osimhen, would most likely feature in his first game as the French Ligue 1 side tackle AS Roma in a high profile friendly match at their Stade Pierre-Mauroy home ground today. Osimhen only on Friday had his first official training at the Domaine de Luchin that was well celebrated on LOSC TV and aptly tagged ‘Discover the first day of Victor Osimhen with his new teammates.’ German coach Gernot Rohr has described Osimhen as ‘a good boy that has the capability to succeed’ at the French Ligue 1 side. The 19-year-old Osimhen on Thursday completed his switch from Belgian side Sporting Charleroi and was handed the iconic number 7 jersey  in a five-year deal that will keep him at Stade Pierre-Mauroy till 2024. Already described as ‘new offensive reinforcement for  LOSC’, the gangling striker remarkably scored 20 goals, including the record-breaking quickest goal in the history of the Belgian First Division A while on his loan spell with Charleroi last season. “Victor is a good boy and he will do well at Lille,” Rohr, a former coach of French side Bordeaux, said in an interview with The Nation Sport. “I’m very happy that Victor Osimhen is going to Lille OSC because it’s a very good club. “We spoke about it when we were at Alexandria (during the AFRCON) and I encouraged him to go there because it is a good club and they will be playing in the UEFA Champions League.” Rohr further noted that Osimhen’s work is already cut out for him after he was snapped up by LOSC as a replacement for striker Nicholas Pepe who left  for Arsenal , adding the bronze medallist winner with the Super Eagles at the recently conclude AFCON has all it takes to excel with the Dogues. “Of course, it would be a big task for him to break into the team but he would be able to do it and do it well and progress. “His transfer to Lille is good for everybody and some French journalists have been calling me to ask about his potential and I have told them all the good things I know about Victor. “He (Victor) is a good boy, he will succeed there (at LOSC),” added the 66-year-old erstwhile Bayern Munich defender. 