Natives of Plateau state under the auspices of Plateau Initiative for Development and Advancement of the Natives (PIDAN) have explained why they opposed the implementation of RUGA and National Livestock Transformation Plan in Plateau state. The body warned government at the federal and state level not to enforce the implementation of any of the policies anywhere in the state to avoid drawing the wrath of the people. To ensure that government gets no piece of land in the state to implement the plan, the group said it has put a place a committee to monitor and report to the body for prompt action. The group made its position known in a communiqué after its first National Council Meeting for the year 2019 held in Jos the Plateau state capital. The native group comprising of 58 autochthones Community Development Associations in the State noted that the federal government may have genuine concern in the intent of the plan but its design only addresses rearing of Cows to the exclusion of other livestock. According to the communiqué due signed by Prof Aboi Madaki and Nanle Gujor as President and Secretary respectively, “The Plan also prescribed the establishment of ranches but in gazetted grazing reserves. The plan seeks to acquire 15000 hectares of land in the State for the implementation of the program. “Plateau State is expected to co-fund the program indicating that the limited State fund will need to be diverted into the program. Pastoralists with emphasis on migrant non- resident Fulani will be the primary users of the ranches indicating there will be an increase of the Fulani populations in the State when the program is fully implemented. ” Council rejects the establishment of grazing reserves in any form in the State and equally states that no autochthones has 5000 hectares of land to donate for the program. Council however noted the Plateau Government intention to promote the development of ranches and wish to appeal to Government to make its draft Ranching Policy available to communities for their input before finalizing it for implementation. “Council further urges the Government to ensure that Ranching accommodate all livestock and not only cows”