A 100-level student of the state-owned Niger Delta University (NDU), Amassoma, Southern Ijaw, has been killed operative of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). It was gathered that the incident, which occurred at about 10.30pm on Saturday threw the student community into mourning. Sources said the incident was avoidable and blamed it on unprofessional conducts of the NSCDC operative. The security personnel attached to a politician reportedly cocked his gun to fire some shots announcing the arrival of his principal to the area but discovered that the bullets hooked in the magazine chamber. He was said to have attempted to free the magazine chamber without pointing the nozzle of his rifle downwards or upwards. While the nozzle pointed at passersby, the gun fired and killed the student identified simply as Obinna in the Efeke Ama area of the university community. Obinna was said to be a student at the Petrochemical Department, Faculty of Engineering before his untimely death. It was gathered that the victim was pronounced dead at the Tantua hospital while the killer NSCDC operative was handed over to the police in Ammassoma. Some persons alleged that the killer operative was at a bar guarding a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abel Ebifemowei, alias Osuo 1, when out of drunkenness his gun dropped and discharged some of its bullets that killed the student. But Ebifemowei, who described the incident as unfortunate and sad, said the incident did not happen in a bar adding that a campaign vehicle of Senator Heineken Lokpobiri was not in his convoy when the incident occurred. Ebifemowei said: “It is a lie that I was at the bar when the incident happened and I was not with the official vehicle of Senator Lokpobiri. It is an act of mischief to include Senator Lokpobiri into the incident. “The Civil Defence personnel with me was trying to free his gun when it went off. The accident was not about me or the Senator Lokpobiri campaign organisation.’ “It is unfortunate that he did not face it up. The affected personnel was not drunk as claimed. It was just an accidental discharge which every security personnel pray not to happen to him. I was not at a bar. I was in Ammassoma to observe the Local Government election ahead of the coming governorship poll. “The security escort has followed me for over 10 years and we have never expirienced such incident. it is unfortunate”.