Mixed reactions have greeted the return of a pilot-turned politician , Captain Hadi Sirika, as Minister of Aviation. Though a familiar player in navigating the labyrinth of the strategic sector, experts say he must ramp up efforts beyond rhetorics to deliver on sore points he left unattended in his first term. KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports. The return of Captain cas minister of Aviation last week caused a huge debate in the industry, eliciting mixed reactions from players. Sirika’s return did not come to many as a surprise;  the decision of  the government to carve out Aviation Ministry from Transportation    however came to players as a step in the right direction . They said appointing Sirika for such undertaking, because of his professional background as an airline pilot, was a  right step. Experts say his experience in the industry as a pilot and politician in the last two decades,  puts him in a better stead  to appreciate  and  offer workable solutions to  myriad of challenges facing the sector. Industry perception of Sirika’s return Besides the euphoria generated by   Sirika’s reappointment, experts said his return meant different things to different people. They said the minister should rise above rhetorics, roll up his sleeves and hit the ground running. Their verdict came on the heels of Sirika’s inability to deliver three key promises in his first term. The controversial national carrier – Nigeria Air – was suspended indefinitely by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) because of investor apathy, hazy funding model, inability to get buy-in by stakeholders and other considerations. Besides the botched national carrier,  Sirika was unable to deliver an aircraft leasing company as well as set up an aircraft maintenance centre. Legislative reaction / interface Speaking in an interview,  Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, Hon Nnolim Nnaji, described Sirika’s appointment as a welcome development to ensure continuity in the sector. Nnaji  noted that he would expect the minister to hit the ground running because he was already familiar with the terrain.  He said:  “There is  so much to be done within a short time.” The lawmaker representing Nkanu East and West Federal Constituency, Enugu State,  said  he was  happy the minister came  at the time the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN) had  begun  the reconstruction of the Enugu Airport Runway. Nnaji assured him of his committee’s cooperation towards providing a safe, viable and reliable industry. Experts’ views / agenda But, Chief Executive Officer of Centurion Securities Limited, Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd), also commended the government for returning Sirika. He said a new person could have triggered a downward and dangerous trend for the sector. He said: “The aviation minister belongs to the group that  has contributed positively to the sector. Not returning him to the ministry and bringing a new person could  have created a downward and dangerous trend.“ Ojikutu, however, spared a thought for the minister. He said: “Sirika should consider  merging Arik and Aero and designate the eventual airline as a flag carrier. ‘’The airlines could be merged, with a view to selling them to technical foreign investors, patriotic and credible Nigerians at reasonable cost to set up a flag carrier. This  will be only if the government funds can be fully recovered and those of other creditors, except if they are willing to be part of the new carrier with their credit in Arik and Aero.” Ojikutu said the new minister should put measures in place for the actualisation of the proposed national carrier. He said: “There should be no going back on the plan for a national carrier’’. Concerns / Proposed models on airports concession He said Sirika should rework his plans for the concession of airports by upgrading the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to a holding company, as custodian of all terminals to be handed over to private companies. Ojikutu said : “He should consider plans to commercialise Nigerian Airspace Management Agency. All other aeronautical infrastructure under FAAN now should be handed over to Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, including runways, taxiways and approach lighting.” The critic said Sirika should consider a review of the Civil Aviation Act 2006 on the sharing of revenue among agencies, from ticket and cargo sales charge. Aviation roundtable’s verdict On his part, President, Aviation Safety Initiative Round Table  (ART), Dr  Gbenga Olowo, urged Sirika to ramp up efforts to deliver timelines if he intendeds to take the sector to a higher level. In an interview, he said: ” I do not envy Sirika for the arduous task ahead because he has said so much in the past  four  years and expectations are so high. “These   four years have no room for rhetorics. In fact, 2019 is already gone and 2023 is election year. He has barely 24 months to write his name in gold. He should put all his focus on measurable deliverables.” He urged Sirika to expedite action on his plans to concession airports and ensure he delivers between two and three airport companies . The companies should have the task of building modern terminals and installing high technology and functional car parks that will make Lagos and Abuja as well as Kano formidable West African hubs by 2025. Olowo said: ” This is doable judging from the case study of Ghana within a span of  four years’’. Union’s recipe for critical views Former General Secretary, National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Comrade Olayinka Abioye, urged Sirika to embrace critical views , if he intended to survive in the sector. He said: ’’Now that you are back, there is much to do, sir, as the industry begs for a new direction and galvanised action. We trust that you have the capacity and ability to excel, but you must carry all your colleagues in the industry along, the stakeholders, industry supporters and aviation enthusiasts, the unions and even share a listening ear with the critics.” Interventionist proposals for security/infrastructure architecture Experts said the Minister of Aviation should rework existing airports security architecture in the face of rising incidences of breaches, infractions and intrusion at airports. Citing the upsurge in stowaways, intrusion into airports’ air side and other security infractions, they said  the Minister of Aviation should put on the burner measures to complete fencing of airports and their perimeter. Aside consolidating existing containment measures on threat to airports security and air safety, experts said the minister should revisit ongoing recruitment of Aviation Security (AVSEC) and Aerodrome Fire  Fighting and Safety Personnel attached to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). Previous attempt by Sirika to drive the exercise drew flak from unions, groups and the international community because of skewed criteria for the selection of candidates. On  the infrastructure front, experts said the Minister of Aviation should  see to the early completion of ongoing airport projects  –  in particular,  the new International Terminal at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos. Quick completion of this project, they said, would reduce congestion at the over 40 years terminal due for a facelift. Since 1979 when the MMIA, Lagos was commissioned, no major facelift has been given to it. The minister  should start work immediately by interfacing with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to overhaul the regulatory regime to achieve more robust technical, safety and economic audit of struggling domestic carriers. Continuation of sector’s road map/ministerial pledge Meanwhile, Sirika said that he looked forward to having an increase in the contribution of aviation to the Gross Domestic Product to about one per cent in the first few years. This is as aviation unions — National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), the Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP) and the National Association of Air Transport Pilots and Employees (NAAPE) — held a surprised welcome reception for Sirika after taking oath of office. He said Nigeria Air was still on the road map, and that it would continue by God’s grace. This is as he commented on the GDP contribution of aviation in the country. “This industry has a lot for Nigerians and it connects people, nations and markets. One airplane that will come in means 300 jobs. More than that, it is a catalyst  to growth for the economy of our country.” Responding to the gesture by the unions, Sirika said: “Now that we are back, we will still continue from where we started. If there is need, we will work to make it better  than what we have done before in the interest of our country and our industry aviation.” He reiterated the collaboration of stakeholders, saying: “Nigerians should know that while we are given the opportunity, we will work together with stakeholders, unions and the staff. We drew a road map and we are following that road map. We will continue with the road map. If it needs adjustment, we will adjust it appropriately so that it will serve the industry better. So that it will be in tune w with the presidential directive, that everything must be pro-people. So, we will continue with the pro-people initiative of Mr. President. We will ensure that all our actions will be in the interest of the people, the worker, the industry and the country in general.” The National Presidents of NAAPE, Comrade Abenego Galadima, and President General of ANAP, Comrade Kabir Gusau, on behalf of other unions expressed satisfaction at having Sirika back. They appealed for continued collaboration with unions in the industry for a better working relationship which would give room for progress of the industry. 