A STRAY bullet allegedly fired by a policeman on escort duty on Sunday night, killed an All Progressives Congress (APC) community leader at Shogunle, Lagos. The man, identified as Waliu Daudu, was said to have been hit at the back of his head by a bullet allegedly fired by the policeman. It was learnt that the incident occurred in front of the deceased’s 1, Bello Street, Shogunle, home when he was unpacking the chairs, tables and canopies he rented to the Celestial Church of Christ (CCC), Oshodi Parish, whose harvest, the policeman’s principal, a pastor in another CCC parish simply identified as Genesis, had attended. Genesis was said to be a visiting pastor and one of the special guests at the harvest. The policeman was said to have fired the shot around 8pm at Oluwani/Odalume Street to scare hooligans who had allegedly attempted to harass his principal when they were leaving the venue. However, another account of the incident said the bullet hit Daudu at the venue, but was only noticed when he fell in front of his home at the next street while unpacking the chairs, tables and canopies. The Nation gathered that the police have arrested the Shepherd of the CCC Oshodi Parish, Superior Evangelist Z. Alabi, in order to get information about the guests invited and those who brought police escorts. It was learnt that police investigation would ascertain whether the policeman was on lawful duty and if ‘Pastor Genesis’ was entitled to police escort. At Daudu’s home on Tuesday, his widow, Yemi, was inconsolable, as relatives and sympathisers consoled her. The woman, who could barely speak, was overheard lamenting about the fate of her four children- Habib, 12, Basita, 9, Basik, 6, and Ali, 2. She said: “I don’t understand what is happening. I am still confused. I do not know what to do. I was with my husband till 6pm on Sunday when he said he wanted to go and pack his chairs, tables and canopies. “Then I went to my shop at 20, Bello Street, Shogunle and it was while I was there that someone called to ask me where my husband was. I told the person he went to work and the person said okay. “A few minutes later, a man was making call near my shop and I heard him saying that a policeman’s bullet had killed Daudu that owned a rental service. He said the man fell in front of his house. Then I ran and held the caller to explain what he was saying. “I rushed home and truly, my husband was lying in a pool of blood in front of our house. “My husband was a quiet and peaceful man. He was hard working. He also worked as an estate agent.” The woman’s sister, Rashidat, said policemen came to their home around 8:30pm and removed the body. She said the family was worried and would appreciate it if the body could be released so that Daudu would be buried accordance to Islamic rites. “I appeal to the government to give the deceased’s children scholarship so that their father’s wish for them to be educated will be fulfilled,” Rashidat said. The Nation learnt that the Oshodi Local Government chairman of APC, his deputy and other party members in the area visited Daudu’s home yesterday to commiserate with the family. Condemning the incident, the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) in Oshodi demanded the immediate withdrawal of all policemen on VIP duties. It urged Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu to ensure that the suspect is prosecuted. Spokesman for the command, Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said investigation was on to ascertain the identity of the policeman, after which action would be taken. He said at the moment the command was yet to establish who the policeman was and where he came from. 