Odiri Oginni is Managing Director, United Capital Asset Management Limited, one of Nigeria’s largest investment management firms. In this interview with Capital Market Editor Taofik Salako, Oginni, who is also a chartered financial analyst, speaks on the savings, investments and macro-economic drivers necessary for a national investment base and economic growth. The proportion of Nigerians investing in the domestic capital market is abysmally low compared with other countries. What do you think is responsible for this and what can be done to grow domestic investors’ base? According to the World Bank, in 2017, Nigerian domestic savings as a percentage of Gross Domestic Products (GDP) stood at 15.5 per cent compared with world average of 25.4 per cent and South Africa’s 19.6 per cent. This reflects the level of household, corporate and public sector savings over expenditure. This data partly indicates the low level of savings among Nigerians compared to the rest of the world, and also shows the intensity of poverty in the country. Clearly, the wealthier a country is, the higher the savings rate. Again, low level of financial literacy is a factor; Nigerians prefer to hold physical assets rather than financial assets. Lack of confidence in the financial system and the increasing get-rich-quick syndrome are other issues we need to address. To improve savings and investment culture, we need to lift people out of poverty, by creating more jobs, ease the processes and operations of doing business in Nigeria and achieve a faster GDP growth. More so, we need to do more on financial literacy and work very hard to restore confidence in the financial markets, so our people can see the need to save and invest. Savings and investment level of a country is correlated to the level of poverty, income per head and literacy rate. To boost savings and investment, we must all support President Muhammadu Buhari’s goal of lifting a 100 million people out of poverty over the next 10 years. In a country of 200 million people, if 50 per cent of us are poor, savings rate will remain abysmal no matter how well a few members of such a society is doing. So, we need to create jobs, investment in education, empower our people to be productive agents in the economy. That way, they will be able to save a portion of what they earn; this can then be deployed into investment and further productivity and growth. What is your assessment of the outlook of the investment markets? Looking ahead, although most stocks on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) appear under-valued when compared to their African and emerging market peers, interest in the Nigerian equities is likely to remain depressed for the rest of the year, especially as the overall economic condition remains challenging. In the fixed income space, we expect yields to continue to moderate gradually as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) gets increasingly accommodative; however, demand and supply dynamics will play a major role. Activities will remain mostly active at the short to mid-end of the curve while interest at the longer end, that is, bond market will stay bearish, just like equities. On the supply side, we expect the government to ramp up borrowings over second half of this year in a bid to fund its  budget deficits. On the demand side, sizable Treasury Bills maturity are scheduled to hit the system over second half of 2019 and this is expected to boost the overall demand level. Our outlook, for the foreign exchange market is that of stability. The CBN will continue to use intervention sales to support for the value of the naira considering the availability of a sizable amount of dollar, worth $45 billion, in its external reserves as a buffer. As all arms of government settle down, what do you think should be done to improve the domestic investment markets? I think there should be a deliberate attempt to carry out reforms in key sectors of the economy that can accelerate growth. Local and international investors need to be clear on the policy direction of the government for efficient planning. The key sectors of the economy that need comprehensive policy overhaul include the power sector, oil and gas and the foreign exchange market. What is your firm doing to encourage savings and investments and general awareness about financial education? Last year, United Capital, in a move to drive financial inclusion in the country and serve its customers better, launched an app tagged “Invest Now”- an investment platform that enables potential investors to have easy and direct market access to different investment opportunities on their mobile phones from the comfort of their homes with the trusted guidance of experienced professionals. Commendably, more than N100 million online payments have been processed on the “invest now” app since it was launched. United Capital Asset Management has also taken investment education to Students and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members during their orientation programme, where we educate them on the benefits of investment as a youth. For our clients and the general public, our research team is saddled with the responsibilities of consistently providing latest and useful market updates to help them make informed decisions about the market. Do people really need asset managers when they can invest directly in the markets? The role of asset management cannot be overemphasised in the capital market. While it is true that an individual can invest directly in the market, especially the equities market, not all individuals have the expertise, time or substantial amount – to make decision about what to buy or sell and when to buy or sell – in a manner that maximises return. Asset managers are professionals in this field. They are knowledgeable, updated and are equipped with the resources to ensure this is done seamlessly to the benefit of their clients. Additionally, the asset management business helps pool resources together, from both retail and medium-scale investors, who are not sophisticated enough to invest in certain investment assets in the capital market, so they can enjoy the economy of scale available to institutional and High Networth Individuals (HNIs). So, we can say asset managers help create a level playing ground for investors, especially those that would have been disenfranchised by the huge capital requirements in some investment securities. What are the advantages of investing in mutual funds or collective investment schemes? Since the introduction of the first funds, mutual funds have been popular investment vehicles for investors. One of the major advantages of investing in mutual funds is the diversification of risk while still providing competitive returns. By investing in mutual funds, an investor is provided with the immediate benefit of instant diversification and asset allocation without the large amounts of cash needed to create individual portfolios. When you invest in a mutual fund, you are also choosing a professional asset manager. This manager will use the money that you invest to purchase assets that have been carefully researched. Therefore, rather than having to research thoroughly every investment before you decide to buy or sell, you have a mutual fund’s manager to handle it for you. Another advantage of mutual funds is the ability to get in and out with relative ease. You can sell mutual funds at any time as they are very liquid. Investing in mutual funds is also tax exempt. What challenges do  asset managers face? One of the major challenges being faced by asset managers in Nigeria is distribution. Distribution is key to driving the growth of asset under management of the mutual funds. The biggest asset managers in Nigeria are bank-owned and have been able to leverage the parent bank’s platform in terms of the use of the branches to spur growth in their asset under management. Innovation needs to be brought into existing distribution models to effectively address this challenge. Another challenge is low level of awareness of the benefits of mutual funds. Investors do not yet see that mutual fund is a way to meet their financial goals and not just a means of short-term financial gain. Mutual fund is a long-term investment vehicle with the potential to achieve financial goals and provide investment solutions especially in times of uncertainty. Also, the weak state of the economy has constituted a drag on investment returns in recent times. Due to the volatility in the macro-economic environment, asset managers face the daunting task of balancing risk and return expectations of clients. Long-term investments rest on the assurance that the asset management firm will sustain over the long-term to grow and reward the investor, what assurance do investors have in the event of corporate crisis involving the asset management firm? All asset management companies are licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to operate as asset managers, also all mutual funds are registered with the SEC and every fund has a separate custodian who holds custody of all mutual fund assets to ensure these funds are separated from the operational activities of the asset managers. The asset managers are only responsible for the management of the fund and in the event of corporate crisis of the asset manager, the investors funds are not affected as they are held by the custodians. Why do you think people should entrust their savings under your management? Our firm has been in existence for more than five decades and we have gained the trust and confidence of our clients over the years. We are currently the sixth asset manager in Nigeria with six mutual funds and separately managed portfolios. Our funds cater for all categories of investors with different risk appetite and wealth levels. We are also regulated by the SEC. We have a robust technological platform called “Investnow” that ensures that clients have unfettered access to their portfolios, can communicate with us real time and have our financial advisors attend to their request in a professional manner. We employ a rigorous investment process as well as deep research of investment opportunities in making decisions in order to maximise returns across all our funds. We believe that our expertise as asset managers, rigorous investment process and customer focus give us an edge in the market place. We continue to champion female inclusion in financial services through our Wealth for Women Fund which encourages more women participation in senior leadership roles. Earlier this year, we also won the Most Innovative Asset Management company award by Global Business Outlook. Besides your corporate strengths, what makes your mutual funds and asset management products competitive? As I said, we have six mutual funds that are registered and regulated by the SEC. Investors who want guaranteed capital investment and stable returns both in Naira and US Dollar would find our Money Market Fund and Eurobond Fund very attractive.  With as little as N10, 000, investors can invest in our Money Market Fund. The Money Market Fund is a naira-denominated mutual fund that is invested in short-term money market securities such as Treasury Bills, Bank Placements and Commercial Papers. It is a very liquid investment vehicle that can be exited at any time, while additional investments can be made with as little as N1, 000. Our return is currently higher than inflation rate, which means you can protect the real value of your money by investing it in the Fund rather than keeping it in bank accounts that yield very little. Our Eurobond Fund is a dollar-denominated fund with returns that are far higher than interest on domiciliary accounts with banks. The minimum initial investment in the Fund is $1,000 while subsequent investment can be as low as $500. The dollar mutual fund is the second largest dollar denominated mutual fund and is our fastest growing fund. The fund has grown from over $8 million in 2018 to $25 million. The return on the fund is also very competitive with a current yield of 8.06 per cent as at 30th June, 2019 as against a bench mark of 4.4 per cent. We also have a naira-denominated Bond Fund with stable return that is invested in federal government, state government bonds as well as corporate bonds. Investors who are willing to take some risks can also invest in other funds that have equity components. Our Equity Fund is majorly invested in stocks of companies listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange while our Balanced Fund is a blend of equity, fixed income and money market securities. We also have a gender-focused fund called the Wealth for Women Fund which invests in companies with significant female representation in their boards and management teams. The Fund is also a blend of equities and fixed income investments. The professionalism with which these mutual funds are managed to ensure the returns are competitive always makes them very unique. Also, the reduction in the turnaround time of our mutual fund offering onboarding process as well as the improvement in our customer’s experience with our online mutual fund subscription and redemption process have driven up the demand for our mutual funds. What are the track records of returns of assets under your management compared with average returns in the market? We have consistently outperformed the benchmark returns for all our respective funds as all our portfolios are professionally managed by experienced fund managers. How do you stimulate investors’ interests and protect same in the entire chain of decision making? At United Capital, we have a team of professionals involved in the decision making to protect investors’ interest. The research team provides in-depth analysis of the macro-economic environment which guides the asset manager in making investment decision. The risk management team is also involved in ensuring that there are no deviations from the asset allocations stated in the trust deed across all the asset classes. The compliance and internal control team also ensure the adherence to internal as well as regulatory policies and procedures in the management of investor’s funds. We also have a culture of good corporate governance. In 2017, United Capital won the Pearl Awards for good corporate governance. As the only listed investment company, how do you manage the requirement for long-term growth and shareholders’ pressure for return? We are very conscious of the value we need to bring for our investors, not only in ensuring good returns on investments despite the difficult operating environment, but also to help them grow their wealth in a sustainable manner. We have put in place structures that would enable us to continue to deliver good returns despite pressure in the economy. We are also expanding our operations to key countries in Africa as a means of diversifying our revenue base. We have consistently paid dividends over the last five years and we plan to maintain that record going forward. Can you describe your firm’s investment management process? How does this impact on portfolio security and returns? In making asset allocation decisions, we adopt a risk-return philosophy that ensures the portfolio is well diversified, with relevant focus on alternative asset classes that have uncorrelated risk and return profiles. This approach is situated within the context of our clients’ risk profile, as defined by the Investment Policy Statements, governing documents such as Trust Deeds, as well as the mandates that we have from the universe of our clients. The diversification of the portfolio along different classes provides stability and ensures that we sustainably create value for our clients. Besides the multi-asset exposure that we provide to clients, our asset allocation provides a form of natural hedge against macroeconomic and market volatilities, as some of the asset classes have negative correlation with macroeconomic volatilities. Enterprise risk management and investment research are critical functions in investment while our operations are also highly automated. What other additional services or incentives do you provide your customers, especially given your relationship with other major operators in the financial services industry? We believe in putting the interests of our clients first especially because they trust us with their hard-earned money. Our corporate clients enjoy free investment clinics for their members of staff where we offer financial planning advice as well as informational services investment options in the market. Through our cutting-edge Investment Research unit, we constantly inform our clients on developments in the market and offer investment advice in line with current market realities.