The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA)  has warned that violators of its regulations will no longer go unpunished. Speaking on the sidelines of the signing of five new regulatory instruments to strenghen the operations of the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sector in Abuja at the weekend, its Director General, Dr Isa Pantami,warned that infractions of the regulations would be punished. He said NITDA in the last seven months has rolled out 10 regulatory instruments not just in the interest of the ICT sector, but that of Nigeria to save cost,  time and also deliver effective and efficient services to the people in all spheres of live. “I am delighted to host you at the  official sign-off on five regulatory instruments. If you recall, the first quarter press briefing took place on Friday, 25th January 2019 where I launched and signed off five regulatory instruments. ” There, I  noted that this year would be a year of regulation. All these instruments are issued to address various challenges facing us as a nation towards effective ICT adoption,” Pantami  said. He listed the instruments as Guidelines  for Nigerian Content Development in information and Communications Technology (ICT) as amended; Nigeria e-Govemment Interoperability Framework (Ne-GlF); Nigeria ICT Innovation and Entrepreneurship Vision (NIIEV);  Nigeria Cloud Computing Policy (NCCP); and the Framework and Guidelines for ICT Adoption in Tertiary Institutions. The NITDA chief who explained the benefits of the instruments to the socio-economic development of the country, said some of the instruments have saved the country of billions of naira. He added that violations of the instruments by any agency of government or private institutions would not go unpunished. Pantami said: “It is a known fact that the rate of ICT development and adoption across the world have been translating into economic growth and sustainable development. NITDA has huge mandates broadly covering IT regulation, development and advisory roles. “This is evident in section 6(a-n) of the NITDA Act, 2007. We believe that our regulatory and advisory should be geared towards the development of ICT and its integration to implement socio-economic agenda of the government at all levels. “We would not by any means stifle ICT development especially to the detriment of our indigenous IT companies. NITDA as the apex agency responsible for the development and regulation of IT in Nigeria must ensure it walks the talk and build an enabling environment for the growth of ICT industry; pave the way for efficient and sustainable use and adoption of ICT for the development and growth of the country. “It is on this conviction that we are building a strong foundation for ICT development, adoption and grown through effective regulation. I am exceptionally happy to present and sign off on the five regulatory instruments.”