Youths have been encouraged to identify problems in their various spheres of influence and solve them, as this would shoot them up on their way to greatness. This was the assertion of panelists at the celebration of the 2019 International Youth Day, and the launch of the second edition of the 40 first jobs book by Oxfam International, partners of Poise Nigeria, which took place in Victoria Island, Lagos on Monday. The book centers on sharing first job stories of 40 eminent Nigerians, some of whom are  Mrs. Jumoke Ogundare, Group CEO of ARM Pensions; Olamide, renowned Nigerian Entertainer; TY Bello, renowned Nigerian Photographer; amongst others. According to the Managing Director/CEO of Poise Nigeria, Mrs. Ebele Chukwujamah, it is not the environment that defines an individual; it is rather the person that creates the environment that he or she wants to see. “It is therefore important for a youth to learn from the base of their career, acquire skills and give themselves to critical thinking,” Chukwujamah added. In her words “It is not the about the environment, it is about you creating the environment you want. “Learn to start small. Do not look down on your small beginnings. It is the soft skills that you learn at the base of your career that will take you to the top. You must also learn to speak up and let your voice be heard.” Speaking on how Poise Nigeria empowers the youth, Chukwujamah said “At Poise Nigeria, we teach entrepreneurship, that these little steps to success are real.” For Martins Abraham, the Associate director, Group talent development at HIS Towers, Nigeria is not a disadvantage. It is a blessing that youths should take advantage of. “It is however sad that the biggest problem we face today are that people are blocked in their minds,” he noted. He told his audience, made up mostly of young people that the times are changing and any youth that wants to fly high in career should invest their time positively on technologies, statistics and the internet. Abraham also added that “the ability to be multi-lingual would be an added advantage to youths as it would also make them valuable sources in future. Speaking of her success story, Mrs. Nkem Okocha, founder of “Mama Money” said that she started out because she saw women and children around her jobless, broke and hungry, and she decided to do something about it. “I started based on my empathy with people, I started with free vocational trainings with women, and giving them money to start up a business after the training,” she said.