As the leading political parties in Bayelsa State prepare for the November 16, 2019 Governorship Election, the most critical task before the main opposition party, All Progressives Congress (APC), is to choose the right governorship candidate. Already most informed observers of the politics of the oil-rich South-south state today say most of the myths that have sustained the ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), seem to have been broken so much that any serious opposition party, with the right candidate and agenda, stands the chance of dethroning the ruling PDP. For example, one of the myths that PDP leaders used to deceive Bayelsa electorate since 1999 when the party first took over the state’s Government House, was the claim that PDP was an Ijaw party. Another was that only PDP has the interest of the people of Bayelsa at hand. Today, the poor performance and outright betrayal of the common people’s interest by the Dickson-led PDP state government have become so clear that the people are no longer deceived by these claims. All over Bayelsa, the people are angry and hungry for change. So, informed observers, especially supporters of APC, said the party is not just a viable alternative but the current choice of many. They also believe that if the party does the right things, APC in Bayelsa State today has what it takes to win the forthcoming governorship election. This is because the party has become truly rooted in all the parts of the state. In fact, current pre-election surveys at the grassroots level show clearly that while many people now openly express feeling of disappointment and betrayal against the PDP, increasing number of the people believe that APC could be the right alternative. These being the facts, APC leaders and their supporters should understand that all they need to do to win the forthcoming governorship election in Bayelsa State is to set their house in order and ensure they pick the right candidate for the governorship election. This is the crux of the matter, for it may be right today to assert that the fortunes of APC in the forthcoming governorship election depends, to a very large extent, on the candidate the party finally picks for the election. This is because the current feeling of betrayal against the ruling PDP in the state has been blamed largely on the usual tendency in Bayelsa State to vote people into public offices simply because of the party platform they contested on. As a result of this tendency, many people, who would not have won critical elections, have found themselves in positions of authority. Because such people have nothing to offer ab initio, they usually fail to deliver dividends of democracy to the people. Bayelsans are today tired of this kind of politics and are therefore out to vote only for a candidate they know and believe in. This explains why APC must not just bank on the increasing popularity of the party in the state but must ensure it fields a candidate that is known, tested and trusted. Before ministerial nominees were screened, many believed the race for APC’s governorship ticket was between the party’s leader in the state, former Governor Timipre Sylva and Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, who is also a former Minister of the Federal Republic. The understanding was that amongst the lot that were being touted for this critical assignment of leading the political attack against the ruling party, only the two have the strength of character, political muscle and experience needed to beat PDP in Bayelsa. Today, following Sylva’s nomination and successful screening as a Minister, Lokpobiri has become the strongest if not the only serious candidate APC should field if it hopes to really beat Governor Dickson-backed PDP candidate in the governorship race. Some insiders said the feeling amongst important stakeholders within Bayelsa APC is that the leaders, especially the supporters of Sylva and Lokpobiri should work together, combine their strengths since they are aware that they would be fighting against incumbency factor. Everybody in Bayelsa knows today that the ruling PDP hopes desperately that the proposed Sylva/Lokpobiri collaboration in APC does not work out. They hope the two will never agree and that APC would be deceived by all the other factors being touted to field a light weight as its governorship candidate. Instead of making this mistake, APC leaders in Bayelsa should look beyond personal interests; unite and take advantage of the prolonged disagreements within PDP leaders in the state. While the ruling PDP continues fruitlessly to resolve the apparent disagreement between the supporters of former President Goodluck Jonathan and Governor Seriake Henry Dickson over the successor of Dickson, APC should join hands to choose its strongest and most acceptable aspirant. For APC, which is still in opposition, this is no time to experiment with a candidate that is little known by all Bayelsa electorate within and outside of APC.  On this note, although APC today has three frontline aspirants for its governorship ticket; which include Heineken Lokpobiri, a Senator and former Minister of the Federal Republic; Prince Preye Aganaba, an engineer and Diseye Nsirim-Poweigha, a retired Commissioner of Police, it seems to me that the wisest thing APC should do is to vote for Lokpobiri. He, more than any of the other leading aspirants, is well known by all within APC and outside of APC. He has more political experience than the rest and has all it takes to compete more than the others. Besides, age and experience are all on his side. Keen observers of the politics of Bayelsa agree that in their quest for real change, Bayelsans are today fascinated by the prospect of getting a young and dynamic governor to replace Dickson. Although both Lokpobiri and Aganaba can boast of age being on their sides, it cannot be contested that Lokpobiri has the rare opportunity of combining age and experience. Born March 3, 1967, Lokpobiri began his robust political career as a grassroots representative of his people and from there, soured to the federal level. A lawyer, who earned his first law degree in the neighbouring Rivers State University of Science and Technology, Port Harcourt, and later got his Doctorate Degree (PhD) from Leeds Beckett University, UK, Lokpobiri began his public office service as a member of Bayelsa State House of Assembly from 1999 to 2003. He served as the Speaker of Bayelsa State House of Assembly from June 1999 to May 2001. In April 2007, he was elected a Senator on the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) platform in Bayelsa State, for the Bayelsa West Constituency. He later served as the Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development. Given his solid background as an experienced politician, who have served at all critical levels both in Bayelsa and outside, many say APC would be the better for it if it settles for him. Although the other major contestants like Prince Preye Aganaba, a prince of Aganaba Kingdom and a pioneer member of APC in Bayelsa State and Nsirim-Poweigha, the only female aspirant, who served as Commissioner of Police in Niger State, are also not push overs in their own rights, many think it will be in the interest of all if they and all the other interest groups and powerful stakeholders file behind Lokpobiri. Such unity is the only strategy that can make APC to defeat Dickson-backed PDP candidate in Bayelsa.