Oyo state Governor Seyi Makinde has directed all employers of foreigners and their landlords to see that all migrants who are eligible for the migrant electronic registration to do so on time. Makinde gave the directive on Friday at the Nigerian Immigration Service, Oyo state Command while speaking at the flagoff of the Migrant ‘e’ registration exercise. The flag off ceremony was attended by the state deputy governor Rauf Olaniyan, the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Olubamiwo Adeosun, the Chief of Staff, Chief Bisi Ilaka, the Head of Service, Mrs Amidat Agboola among other top government functionaries. Others at the event include, the state service Chiefs, including the Ibadan zonal head of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr. Friday Ebelo, NIS Comptroller, Oyo Command, Mr. Saleh Abdullahi, traditional rulers, leaders of foreigners residing in the state, among others. Commending the initiative of the ‘e’ registration, Governor Makinde said the effort is coming at the most appropriate time to enhance internal security by identifying, verifying and determining the migration status of resident migrants in the state in particular. He said “In view of the present national security challenges, this migrant ‘e’ registration is coming at the most appropriate time to enhance internal security by identifying, verifying and determining the migration status of resident migrants in the state in particular. “This administration places high premium on peace, safety and security of lives and property as no meaningful development can take place in any place where there is no adequate security. “This is because no investor would want to invest in a place where his money will go down the drains. Where there is no peace, there can be no development hence I appreciate the introduction of this migrant ‘e’ registration and thereby further perceiving this service as a good partner in progress and capable of living up to their security expectations. “Security is a collective responsibility and I am by this address advising and directing all employers of foreigners and their landlords to see it as a point of duty that they key into this laudable programs that is free of any charge. “Ensure that the foreigners/migrants in your employment or house who are eligible for the migrant ‘e’ registration do so on time. The benefits of this laudable programme to the country and the migrants cannot be overemphasized. “It will enhance our internal security, migrant is secured under immigration responsibility and above all other security agencies can access information from the database if the need arises and it can be to track undesirable foreign elements in our nation.” Earlier in his welcome remarks, the Command’s NIS boss, Comptroller Saleh Abdullahi said the purpose of the initiative is to “enhance internal security by verifying, identifying and determining the migration status of resident migrants in the state in particular and by extension in Nigeria in general. “I urged you all to key into this laudable programming that is free of any charge and all-encompassing for both regular and irregular migrants. The effort will serve as a verifiable ingredients required for National planning.” He also took advantage of the event to explain both the benefits and penalties for failure to register to the stakeholders at the event. It would be recalled that the new policy was recently flagged off by President Muhammad Buhari at the National Headquarters of the Nigerian Immigration Service, Abuja.