OIL and gas service and manufacturing companies that have built their capacities will benefit from the Africa Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (AfCFTA), Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) Executive Secretary (ES), Mr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote and  Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) President, Mr. Mansur Ahmed have said. They spoke in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, during the inauguration of Alcon’s ultra-modern factory for electrical power distribution panels and switchgears, which the firm set up in partnership with ABB, a world- leading electrical and power original equipment manufacturer (OEM). The facility has the capacity to produce 750 main distribution panels, 1,200 sub-main-DBs to over 5000 consumer units and engage 150 workers. In his keynote address, the ES stated that investments, such as Alcon’s, open opportunities from the national to continental levels. According to him “the establishment of such manufacturing outfits will enhance the delivery of the target benefits under the AfCFTA agreement. “If you take the population of Africa and the potential market and given the general level of development of countries, the sky is the limit for any manufacturer that makes the right investment, has the right quality and partnerships.” He commended Alcon for being the first company to obtain NCDMB’s ‘Nigerian Content Equipment Certificate (NCEC) Category A’ for electrical switchgear and panel building. It announced that the Board would no longer grant approvals to import the products manufactured by Alcon. He charged the company to continue to deliver top-notch low voltage panels as well as introduce new products that could match those that are manufactured in any part of the world. He promised that NCDMB would continue to educate industry stakeholders about the company’s capabilities through the NOGIC JQS platform. Wabote commended Alcon for its ability to nurture a formidable partnership with ABB, stating that it “attests to the fact that if local companies have the right processes and procedures in place, international OEMs will be willing to form alliances and partnerships that endure’’. Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) President Mansur Ahmed urged Alcon and other manufacturers to take advantage of the opportunities presented by President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent signing of the continental free trade agreement, which will bring the 55 African countries into one common market. He explained that AfCFTA will generate a market of 1.2 billion people and an active economy of trillions. He added: “Every manufacturer or investor should look at that and begin to thrive. I am glad that Alcon is seeing this vision and there is a plan for expansion. As we go into the AfCTA, we are going to create a bigger market, four to five times bigger than what exists.” Alcon Managing Director Mr. Gerardo Della Santa stated that the factory was the largest and that it had trained its workers locally as well as in Egypt and Italy to keep pace with new technologies and new products. He described the facility as landmark because it will transfer technology, create new jobs and expertise. “We perform the full cycle of the panel production, design, customisation, assembly, testing, packaging and delivery,” he said. Santa confirmed that the company had received all required certifications from ABB and Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to operate. He thanked NCDMB for believing in the company’s vision and the Bank of Industry (BoI) for providing the financial support for the investment. ABB Country Managing Director Mr. Hany Abd-Elazim underscored the company’s long partnership with Alcon and its support for the new production facility, noting that it had huge value addition in line with the local content initiative. He expressed delight that the new facility will create jobs and improve productivity. He added that the factory provided an opportunity to export products within the ECOWAS region and expand to the continent when the African Free Trade Area takes effect from mid 2020. “This will support the cooperation to have local value added products from Nigeria to be exported,” Abd-Elazim said.