Bayelsa State Governor  Seriake Dickson has listed the qualities expected from his successor. He said the person should possess courage, focus, capacity and compassion to protect the collective interests of the Ijaw nation. The governor, who spoke in Yenagoa, the state capital, at the weekend, said owing to the challenges facing the state, Bayelsa could not afford to have what he described an establishment errand boy as governor. He also emphasised that the next governor should have a clear agenda and be God-fearing to serve the people with humility and compassion. He said: “The next governor of the Ijaw nation must be courageous. He must be ready to defend the Ijaw nation at all times. He must not be the errand boy of any ethnic group. I will be sad to see the governor òf Bayelsa playing just politics, without being able to take a decisive position on issues.” Dickson said he had raised the standard of governance in Bayelsa and promised to publish an audited account of his eight years stewardship, in line with his administration’s policy of accountability and transparency. He said: “The shoes I am leaving behind are very big. Posterity will judge. “Only very few of the people who come to talk to me have the interest of the state at heart. There is no free money to give anybody in Bayelsa. Don’t kill for anybody. None has the power to make you a billionaire. “Our people are oppressed. We have a lot of stories to tell Nigerians. When it comes to speak for the Ijaw nation, I have not been found wanting. I want that tradition to continue. I want my people to be safe. “More, than any other time, Bayelsa needs a governor with the requisite courage to lead the Ijaw nation. What is at stake is your destiny and survival. Our people are Balkanized into small units from Ondo State to many many other states. “In the Niger delta, the Ijaw voice must be heard. I hope those buying the forms are aware of the enormity of the responsibilities of being the governor of Bayelsa state.” Dickson attributed the peaceful atmosphere in state to the new culture of tolerance and maturity, promoted by his administration in the last seven and half years. He commended the political class for the peace in the state, in spite of the multiplicity of aspirants. The governor expressed the hope that all political parties and candidates would abide by the rules for the greater good of the state. He said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has many governorship aspirants because it remained the only solid and robust platform that could win election in Bayelsa. He described the development as a testament to his democratic style of governance where people are allowed to pursue their ambitions without any form of interferance. Dickson said: “In spite of the multiplicity òf aspirants, we have a new political culture, there is no incidence of violence. I am happy that the state is growing politically. “I want to see more engagement, I want to see people talk about their dreams and visions, I want to see more of the issues being addressed. The fact that you have 21 or so aspirants gives the clarity that PDP is the only party that can guarantee success; the platform that can connect with our people. “It tells a lot about the capacity of the party and the leadership that I have provided to make it attractive”, he said. On the council poll, Dickson decried the desperation of some politicians, who according to him, did not mean well for the state. He said the election would hold as planned by the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC). The governor also pointed out that the boycott of the council election by the main opposition party, APC would not in any way affect the credibility of the poll. He added: “What happened was unfortunate. It showed the desperation of some politicians in the state. I know people who are planning to forge identities of delegates. You can imagine how they can come within the party to frustrate local government election”.