Oloibiri community in Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State was shot into limelight in 1958 when the Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) when crude oil was discovered in commercial quantity in the community. The first oil wells in the country were drilled within the community by Shell. About 63 years later, Shell remembered the community. Recently, the oil giant had a thought for the community as it completed and handed over the first phase of multiple health care facilities and programmes to Oloibiri and and its environs. The project was inaugurated by Governor Seriake Dickson in a ceremony attended by stakeholders. The integrated project is called the Oloibiri Health Programme (OHP). Managing Director, Shell Petroleum Development Company  (SPDC) of Nigeria Limited and Country Chair, Shell Companies in Nigeria, Mr. Osagie Okunbor, explained the objectives of the project. He said: “OHP aims at achieving three broad objectives of promoting universal health coverage and strengthening health systems within local government area; enhancing social determinant of health which should result in improved health indicators of communities within Ogbia LGA to meet Sustainable Development Goals standards (SDGs) and institutionalising and sharing lessons learnt for replication and county wide scale up through the establishment of a knowledge management centre.” Okunbor said the intervention was designed to change the narrative that most of the primary health care facilities in Nigeria lacked the capacity to provide essential service. In the first phase, Shell remodeled and equipped the  General Hospital, Kolo; provided a water treatment plant; sent medical laboratory equipment to the College of Health Technology in Otuogidi and the Dental Chair at the Demonstration Clinic Otuogidi. Okunbor said the execution of the second phase was ongoing, adding that it would include the Oloibiri Health Campus at Oloibiri town comprising health-for-life Centre and a Knowledge Management and Research centre. He also revealed that there are other components of the second phase. The Shell MD said in the third phase, the Ogbia Health Insurance Scheme would be established. “This will be modeled after the very successful pilot insurance scheme catalysed by Cottage Hospital in Port Harcourt” he said. He said for the success of the OHP, Shell ,between 2016 and 2018, delivered household health services to nearly 13,000 people in over 3,100 homes across 16 communities in Ogbia. “In addition, we have remodelled and equipped the only general hospital in Ogbia LGA, the General Hospital Kolo. It will serve as a referral hub providing 24-hour service with linkages to five health-for-life centers and 13 world health centres. “We constructed a 10, 000-liter capacity water treatment plant with water purification system using aeration and filtration and in compliance with World Health Organisation’s recommended threshold for potable water. “We have provided a hybrid solar- powered system producing 96 kilowatts per hour (kWh) of electricity daily with an installed battery capacity of 176kWh for power supply. This is in addition to a standby 33KVA power generating set, among others.” On why the special health care package was designed for the community and Ogbia, he said: “Oloibiri has a pride of place in the story and history of Nigeria’s oil and gas journey. It was in Oloibiri that Shell made the country’s first commercial quantity discovery of crude oil in 1958. “Olobiri remains the reference point for Nigeria’s oil and gas journey.” In his remarks, Dickson, who was represented by his deputy, Rear Admiral John Jonah (rtd), described Shell’s intervention as timely and complementary to the government’s policy on the health of citizens of the state. He said:  ”Let me appreciate SPDC and its partners for prioritising health care in the state by initiating the Oloibiri Health Programme. This is a laudable development as it will go a long way in complementing the various steps and policies we have already introduced in order to meet the health care demands of our citizens in Ogbia Local Government Area. “Sustainability is key and we hope that the OHP having kick-started today shall not only meet its desired purpose but also be sustained over the years in order to continually meet the health challenges of our people.”