We refer to a story titled “Second Journey to Armageddon II: Scandal Rocks Libya Returnees’ Resettlement Programme in The Nation newspaper dated, Saturday August 10, 2019, and we wish to state that the said story is false, baseless and malicious. To set the records straight, we submit unequivocally that the interview granted your reporter, Innocent Duru, on the telephone was obviously misconstrued, and therefore respond to the said publication as follows: The Taskforce did not partake in contacting these returnees, neither were we involved in the organisation of the training. The organisers reliably informed us that only returnees who responded to their calls attended the Agro Business training in Ibadan held between 15th and 27th of April, 2019, and in Benin between the 5th and 17th of May, 2019, and thereafter, the trained returnees were empowered. We were informed by the organisers that 14 returnees attended the first training. To date, we have not been told how many returnees attended the second training in Benin. It is worthy of note that the Fatai Yusuf referred to in the untrue allegations is a trained air-conditioner technician and has never indicated interest in agriculture. He has been supported previously by the Edo State Government through the Taskforce with the following: Ngozi Nwanchukwu also referred to in the aforementioned publication indicated interest in furthering her education and running a small business. She has been supported by the Taskforce with the following: Blessing Gabriel, a nursing mother who also showed interest in running a business, has been supported as follows: We state emphatically that all the names submitted by the taskforce for the agro business training were names of returnees in our data base who have signified interest in agriculture and not otherwise. With the large number of returnees who came into Edo State, it became imperative that modern systems were employed to uniquely identify beneficiaries of the Government’s scheme to identify and cater for the special needs of returnees also referred to as ‘GO-GETTERS’ with the aim of re-integrating them back into the society they had left without stigmatization. The need for a central database to hold their information was designed and an Identity Management Solution created as highlighted below: The reports made by Innocent Duru are a defamation of the good works of the Edo State Taskforce Against Human Trafficking and the character of its Chairperson. These allegations, which are untrue and demeaning, have been rumoured and spread by some disgruntled elements who have been prevented from using the Taskforce as a means of siphoning Government funds. The Taskforce currently has 4943 returnees (3329 males, 1400 females and 214 children) under its returnee welcome programme, all of whom upon arrival in Lagos were transported to Benin. They were housed for a minimum of two nights, given food, toiletries, basic medicals and counselling support. Over 2,500 have received stipend payments and over 500 have been trained in different vocations including welding, tailoring, cosmetology, etc. Several of these returnees have received long term sheltering, financial support, schooling, and extensive medical support. The Taskforce has continued to carry out its numerous activities which include welcome programme of returnees as highlighted above, vigourous advocacy and awareness raising programmes, sensitising the public on the ills and consequences of human trafficking, which involves going round the various local government areas of the state, and investigation and prosecution of offenders. The continued success of these activities is due to the financial discipline and prudence of the head of the Taskforce, Prof. Yinka Omorogbe. The Taskforce has been given a mandate by His Excellency, Mr Godwin Obaseki, to eradicate human trafficking from Edo State. We will not be deterred nor distracted and will definitely succeed in giving Edo State a new image of zero level of human trafficking and irregular migration. It is our hope that your medium, The Nation newspaper, which is revered for its commitment to factual reporting, will take necessary steps to amend the records to ensure that this falsehood that is being planted by these disgruntled elements in the media space with the intention to mislead the public does not persist. Please be assured always of our highest regards. 