A United States (U.S)-based Information Technology (IT) and e-business solutions and training firm, New Horizons, has stressed the need for collaboration between academics to harness the huge potential of knowledge economy. Its Chief Sales and Marketing Officer, Bolaji Olaoye, who spoke during the unveiling of an application developed by three students of  Anchor University Lagos (AUL), said the development of the solution underscored the huge untapped potential collaboration between the industry and academia can unlock. The customised library management app which upgrades, digitises and eases the use of university library systems for students, was by developed Odufote Israel, Nwakaibe David, and Ochoyi Joshua, all in their 300 level, under the mentorship of New Horizons. He said the performance of the students calls for collaboration between the industry and academics so that the society and humanity can be impacted better. According to Olaoye, the current digital age is so demanding in terms of huge cost in dollars and rapid rate of technological obsolescence, that a single institution cannot actually do it all alone. At the macro level, these sets of technologically empowered students are what Nigeria needs to get out of its sagging oil-dependent economy and join the league of reigning digital economies such as Singapore, Malaysia, China, etc. Olaoye said the vision being driven by New Horizons globally in the 80 countries and 370 centres where it currently operates, with particular reference to the operations of the Nigerian Branch in tertiary educational terrain, has been to ensure that the products of Nigerian universities graduate with the required skill set so that they can be market-ready for employers of labour, as well as getting the lucrative jobs both nationally and internationally. The app is used for e-labelling and identification, registration, onsite and off-site borrowing and returning of books, e-tracking systems, management of late return, and seamless blend of penalties for defaulters, among other functions. The students encouraged by the scholarship opportunity given to them by New Horizons, said the platform served to ignite their passion for the project-based solutions which ultimately led to the feat they achieved. One of them, Joshua, said: “Some of the major problems we usually have with our library are issues of books identification, registration and others but with this app, students can do their registration online with any internet accessible device. Likewise, the administrator end of the solution has simplified the administration of the library systems management for the librarians and other library managers.” The Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Afolayan Olasehinde, lauded the students, saying it fell in line with the school’s strategic vision drives. “Last year, New Horizons gave an award to three of our best Computer Science students and the awards were converted to training. Today, as they are doing Anchor University proud, they are also doing New Horizons proud because if you didn’t put them through, they will not be able to demonstrate what they are doing now,” he said.