Friends and family of a bank manager, identified as Ibeakanma Onyechere, have been left devastated following news of his alleged suicide on Victoria Island, Lagos. Onyechere, a relationship manager with a popular commercial bank, allegedly drank sniper, a dangerous insecticide, at his home last week. The father of one might have exhibited traces of depression following his last Facebook post, “the light is gradually dimming out”, which he wrote on July 24, as well as a WhatsApp status update his relatives said they saw days before he died. According to a report on the social media, Onyechere left a note for his wife, Cecilia, where he professed his love for her and their daughter, urging her not to cry for him. The note read: “The best, that’s what l used to call you. Finally this is the end of my journey here on earth. The evil I have been battling with has succeeded in quenching the flame. You married a wrong man. You’re a good woman and you deserve the best. You need to be happy. You need to soar. “Please take care of our princess, Chinenyenwa. Tell her that I love her so much. Be peaceable with everyone, though not gonna be easy. Tell my family not to harbour any resentment against you. You’re a blessing to us. That’s the wish of a dying man. Don’t cry for me, but pray for me. I love you and Chinenye so much. Goodbye my beloved.” Although the police said they have no report on the alleged suicide, Onyechere’s relatives and friends have taken to Facebook to express their shock over his death. Many wondered why there was no action from those close to him when he wrote the suggestive message. But his brother, Adindu Ibeakanma, who reacted to the July 24 post, warned him to be careful and desist from playing with sensitive issues. “What kind of post is this? We don’t play with certain things. Please let us know the light that is dimming. And please be very careful Onyi,” he warned. His sister, Rosy Ibeakanma, wrote: “De (Brother) Onyi I saw your status that your time is ticking away so fast I did not know you were saying goodbye. RIP dear brother till we meet to part no more.” His friend, Frank Ugwamba, wrote: “My brother and my beloved friend, your death is still a dream to me and I sincerely do not want to wake up to its reality. I am sorry my brother, I didn’t see this post early enough, I would have stopped whatever it was that was coming to you. I am deeply sorry.” Emeka Chukwu said: “He put up this kind of terrible and horrific post on July 24, only two people commented. The moment the light finally went off in a pathetic and terrible way, everybody started commenting. “What is this world turning into? Why can’t we take some posts very serious especially when it is coming from our loved ones, friends and family members. “Had it been someone very close to him took his or her time to visit this brother Ibeakanma and question him on what he meant by putting up such a horrific post, his death by God’s grace could have been averted. “Who knows what he was battling with that made him to commit such a heinous act. I think nobody was there for him. I think his church, if any, has failed to work on his spirituality. “I think we need to take every post like this very serious if truly we want to be true ambassadors of our Lord Jesus Christ. I don’t know Mr. Ibeakanma Onyechere, he was not my Facebook friend. I feel bad for his lovely wife and daughter. May his soul rest in peace.” Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), said the command was not aware of the suicide, as no report was made at the Victoria Island Division or any police station in the state.