Operatives of the National Agency for the Prohibition in Trafficking of Persons (NAPTIP) have nabbed a man accused of being involved in kidnapping Ghanaian girls to Nigeria. The suspect Chika Nnodim is believed to be part of a cross border criminal gang including kidnapping and have been under security watch list of the government of Nigeria and Ghana. He and two other Nigerians: Samuel Udoetuk Wills and John Oji were alleged to have been involved in the kidnapping of three Ghanaians girls aged between 15 and 21 years. Victoria Ijampy said this in a statement on behalf of the head Press and Public Relations of NAPTIP. She stated, “Operatives of the National Agency for the prohibition in trafficking of persons NAPTIP have arrested one Chika John Nnodim for alleged involvement in the kidnap of three Ghanaian girls from Ghana to Nigeria. The suspect has also been handed over to the office of the Inspector-General of Police for further investigation. “The suspects who is believed to be part of a cross border criminal gang including kidnapping and have been under security watch list of the government of Nigeria and Ghana was nabbed by NAPTIP officials after a very painstaking investigation at various locations within Nigeria and Ghana. “He and two other Nigerians: Samuel Udoetuk Wills and John Oji were alleged to have been involved in the kidnapping of three Ghanaians girls aged between 15 and 21 years. “The case was reported to the Agency by the Ghana High Commission Abuja in April 2019 alleging the kidnap of their citizens from Ghana to Nigerian. The Agency collaborated with relevant law enforcement Agencies within Nigeria and Ghana in the investigation. “The case has been transferred to the Inspector-General of Police for further investigation because finding from investigation proved that the case is not human trafficking related but of murder and kidnap. “When contacted, the Director-General of NAPTIP Dame Julie Okah-Donli expressed displeasure over the activities of the suspects adding that they were promptly handed over to the sister law enforcement Agency to ensure their thorough prosecution. “She stressed further that the Agency shall continue to collaborate with other relevant Agencies as part of its inter-agencies synergy. The NAPTIP boss warned that there is no hiding place for any criminal in Nigeria irrespective of their status even as she assured of a robust inter-agencies collaborations in the years above. “