The consequence of climate change is manifesting in various parts of the globe in different ravaging forms. But in northern Nigeria, a region of vast arable land, capable of feeding the entire country with sufficient left to export, the grill of mother-nature is felt as drought and desert encroachment, a result of indiscriminate deforestation. Scientists claim that the Sahara Desert, the largest hot desert in the world, is advancing southward at a rate of 0.6 Kilometers per annum, causing Nigeria to lose 35,000 hectares of its arable land annually in the north. In his 2015 paper, Olagunju Ebenezer of the Ecology and Environmental Biology Unit, University of Ibadan, asserts that Nigeria is faced with rapid desert encroachment with 63.83 percent of the country’s land area already impinged on by desertification. 15 northernmost states are affected by desert encroachment from moderate to severe rate, with Sokoto and Kebbi dangerously on the frontlines of the rampage owing to their location.  Worried, however, about the devastating effects which has accompanied desert encroachment into Sokoto, in terms of threat to food security and socio-economic stability, a youth community development group named Tree Planting Ambassadors (TPA), have resolved to planting weather-resistant trees across the state, and creating awareness within the community about the need for afforestation. Founded in 2017, TPA is an extraction of a much larger youth group, Environmental Conservation Club, peopled by members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) serving in Sokoto State, as well as primary and high school students who are interested in volunteering for the movement.  “Our sole aim is to reforest Sokoto State,” says Ayuba Esther, 28, the first female president of the group. “This we have been doing through grassroot campaigns, educating the people of Sokoto about the effects of deforestation, and by embarking on massive tree planting projects in remote communities across the state.” Esther explains that since she resumed office as president of the group earlier this year, TPA has planted over 500 seedlings, and plans are underway to plant 300 more seedlings in a couple of weeks. “In the next couple of weeks, on August 17, we are going to Tunga village, one of the remote communities around the main campus of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. And subsequently on August 22 and 24, we shall be visiting Sokoto State University and NYSC camp in Wamakko, respectively, to plant 300 seedlings,” she says passionately, filled with hope.  Esther also attributed the reason for prioritizing such trees as Neem tree, flame of the forest, Step tree, Almond tree, to their resistance to extreme weather conditions. “Considering the extreme weather, some trees may not last long, so while selecting trees to plant, we often give priority to those that can survive the harsh environmental conditions in Sokoto, and viable enough to help achieve our sustainable development goals and combating climate change,” she explains. Although TPA gets its funds from NGOs with same goals and objectives, philanthropists in the communities interested in the activities of the group, Esther laments that one of the major challenges of the group is inadequate funding to execute its projects. She also highlights a number of other obstacles that the group is facing which include shortage of sensitized members in the group, and the cutting down of some of their trees by community member to be used as firewood. “We are facing a lot of challenges,” whines Ester. “Most corp members posted to this group have little or no knowledge on climate change and the importance of tree planting in combating climate change. Also, as a group established under the NYSC, there are limits to what we can do since we’re not independent. Worse still, we would wake up at times to see the trees we have planted being cut down by members of the community, justifying their actions with their dire need for firewood to cook.” As the first female president of the group, Esther however noted that she faces no gender-based discrimination from members of her group or anyone. “Because they are always ready and available whenever I place a call to them,” she says.