THE Federal Government on Wednesday disagreed with a claim by the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) that its leader Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky was being treated like a criminal in India. The Shi’ite leader also alleged that the condition at Medanta Hospital in New Delhi, India where he is supposed to be receiving treatment is worse than that in Nigeria. But the government said there was no iota of truth in the allegation. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Culture, Mrs. Grace Isu Gekpe, said the IMN leader started acting against laid down procedures during a stopover in Dubai, en route New Delhi. Activist-lawyer Femi Falana (SAN), who is the Shi’ite leader’s counsel, described the reports from India as disturbing. He said he was in touch with the government for immediate intervention. Falana said: “The reports from the Indian hospital are very disturbing. We have forwarded El-Zakzaky’s complaint to the Federal Government. “I have just confirmed that the Nigerian High Commission in India has intervened to ensure that the tight security situation is relaxed to prepare El-Zakzaky for the medical treatment and that they are allowed access to their personal physicians. El-Zakzaky, who was granted leave from detention by a Kaduna High Court on medical grounds, was flown to New Delhi with his wife, Zenaat, on Monday. Some security operatives and family members travelled with them. El-Zakzaky, who spoke in an audio message that has since gone viral accused the Federal Government of frustrating his treatment in India. Speaking in Hausa, he said the situation at the hospital is “pathetic and worrisome”. According to El-Zakzaky, the management of Medanta Hospital, had been threatened not to admit him for treatment. He said: “The hospital officials received us well; they told us that they parked two ambulances, deceiving the crowd while taking us out through another way, saying it was for our own safety. On getting to the hospital, we were placed under a tighter security situation worse than what we have witnessed in Nigeria. We are currently more confined than when we were in Nigeria, worse than a prison setting. “Contrary to what was agreed before our arrival, that our own personal doctors would supervise this treatment. Now they’ve changed the arrangement. So we objected receiving treatment from strange doctors without the supervision of our own trusted physicians.” In the audio, the IMN leader said he wants to return to Nigeria to source for a reliable and trusted hospital among those countries that offered help. “There are some other countries that volunteered to help which include Malaysia, Turkey,” he added. The Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC) has expressed concerns about El-Zakzaky’s treatment in India. It accused the Indian government of becoming an enforcer for the Nigerian government. The IMN also on Wednesday claimed that El-Zakzaky was caged and being denied freedom by the Federal Government and some interests linked to the United States (U.S.) It alleged that the U.S. Government through its embassy in India, told the hospital management not to admit the Shi’ite’ leader. The IMN’s claim could not be independently confirmed last night IMN’s Secretary-General of Academic Forum, Abdullahi Musa, told reporters in Abuja that the Federal Government was forcing El-Zakzaky to accept treatment as a criminal. Musa said after El-Zakzaky and his wife got to the hospital, the Federal Government, through the security agents who escorted the Shi’ite leader, did not follow the court order. He said: “The government acted contrary to what was earlier stated in the Kaduna High Court (ruling) by devising new types of plots to frustrate his (El-Zakzaky’s) doctors from offering emergency treatment to the Sheikh, whose health has seriously deteriorated as a result of the gunshots inflicted on him by the Nigerian Army and his subsequent poisoning during his detention in Kaduna where he was illegally detained and deprived Medical attention for years. He added: “As I speak with you, the Federal Government has given El-Zakzaky two hours to accept to be treated as a criminal. “They refused completely to allow the doctors he requested to treat him and his wife access to them. “We are also calling on the international community and people of conscience and humanity, especially those who facilitated the travelling of the Sheikh to India for treatment, to prevail on the Nigerian government and its western masters to stop playing with the life of the innocent leader who is a victim of their continuous plot to ensure that he dies.”