THE Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) on several areas to facilitate the robust implementation of the deposit insurance system in their jurisdictions. Both institutions are key members of the International Association of Deposit Insurers (IADI). A statement by NDIC’s Director of Communications and Public Affairs Department, Mohammed Kudu Ibrahim, said the MoU was signed at an elaborate ceremony on the premises of KDIC in Seoul, South Korea, on August 7. KDIC’s Chairman and President W. I. Seongbak, signed on behalf of the Korean corporation while Umaru Ibrahim, the Managing Director/Chief Executive (MD/CE) of the NDIC, signed on behalf of the Nigerian counterpart. The ceremony was witnessed by the Chairman of NDIC’s Board, Mrs. Josephine Ibironke Sokefun, and some of her colleagues on a study tour of KDIC. Under the terms of the MoU, both parties noted the increasing globalisation and complexity of large financial institutions and the unique challenges they portend for regulatory authorities. They committed themselves to the promotion of communication, enhancement of existing levels of cooperation; provision of support, mutual understanding and collaboration on areas related to the development of the deposit insurance systems in the two jurisdictions. The MoU also provides for effective international working relationship between both agencies along with the enhancement of their roles in financial regulatory initiatives and policy deliberations. There will also be periodic exchange of workers between both institutions and bilateral meetings on regular basis towards enhancing mutual understanding that promotes the development of the deposit insurance system (DIS) in Nigeria and South Korea. Reflecting on the visit, Mrs Sokefun described the study tour and MoU signing as a deeply rewarding experiencing, given the insight gained by both deposit insurers from the various technical sessions held during the visit. After the signing of the MoU, the NDIC delegation, led by the board chairman and MD/CEO, was hosted to knowledge and experience sharing sessions by their KDIC counterparts. The delegation interacted with faculty members of the KDIC Global Academy. The NDIC team also visited the Financial Services Commission (FSC), where it was hosted by the First Deputy Governor, and the Financial Supervisory Services (FSS), where a technical knowledge sharing session was also held with their management team. The sessions covered topics such as supervisory early warning system, risk based premium assessment system, public awareness strategies and consumer protection. Other areas covered included deposit pay-out processes, failure resolution, Korean Financial Industry Oversight Framework, among others. The delegation was later hosted by the Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of Korea, H. E. Amin Muhammad Dalhatu, at the Nigerian Embassy building in Seoul. 