I once asked a student in Nigeria when he last had malaria.  He told me that he had never had malaria.  I almost asked him if he was Christian or Moslem to understand him and his statement but I became polite.  Maybe he was telling factual truth. Probably a few adult Africans can boast that they have never had malaria. My story is the opposite.  Whenever I am with a group of people and a mosquito comes around, it comes for me.  I conclude that I lack a mosquito repelling hormone and many people around me in Nigeria must have a mosquito repelling hormone.  Mosquitoes can actually select which humans to bite.  The mechanism of this effect is unknown. After mosquito bites, indeed, some people get malaria more easily than others, all external factors being equal.  This has been scientifically studied and theories of immunity largely explain it.  The skin of the host may play a part.  The blood of the host may play a part.  The immune system, evolved by genetic selection, may be largely responsible for immunity in chronically endemic areas. Africa is the most malarial part of the world largely because of the Anopheles gambiae mosquito that provides a high transmission rate for the plasmodium parasite, especially Plasmodium falciparum ( https://www.cdc.gov/malaria/malaria_worldwide/impact.html). Generally, human symptoms emerge 10-28 days after the injection of plasmodia. Two kinds of malaria, P. vivax and P. ovale can cause relapsing malaria. “Five countries accounted for nearly half of all malaria cases worldwide: Nigeria (25%), Democratic Republic of the Congo (11%), Mozambique (5%), India (4%) and Uganda (4%).” (https://www.who.int/malaria/media/world-malaria-report-2018/en/) Thus, there are significant economic implications for Nigeria.  Nigerians would spend more money on malaria than any other country in the world and is a haven for big business in antimalarials. More than two thirds (70%) of all malaria deaths occur in children under five years of age (https://www.afro.who.int/health-topics/malaria). This is because of lack of or low immunity in children. Children in endemic areas may be genetically predisposed to develop resistance. Human genetic resistance to malaria is a chief reason for survival of Africans.  This topic is well discussed by Wikipedia at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_genetic_resistance_to_malaria.  People born and living in malarial parts of the world are able to develop immunity as they grow older. On repeated exposure to the parasite or malaria antigens through mosquito bites, they can develop specific antibodies against the sporozoite, liver parasites, blood parasites, and sexual-stages of the plasmodium.  The human antibodies prevent the parasites from causing disease and from being further transmitted.  Human immune cells also release cytokines (selectively toxic chemicals) that attack the various stages of the parasite.  Humans also produce T-cells in the thymus gland for immune response.  T-cells are directed at liver stages of the parasite. Some possible mechanisms of adaptive immunity to malaria include: antibodies block invasion of sporozoites into liver cells, interferon (IFN-y) and CD8 T cells inhibit parasite development in liver cells, antibodies block invasion of merozoites into red blood cells, antibodies prevent clumping of infected red blood cells on the inner lining of blood vessels, IFN-y and CD4+ T cells activate macrophages (defense cells) to eat up  blood parasites; antibodies neutralize inflammatory substances released by the parasites; antibodies mediate destruction of parasite gametes preventing parasites from fertilization (adapted from Stevenson MM, Riley EM. Innate immunity to malaria. Nat Rev Immunol. 2004; 4:169-80). Mosquitoes taking a blood meal inject sporozoites of plasmodium into the skin where these parasites may stay for some hours before escaping into the lymph and blood and then reach the liver. Clinical symptoms of malaria are not manifest during liver-stage maturation at the end of which schizonts are released into the blood and each of them ruptures to release up to 30,000 uninucleate merozoites that quickly invade red blood cells.  This is the clinical stage of the disease during which the parasites continue to multiply exponentially using host materials.  A person’s system  may be immune by not allowing or by breaking these multiple host-parasite interactions. Another proposed mechanism of natural protection is through genetic variation of glycophorins  and other recptors on the surface of red blood cells through which plasmodium gain entry into the cell.  Modified receptors will not allow entry. This is from a  study by the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, the Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, and collaborators (Science Daily, 18 May 2017). Mothers can transfer immunity to babies. However, malaria can cause fetal and maternal complications in pregnancy .  The natural immunity may be compromised in pregnant women (especially in first time pregnancy) and in adults removed from their endemic home environment for long. Thus people may be immune through various mechanisms. Naturally immunity to malaria is because their bodies destroy plasmodia and limit multiplication of plasmodia even without previous exposure to plasmodia. Acquired immunity may be active enhancement of the defense mechanism of the person through previous encounter with plasmodium or malaria antigen.  Acquired immunity may be also passively conferred by the prenatal or postnatal transfer of immune substances from mother to child or by the injection of such substances (vaccination)  (ref . Bruce-Chwatt, L. J. 1980. Essential malariology, vol. 354. William Heinemann Medical Books Ltd., London, United Kingdom). Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635