Governor Dapo Abiodun has felicitated with the Muslims in Ogun State and Nigeria as they joined the rest of their brothers and sisters all over the world to celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Kabir. Abiodun while wishing the Muslim faithful a happy celebration and many more of Eid-el-Kabir in good health and prosperity enjoined them to emulate Prophet Ibrahim’s patience, perseverance, steadfastness, obedience and commitment to good things. The Governor who made this known in his goodwill message on Sallah day, said such attributes are also vital ingredients required for the successful implementation of the “Building our Future Together” agenda of his administration. He stated: “On behalf of your Government, I wish all our Muslims faithfuls a happy Eid-el-Kabir celebration. I pray that we will celebrate many more of Eid-el-Kabir in good health and prosperity. “There are numerous lessons to be learnt from the story that led to Eid- el-Kabir. After very many years wait by Prophet Ibrahim and his wife, Sarat, to have a child, he also heeded God’s directive to sacrifice the only son to God. “It was at this point that God replaced the intended sacrificial son with a ram. That was a strong demonstration of patience, perseverance, steadfastness, obedience and commitment. This clear test of faith was what led to the festival we are celebrating today. “As we celebrate the Eid-el-Kabir Festival, it is important that we also take note of the lessons of the festival. We should all emulate Prophet Ibrahim’s patience, perseverance, steadfastness, obedience and commitment as vital ingredients toward the successful implementation of the “Building our Future Together” Agenda. “Let me assure all our people that our Administration remains irrevocably committed to providing focused and qualitative governance that will create an enabling environment for Public-Private Sector Partnership (PPP) which is fundamental to creation of an enduring economic development and individual prosperity for the people of Ogun State and all those who have made our dear State their home, wherever they may reside or do business in the State. “All we ask is your continued support, cooperation, and prayers. I have no doubt in my mind that our patience, perseverance, steadfastness, obedience and commitment will never go unnoticed before God. Together, we will work hand-in-hand on this path of glory to make our dear State the Ogun State of our dreams. “Let me enjoin you all to celebrate with moderation. We must all remember that even this celebration is an act of worship to Allah. And, I pray that God accepts all our worship as Ibadah. May He also grant us good rewards in this life and hereafter.”