The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) is to partner with the Directors Guild of Nigeria (DGN) in improving the Nollywood. Nollywood is the term used for the Nigerian film industry since the early 2000’s. The FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr Chinyeaka Ohaa, gave the assurance when he hosted the Executive members of the DGN on Friday in Abuja. Ohaa said the FCTA had all the necessary department that could collaborate with the DGN effectively towards adding value to the industry. “We have different departments like the Abuja Films Village, Social Welfare Department, Centre for Arts and Culture and even the FCT Archives that can collaborate with the Nollywood effectively. “The Directors Guild of Nigeria can come to the FCT Archives to get a lot of information that they will use to develop potential in what they are doing. “We are going to key into whatever you think we can do. We will create an enabling environment for the Nollywood industry to thrive in the FCT and the country at large. “We are also going to collaborate with you to discuss with some private individuals that have relationship with FCTA to help sponsor some of you to foreign exhibitions. “You are making Nigeria proud in world entertainment space. Virtually most of you here are well known by both small and big men even the President used to watch your films to reduce the attention of governance.’’ Speaking earlier, DGN President, Chief Fred Amata, stressed the need for more interface between government and the Nollywood industry in order to move the industry to the desired level. Amata, who appealed to the government to create favourable policies for the industry, solicited the support of FCTA in the area of capacity building for artistes. “Government policies still needs to be better articulated to address challenges in the industry. “We need grants for the film industry to make Nollywood capable of producing contents that can increase revenue for the country.’’ Amata said that piracy was still a major factor militating against development in the industry as well as lack of enough cinema screens. (NAN)