EbonyLife Films has partnered with top film-maker Funke Akindele on their new production ‘Your Excellency’ slated for release in December 2019. While this is Funke’s debut as a feature film director, production has begun on the sizzling political satire with an all-star cast. Funke Akindele will also act in a leading role. Mo Abudu, Executive Producer, is feeling good about the movie’s prospects. “EbonyLife Films is really excited to have Funke Akindele at the helm, directing her first feature. Her knack for telling a good story, her comedic instincts and an incredible work ethic make her the perfect choice for this film. Everyone will be able to relate to the characters and the way in which social media is shaping our lives and the country’s future,” she said. Speaking from the set, “Your Excellency has a great script, excellent cast and an experienced production team, so I’m looking forward to making the best possible film. It’s great to be working with Aunty Mo again, so soon after the success of Chief Daddy, and hopefully we can make another hit movie,” says Funke Akindele. Your Excellency tells the story of Chief Olalekan Ajadi, a bumbling, billionaire businessman and failed presidential candidate, who is obsessed with Donald Trump. Just when his campaign looks set to be another disaster, Ajadi is anointed by a major party and becomes a credible contender – all through the power of social media. As the political drama unfolds, it seems possible that even the most inept candidate, with little to offer voters except viral soundbites and amusing antics, can mount a serious challenge for the presidency. The cast include Funke Akindele, Lala Akindoju, Shaffy Bello, Kunle Coker, Ekun Edewor, Alex Ekubo, Oreka Godis, Osas Ighodaro, Mike Iheuwa, Seyi Law, Akin Lewis, Bimbo Manuel, Deyemi Okanlawon, Ini Dima-Okojie, Chioma ‘Chigul’ Omeruah, Emmanuel OMG, Ikechukwu Onunaku, Helen Paul and Toni Tones. The movie was written by Yinka Ogun, with Isioma Osaje and James Amuta producing.