Seven hundred and sixty new students of the School of Part-Time Studies (SPTS), Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Oto/Ijanikin, have been congratulated for being offered admission into one of the best colleges of education nationwide. AOCOED management insists the 61-year-old college prides itself as being compliant with global best practices by adhering to the regulations of its regulatory body,National Council for Colleges of Education. “Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education is a first choice teacher education. This is not by chance because we adhere to the dictates of the curriculum by the National Commission for Colleges of Education. While our seasoned academicians deliver instructions leading to the award of NCE, our top-flight administrators provide the needed administrative supports,” said the Provost of AOCOED, Dr Omolola Aina Ladele, at the 2018\2019 matriculation for the SPTS. She also underscored the essence of the teaching profession. “Teacher education the world over is the catalyst for sustainable national development. It is the trainer of manpower who, in turn, utilises human and material resources for the transformation of nations. “Teaching is an all-purpose profession which stimulates the development of the entire person and produces change. Interestingly, no tool has been able to completely replace the teacher yet.  I am a teacher, and I’m proud to be,” she added. The Provost admonished them to register their courses timely, attend lectures and assignment regularly, and feature in the mandatory teaching practice (TP).  She warned them to stay away from anti-social activities and aim for the best. “While exploring all possible avenues of collaborative learning, be disciplined and work hard, without which it would be difficult for anybody to succeed. The greatest tragedy in life is not death but life without purpose. “Your purpose is to acquire a good NCE certificate at the end of your programme. Therefore, commit your resources to achieving this purpose. As students of this great college, you are our ambassadors; therefore, you should not engage in any act that may tarnish the image and reputation of our noble college.”