Former Oyo Governor Abiola Ajimobi has charged Nigerians to imbibe spirit of tolerance and sacrifice as Muslims worldwide celebrates Eid-el Kabir. He gave the charge on Sunday after the eid prayers held at Ansar-ud-deen Islamic Centre located along the Liberty road in Ibadan. The former governor, accompanied by some of his aides, had arrived the eid praying ground at exactly 8.45am for the prayer. Ajimobi urged Nigerians to live in the spirit of eid-el Kabir, which he said encapsulated tolerance, sacrifice and total submission to the will of Allah. He called on the people to cooperate with government at various levels to succeed, saying such was in the good of all and sundry. “You can never be a president, governor or minister without the approval of God. So, whoever God has elevated to such position, they must be supported. “Our people must support President Muhammadu Buhari and Gov. Seyi Makinde to succeed. If they succeed, we will make progress. “Don’t wish Makinde bad, wish him well so that our state can progress. Though, he is in another party but serving the state. Let’s work with him and let’s support him. Let’s pray for him, let’s work with him so that he can succeed”.” he said. He added: ”Let’s continually appreciate God.  The spirit of the season is to believe in God and to be able to sacrifice. Whatever we do is sacrifice. Not just by slaughtering of rams. We must believe in our leaders. We were there. “There is always a yesterday for every leader. When you are there you give your best, fear God and not human beings. You can offend men but don’t offend God. The only regret is that I tried to be perfect in an imperfect world. “Let’s support the current governor, Governor Seyi Makinde for him to succeed. If he succeeds , we will make progress. Don’t wish him bad. Wish him well so that he can succeed. So that he can take our state up and up. It is another party but it doesn’t matter. He is for the state. Let’s pray for him, let’s work with him so that he can succeed”. On the vehicles allegedly taken away by some of his former aides, the former governor said:” When you are in government there are decisions you made. “When Adebayo Adelabu was leaving where he was working he was given eight vehicles. When I was leaving where I was working in the corporate world, I was given 14. When I came in, I didn’t meet any vehicle. “Those are old vehicles. They should go and find out from the civil servants who took the vehicles to workshops”. On debt profile of the state which Governor Makinde said is over N150 billion, Senator Ajimobi said:” We have the best debt profile. The USA is the number one debtor in the world. You must use people’s money to make money. In the Debt Management Office publication, Oyo is not in the first 10″. Sheikh Ma’aruf Hamzat, Chief Imam of Ansar-ud-deen Central Mosque, Liberty road in Ibadan, admonished Nigerians to imbibe the virtues of Prophet Ibrahim which were piety, steadfastness, perseverance and total submission to the will of Allah. The Islamic cleric in his sermon, recounted how Prophet Ibrahim (Abraham) survived tribulations from his creator, saying no human being was above such trials from God. “Today, we are all beneficiaries of the piety, steadfastness and perseverance of Prophet Ibrahim and his family when they encountered tribulations from their creator,” he said.