President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday described the country’s burgeoning population as “frightening.” He urged ministers-designates to join hands in finding solution to the worrisome trend. Speaking at the commencement of a two-day retreat for ministers-designate in Abuja yesterday, the president said: “By average estimates, our population is close to 200 million today. By 2050, UN (United Nations) estimates show that Nigeria will be third globally, behind only India and China with a projected population of 411 million. “This is a frightening prospect but only if we sit idly by and expect handouts from so-called development partners. The solution to our problems lies within us.” The 43-ministers-designate who will assume office tomorrow were also told by the president to chart a course for the country in the foreseeable future. At the session attended by permanent secretaries, the President urged the incoming Federal Executive Council members to reflect on the country’s position, comparing it to where it was in 2015. He gave a pass mark to his administration. Buhari said during the first term, his administration identified security of the country, improvement of the economy and anti-corruption fight as three areas for close attention and action. He added: “None but the most partisan will dispute that we have made headway in all three areas. First, we have rolled back the frontiers of terrorism; we are actively addressing other challenges such as kidnappings, farmer-herder violence, improving the safety of our roads, railways, air traffic and fire control capacities. “Second, we are steadily turning the economy round through investment in agriculture and manufacturing, shoring up our foreign reserves, curbing inflation and improving the country’s infrastructure. “Third, we have recovered hundreds of billions of stolen assets and are actively pursuing control measures to tackle leakages in public resources. We will not let up in fighting corruption.’’ He told the ministers-in-waiting that he would rely on them, his advisers and Nigerians willing and able to contribute to the administration’s policies, programmes and projects to lift the bulk of the citizens out of poverty and set them on the road to prosperity. According to him, his administration would have laid the ground to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years at the expiration of his eight-year tenure in 2023. “This outcome will fundamentally shift Nigeria’s trajectory and place us among the world’s great nations,’’ he said. He told them that as ministers, they would be responsible for the development and implementation of policies, programmes and projects in their various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in line with government priorities. Buhari said that the ministers must also ensure that agencies under their ministries are effective, efficient and accountable in the discharge of their responsibilities. He said: “Honourable Ministers-designate, we must work as a team. Although you have been chosen to represent your states as a constitutional imperative, it is vital for all of you to work as Nigerians. “Also, working as a team demands that we know what the next person is doing. You must open communications with your colleagues. Lack of communication leads to lack of cooperation and sub-optimal performance. “Finally, although this is called a retreat, I would like to think this is a preparation for an advance to the next level.” Buhari said: “I congratulate all the new-comers who the country has chosen above others to join the first-term ministers whose performance has been outstanding. All of you are appointed to assist and advise the president in running the affairs of our country. “At the end of the retreat, it is hoped that all of you will be in tune with the roles and responsibilities of positions you will occupy in government. Many national issues require unified decisions. “It is a great privilege for you to be called upon to serve in these great offices of the state and you must grasp the chance with two hands and put in your best efforts as Nigeria today needs top managers to handle our numerous challenges. “There will be long hours and you must be prepared to live laborious days if we are to serve our people optimally.’’ The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said the presidential retreat was meant to be in sync with the policy direction of government, and contribute to the attainment of the next level goals. Mustapha said: “The objective of this retreat is to prepare the new cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second tenure, having been chosen to drive and coordinate the affairs and activities of the various socio-economic and political spheres of our nation.”