In Nigeria, the policy of celebrities insuring their body parts might be strange, but in America and Europe, body parts insurance started decades years ago. It was led by the first Hollywood stars of the silver screen. In this list, we have put together gross body parts which have been insured by celebrities.
Here are the stars who have insured their famous body parts… Leg Insurance Heidi Klum  Heidi Klum, ex-Victoria’s Secret model, who was once married to Henry Olusegun Adeola Samuel popularly known as Seal, insured each of her legs for $2 million. She flaunts her well-toned pins at every opportunity. Mariah Carey  Mariah Carey realised the value of her legs after she became the face of shaving company Gillette. She ultimately decided to get them insured for a whopping $1 billion. Cristiano Ronaldo  Ex Real Madrid footballer star, Cristiano Ronaldo also known as CR7 got his legs insured for $144 million. Rihanna Rihanna, the ‘Love The Way You Lie’ crooner insured her long legs for $1 million. David Beckham David Beckham, the English former professional footballer and co-owner of Salford City insured his legs for $70 million during the height of his success. Michael Flatley Lord of the Dance and famous Riverdance performer Michael Flatley insured his trademark tapping legs for $39 million. Betty Grable     Betty Grable, an actress in the 1940’s insured her trademark legs for $1,000,000. Buttocks insurance Jennifer Lopez  Jennifer Lopez, actress and singer insured her buttocks for $27 million. Kylie Minogue  Kylie Minogue is reported to have insured her shapely buttocks for $5 million. Daniel Craig  James Bond actor, Daniel Craig got his body insured for $9.5 million while shooting Quantum of Solace since he had to perform several dangerous stunts. Smile and teeth insurance Julia Roberts Pretty Woman actress, Julia Roberts who was considered one of the highest-paid actresses in the world didn’t want her dazzling smile to fade, so, the Oscar winner insured her teeth for $30 million. America Ferrera Ugly Betty actress, America Ferrera got her smile insured for $10 million after she became a face of toothpaste brand Aquafresh. Breast insurance Dolly Parton Dolly Parton’s 40DD breasts were first insured in the 1970s for $600,000. Madonna Madonna has had her breasts insured for $2 million. Holly Madison Former Playboy Playmate Holly Madison took out an insurance policy worth $1 million on her breasts. Voice insurance Bruce Springsteen  Bruce Springsteen insured his voice with Lloyd’s of London for a cool $6 million. Hand insurance Keith Richards Rolling Stones’ guitarist Keith Richards had his hands insured for $1.6 million – though, some sources claim the amount was just for his left hand’s middle finger. Unusual insurance David Lee Roth David Lee Roth, the lead singer of Van Halen, obviously thought of his sperm as his biggest asset and got it insured for over $1 million. Shirley MacLaine The actress is a firm believer in extra-terrestrial life and took out a $25,000,000 policy to protect herself against any losses arising from alien abduction. Tongue and taste bud insurance Miley Cyrus After all the controversy stirred up by her 2013 MTV Video Music Awards performance, Miley Cyrus insured her tongue for a million dollars. Gene Simmons If anyone is known for their tongue, it’s KISS frontman Gene Simmons. The rocker had his super-long tongue insured for $1 million so KISS fans wouldn’t have to worry about him losing the trademark. Egon Ronay & Ilja Gort Hungarian-British food critic Egon Ronay insured his useful taste buds for $400, 000. Similarly, famous Bordeaux wine maker Ilja Gort insured his nose for a jaw-dropping five million euros. Angela Mount & Gennaro Pelliccia Wine expert Angela Mount was so good at her job that her employer took out an insurance policy of $16 million for her taste buds. Costa Coffee took out a $15 million insurance policy on its chief taste taster Gennaro Pelliccia’s taste buds. Hair and facial hair insurance Merv Hughes Famous Australian cricket player Merv Hughes was even better-known for his famous handlebar mustache. The player took out a $317,000 policy on his tuft of facial hair. Troy Polamalu A spokesman for Head & Shoulders, former Pittsburgh Steelers player Troy Polamalu is known for his three feet of curly black hair. The shampoo company wanted to keep his luscious locks safe by insuring them for a million bucks. Tom Jones British icon Tom Jones is so well-known for his unbuttoned shirts that he insured his chest hair for a staggering seven million dollars. Waist insurance Bette Davis Known as one of the greatest actresses in film and television history, Bette Davis was the first woman to win the Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Film Institute. Famous for her tiny waist, she had it insured against weight gain for $28,000 (over $400,000 today). Nose insurance Jimmy Durante The actor Jimmy Durante insured his famous schnoz under a LLoyd’s policy for $140,000.