The global scene of education has opened its avenues, accommodating students from various backgrounds to further their studies in universities of their choice. However, most of these institutions have their academic requirements, which must be met before admission. Some of them include standardised test or exams that must be passed by students before they can be granted admission in their choices of institutions. Their performance in this test plays a significant role by increasing their chances into universities abroad .It also increases their chances to get financial aids or scholarships. Most times, individuals are required to write more than one exam depending on their choice of universities. Below are exams that should be considered: TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) TOEFL evaluates the ability of an individual to understand and use English in an academic setting. This is a requirement for non-English native speakers at most of the English universities and colleges. This is also a requirement to aid scholarship. The score an individual gets in TOEFL is valid for two years. Colleges and universities consider only the latest scores of TOEFL therefore the test can only be written when an individual as made up their minds to study abroad as English is the most preferred language for admission all over the world. GRE (Graduate Record Exam) GRE evaluates whether an individual is ready for graduate level work. An individual is tested based on quantitative reasoning, verbal reasoning, analytical writing skills and also critical thinking which might not be in line with any specific study. GRE score is considered in admissions decisions for MBA, Specialized Masters in Business and Doctoral Programs in many universities and Colleges abroad. GMAT (Graduate Management Admission Test) GMAT is one of the selection criteria for admission to graduate business admission programs such as Masters of Accountancy, MBA or such other courses, mostly in the United States. It measures the students aptitude to gain success in graduate business studies .The test is a computer based standardized test in English language and Mathematics. SAT (Scholastics Aptitude Test) This test is taken by high school students with no criteria for minimum marks but there are colleges who require good scores in SAT along with academic scores. The test evaluates critical thinking skills and also the ability to analyze and solve mathematical problems, critical thinking and writing. The exam shows a student’s competitiveness and their probability of succeeding in the course at the long run. ACT (America College Test) ACT test is a standardised test for achievement in high school. The test ensures that all students are given fair judgment. The ACT tests an individual in four different areas, Reading, Writing, Mathematics and Science Reasoning. This is not an aptitude test but it is related directly to the courses studied in school. IELTS (International English Language Testing System) IELTS is an international standardised test of English language proficiency for non-native English language speakers. The test assesses students in four areas: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Interestingly, the test doesn’t have a pass or fail system. You will be ranked on a scale from 0 to 9, 9 being an expert user in English. Depending on the reason for you taking the test (career, living in a foreign country, studying), you will be needing a certain score. In the UK for a general Tier 4 Student Visa, you’ll need to achieve a 5.5 overall and in each of the four areas that you are tested. So before you book your test, be sure to check which one is right for you.