I do not need a crystal ball or star gaze to know that, next year, HEMP (CBD) OIL will easily be voted Nigeria’s 2019 PLANT MEDICINE OF THE YEAR. This title goes to that plant medicine in Alternative medicine with  the fastest marketing penetration and widespread acclaimed benefits by its consumers for their health challenges. Jobelyn, the antioxidant blood formula from Lagos, swept the stakes for many years in Nigeria, Ghana and Senegal after which it made online in-roads into other African countries, Europe and the Americas, unveiled in its various capacities in the local markets (blood formula, anti- diabetic, ant-anaemia, immune booster and energiser), until, finally, it settled as an anti-oxidant, at that time the trending slogans in Orthodox  medicine. Jobelyn tore through the conservative system of Orthodox medicine because its producers were able to make its appeal to doctors through many clinical trials in Nigeria and overseas carried out most times by doctors themselves. The starting point was the College of Medicine of the  University of Lagos ( anaemia, diabetics, arthritis and toxicity), the  Military Hospital, Ikoyi, Lagos (HIV), the University of Benin, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, LAUTH ( Psychiatry), University College Hospital,  Ibadan, (UCH)  University of  college Teaching Hospital, Ibadan(UCH ( cancer), e.t.c. I guess this is the most researched Nigerian plant medicine product. Hemp (CBD) oil has immensely benefited from hundreds, if not thousands, of international studies, which dates from about 1971 when it was know that a substance in hemp oil known Tetra hydro cannabiniol (THC) could reduces Intra Occular pressure (IOP), a risk factor in glaucoma.  THC is that psychotic substance in hemp or cannabis, which turns the brain upside down, as it were. Researchers were to discover large  amounts of THC would be needed to keep a 24- hour surveillance on drainage in the eye and that this dosage may damage the brain, harm the lungs and bend the mind. But hemp oil is not all  about THC. There are other medicinally useful sub-fractions in it which various  producers of cannabinol, the most well researched component of CBD oil, try to free of the presence of THC. In fact, unknown to many Nigerians, there is a specie of hemp with a low level of THC. The acceptance of CBD oil in many countries today, including Nigeria, with the certification by NAFDAC, is in line with the ever-changing and forward movement of medicine. The blood-letting days of Medicine are now a bygone era. So are the days when  gold was a popular drug. Then came the Germ theory of Disease and Antibiotics on which many doctors are  still hooked through their training and the pharmaceutical sylabi. Louis Pasteur brought  pasteurisation, which Professor Pottenger has  debunked in his experiments with cats ( check Professor Pottenger’s cats on the internet). Dr F. Batmanghelidij changed the paradigm of Medicine of his time with two books which make doctors realise that drinking water was as important as swallowing drugs. He could not complete  the third, which linked  stress and dehydration to cancer before he died. Dr Robert Atkins brought the mega nutrition of Vitamins, minerals and all of that. Dr Max Gerson and anti-ageing researchers taught that free radicals were the minimisers of life span, and that anti oxidants annihilated them. They proved their point by doubling the lifespans of some experiments animals which they feed dietary antioxidants. We are now full stream into  the era  of toxins and detoxification. But before that would become a routine  way of life like the Balanced Diet of yester years, the Endo  cannabinoid system has hit the stage. Cannabinol is the oil found in Cannabis or hemp in which many substances, including THC, are found. It surprises many Nigerians that the human body produces its own cannabinol and this oil regulates all systems of the body. This means cannabinoil is always present in your body whether you smoke marijuana or not. In fact, when you have a system break down, it may mean that you do not have a enough cannabinol in your body. The body’s own cannabis oil is called endo cannabinoid. The one supplemented from outside is exo cannabiniod. The body has  receptors for both throughout its  structures. These receptors, cannabinoid and certain  enzymes form the Endo Cannabinoid System of the body, the ECS. The ECS is to maintain homeostasis or equilibrium or peace or balance between the internal systems of the body with their external environment, and maintain homeostasis or equilibrium among all the body’s systems… Circulatory, digestive, locomotive (bones and muscles), auditory, visual, excretory, reproductive, sensory, immune health challenges. These challenges are thought to arise from a shortage of endo cannabinoid which makes the ECS inefficient. Supplying exogenous (EXO) cannabinoid from outside is believed by researchers to  stabilise the ECS and to be the reason hemp oil or CBD oil is a Marcle plant medicines. I will give  the floor now to experts who  would inform us about research findings on how CBD oil has positively influenced  the courses of events in  health challenges which only few years  back proved difficult to handle or were even considered death sentences… The experts speak to us as follows in www.verywellhealth.com.  Patient right  medical marijuana  What is the Endocannabinoid System(ECS)? How the system works and its role in disease By Adrienne Dellwo Updated April 26, 2019 Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) plays important roles in your body well beyond the process it’s named for, which is interacting with cannabis, also known as marijuana. Did you realise we had a whole system named after pot? We do. That’s because the substances that come from the marijuana plant—cannabinoids—were discovered first. What is the Endocannabinoid System? Let’s look at the word “endocannabinoid.” “Cannabinoid” comes from “cannabis,” and “endo” is short for “endogenous,” which means that it is produced naturally inside of your body. So, “endocannabinoid” simply means cannabis-like substances that naturally occur inside us. The ECS itself is made up of three parts: Endocannabinoids Receptors in the nervous system and around your body that endocannabinoids and cannabinoids bond with Enzymes that help break down endocannabinoids and cannabinoids Not only is the ECS it a natural part of our bodies, it’s a crucial one. You may have heard a lot of claims about the medicinal properties of marijuana in general or of the cannabinoids THC and CBD. With so many seemingly unrelated effects, you might wonder whether it’s just a lot of hype from people who want the drug legalised; however, medical science backs up many of these claims, and the reason for the far-reaching effects have to do with the size and scope of the endocannabinoid system itself. The ECS: Crucial for homeostasis To understand the ECS, it first helps to understand what homeostasis is. Basically, homeostasis is your body’s efforts to keep everything in the right zone. It tries to keep your internal environment stable and optimal no matter what’s going on in the environment around you. Think of all the gauges in the dashboard of a car or airplane. Those all tell the operator whether things are—or aren’t—operating in the proper zone. Just like the electronics in a car or plane, your body works continuously to monitor important levels and functions in your body. Is your temperature too high, too low, or just right? Are your hormone levels what they should be? Is your heart beating too fast? Do you need fuel or rest? Is too much of something building up in your bloodstream or inside of your cells? When something is operating outside of the right range, your body activates the ECS to help correct it. So when you’re really hot and begin to sweat, thank your ECS for working to cool you down. Stomach growling? That’s your ECS helping remind you to eat because you need fuel. The ECS does this via cannabinoid receptors found in select tissues. We have (at least) two types of cannabinoid receptors: CB1, which is in the central nervous system (brain and nerves of the spinal cord) CB2 which is in the peripheral nervous system (nerves in your extremities), the digestive system, and specialised cells in the immune system. Cannabinoid receptors are believed to be among the most plentiful in our central nervous system, and some researchers hypothesise that we could have a third, undiscovered one, as well. Through those receptors, the ECS helps regulate a lot of important functions, such as: Appetite, Digestion, Immune function, Inflammation, including neuroinflammation, Mood, Sleep, Reproduction/fertility, Motor control, Temperature regulation, Memory, Pain, Pleasure/reward Your body activates the ECS with precision so that it impacts only what it needs to. For example, if your reproductive hormones are out of whack, it will work to regulate them without altering your digestion or immune system. Then, once the endocannabinoids have done their job and brought things into balance, certain enzymes come along to break them down and prevent them from going too far and upsetting the balance in the opposite direction. It’s a precise response. That’s different from what happens if someone smokes marijuana and floods their system with cannabinoids. Then the drug has wide-ranging impacts on physiology, some of which may be beneficial while others may be harmful. Homeostasis is essential to our health and survival, so when the ECS isn’t working properly, it can cause a lot of problems for you. Because cannabis products can stimulate activity of the ECS, they’re obvious targets for potential treatments, and a ton of research is going on around the world. We also have medications made from synthetic (lab-created) cannabinoids, such as the drug nabilone. We’re already seeing a lot of research on cannabinoid-based treatments and we’re likely to see more as we gain a better understanding of the system and the substances. Changes in legal status have also driven research.  The role of receptors and enzymes  When someone smokes marijuana, a cannabinoid from the plant attaches to the CB1 receptor in the brain and creates a high. This cannabinoid is called THC, which is short for delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. One of your own endocannabinoids that attaches to the same receptor is called anandamide. While THC and anandamide are similar, anandamide doesn’t get you high like THC. Anandamide does have a calming effect, though. In fact, it gets its name from ananda, the Sanskrit word for bliss. The reason anandamide doesn’t get us high and THC does lies with something called the FAAH enzyme. FAAH’s job is to break down anandamide and other endocannabinoids. It works quickly on the ones your body creates, but it can’t break down THC. That means THC sticks around for a lot longer and therefore has a much greater effect. In the brain, cannabinoids and endocannabinoids work as neurotransmitters (chemical messengers that deliver information from one cell to the next.) Neurotransmitters all interact with a lot of different receptors and thus have a lot of different effects. A plant-based cannabinoid that’s gotten a lot of attention from researchers is cannabidiol or CBD. It doesn’t have any psychoactive properties, so its benefits come without the high of THC. One known function of CBD in the brain is to stop the FAAH enzyme from breaking down anandamide, so the anandamide can have more of an impact. That’s believed to be why CBD can help treat anxiety disorders. Endocannabinoid deficiency As medical science has learned more about the ECS, it’s also discovered several conditions that appear to be related to dysregulation of the system, which is called clinical endocannabinoid deficiency (CECD). CECD isn’t a disease itself but is an umbrella term encompassing conditions with this common feature. The CECD conditions include: Fibromyalgia, Migraine, Irritable bowel syndrome These conditions are sometimes called “functional conditions” or “central sensitivity syndromes.” They tend to be resistent to most treatments, so researchers are looking into cannabis-based treatments. These conditions also generally involve more than one system—which makes sense when you look at the areas influenced by the ECS. For example, fibromyalgia involves the central and peripheral nervous systems, the immune system, the endocrine (hormonal) system, and even the digestive system. It’s also been linked to premature perimenopause, problems with conception, and early hysterectomy. Temperature sensitivity and poor memory are common symptoms. That seems like a grab-bag of unrelated problems until you think about homeostasis and the ECS. We’re still early in the process of figuring out how to correct endocannabinoid deficiency, but the increasing availability of medical marijuana and CBD products has been largely embraced by the patient community and we’re likely to see a lot more research in that area. Treatment Potential Cannabinoids are being researched as potential treatments for all kinds of conditions, not just those involving endocannabinoid deficiency. Some of the illness they’re being researched for include: Alzheimer’s disease Cardiovascular disease Neurological, neurodegenerative, neurodevelopmental, and psychiatric illnesses Acute and chronic kidney disease Autoimmune diseases Chronic inflammatory diseases Chronic pain conditions CBD already is in use for pediatric epilepsy, pain, inflammation, acne, asthma, and a host of other conditions.