As President Muhammadu Buhari constitutes his cabinet, Vincent Ikuomola writes on stakeholders’ expectations from the health sector and how the incoming minister can succeed in achieving the dream of a functional healthcare delivery system. Because of its benefits and far-reaching effects of its services on the public, the Health ministry is often considered as one of the most strategic that no responsible administration can relegate. The ministry is concerned with the formulation and implementation of health policies. It allocates resources to healthcare delivery agencies, provides frameworks for the development and management of human resources for health and sees to efficient procurement, distribution, management and use of health sector goods, and services. Perhaps this enormous responsibility is what has also made the ministry one of the most rancorous. Besides strike, which have become too frequent, rivalry is a major issue that has made peace elusive in the sector. This has disrupted healthcare delivery. The low confidence in the healthcare delivery is another issue for the incoming minister to address, as this has been mainly blamed for the huge medical tourism record of the country. According to experts, Nigeria loses more than $1 billion yearly to medical tourism, with the amount lost to foreign medical trips more than what the country budgets for the sector. There is also the issue of state of the healthcare facilities. The healthcare facilities are dilapidated, leaving healthcare delivery in the primary, secondary and tertiary levels in a sorry state. In most cases, public hospitals across the country lack basic provisions, such as wash-hand basins, modern toilets  and power supply. The primary healthcare, the first line in healthcare delivery system, is comatose, which necessitated the ambitious plan of refurbishing 1000 primary healthcare centres (PHCs) across the country by the last minister of health, Prof. Isaac Adewole; though this was not achieved. Speaking on his members’ expectations for the health sector, Dr. Walter Ugwuocha, executive secretary, Civil Society for HIV/AIDS in Nigeria (CiSHAN) noted that the new minister should make comprehensive implementation of the National Health Act a top priority. This, Ugwuocha said, would ensure universal health coverage (UHC) and getting basic healthcare services to those who are in dire need. He suggested that the government should establish a National Health Trust Fund, a financial pool where private sector could contribute and which could serve as a domestic resource mobilisation agency. “I think the new minister should ensure comprehensive implementation of the National Health Act with special emphasis on the full operationalisation of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency and making it mandatory for all states to set up operational SPHCDA. This will go a long way towards ensuring UHC and getting basic healthcare services to those who are most in need,” he said. On HIV/AIDS, he said the new minister should continue in good partnership with the National AIDS Control Agency to mobilise domestic resources to end AIDS by 2030. The incoming minister of health should make treatment of HIV, tuberculosis, malaria and other health issues free for children aged zero to five in government facilities and free and accessible healthcare for senior citizens from 60 in health facilities across all local government areas. To avoid delays that often complicate matters for accident victims, he said the incoming minister should enthrone a system that makes it mandatory for patients on emergency to be attended to without asking for any papers, stressing that first aid should be considered first. As far as he is concerned, this will preserve life or stop the patient from dying, prevent further injury or stop the patient from being injured even more, and promote recovery or try to help the patients heal their injuries. How to sanitise the health environment is another task before the incoming minister. This includes ensuring that private hospitals, whose buildings are beautiful outside but with inadequate facilities, should be made to feel the wrath of the law, while any hospital with high number of deaths monthly should be put on the red list. Another thing that the new minister must do to succeed, according to players in the sector, is to be a good manager of human resources by creating harmony among the health professionals in the all-important sector. According to Dr. Godswill Okara, chairman, Assembly of Healthcare Professional Associations (AHPA), the minister needs to foster harmony among all healthcare service providers to eliminate unnecessary rivalry in the sector. “The health sector has been very chaotic and very unstable for a while mainly because of the administrative style of the men at the helm of affairs. The ministry does not need a combative minister, but one that would administer the sector in a way as it involves multi-professionals in the sector,” Okara said. The minister also needs to demonstrate that he is a good manager of funds, especially in a sector that decries paucity of fund. “The new minister must be a good manager of the little that has been allocated to the sector. It will do quite a lot. We have done a comparative analysis of funding of the health sector in other countries; they don’t even get as much as we do in the health sector. But in terms of output, they are able to do quite a lot; they are able to ensure harmony and tranquility in their health sector.” The AHPA chair noted that if the new minister is desirous of success, human resources management is something that he should take seriously to avoid strike and rivalry in the sector. “The new health minister must realise that the sector is driven by team work. So, we expect whoever the minister is to exhibit that fatherly disposition; a father that sits as the head of the family of many children. You bring them together, listen to each one and ensure that there is harmony, concord, and  team spirit. Without that, it will be the usual upheaval and crisis in the place,” Okara said. Like his AHPA counterpart, Dr. Ozi Okonokhua, president, Nigerian Optometric Association (NOA), also wants the new minister to be a team player. He should be a man that considers the sector as multi-disciplinary, which entails that the minister should avoid giving an undue advantage to any particular group in the sector. “The biggest thing that he should face if he wants to succeed is to see health as a multi-disciplinary approach. The era where we look at health from a singular perspective is what has led us to where we are. The incoming minister must be ready to work with all the key players in the health sector if he is going to succeed,” he said. It is believed that the ministry, as it is configured, favours one of the professional group above the others, which has been responsible for the rivalry and sometimes strike. Restructuring of the ministry to accord due recognition to every profession is one area the new minister must look into. Okonokhua said: “The minister also needs to look at how the ministry of health can be reorganised. The Federal Ministry of Health does not give room for a level-playing ground for other players and a few persons have hijacked it to the detriment of the country. If you look at the health indices, it is a shame that as skilful as Nigerians are, the country is rated as one where health indices are so low. “The sector must be treated as multi-disciplinary, if he wants to avoid strife in the sector because that is one of the things that are drawing down the performance of ministers. The minister must see health as a multi-sectorial place where every health provider is given adequate opportunity to explore himself. If that is done, the minister would not have any challenge. Basically, the strife that is stiffening the sector would be resolved if  stakeholders are brought together for conversation. “The issues that have been bedeviling the past ministers would not burden him and that boils down to how he perceives other healthcare providers in the sector. When you isolate other healthcare providers and lay emphasis on only one aspect of healthcare, you will, of course, suffer the challenge we are facing and it is the average Nigerians that will be the worse off for it. So, if the minister is able to bring everybody to the table, not situations where only a few persons perceiving that the patients are there exclusive preserve and then no other person can touch the patients and the patients eventually suffer for it.” On how to curb medical tourism, the NOA chief said the government must ensure health facilities are properly equipped and staffed. “When your health facilities are ill-equipped and fail to provide atmosphere for health workers to deploy their skills to the best of their ability and benefit of patients, patients will seek places where they can get adequate healthcare. On the other hand, the reason you have this high level of medical tourism is because there is serious brain drain. “A lot of competent and skilled Nigerians are looking for greener pastures outside this country because of the suppressive nature of the healthcare delivery system that provides only for a few to the detriment of the other health providers. And, so, medical tourism will continue if you do not make equipment available for the healthcare providers and you don’t give the room to express themselves to the benefit of the patients, they will always seek healthcare outside the country.” Okonokhua, however, stressed that his dream is to see a  healthcare system that provides adequate room for every health professional to have job satisfaction. He added: “Job satisfaction is not only in terms of monetary gains, but the ability of the opportunity given to me to deplore my skills fully to the benefit of the patients. My dream is to see a situation where all the healthcare providers working as a team. My prayer is that we get to a point where every health provider is working hand in hand and deploying his skill to the benefit of the patients.”