Stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have protested a plot by the Restoration Caucus of the party to pave way for the emergence of a Senator representing Bayelsa Central, Douye Diri, to win the governorship ticket of the party. The stakeholders warned against the plot, saying that the move was at variance with the current realities following the recent change in the political calculation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The stakeholders, under the auspices of PDP Monitoring Group (PMG), said initially they were not against Diri but having weighed the change in the polity following the inauguration of former Governor Timipre Sylva as the Minister of State for Petroleum, PDP would not win the main election with the senator as its flag bearer. The group, in a statement by its Coordinator J.P. Emulade, said Diri was no longer an option because Sylva was backing an oil magnate from Southern Ijaw, David Lyon for the ticket of the APC. Emulade said thousands of PDP members including members of his group, who are mainly from the restoration caucus, would abandon the PDP if the Leader of the caucus and Governor of the state, Seriake Dickson, insisted on Diri. He said the best decision the caucus should take to counter the APC was to give the PDP ticket to an aspirant with popularity and influence from Southern Ijaw to neutralise the personality of Lyon. He said: “But what has indeed created more fear and political chess game is the entrance of a political colossus and big business man and the pillar of the All Progressive Congress in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, Chief David Lyon. “Known for his philanthropic gestures, David Lyon is known as the man who deflated the Peoples Democratic Party ambition to win the federal constituency and single-handedly installed the young ebullient and suave politician, Preye Influence Oseke, his protégé as the Member representing the Southern Ijaw Federal Constituency in Bayelsa State . “David Lyon is a simple man with few words but whose activities in extending a helping hand like his boy Hon. Preye Oseke knows no bounds or limit. “As the election gets closer, it has become clear that with Sylva’s political machinery is getting set to ensure the appointment of yet another of his long time apostle as the MD of the Niger Delta Development Commission. It will be a swift and easy victory for the oil mogul to win the All Progressive Congress flag and slug it out with whoever wins the People’s Democratic Party flag. “As it stands now in the Peoples Democratic Party, the race has been pruned down to a three way horse race, the young and dynamic Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei, popularly called DNA, Timi Alaibe and the Senator representing the Central Senatorial District, Senator Douye Diri aka SDD. “It is now clear to all that Ayawei represents the single political personality that has shown that he has won the hearts of both young and old and therefore has the capacity to win David Lyon of the APC should he be given the ticket “What is constantly now causing fears and disillusionment is that Gov. Dickson may give the ticket and support to his friend Douye Diri, an action that will facilitate doom for the PDP. “Given the reality and the emergence of the David Lyon option, it’s imperative and inevitable for the PDP to unanimously give its ticket to the young leader of team DNA whose acceptance is unprecedented in recent times in the political history of the state. “His charisma intellect and philanthropic deeds cuts across all the State. He has single-handedly affected many lives that his name has become a household name and the only candidate who has the power to win the State governorship election for the continuity of the Dickson political family and the PDP by extension”. Ekaide added: “Our investigations reveal that a fire of resentment is brewing in the PDP ranks. Most people we spoke to said at this point the governor must consider the bigger picture and manifest implications of supporting Diri. “Most delegates and other party members have warned that should the governor choose Douye Diri, they will all abandon the ship and work for their kinsman. This position has been maintained by many youths who our team spoke with in Bayelsa State . “Our position is strictly for the interest of the party. It is devoid of sentiment. The entire decision is that of the governor. “We will wait for the almighty political masterstroke from the governor known as Ofuruma Pepe, whose political sagacity has never been in doubt in the last seven and half years in Bayelsa. Whether he will blew it in choosing SDD and confine his Party to a day light defeat remains a matter of time”.