The world and professions are fast undergoing changes, Yetunde Oladeinde, Assistant Editor, goes into the interesting world of female cab drivers It’s a few minutes past 10pm and the roads are still very busy. The traffic light stops suddenly and she pulls the cab to a halt behind the other vehicles. Relief! Time to take a short break from the hustle and bustle; however, that break unfortunately was cut short by two stern-looking men starring at her through the car window. They brought out an object and pointed it towards her, her eyes and head were clouded and just before her imaginations could run riot, the traffic light came to her rescue once more and she zoomed off. Welcome to the wonderful world of female cab drivers. Ogum Maureen is one of such women and she takes you into her world, challenges and how it all began: “It came as a passion I developed whilst working as a representative in some of my previous employments. There I had to drive on a daily basis to meet the needs of various clients in different states within a geographical mapping.” It was fun manoeuvring her way within and outside the state and it opened her eyes to the endless opportunities to be explored. That naturally took her to the driving sector working and making a living. “Since, the E-hailing biz is a thriving one in the city of Lagos and it is very flexible to allow private car owners run the biz at their own convenience, I decided to research on the available App options,” she informs. To get started, Maureen armed herself with the necessary details and mentorship. “ I underwent the necessary training and formalities  to be sure I knew what I was getting into. Then I got driving and before you know it I became a strong lady on the wheels”. Ever since, she got on board, “there has been no dull moments,” she enthused. “I actually love going places and meeting people so, “being on the road” as an occupation is fun for me everyday”. Interestingly, she tells you about the other things that occupy her time because she is an advocate of multiple streams of income. Driving as a side-kick “Being a serial entrepreneur, I drive as a “side hustle”.  I am also a project manager and I am currently working on the execution of another series scheduled for October 1in Alimosho Local Government Area. It is tagged: REENDIV FUNFAIR. The event hopes to host dignitaries from all walks of life alongside a community of school where children and their parents would be participating,” she said. Mobility is key in everything she does. According to her, “ I also design career tours for institutions tailored to each age class, the big idea is to disclose the invincible but yet viable career options in different industries to young minds. I do healthcare delivery service as I have worked in the health sector for about nine years to mention but a few.” This certainly is the best thing that has happened to her, she opines painting pictures of her day to day experience amidst laughter. “Every moment for me is memorable and I must say that driving has availed me the opportunity of meeting with people of various personalities. This includes the good, the bad and the ugly. However, the most important thing is my ability to relate with each person according to his or her perspective to life.” Challenges abound on a daily basis but she is ready to tell anyone who cares to listen that this does not deter her in anyway. “One of the greatest challenge with driving as a job is the unfavourable conditions set by available e-hailing Apps (Uber, Taxify/bolt, GidiCab, InterCab, etc) as they stand as our partner (intermediaries) to reach our riders (clients).” Another challenge, for her is the accessibility to stable internet connections by network providers. “We experience breach in connectivity in certain locations giving that the nature of our work is network based. Another major challenge is security threat for driver partners as we live in the fear of being preyed upon by men of the underworld either for ritual purposes or to snatch the car but we live in the shadow of God’s grace and mercy.” On her part, Nkechi Anyagwa became a cab driver shortly after going to a driver school. It was passion and gradually, she realized that she could also make a living this way. Happily, she takes you through her daily routine and the things that keep her going.  Speaking in an animated tone that signifies job satisfaction, she said, “I have come to find the job as very interesting because I am passionate about driving. My days, especially on the road is always fulfilling and productive.” Just before she opted for this new experience, Nkechi was a fashion designer and she is also into teaching to make ends meet. .“As a driver I drive on e-hailing platforms like Uber and Bolt, I must say that since, I started there has been lots of memorable days for me.” To buttress her point, Nkechi talks about a particular experience, she can never forget. “One of such days was when a rider took me on a spree and we had fun together. I must say that I have never had such fun in a long time. We went to the beach, cinema, had lots to eat and at the end of it all I was fully paid for a day’s job.” Like Maureen, Nkechi agrees that there are lots of challenges for women working in the sector. “But the pressing ones are bad roads that damage the car. You also have to contend with heavy traffic which hinders the earnings per day. That is not all. There are also the challenges with insecurity on high way. These are just a few; there are so   of many others.” Happily, she tells you about an umbrella body that she belongs to called Female Drivers Association of Nigeria (FEDAN) and how it has helped to solve problems and foster unity amongst the female cab drivers. “Basically FEDAN has helped in shaping my passion for driving through lots of training and seminar organised by the association. I would therefore like to see more increase in the organisation’s membership. In addition, it will also be great to have increase in our financial support from financial institutions and the corporate sector.” Asked if the business is lucrative? She replies:  “The business from the perspective of an e-hailing driver is more lucrative if the car you drive belongs to you.” Pleasure on the wheels Dorothy Akpan is another corporate cab driver that you just cannot help but admire. For her, driving is about dignity of labour. Whatever you find yourself doing, it is important to stand out and do it very well. “I was first taught how to drive by my late mum’s office driver. He then ran a driving academy back in my state and I showed interest. At that point, I had just started my education at the university but I knew it was a skill that would be useful for me someday.” Akpan’s typical day begins with the home chores very early in the morning. Once the assignment from the home is dealt with she moves out to the next phase of the day’s routine eking a living taking people to various destinations. “That has become my daily business and it has become very interesting for me. After the day’s job, I would either pass through to church for evening worship days or the market and supermarket to get groceries and back home.” Interestingly, she used to be a marketer before venturing into driving.  “I found this actually very interesting and fulfilling. There are days when I have a quality discussion or just share experiences with some of my riders and they leave my car so excited that they came across a person like me. That way, I see myself touching lives on a daily basis. You just cannot quantify some of the lessons learnt out and the stress that has been taken away from someone who was probably depressed before they boarded your car.” One other thing that keeps her going is the fact that the business is very lucrative. “We are very important to the economy, we can’t take transportation out of our daily routine because we always need to move from point A to B.” Bad roads which affects her car often causing her to go for repairs, she laments affects her profit. “You also have to contend with long traffics that often cause delays and this also affects the set trip targets. My dream is to get more funds to grow my business to the level I wish to. Also being a member of FEDAN gives me hope about my business because of the ability to be amongst people who share in my pains and understands the challenges. “One other thing, I wish for is accessibility of loan facilities. This would not just help women who are already in the business but also encourage the upcoming drivers who may be willing to come in and buy their vehicles. Access to vehicles in form of a loan at a reasonable cost and flexible repayment plan.” FEDAN, she stressed has helped in promoting and encouraging women who are commercial drivers and has inspired them to believe in themselves and kill pride. “It is important to know full well that driving is a legitimate business. They have also assisted in linking members to jobs opportunities.” For Maryjane Nwabuoke who operates in Abuja, becoming a cab driver was a last resort. “I started driving mainly because of financial challenges. I needed to do something to survive and that option came my way. My typical day is very hectic and busy with passengers and every other road user.” Nwabuoke was also into fashion designing but things weren’t moving smoothly, patronage was very low and looking for an alternative became imperative. “Gradually, I got into the sector and with time I found it to be very interesting.” She goes on to talk about some of her experiences and some memorable moments as a driver. “The initial first timers experience is not what to forget in a hurry. The hustle and bustle with the agberos, some law enforcement agents could be really discouraging. There are also some people who are prejudiced and they believe that a woman cannot drive them safely.” One major challenge as a taxi driver in Abuja, she informed is parking space. “The garage in Wuse for instance cannot contain all the vehicles that ply a particular route, yet the law enforcement agency wants everyone to get in there before one can pick passengers. Another frustrating challenge is the taskforce.” Next, she goes on to talk about some of the changes that she would like to see in the sector. “I would like the government to support the women by empowering them in the sector and also allow the women some leverage in enforcing some laws when it comes to a woman’s matter. Also at a motor park where there is a female driver, I think the authority should always allow the few women there, to load their vehicles before the men. This is because we close earlier than the men and we need to go and attend to our families.” Lucrative? Yes, she snatches the question from your mouth happily. “The business is highly lucrative because as a driver you are never bankrupt as long as you are working.” On her part, Kalu Uko Chidinma became a driver when her father told her he wouldn’t teach her how to drive because of her gender. She was not happy about the stereotype and decided to remove the limits herself. Then I was 26yrs old. I took the bold step to learn how to drive through FEDAN awareness creation. Today I have proved to my father, that what a man can do, a woman can do also.” Moving from work to passion Driving around town has also grown from work to a passion. “I see myself enjoying driving and get excited when people see me and marvel at what I do. The happiest moments for me included when I bought my first car and started carrying passengers from one point to another. It was also interesting earning cool money to support myself and family.” Her antecedents before being a cab driver are also very interesting and you can see determination etched all over her face. “I was a footballer and a bus conductor before becoming a driver. I did all this to support my education and today, I am glad to have taken these steps.” She continued: “My memorable day was February 6, 2014, when I first plied the road. The first person I met was a woman who refused to board my car, but at the end of the day I had three thousand naira after all my expenses.” What are challenges? Like Nwabuoke, the arrangement in the parking lot at the garage in Abuja is a major challenge. “Some persons feel drivers are uneducated or that driving is not meant for females. Luckily, FEDAN trained me to be professional driver, and empowered me with my present job as a government driver in FCDA Abuja. I am the first female government driver in Abuja. FEDAN is always there to protect female drivers.” Just before she leaves , Chidinma talked about some of the changes that she would like to see in the sector. “I would want more women to be in the transportation sector, because women are careful in driving. In addition, I would like to see the public promoting and patronising female drivers. This can happen if we have a transportation policy to promote gender balance in driving recruitment.” All the women also said they would love for a governing or regulatory body to take charge of bridging the gap between drivers’ partners and available App companies to ensure a mutual relationship between the two. They also express love fopr the job because it makes their time flexible and make planning for the home front easy. Welcome to the world of female professional drivers.