 For Nigerians to enjoy uninterrupted power supply, the government must free the sector from political interference and allow power contracts and market fundamentals to take their cause, writes JOHN OFIKHENUA.  IT was meant to change things for the better. But, things have remained the same, if not worse. The 2013 calculation, which saw the Federal Government divesting 60 per cent of its stake in the electricity distribution companies (DisCos) to 11 private investors and retaining 40 per cent, has failed. The government also privatised the generation companies (GenCos) but holds on to the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), which wheels power from its generators to the distributors. Except that the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) prides itself with installed capacity, the power that is available for consumption is still about an average of 3,000Mw. It is marginally higher than where the private investors started from when actual power sent out was slightly above 2,000mw. However, for political capital, the Federal Government has been reluctant to base its decision on economic parameters. Therefore, it has remained an onlooker while the DisCos and the TCN trade the blame of who is responsible for the immutable darkness in the country. Ministry of Power Permanent Secretary Dr Louis Edozien told Minister of Power Mamman Sale and Minister of State for Power Goddy Jedy Agba that the Power Purchase Agreements the government had with the investors was not friendly because it compels the government to pay for unused electricity. Thus, whenever the DisCos reject the load that the System Operator allocates to them, the Federal Government, which the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) Company interfaces for, pays for the shortfall. Edozien said: “We (Federal Government) created an industry that places a huge contingent liability on the government. We have to apply our intellect to this problem to solve it … The Minister of State, I know that is an area you are familiar with. Both of you have to lead us out of this quagmire.” But the nagging question is how the government can free itself from the dilemma. Will the government cease paying for the shortfall? President Muhammadu Buhari has already approved N600billion for onward disbursement into the sector. The intervention is coming after the depletion of the N701billion Payment Assurance Guarantee for the GenCos. NBET Managing Director Dr Marilyn Amobi told the ministers on resumption last week that: “We manage through the Federal Government any credit facility that is provided in the industry. And in that regard, we concluded the management of the N701billion, which was the payment assurance provided to NBET as a loan to enable it to carry out its purchase with the Generation Companies. This was approved on the 1st of March, 2017. And within that context, it was a loan that the CBN gave to us at 5 per cent. And currently, the government is discussing an expansion of another N600billion that will make it N1.3billion. Before this, we had a shareholder loan of 350million Euro from European bond which was given to NBET as a share loan capitalisation. We managed it and successfully we paid back to the Debt Management Office last year- the principal and interest elements. We still have the bit of that about N1.2billion to be able to repay to conclude that…But one thing you will hear is the question around undelivered power that we have made. So, in summary, since the Transition Electricity Market stated till today, at the last payment, last month, the company has borne a payment of N181billion to five generation companies based on their contracts with us but for electricity that Nigerians did not use.” Unless the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) allows a cost-reflective tariff in the electricity market, the DisCos, analysts argue, will continue to hold the government and consumers by the jugular. The courage to do that is, however, far-fetched. Just this year, after listening to stakeholders in the power sector at a NERC workshop on Eligible Customer Regulation in Abuja on February 12, Edozien dropped a hint that the government would cease paying for the electricity shortfall, stressing that it was not the government’s obligation. According to him, the consumers should pay for the power they consume, adding: “In addition to that 2,000 MW, the 4,000mwh that is consistently being delivered is not fully paid for. Government through the nation’s insurance programme is paying the generation companies for any shortfall payment from NBET.” He went on: “Clearly that is not what the act intends the industry to be. And ultimately the government has to exit from this role. So, it is this regulation that will ensure that not just stranded power but delivered power, is delivered to consumers who are contractually bound to pay for it. And if they do not pay for it they, do not enjoy the service.” But he was to recant his words as soon as the stories went virile in the media. Only last week, the NERC released an upward review of the Multi-Year Tariff Order (MYTO) on its website. A day after the media feasted on it, the commission’s chairman, Prof. James Momoh, in an interview with reporters after the inaugural meeting of the ministers in the Power House, he expressed his readiness to defend the approved hike to whoever cares, including the opposing Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). He said: “If any customer or NLC comes, we will show them how we did it. And I am sure they (NLC) will show the customers how we did it to understand us.” Surprisingly, the commission issued a statement the next day that it was yet to approve any tariff for the DisCos. NERC General Manager, Public Affairs Usman Arabi,   in a statement, said the commission  was still consulting. “However, the commission in the discharge of its statutory responsibilities enshrined under the  Electric Power Sector Reform (EPSR) Act, shall continue to undertake periodic reviews of electricity tariffs in accordance with prevailing tariff methodology. “In all instances of such reviews and rule-making, the commission shall widely consult stakeholders and final decision shall be taken with  due regard of all contributions,” he said. Arabi said the minor review implemented by the commission was a retrospective adjustment of the tariff regime released in 2015 He said this was to account for changes in macroeconomic indices for 2016, 2017 and 2018, “thus providing certainty about revenue shortfall that may have arisen due to the differential between tariffs approved by the regulator and actual end-user tariffs,” he said. The commission froze the tariff before the 2015 general elections. Analysts attributed this to the perceived outcry and negative publicity it would elicit against the then ruling government. On assumption of office, the present government simply took advantage of the prevailing directive to maintain the status quo. It has all been politics and semantics, say analysts. But the poser remains: When will the government and stakeholders divorce electricity business from politics? The Transition Electricity Market (TEM) should be activated so that the sector will thrive on a price mechanism, which is the interplay between demand and supply. Instead of this, a transparently defined electricity subsidy, said analysts, will cushion the effect of the cost of electricity on the consumers, especially the poorest ones. As high as the tariff will be, it will reach its equilibrium and subsequently decline when the supply of electrify exceeds the demand for it, argue observers. The low hanging fruits that the sector can harvest for the government to score its easiest goal with the electricity market are its ability to sustain the two major policies that former Minister Babatunde Fashola kicked-started. To enthrone the spirit of transparency, accountability and fairness for the investors and electricity consumers, the NERC introduced the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) policy. It relieved the DisCos the burden of funding metering. It is already in force with a considerable level of success. Besides, under Fashola’s watch, the commission also flagged-off the Eligible Customer regulation, which has not only incentivised bulk electricity consumers but also fascinated more international customers to the grid. Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) Managing Director Usman Gur Mohammed said the implementation of the eligible customer policy has not stopped. “It will move,” he said, stressing that “there is a new directive from the government that we reduce our liability. We cannot continue to carry liability on the national budget like this all the time. It doesn’t make sense.” Insisting on the separation of politics from the development of the power sector, he said the only contractors that would now be qualified to implement its projects would be those with the technical and financial capability. He said all contracts must now be completed within 18 to 24 months. The TCN boss added: “Now, we don’t need politics. We need infrastructure. After infrastructure, we can play politics.” As a result of political patronage, the company recorded 800 stranded containers in the ports, which Mohammed has almost cleared. Politics in the power sector has always come with corruption. Interest groups benefit from the spoils while the government looks on the other side. Yet the malpractice, which cuts across the different value chains over the years, is now fizzling out. According to Mohammed, it was only recently that the TCN was planning to relocate its National Control Centre from a rented property due to security reasons, that it realised that it was paying rent on its land in Osogbo. He said: “For your information, for several years we have been operating our National Control Centre, Osogbo, the land we use is rented land. We had been paying rent on that land for over 50 years. I am happy to announce that that land belongs to us and we are not paying rent again.” He was silent on the likelihood of the government recovering the 50-year rent. However, freeing the power sector from the corrupt practices and political interference must be with holistic. What the new ministers must do in a hurry to succeed is to quickly activate the government shares in the DisCos. Already it has increased its representation on the board of the companies. What is left for it to do instantly is the contribution to the recapitalisation of the firm. According to the TCN boss, “What we are saying is that to correct this thing, we have to recapitalise the DisCos. The recapitalisation requires $4.3billion, which means they have to bring the balance. What we are saying is that the government cannot be passive anymore… Government ownership should be represented by four directors just like proportional to the investment. The government should bring its own 40 per cent capital. We have simulated the grid to examine the investment requirement by the DisCos. And we have come to $4.3billion. Government is going to bring its 40 per cent of $4.3billion which is about $1.7billion.” The NERC, he said, is expected to draft the proclamation for the procurement of all the power equipment and contracts to insulate the money from public funds predators. As fantastic as these ideas are, the government, observers said, must wield the big stick were necessary to realise them. Since the excuse of the DisCos is that they cannot distribute power sufficiently because of lack of a cost-reflective tariff, it has become expedient for the government to allow a slight hike that will not weaken the consumers. This, it must also do with a strict implementation of the metering policy to ensure that no customer or government pays for unused electricity. Although a regulator should have a human face in its operation, it ought not to operate in a manner that it becomes obvious that it has no voice of its own. The NERC, as it is today, is like a reed in the tide, it easily recoils into its shell with any shrilly outcry. When any interest yells at it, it withholds its decision or denies it completely. With this, it cannot live up to its name to be truly independent of interference. Unless the commission leaves its decision to market fundamentals, it will remain at whim and caprice of those it is supposed to regulate or the government.  VIEWS FROM A CONCERNED PARTY  THE Coalition for Affordable and Regular Electricity (CARE) has suggested how to revive the electricity sector. The group, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Chinedu Bosah, and National Secretary, M.K. Shoyombo,  said the failure of the privatisation policy to revive the sector called “for re-nationalisation of the power sector under the transparent and democratic control of the working masses as a means of ensuring massive investment, efficiency, affordable tariff and uninterrupted power supply”. It said the move to increase tariff showed “the failure of privatisation, obvious incapacity of the power companies to massively invest, develop the power industry and give consumers affordable and uninterrupted power supply”. The group added that continuing the privatisation programme amounts to rewarding the failure of the DisCos and GenCos. “Overwhelmingly, many electricity consumers are forced to pay outrageous and unwarranted estimated bills; facilities and power infrastructure remain in a deplorable state; lack of investment to turn around the sector and poor working conditions of electricity workers. The consequence is widespread darkness in many communities; load-shedding and epileptic/poor power supply leading to a situation where in the country with a population of about 200 million people gets a paltry 4000 MW averagely,” it said.