As Kaduna State High Court decides today on the application by leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, to travel abroad for medical treatment, the state police command has reminded the public, especially members of the movement, about the ban on procession/demonstration. The IMN leader had requested to travel to India with his wife, Zeenat, for medical attention. The court adjourned last week till today for a ruling on the application. But yesterday, the police warned against any form of processions/demonstration in Kaduna State, saying the residents should be vigilant about the people around them. In a statement by its spokesman Yakubu Sabo, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said: “The Kaduna State Police Command wishes to notify the general public to exercise more security consciousness as they go about their lawful businesses by being extra vigilant of their environment, persons around them, and activities of suspicious persons to prevent miscreants from disturbing the peace of the state. “Members of the public should note that the ban on all forms of processions/demonstrations in Kaduna State is still in force. The police will not hesitate to deal decisively with any person or group of persons who deliberately attempts to violate the ban. “In view of the court trial of Malam Ibraheem El-Zakzaky on August 5, the peace-loving and law-abiding people of Kaduna State are to note that tight security has been put in place for a hitch-free court appearance. “Therefore, members of the public are advised to remain calm and not to be apprehensive where they observe unusual number of security personnel in town. “As part of the strategy put in place for a smooth process of the court trial, there will be traffic diversion in the following areas during the court session: Independence Way, Bida Road and all other roads leading to Ibrahim Taiwo Road in Kaduna. “The command uses this medium to call on the general public to report suspicious activities or persons around them to the nearest security agency. In this regard, police emergency numbers: 07039675856 and 08075391105 can be reached in case of any distress/emergency, please.”