The vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23, 2019 election, Mr Peter Obi has said that Nigeria can be better than it is now, but required God’s revival to return to its glory. In a goodwill message on the occasion of the Eid el-Kabir, Obi urged Muslims in the country to use the period of celebrations to pray God to beam His searchlight on Nigeria and revive it. The former Governor of Anambra state said that God has destined Nigeria to be a great people and a great nation but through human failings, the country is down the valley. Obi said, “We must all therefore return to God in deep supplication to save our country and time like this provides huge opportunity for us to cry to God for justice and fair play in our land. “Without justice and freedom, this society cannot blossom. Let us therefore in unison, cry to God for mercy by providing people conscious and God fearing political leadership”. He noted the prevailing hardship in the country, including the needless bloodletting but urged the people not to allow it affect their spirit of love, brotherliness and peaceful co-existence. Obi said rather, the people should use this year’s Eid-El Kabir festivities to engender the spirit of oneness and also re-dedicate themselves to the virtues of love, patriotism and unity for the desired national development. He called on Nigerians to allow the solemnness of this period to influence their thoughts and actions in relating with one another. The PDP chieftain admonished the government to relax what he described as the tensed situation in the country by seeking a pragmatic solution to the increasing security challenges and following the rule of law and respect for the rights of citizens as required by democracy. According to him, government and its agencies should, through actions and inactions, be at the forefront of engendering love, humility and forgiveness which should guide the citizens’ way of living irrespective of religion, ethnic and political differences and also, help in ushering in a new and adorable era where bitterness, hatred and warring shall give way to peace and concord.