Retired management staff members of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria(FAAN) are set to contest the removal of certain aspect of their retirement benefits at the Lagos High Court. Also to be contested is the refusal of the management to review their pension every five years according to the Constitution. The planned action is coming on the heels of a 14-day ultimatum issued last week by FAAN branch of Nigerian Union of Pensioners. Meanwhile, in preparation for today’s street protest, officials of  FAAN branch of NUP have pasted posters with various inscriptions at strategic areas of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Ikeja,Lagos alerting the public to their planned protest and called on FAAN pensioners across the country to converge on FAAN headquarters, Lagos for pre-protest general meeting. The branch threatened legal action if some aspects of their  monthly pension/emoluments were not fully restored. Briefing reporters at the weekend,  the National Chairman of FAAN branch of NUP and National Administrative Secretary, Comrades Rasak Ope and Emeka Njoku said if at the expiration of the ultimatum and nothing was done to ameliorate their grievances, FAAN pensioners throughout the country would hold a protest. According to sources close to the retired management staff members, some of their leaders have been  consulting on plans to sue the management in the court and seek the interpretation of the Section 173 of the 1999 Constitution as it relates to their agitation. The aggrieved staff workers, in supporting the FAAN-NUP, noted that since the agreement was entered into in 2008 and the implementation had been respected by all the previous management, except the management under Captain Rabiu Yadudu, who had allegedly violated the agreement signed years before his appointment and also disregard the country’s Constitution as regards the rights of pensioners under the law. They claimed that the implementation of the agreement started during the tenure of Mr Richard Aisuebeogun as managing director and others had followed, except CaptainYadudu. They reminded those advising the chief executive wrongly that he too would become a retiree and would face the same problem. Meanwhile, Captain Yadudu last week visited Imo State Governor  Emeka Ihedioha. The visit, which was in continuation of his interaction with critical stakeholders, included FAAN’s Directors of  Engineering Services, Human Resources and Administration, Airport Operations, General Manager, Procurement, Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport Manager. The MD and his team also visited  Oyo State Governor Mr. Seyi Makinde to discuss areas of collaboration. Capt Yadudu said Owerri Airport is strategic to the development of the Southeast and that there was the need to collaborate to develop infrastructure at the airport. Capt Yadudu noted that any investment in the airport would be a catalyst for the development of the state and would create employment for the indigenes. Ihedioha expressed his readiness to support the authority to develop critical infrastructure at the airport.