There are security concerns in the nation’s capital following the abrupt return of Sheikh Ibraheem el-Zakzaky, leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) from a medical trip to India. GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports The return of the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) Sheikh Ibraheem el-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenat to Abuja, the nation’s capital, after the alleged lack of breakthrough in the impasse that ensued in his medical treatment in New Delhi, India, has been a source of worry to Abuja residents. Until Saturday, December 12, 2015, barely six months after President Muhammadu Buhari took over the helm of affairs, not many in Nigeria outside the North knew about the activities of the Shiites otherwise known as the Islamic Movement in Nigeria. El-Zakzaky and his religious group which has its administrative headquarters in Zaria, Kaduna State, were well known by residents of Kaduna State. Only travellers to Kaduna and Kano states who encountered its members during processions that usually take over large portions of the major highway knew the group before 2015. The movement began with a Shia Muslim university activist, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, who is said to have become so impressed with the 1979 Iranian Revolution that he wanted one at home. Later, Zakzaky went to Iran, ultimately becoming a Shia cleric. At home he became the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria and turned it into a vehicle for proselytising and gaining followers in the 1990s. As a result of his activities, millions have converted to Shia Islam in a country where they were rarely known before. There have been many processions by the sect in Abuja. The most recent were the ones at the National Assembly and at the Federal Secretariat, Abuja. During the protest at the National Assembly, the protesters clashed with security operatives while trying to gain access to the parliament. Two policemen were shot while several cars were damaged during the clash. Also, in the July 22, 2019 protest within the Central Business District of Abuja, many lives were lost on both sides. One of them was Deputy Commissioner of Police in Charge of Operations in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command, DCP Usman Umar and a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Precious Owolabi, who was deployed to Channels Television, for his primary assignment. Two Assistant Superintendents of Police were seriously wounded while 13 members of the IMN also died. The development drew national outrage. Abuja residents had thought that this last experience will put an end to the group’s daily protest and coupled with the fact that El-Zakzaky and his wife were meant to receive adequate treatment in India. But this turned out to be the opposite as he complained that security operatives did not allow him and his wife to see their doctors and that the Nigerian government was forcing him to accept to be treated as a criminal. There was a drama at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja last Friday as operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) sneaked in the embattled leader, El-Zakzaky and his wife when they arrived aboard an Ethiopian Airline by noon last Friday. He was taken through the Presidential Wing by the operatives, preventing journalists to have any contacts with the couple. Journalists present at the airport were asked to set their cameras at the arrival lounge of the International Wing but were not allowed to see him. The development led to the IMN issuing a statement condemning the circumstance, vowing to resume their suspended protest until El-Zakzaky and his wife are given proper treatment and freed. IMN refuted the claims by the Federal Government that the Shi’ite leaders rejected medical attention in India. In a statement, the President Media Forum of IMN, Ibrahim Musa said the  government “had an ulterior motive it was nursing using its connections in India when it violated court order and interfered with the procedures of the Sheikh’s treatment. This can also be deduced from the way the security agents whisked him away to unknown destination after arrival at Abuja International airport, without allowing him to have audience with the journalists that were waiting for his arrival.” The Federal Government said El-Zakzaky raised false alarm, alleging that the IMN leader planned to seek asylum while on medical treatment in India. El-Zakzaky’s other plan, according to the government, was to get an Indian court to grant him leave to relocate to another country. To achieve this plan, he was said to have engaged lawyers and some human right groups to help execute his agenda. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Culture, Mrs. Grace Isu Gekpe, said El-Zakzaky’s actions in India demonstrated malicious intents capable of embarrassing the Governments of Nigeria and India. Gekpe said the IMN leader also tried to violate an order of the Nigerian court by approaching an Indian court to seek asylum or leave to travel to another country. Part of the statement reads: “The Government notes with dismay the acts of misconduct exhibited by El-Zakzaky that necessitated his repatriation. “While in India, he initiated contacts with a team of lawyers led by Ali Zia Kabir Chaudary and Gunjan Singh in that country. “He also contacted some Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), such as the Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC) and other Shiite groups. “His aim was to seek asylum and eventually relocate to another country. “The earlier statement of 14th August 2019 by the Government addressed the issues that would have raised some questions with the latest occurrences and particularly the uncelebrated return of El-Zakzaky from India. “The public may note that El-Zakzaky’s actions in India demonstrated malicious intents that were capable of embarrassing the Governments of Nigeria and India. “With total disrespect and complete loss of decorum for international procedures while in India, he initiated contacts with a team of lawyers led by Ali Zia Kabir Chaudary and Gunjan Singh in that country. “He also contacted some Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), such as the Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC) and other Shiite groups. His aim was to seek asylum and eventually relocate to another country. “It is important to note that if an Indian court had granted El-Zakzaky asylum or leave to travel to another country, it would have violated the Nigerian court order that granted him permission to travel for medical treatment. “However, he used the opportunity of being in India to attempt to internationalise his cause by mobilising the Rights groups. “Even most unfortunate and rather embarrassing as earlier stated, was his quest to be relocated to a 5-Star hotel to receive visitors instead of being admitted in the hospital as a sick person he claimed to be. “In spite of his misconduct, El-Zakzaky’s spouse went further to antagonise the Indian and Nigerian security agents and accused the latter of killing her children. “These acts were aimed at winning international sympathy as well as disparaging the Nigerian Government. “Having subordinated the quest for medical treatment to other ulterior motives, it became obvious that El-Zakzaky was focused on realising some sinister motives thus the decision to return him to Nigeria”. Reacting to the arrival and detention of El-Zakzaky and his wife by the DSS, Abuja residents now live in fear of the unknown. Ibrahim Shittu said: “The return of El-Zakzaky to Abuja and his arrest is not a welcome development at all. Now that the security agencies have rearrested him, his followers will resume protests thereby pandemonium will continue to be the order of the day in Abuja. Government should find a lasting solution to this sad development. Now that his followers have vowed to resume protests, Abuja people are not safe on the street. We all remember what happened weeks back where people were killed just because of their protest. This should not be allowed to continue.” A security expert, Segun Olododo said: “These El-Zakzaky followers may not be holding any weapon but they are most times violent. Government should prevent the resumption of their protests which I know will be violent. “We all live in constant fear of violence, with mayhem and carnage reigning supreme. Several things about Nigeria shock the international community. The consequence is that global media giants now give the country a bad mention in their news bulletins due to the earthshaking story. We take in our stride stories that in other climes will elicit global shockwave. The world is moving on without Nigeria, the self-acclaimed giant of Africa, which has been reduced to a mere footnote in global affairs. We need to find s lasting solution to this sad development.” Others are appealing government to by all means ensure that this lingering issue is resolved to avoid more killings in the land. Security has been beefed-up within the capital city to forestall any breakdown of law and other especially when the IMN vowed to resume protest.