We now live in a world unlike that of any era in history where it’s increasingly easier to be exposed to deceptive ideas or ideology. This era has bestowed upon us the notion of “alternative facts” where truth is skewed to fit into often wrong narratives. It is therefore not surprising that the phrase “post truth” was coined; you are thus free to define “truth” as you deem fit. I am of the opinion that when we fail to engage in serious contemplation of life’s dominant issues, we place ourselves and our entire society in a precarious position. This is true because by relinquishing these reins, we bestow on less notable minds the privilege of constructing a worldview for which we might all pay the consequence in the long run. In the first part of this article last week, I focused on some traits that an emotionally intelligent leader is expected to possess. This does not however limit emotional intelligence (EI) skills to leaders alone. No; it is a skill meant for everyone which is why it is now a vital skill in being employed by serious organisations bent on making progress and impacting on society. The EI leader leads with the heart. Leaders who have passion show their emotions and vulnerability, and they connect with many citizens/ employees on an emotional level, too.  Many leaders are analytical, but if they are just cold and calculating, there may be too much distance between them and their subordinates to truly be on the same team. Even though it wasn’t known then, the late Sir Winston Churchill, Britain’s WWII leader, deployed EI to rally his demoralised countrymen to stand against Nazi dictatorship. Britain and the western powers eventually prevailed in the end. I must add that this doesn’t mean a leader with heart is a pushover or puts up with inappropriate behaviour either, it means addressing a subordinate with warmth. Detached directness without empathy is brutal. If a leader is serious all the time, then it creates a very austere environment. Some leaders are afraid to be light, because they want to be taken seriously. It’s usually a sign of insecurity. An EI leader presents balance – he must possess a sense of humour. People tend to work harder and smarter when there is a sense of fun. Morale is linked to productivity, and as a leader, this means to instill a positive energy to the workspace. As a leader, there will be crisis when things are not moving forward; this is where confidence moves in. It’s important to not fall into overwhelm or overreact. People look to the leader for cues on how to respond to the circumstances and if a leader is confident while taking care of issues, it will help keep the team feeling the same. Great leadership is about having the confidence to make decisions and not second guess them. Those who inspire others to follow into the unknown, do so possessing self-confidence. Again, the example of Churchill will suffice. Intuitive leaders make quick decisions based on a lifetime of accumulated wisdom and understanding. Leading a country/team through new territory, without a map, means everything is uncertain, and the higher the risk, the higher the pressure. Logic is important, but can’t be the only determining factor for making a decision. A leader who trusts his or her gut will take the necessary measures that inspire others to do the same. Former president Barack Obama of the USA did this when he had to make a decision whether to order the raid that killed Osama Bin Ladin in Pakistan. Offered a 60% probability ratio of a successful raid by his security chiefs, he relied on his gut feelings to order the raid after excusing himself and taking a short walk. In a study conducted by IBM, 200 CEO’s stated: “Today’s business environment is volatile, uncertain and increasingly complex. Because of this, the ability to create something that’s both novel and appropriate is top of mind.” Not all decisions are cut and dry, it’s about being able to deviate from the set course and look outside of the box for a different option. Collaborative brainstorming with no holds barred can bring an entirely new and creative solution to a challenge. Innovation is the result of creativity. An EI leader, who confidently promotes diverse creative thinking, will arrive by taking quantum leaps that create innovations. The Churchill and Obama examples shows that leadership still requires an authority over vision, but it must be intertwined with putting citizens and their needs first. This acknowledgment from leadership creates happier, more productive compatriots and more effective managers – executive, legislative and judicial arms of government. In the business world, many organizations with a seemingly endless supply of technical know-how and years of experience continue to struggle because they lack EI. These businesses also encounter difficulty preventing employee turnover. Alternatively, companies with high EI enjoy many advantages, including better team engagement. Teams that feel a negative attachment – or no attachment at all – to team leaders or their teammates disengage and, therefore, fail to capitalise on the inherent benefits of working as a team. EI thus acknowledges the team dynamic and gives everyone a voice. Imbibing a “culture” is also of paramount importance. Organisations often talk about how great their company culture is, but without EI, what you think your culture is might differ from what your employees actually feel. Edgar H. Schein and Peter A. Schein write in Humble Leadership: The Power of Relationships, Openness, and Trust, “In our view, leadership is always a relationship, and truly successful leadership thrives in a group culture of high openness and high trust.” Leaders with EI encourage stronger relationships and open communication, which moves people closer to the culture the company likely wants to achieve. This is achieved through trusted employees, whose emotions are valued and who aren’t subjected to the negative, unfiltered emotions of their superiors. They produce high performance-driven results. These benefits all have something in common: the enhanced EI leaders have developed produces positive results in their employees. As Robert Johansen writes in The New Leadership Literacies: Thriving in a Future of Extreme Disruption and Distributed Everything, “If leaders are going to thrive in a future of extreme disruption, they must not only manage their own energy, they must encourage, model, and reward positive energy in others.” The benefits people and organizations can realise from emotional intelligence are undeniable. The two books I cited above are excellent models of how EI can transform good leaders into great leaders, and how those great leaders can subsequently transform their organizations. They mentioned the servant leadership model which emphasises the responsibility of leaders to serve employees instead of the other way around. EI leaders put aside ego and self-promotion to empathise with others, which ultimately builds respect and sets up workers for success. Another, the humble leadership model, details how humility and collaboration fosters trust between leaders and subordinates, to the benefit of the entire organization. Relationships thrive when leaders make the effort to truly understand their employees. EI can provide the backbone of that understanding that strengthens team building, productivity, morale, and more. Last Monday in Abuja, President Muhammadu Buhari told then ministers-designate that they must work as a team, stressing that his administration would rely on them to implement policies and programmes to lift Nigerians out of poverty. The president also described as frightening Nigeria’s “looming” population status, which he put at 200 million today but has been estimated by the United Nations (UN) to rise to 411 million by 2050. He told them that “working as a team demands that we know what the next person is doing.” He implored his audience to cultivate the team spirit, educating them that even though they have been chosen from their various states in line with the dictate of the constitution, it is necessary for them to work as Nigerians by engaging in open communications as lack of communication leads to sub-optimal performance. In a way, he subtly charged them to be emotionally intelligent as they would be responsible for policy development and implementation in their various ministries, departments and agencies in conformity with government priorities.