LAGOS State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) has sealed two illegal e-waste factories, including that of two Chinese said to have emitted toxic substances in Ikeja. The factories, located at 19, Sule Abuka, Street, Opebi, Lagos and 15, Adekunle Fajuyi Street, GRA, Ikeja were said to be owned and managed by Chinese. The shutting of the factories followed the arrest of two Chinese, Lin Piehao, 22, and Li Ruoneng, 27, said to be living in the country illegally and operating an illegal factory that was polluting the environment. A statement on Thursday by LASEPA’s Public Affairs Officer Bola Ajao said the factories were illegal, unregistered and operated without permit. Quoting the agency’s General Manager Ayodele Antonio, Ajao said the factories engaged in handling, recycling and transporting of electronic devices to Asian countries without operational permit, contrary to the Lagos State Environmental Management and Protection Law, Part V1 of 2017. She said Antonio lamented the operators’ breach of basic rules guiding the trade, despite warnings. “Nobody will be allowed to operate in the state without valid documentation. Obtaining permit before operation is sacrosanct and cannot be negotiated based on the environmental implication of unprofessionally managed factories. “The state has developed effective and appropriate technology for safe management of handling, storing, recovery, recycling, transporting, controlling, treatment and disposal of e-waste materials. “Operators are  urged to avail themselves of the opportunities provided by the government in order to safeguard the environment and promote the social and economic growth of the state without compromising the environment, health, welfare, protection of property and quality of life. “There will be no hiding place for violators. The agency will comb the nooks and crannies of the state to maintain orderliness and sanity in the area of e-waste management and other environment related issues,” Antonio said 