President Muhammadu Buhari has said his administration recognised the need to focus more attention on youth empowerment by creating the enabling environment for jobs and capacity building. He spoke at the Global Youth Employment Forum (GYEF) of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in Abuja. The President, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, said Nigeria placed more value on the youth who represent today and the future of the nation. He was optimistic that the event would bring together select young people from ILO member states, to discuss an issue of importance to the young and the old. He also reiterated that human capacity development, implementation of dedicated programmes and technical/financial support cannot be over-emphasised, adding that he was grateful the ILO has committed itself to youth employment and the future of work in Africa with in-depth understanding of the rapidly changing demographics, the emerging world of work and the challenges of natural economic stabilities. He added that his administration recognises youths’ creative potential and the need to sharpen their global competitive edge. According to him, the Central Bank of Nigeria has introduced the Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI) to improve access to long-term low-cost financing for entrepreneurs to invest in Nigeria. Earlier in a welcome address, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Mr. William Alo, said a growing youth population could provide an important opportunity to expand the labour potential of any country. According to him, investing in youth education closes the gender gaps in labour markets and education. Alo further stated that the theme for 2019 GYEF, “Today and Tomorrow with decent Jobs for Youth”, was apt in the light of the persistent global youth employment challenges and the future of work initiative, which the ILO has placed on the front burner of discuss. He adding that the future of the world rests within the youth who constitute the most productive segment of the global population.