The movement of Nigeria’s capital city from Lagos to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja on the 12th December, 1991 resulted in the relocation of the seat of power from Dodan Barracks to the centre of the country. By that movement, the office and official residence of the political head of the country, from the era of former Military President Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida to date, became the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Presidential Villa Abuja is situated in an area previously occupied by a thick jungle with various types of animals living within. The surrounding Aso rock standing behind the Presidential Villa, made the seat of power to also be referred to as ‘Aso Rock’ While all Presidents and Heads of State from 1991 resided in the Villa during their tenures, they however did not try to remove the animals that existed in the area long before relocation of the seat of power to Abuja. Some of the various types of animals, which could be referred to as the ‘real owners of the Villa ‘, were normally seen by staff and visitors alike. To beautify the official residence area, it was also said that some other animals were brought into the Villa by some of the past leaders, who resided at the seat of power. Some of these animals have over the years enjoyed certain privileges that staff don’t have. Some of them have enjoyed a chunk of the annual National budget for their maintenances over the years. Unlike staff and visitors to the most secured Presidential Villa in Africa, these animals don’t need any pass or identification to move around. Also, while former Presidents and heads of state left the Villa after four or eight years’ tenures, some of the animals have remained in the Villa, their ancestral home, since their birth many years back. A special case in point is two giant tortoises, who are estimated to have lived in the Villa for over one hundred years. Even where staff and visitors do not have pass and access, the giant tortoises can get there unhindered. They moved majestically and freely around the residential areas, forecourt of the Presidential Villa, outside the council chamber areas and by close-by offices around the State House. Many times, they have even ventured to move about five hundred meters from the residence area to the pilot gate area. Security men on duty many times had to turn them back at the pilot gate in order not to go outside the Villa and fall into wrong hands. Not only the tortoises alone, have other friendly ones also moved freely among staff in the Presidential Villa. Other most visible animals within the premises of the State House included monkeys, peacocks, snakes, ostriches, bats, rats and cats. In the right season, monkeys walking in groups are common sight in the Presidential Villa. They even come as close as the area’s leading to the council Chamber of the State House. But the areas they are mostly seen are the various car parks in the Villa, which are very close to thick forest separated by barrier mesh wire. If not hanging on the trees at the car parks, they sit on or play around staff vehicles at the car parks. Some of the monkeys are very adventurous as experienced one night in 2013 under the former President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. It happened when a Muslim staff was offering the 7.00pm prayer in the mini mosque by the barrier mesh wire close to one of the car park. He stated the prayer after winding down his car’s front doors’ glasses and dropping his small bag in the car. He left the car in that position since the car was at a viewing distance from the mini mosque and very close to each other. What he saw when he returned to the car few minutes later after observing the prayer shocked him to his marrow? He met four monkeys in his car. While one of the monkeys was standing on the driver’s seat and holding the steering, the other three monkeys were on the front passenger’s seat. They all jumped out of the car from the other window as soon as the owner opened the driver’s door. Another incident also happened in early 2015 when some monkeys became aggressive, possibly due to hunger in the area. It was a dark night in harmattan season with the leaves on the trees at the car parks and the nearby forest very dry and brown in colour. Some monkeys were around a dustbin placed by the car park in front of the mini mosque. A female staff, under Jonathan’s tenure, who closed from her office was walking to her car parked after the mini mosque around 9.30 p.m, holding her handbag in her right hand and holding another bag in her left hand containing her food flask and other items. As she walked past the dustbin, two monkeys suddenly sprang up and held the bag she was holding on her right hand. The lady, who did not see the monkeys before then, immediately dropped the bags and ran backwards to the only staff that was coming behind her. With no edible item in the bag, the monkeys left it by the dustbin and jumped over the barrier mesh fence to the forest as the lady walked back to the scene with the other staff. The lady, who was trembling from the attack, quickly bent down to pick the items scattered on the floor before rushing to her car. Another animal normally seen in their millions at the right season in the Presidential Villa are bats. They are seen hanging on almost every tree in the Villa, including those at the nearby thick forest. When the birds are around, cars at the parking lots, whether under a tree or not, are usually stained with their feaces. The stains of their feaces were mostly visible on most of the buildings painted in white colour, the roads and floors during dry season. The presence of the bats are more felt whenever there is gunshots to the sky in honor of any visiting leader from other countries. Millions of the birds immediately fly to the skies at the sound of the gunshots. Peacocks, over the years, have also added their beauty to the atmospherics in the Presidential Villa. But their scary noises were often heard as they move around the Villa both during the official hours and at nights. A journalist, under Jonathan’s administration, who was newly posted to cover the State House, had to take to his heels when he suddenly heard a strange noise while waiting around 9.30 p.m. for a closed door meeting to end in the Villa. It took some time for his colleagues to calm him down and assure him that everything was in order and the noise he heard was made by the beautiful peacocks he had earlier admired during daytime. It took him almost three weeks before he became use to the scary noises from the peacocks. But as at today, the peacocks appeared to have strolled far away into the thick forest or learnt to live quietly in the Villa, or called home by God, as their noises have somehow became non-existent in the Villa. There have also been instances where big snakes and small ones were seen crawling out from the thick forest around the Villa. But fumigation have kept them away from the offices and residential areas of the Villa. Big rats and cats are also frequent sight around the thick forest surrounding the seat of power. Zebras, giraffes, crocodiles, and ostriches were also common sight in the Villa under Jonathan’s government, and only separated from the official residence by barrier wires. Not too far from them, Jonathan had severally hosted members of the diplomatic corps to cocktail reception just outside his official residence. Three lions and about five buffalos were also securely caged around the Presidential Villa. The devastating closeness of some of the animals to the seat of power was also felt under President Muhammadu Buhari’s first tenure in 2017 when he had to work for some time from his official residence shortly after returning from medical treatment in London. Even though President Buhari has since been operating from his office, the reason given then was that giant rodents took over the office.