In Nigeria and undeniably across most of Africa, for various reasons culture is taken for granted. The penchant is to forget that culture exemplifies our individual and collective being; as we live, breathe, use, create and recreate culture every day. In many developed countries, it is quite the contrary, culture is considered the essence of souls and a birthright. It is often elevated and positioned as a national legacy; it may even be consulted as an archive to establish a point and often to re-establish contact with their people’s cultural roots. In hundreds of years of common history in the Western world, culture has become largely accepted to be that ‘thing’ which distinguishes continents, regions, nations, from each other. Every country has citizens who, through their creative work, characterize and encode the soul of their own society. This should be same for us in Nigeria. The culture scope of our people should be rightly seen as one of the key characteristics that differentiate our society and regions from others not only within Africa but globally as well. The general misperception and indifference towards our national archives, could in part offer an explanation as to why our collective memory and national identity continue to be formed through institutions that still retain the remnants of our colonial past and are being appreciated through a colonial lens. In many ways, these historical objects represent the narratives that directly influence how our people, across the numerous communities we have, remember the past. Therefore emphasising the need for Nigeria, considering the complexities embedded in our colonial and postcolonial past, to aim at understanding and controlling our historical journey which form (whether we like it or not) the unifying stories of our history. If we truly recognize the value of these creative works and objects as party integral of our cultural legacy, then preserving and protecting the plethora of our society’s cultural expression and manifestations should be considered amongst the most important obligations and responsibilities that our present generation of elites must fulfil towards future generations. There is no doubt that future Nigerians will need to have access to these authentic sources, artefacts, documentation and audiovisual creations that comprehensively represent our cultural heritage.  Archives that fully provides present and future generations with windows on our past, also play vital roles in reinforcing a sense of nationhood. Besides the power and wealth of knowledge embodied in a well preserved archive; enabling us to interpret our history from our own perspective and being independent from external constructs of a Nigerian heritage, it also presents future generations with an accurate understanding of all the aspects of our forefathers’ lives, activities, achievements and environment. It follows then, that a well structured and prepared conservation will be possible only if our current leaders and public officials act responsibly towards conserving these archives by engaging in the transformation and storage of this priceless cultural legacy. In Nigeria, audiovisual archives constitute a significant part of our cultural heritage represented in thousands of hours of productions and past creations of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) stored in recorded sounds, films and videotapes, and media productions. Other media archives exist as documentaries and news productions produced before and after our independence which remain under the care of various Public departments and institutions like the Nigerian Tourism Board and the National Orientation Agency. These unique productions remain the purveyors of our collective memory, as heritage institutions, and as essential components of national identity. But the NTA is unique in this case, as it remains the central institution which houses multitude of creative productions that will need to be preserved in a short time. In its golden age of TV production (spanning from 1970s till the late 1990s), Africa’s first TV station was graced with creative works that entertained the evenings of many Nigerian families. Many of us remember original productions like Cock crow at Dawn (possibly the most successful TV series) with the likes of Sadiq Daba, Ene Oloja; the refreshing Village headmaster with Dejumo Lewis and Justus Esiri; and satirical political talk shows like the Sunny Side of Life. Other archival collections include many memorable national achievements that revive a somewhat distant epoch of Nigerian sporting brilliance like Mary Onyali’s bronze medal in the 200 metres at the 1996 Olympic Games and the men’s Bronze medal in 4×400 metre relay during the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games with the quartet of Uti, Ugbisie, Peters, and Egbunike. These priceless collections of artistic works and historical events are still stored in outdated formats which are fast becoming obsolete while the machines needed to access them are disappearing as well. What this means is that the pressure is mounting to ensure that all these national treasures migrate from physical audiovisual formats to digital file-based formats. The good news is that this period of fast changing technological metamorphosis provides some practical solutions and is driving the constant evolution witnessed in this sector as well. We are finally moving from managing these productions; many still in physical formats (some analogue like VHS and Betacam cassettes but also in hard drives) into digital and online formats. The last century symbolized the first time ever in the history of humankind that one generation could hand over their heritage to coming generations in various tangible formats. It is also represented the era of major inventions that now permit the safeguard of these elements thus opening up a unique opportunity in the preservation and sharing of our common history. One tangible and durable method of unchaining the value of audiovisual archives is through digitisation from analogue into accessible systems which extends their life expectancy. The procedure entails the transformation of these productions from their current analogue formats into digital formats to ensure their long term conservation. Digitisation can be efficiently achieved if encompassed in a well-conceived plan which must be followed with timely and adequate public funding. Like what has been witnessed in some European countries and in Rwanda, where it was the national governments that were tasked with the commitment of sustaining such a plan. In all these cases, the project is properly executed in collaboration with the concerned public media corporation and with the necessary expertise and equipment from the private sector. In reality, digitization does not only concern Government departments, organisations like the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in a bid to stop the corrosion and destruction of a large portion of its audiovisual archive engaged in a massive transformation plan in 2017 to transform its video resources from the analogue format to a digital format. At the end, the IOC recovered hours of valuable Olympic archives which are being used in various sectors to revive the Olympic history. In regards to the collection of archives belonging to the NTA, the digitisation plan should be considered as a means of unlocking the value of past and present audiovisual works and prolonging the life expectancy of creative legacies still in analogue formats. The entire program is expected to take several months or even years, but with a positive outcome that should unravel the economic potentials of our cultural resources for the creative and innovative sectors, while ensuring ease of access that will have a positive effect on the development of new services. There is nothing incongruous then in pretending that the preservation and accessibility of our audiovisual archives for research, cultural and educational purposes should rightly occupy an important position in our public policy. These archival values that truly form the integral part of our collective storytelling hold the treasure of memory, knowledge and identity about the Nigerian society in any given time. Beyond their usefulness in television and cinema productions, archives are depositories of culture; their central role emerges from their importance in assisting our diverse citizenry in the course of national self-reflection and memorizing, but also in assessing and understanding our heritage of ideas, monuments and our historical past. In many ways, as part of our cultural heritage, archives contribute to our national conversation by repopulating our cultural diets with different and even controversial approaches in understanding our current affairs and contemporary histories. Nonetheless, the numerous advantages that plead for quickly engaging in a nation-wide digitisation program does not distract us from overlooking the challenges the government would have to confront before achieving any tangible result. For one, preservation will simply be onerous as the entire process will involve recovering thousands of cassettes around the country. Also, the digitisation proper will require time, sophisticated equipment, skills and manpower to be carried out efficiently.  Other issues relate to the evident inadequacy of trained personnel in this specific domain necessitating foreign expertise and training.  However, none of these issues are really insurmountable; part of the solution lies in the level of enthusiasm we get from the concerned public authorities, especially in reducing the administrative red tape that can delay various aspects of such a vital project. It is crucial that all stakeholders recognise the urgency in facing the prevalent challenge before us today; which is that of commencing the process before these contents are lost forever through chemical degradation, the loss of the physical cassette or the obsolescence of machines for their playback. Transforming the NTA’s archives in a sense means modernising the entire archive storage management process through better cataloguing and efficient use of storage space, with a cloud backup system which presents many advantages on the long run. Despite the seemingly high public expenditure required initially, the project should actually be more cost effective when completed with increased speed of transmission, reduction of costs of space and less handling. Besides allowing for a structured conservation of our cultural and historical heritage, it will make a wealth of knowledge and information accessible to the different sectors in Nigeria. The completed process will offer tremendous benefits for education; historians, indigenous researchers. While teachers and students will gain useful access to image and sound from events and creative works that constitute our documented history. On the social front, digitization and cataloguing of our audiovisual archives would also facilitate the basic use and navigation of the materials in various fields. Our communities and local industries stand to benefit from such an array of safeguarded knowledge of our common history that go a long way in shaping our local identity. For an institution like the NTA – Africa’s first television station, there is no doubt that the digitization of its archives will raise its profile and convey more prestige within and even beyond the African continent. Once the NTA is equipped with this library of accessible digital collections, it will be able to access numerous funding opportunities, with possibilities for economically sound collaborations and partnerships with similar institutions on a global scale. In the same way, new opportunities will emerge for other TV stations, cultural institutions and other media corporations  to develop business models with sustainable revenue streams – and in the process gain an even greater appreciation for the role they play in media, society, and in the economy. I am persuaded that across the four corners of the Nigerian society, there exists a convergence of opinion that our national heritage constitutes an important part of our country’s identity. If this is factual, then we must consent to the fact, without overlooking the realities of our times, that it is only when we begin to truly appreciate our heritage that we will begin to recognize the value in conserving it. One can only hope that it is not too late already. Whatever decisions those in power take today, one thing remains inevitable; the lifespan of our current audiovisual heritage in analogue format is going to be affected eventually by the physical decomposition timeline and the technological dependence to access and replay them. There is no doubt that the digitization of the Nigerian audiovisual heritage will change the manner in which previous artistic productions are used by opening more access to these files to a wider audience. Since they constitute the repositories of Nigeria’s historical heritage – documenting our national cultures and histories, their importance in the information of our society cannot be underestimated. Our decision making elite will sooner or later be confronted with the moment when avertable procrastination will need to be curbed over such a vital project by considering the immense benefits of a timely intervention. There is a sense of optimism that is derived from the premise that even within the diverse circles of our society subsist the collective resolute to bring our audiovisual legacy of the past into a digital present. This guarantees that the artistic creations of our illustrious Nigerians are not only revalorised in today’s digital era but also properly preserved for future Nigerians.