The Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin, former governor of Oyo State, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, and wife of the late Ibadan politician, Chief Lamidi Adedibu, Alhaja Bose Adedibu joined families , relatives and friends of the Ilesa-born business mogul and philantropist, Chief Akanni Aluko on the occasion of his 76th birthday celebration . The eminent guests described the celebrant as a true humanist, compassionate and caring father  whose immense contribution to uplifting many is immeasurable . The epoch event which , was held at the expansive Monatan , Ibadan home of the celebrant, also witnessed intercessions and prayers for the publisher of the Third Eye newspapers , seeking God’s divine favor , wisdom,  protection and many more years of healthy living for the birthday ‘boy’. Wife of the celebrant, Chief Mrs. Kofoworola Aluko, expressed gratitude to almighty God for His bountiful blessings on the celebrant and the family. Former governor Ladoja, represented by his wife, Chief Mrs. Mutiat Ladoja described Chief Aluko as a rear Nigerian, and an epitome of love and compassion. Also, present was the mother of the Speaker, Chief Mrs. Ogundoyin who came in company of family friends and relatives to rejoice with the Alukos on the special event. Speaking with newsmen at the event, the Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Ogundoyin described Chief Aluko as a foster father, mentor and confidant. He poured encomiums on Chief Aluko, wishing him more years on earth, in good health and prosperity. “I am here to celebrate someone that is a father to me. He is someone i have known when i was growing up, especially after i lost my dad , he and my dad enjoyed a very solid relationship, more like brothers  and after the passing away of my dad , he actually stood in as a father and not just to me, but to the rest of my siblings. “And we also grew up with his kids, in London, in Nigeria anywhere we went, we do things together. So, its a great thing to see him celebrating his 76th birthday today , and in spite of many challenges, he is a fighter and he is still going from strength to strength  in making sure that the family stays together, both our family and his family because we always stay together . So, it’s really a joyous occasion to witness this great celebration today,” he stated.