STUDENTS of the Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko, (AAUA), Ondo State, are urging the police to carry out a thorough investigation as regards one of their own who was raped by a soldier. The victim, a 300-Level student of the Religious and African Studies Department, was molested on Wednesday, last week by one of the soldiers in the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigeria Army at a checkpoint on Ikare Akoko-Akungba-Akoko road. Though the soldier involved in the act have been dismissed by the Nigerian Army and handed over to the police, the students are insisting that the police must resume from where the military stopped in order to give Nigerian students, especially the victim, some relief. Akingbondere Tunde, a 200-Level Law undergraduate of AAUA, said the rape issue called for some questioning. He said: “The questions remain: ‘Is this obvious threat to life and human dignity not an aberration of the constitution? Are soldiers trained with our common wealth to constitute threat by championing a war against human dignity? How do we plan to get over a system that already gathered enemies as friends? “I stand to call this an insult on the integrity of Nigerian Army and a mockery of their roles and duties.” Akingbondere insisted that the Federal Government must compensate the victim and complement its gesture with a public apology to the entire students whose rights he believed, had been abused. Similarly,  Eyinkofe Anthony Ola, a 300 Level Educational Management undergraduate, described the act as ‘callous’, noting that such behaviour was against the constitutional duty of the Nigerian Army who are supposed to, among other things, protect the territorial integrity of the nation. Eyinkofe’s stance was corroborated by Akin-Ademola Emmanuel, a 200-Level student of Mass Communication. He said: “It is so bad that the executors of the law are now the breakers. I am challenging the government to bring the suspects to justice.” Obagunwa Oluwasegun Daniel, a 300 Level Student of Guidance and Counselling, pitched his tent with the trio. “Any form of intercourse in which any of the parties does not subscribe to is simply a rape. I will, therefore, suggest that the culprit face the music,” Obagunwa submitted. However, Akinyemi Ayomide Samuel, a 300-Level student of Mathematical Science, had a different opinion. According to her, the victim might have lured her molester. “She might have worn a skimpy cloth that aroused the military men sexually because she is not the only female in the car. I will urge ladies to stop exposing their body to public and to the military men. Rape is a bad thing and the perpetrator should be punished for the wrongdoings,” he added. Oyedokun Ayodele, a final year Mass Communication undergraduate, noted that it is quite unbecoming of security officers whose roles are to protect lives and properties to be involved in such act. “I don’t even know that men of the Nigerian Army can try such because it’s not something anyone can hardly think about them. However, the management (of AAUA) should follow up on the matter after the government have given their word concerning the prosecution of the solders. The Students’ Union should also play the role of being a pressure group and monitor the process of serving justice to the soldier involved in the rape allegation.” he added Olorunsaanumi Olowookere, a 300-Level student of the Department of Mass Communication, said: “The case is still under investigation and I like the way the management has responded to it. “I want SU to stage a walk against rape and carry all students along just to let the entire nation know what is happening here in AAUA,” he added. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) of AAUA, described the rape allegation as barbaric and wicked. A statement signed by its Chairman, Dr Sola Fayose, stated that the alleged act is “against anything called humaneness, decency, and civility.” The union, which acknowledged that the police and military authorities, had begun investigations into the matter, urged the two security agencies to fast-track the processes of investigation and prosecution of the suspects with a view to bringing them to book.  