• Management: we won’t join issues with you The death of three students on the main campus of the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi last week Monday has pitched the students against the institution’s management. While the students are blaming the management for the incident, among other issues, the authorities have absolved themselves of any blame, ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA, DAVID ADENUGA (BAUCHI), and GBOLAHAN LATINWO 200 -Level Department Department Agric Engineering Obafemi Awolowo University Ile-Ife report All  is not well at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi. Its management is not happy with criticisms levelled against it on the social media over the death of three students in ‘avoidable’ circumstances. Besides accusing the management of being responsible for the incident, the students blamed the ATBU management for poor welfare, security, water supply, and bad state of infrastructure in the institution. The deaths occurred when a pedestrian bridge on the main campus of the university in Gubi, on the outskirt of Bauchi, collapsed due to a heavy current of the flood underneath.  The victims The Nation reported that three students Joseph Akoh Isah (100 Level) and Salmat Aliyu Akpaojo (200 L) indigenes of Kogi State, as well as Blessing Godfrey (200-Level), an indigene of Benue State, died in the incident, while seven others were injured. A colleague to the late Joseph recalled how he (Joseph) had volunteered to teach his colleagues some courses they were to take in the examination. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that Salmat’s last post on her WhatsApp revealed how tired she was and her desire to go to bed. Though the management had declared a break for the students and directed them to vacate the campus, the SU has pleaded to allow them stay in their hostels because some of them come from as far as Edo, Oyo, Ogun, Lagos, and other distant places, and they have no means of travelling. CAMPUSLIFE learnt that the management had started the construction of a new bridge , but the students are not satisfied. The incident provided them the opportunity to demand the provision of amenities. They insisted that the institution should also give them a better welfare package. The students debunked their Vice Chancellor (vc), Prof Prof Muhammad Abdullazeez’s report, attributing the collapse of the bridge to the weight of 30 students taking selfies on it. Students, who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE and their posts on social media, indicated that long before the incident, they had drawn the management’s attention to the fragile state of the bridge to no avail. A student, Emmanuel Anka, criticised the  VC. “Your carelessness in taking up responsibility led to the death of our colleagues; but all you could say to the media is propaganda,”Anka stated in a Facebook post. “Why don’t you tell the President (Muhammadu Buhari) of the non-functionality of our clinic in Gubi. You also forgot the poor security measures in Gubi with over 500 students,” Anka added. Another student, Stephen Lar, asked: “So, it’s the cumulative weight of the 30 students that collapsed the bridge?” He continued: “If we take the average weight of the students to be 70kg; that will be 2,100 kg, which is believed to be less than a truckload of yams. Can you hear the comment from our management?” “We need a lot of changes; you don’t care about our pains.The only thing you care about is the construction of a new bridge,” said Godwin Ebebe on his Facebook page. Similarly, another student from the Department of Chemistry Education, who simply introduced herself as Medinat, maintained that the VC was being ‘economical with the truth.’ “Our vice chancellor wasn’t telling the truth about the incident. The bridge at the Gubi Campus, linking the academics area to hostel area, is very bad. We’ve pleaded with the school management several times but they turned deaf ears,” noted Medinat, who also claimed to be a friend to one of the victims. In a WhatsApp chat with CAMPUSLIFE, a  Department of Chemical Engineering student, Adamu Mohammad, said it was an ‘avoidable natural disaster’ He said: “As we commiserate with the family of our departed fellow students and wish the dead a peaceful rest, there are a few things that I must point out about the incident at the Gubi Campus and the predicament of students generally. “I have been to ATBU Gubi Campus as a student and I must tell you that the level of negligence of the bridge and students’ welfare is too bad. “The basic needs of students are not sufficiently provided. The hostels were designed in such a way that water will flow through the pipes of the toilets and rooms but overhead water tanks are not provided for this. Students have to take water from dirty reservoirs and tanks to a two-storey building. “Snake and scorpion bites are common at ATBU Gubi Campus. There was a case of a student who was bitten by a snake while defecating in the bush. This is due to the bad condition of the toilets in the hostels. “The Gubi Campus clinic is not equipped for an emergency, such as snake or scorpion bites, accidents or natural disasters. Some of the students who were actively involved in the search and rescue of those who fell into the bridge know what they experienced that night.’’ Another student, who claimed anonymity so as not to be victimised by the school authorities, said the memory of the incident would linger in the minds of students, especially those close to the deceased. “Many students, especially the females, who lost their friends, will be traumatised for a very long time. “We had a right to be angry because we (students) found Salmat dead in one of the farmlands that (Tuesday) morning. “The Students Union, which is supposed to be our mouthpiece, is occupied by those who have constituted themselves as stooges to management, ’’  the source told CAMPUSLIFE.  Our stance, by management ATBU Director of Public Relations Dr Andee Iheme told CAMPUSLIFE that the university, which declared a week of mourning in honour of the deceased, is still in a sorrowful mood and that it identified with the students, many of who were still mourning their late colleagues. He said: “As I said earlier, the university management does not intend to join issues with the students as we all are mourning the loss that befell us. “Remember that VC and I are also parents. We have grown-up children and no parent would be glad to lose their loved ones and in such an unfortunate circumstances. “But I must tell you that what the VC said were some of the information we gathered from some of the students who were there when the incident occurred. “That bridge is a pedestrian bridge built about five years ago and we’ve never had any problem with it. The stream underneath the bridge is seasonal, so much that once it dries off, student can easily walk across it without climbing the bridge. “Remember that last year, we also had almost everywhere flooded due to the downpour occasioned by climate change. The flood affected our library, research centre, with over 20 electric poles lost, but nobody made any noise because we did not lose any students. However, this years’ rainfall is phenomenal. “So, when the students were returning on Monday to their hostels after a heavy rain, the whole bridge was flooded. Some of the students then found the flood so exciting and then decided to team up to take a selfie with their phones. So, they started from two and before you could realise it, there were more than 30 students on the bridge standing, and that bridge was not meant for people to stand. This constituted a heavy load coupled with the strength of the water which eventually collapsed the bridge. “The (Governing) Council had immediately summoned a meeting over the matter. We’ve also had a high-powered delegation from the Federal Government, the Police, Army, Bauch State government and the Ministry of Education, among others. “Now a new bridge is being constructed to avoid future occurrence. Management would have done this long before now, if we had all the resources to do it. Management had to shelve the idea because of its huge financial implication. That was why that bridge was built as a temporary palliative.”