The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) said it will prosecute the recapitalisation holistically and in quick succession. Its new Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, who spoke with reporters in Ijebu Ode, Ogun State said as an agency of the Federal Government, the Commission to improve on its contributions to the economy. He stated that the  idea of the exercise is to have an insurance industry that is strong and diligent in carrying out its assignments. He further said the Commission will ensure the industry is highly liquid in terms of claims settlement, solid in terms of assets and visible in terms of retaining business within the country. He stressed the need for the operators to cooperate with the regulator for the industry to be counted among the sectors contributing meaningfully to the economy. He said: “We believe that at the end of the exercise, we would have turn around the image of the market. As an agency of the Federal Government, more than ever before, NAICOM wants to be visible, while also doing everything within its terms of reference as an institution to improve on its contributions to the economy. We have the mandate to ensure that the exercise throws up very solid companies. “The insurance sector wants to be part of the big game and the driver of that initiative has to be the regulator. The issue of recapitalisation is more critical than ever before. Of course there are shades of opinion about its adequacy, it’s timing.  But for me here, it is just to tell you that the work ahead is a whole lot more than you can ever imagine. “The whole idea of this recapitalisation exercise is to have an industry that is strong, that is diligent in prosecution of its assignments. It is important for you to know that our arms are open for investors either into companies or a totally new company. I’ll not stand in front of you to tell you we are perfect in every area but I can tell you that we are striving towards perfection and I know that it is attainable. “We need the full cooperation of our development partners and other stakeholders like shareholders represented by board of directors, staff of operating companies and other regulators. We are engaging other regulators for possible cooperation for the success of the exercise,” he said.