The International Republican Institute (IRI) at the weekend called on political office holders to always seek and include the input of the masses in their decision making. Ebonyi State Coordinator of IRI, Anichukwu Eze made the call in Abakaliki after a town hall meeting by the member Representing Ikwo North constituency, Humphrey Nwuruku with his constituents where he briefed them on his activities in the Assembly. The meeting, which was held at Enyibichiri Town Hall in Ikwo, was the first Town Hall meeting to be organised by any Lawmaker in the Constituency. The event was organised by the Lawmaker with the support of the International Republican Institute, (IRI). Various stakeholders from the community, including market women, miners and top political leaders from the area attended the event. The legislator used the occasion to enlighten the people on some of his major achievements and activities since he assumed office in 2015. The people lamented the deplorable state of infrastructure in the area especially roads, electricity, water, and called on the Lawmaker to use his good office and call the attention of the state government to their plight. They also noted that schools in the area were under staffed and in deplorable condition and called for improvements. Other demands they made of the Lawmaker include provision of portable water, rehabilitation of Health Centres in the area, Youth empowerment and skill acquisition etc. Representatives of the physical challenged in the area, Nwankwo Alexander, also complained of non-inclusion of the disabled in decision making. ” We should be invited to be part of meetings and decision making to give us a sense of belonging. It is not only during election that we should be remembered,” he said. Chief Oliver Eze, former Permanent Secretary, called for the installation of transformers which have been procured for his community. Nwuruku said that though some of the people’s demands are not his primary functions as a lawmaker but promised to address them. The IRI State Coordinator, Anichukwu Eze commended the lawmaker for holding the town hall meeting and promised to support such programmes across the state. He noted that such programmes will enable the people be part of decision making and governance while enabling the Lawmaker to know the needs of his people. Eze pledged the support and cooperation of IRI to Lawmakers and other political office holders who are willing to embark on such programmes in the future. Highlight of the event was the provision of a brand new motorcycle to the DPO of Noyo Police station to aid the Police to adequate security for the people.