LATE Fela Anikulapo-Kuti’s description of the daily life of an average Nigerian as ‘Suffering and Smiling’ has remained the lot of the masses in the seeming entertaining series of brouhahas that have engulfed of Nigerian political space. The notable episodes called ‘defection’ is more of a game of ego than of principles – a power play that involves severance of alliance, collective migration of politicians from one party to another for majority stake in some States and the Federal Houses of Assembly. We have also witnessed cases of messy fisticuffs at different times. Not that it matters that the politicians, most of who have long sold their conscience to the devil and have no pact with dignity, is the issue; the worry is the brainwashed common man, who continues to applaud their shameful act. All over the social media, friends have turned foes over their preference for one politician over another. One needs to follow these fanatics to see the bitterness, hatred, and abuses they have poured one another – even between and among people who have never met themselves physically. There have been so much entertainment around the political gladiators that somehow, the essence of real governance have been lost in the mix; so much nepotism at the expense of communal interest; every passing day comes with headlines of treachery and perceived smart political moves. The last FIFA World Cup was a mere interval of the political upheavals. Yes, upheavals; those are more pronounced than efforts on good roads, constant electricity, affordable education and health care services. We are back to the long prologues towards 2023, and the masses, the most affected by the woes, have continued to sing the supporters’ club songs; cheering the shameful acts across the divide. I picture the various shameful scenarios and I ask, if Nigeria were a movie; it would be a fusion of all the genres such that the more the viewer sees, the less they would understand. Did you just say ‘abracadabra’? It would be a serious comedy and a laughable thriller; there would be tragic hiccup in place of comic relief. The entire roforofo appeals to me like a disjointed drama with plot running from cacophony to pandemonium. But I blame the masses for giving the players the verve to turn their sham into a series.