The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has honoured two insurance guru the late Mr Talabi Adebayo Braithwaite and Pa Olabode Ogunlana for their contributions to the industry. Braithwaite was the first chartered insurer in the country and the first to become a member of Lloyds in the United Kingdom. He was also NCRIB’s pioneer President. Ogunlana, on the other hand, is the first indigenous Managing Director of the defunct National Insurance Corporation (NICON) whose leadership paved the way for other MDs and leaders of the industry. His leadership made NICON Insurance the breeding ground for many quality insurance professionals that the country has produced till date. Speaking at the event titled: “Celebrating our heroes”, NCRIB President, Mr Shola Tinubu said it was the inaugural edition of celebrating leaders who had brought insurance image to the front burner of national and international reckoning. He believed that the initiative would serve as a tonic for the up-coming generation by invoking in them the spirit of sacrifice and conscientious devotion to duties, bearing in mind that their efforts would never be forgotten. Eighty-Six-year-old Ogunlana, who is also the Chairman of Scib Insurance Brokers, urged members of the Council to serve with passion. He said leaders of NCRIB need to pass on the torches of knowledge and skills for the good of the industry. He said: “You are called upon to engage in seriously tutoring – real teaching. The benefits of such tutoring will extend beyond the trainees, their companies, the insureds, the clients and the insuring public are also joint beneficiaries. The spiraling effect of the teaching is yet another good reason. You must teach and mentor constantly as well as pass on the skills and knowledge you possess to those coming after you which is what I did. “Unless and until you have done this, the insurance industry will not make any meaningful impact on Nigeria socially and economically. NCRIB like all the other arms of the Industry needs more actions than mere talks, meetings and conferences. Go out there, explain to Nigerians why their lives and corporate existence need insurance. Go out and sell not only to increase your profits but to improve the welfare of Nigerians and the well-being of Nigeria. “Brokers are not just intermediaries with the responsibility of ensuring thorough understanding of the seemingly unintelligible policy conditions by the public; in addition they are required to promote good relationship between insurers and the insuring public. They are the essential bridge between and should facilitate seamless relations within various sectors of the industry, The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) inclusive, to ensure effective delivery of customer satisfaction,” he added.