If your emotional abilities aren’t in hand, if you don’t have self-awareness, if you are not able to manage your distressing emotions, if you can’t have empathy and have effective relationships, then no matter how smart you are, you are not going to get very far.” – Daniel Goleman A friend narrated a story of his experience when he was abroad recently which triggered an intense conversation that forms the topic of my intervention today. He boarded a train and was in the same coach with a man and his children. Some of the children were visibly unruly disturbing the peace of other passengers. There were grumblings but no one accosted the man. A middle aged man eventually stood up, went to the seat next to the father of the children and held his hand, a gesture the father acknowledged with a grateful shake of the head. The man took the action without knowing if the father was dealing with issues. A young man, who felt that action was appeasing the father for wrong behaviour, eventually stood up and politely asked him to call his children to order. He simply looked at the young man and said: “They just lost their mother!” The entire coach was quiet and people started reaching out to console the man. Apparently, being young, the children didn’t know how to process the painful fact that they would never see their mother again. The gentleman that sat and held the hand of that distressed father is emotionally intelligent. A couple of years before my late father passed away, he came very late to the funeral of a prominent son of our village covered with blood stains. I was shocked when I saw him thinking something terrible had happened to him. But from his facial expression, he looked perfectly alright. It turned out he got to an accident scene and had to alight from the vehicle he was in with other passengers to assist the victims and help evacuate the wounded to the hospital. He even stayed with the dead until they were evacuated to the morgue. Incidentally, the wounded and the dead were also on their way to the same funeral. From that time until his death, I looked at my father with a special kind of respect and admiration that words cannot qualify. That he and the other passengers stopped to assist speaks volumes of their characters; others would have moved on, or probably call the concerned authorities to take it from there. But there is always something when we physically help those in need or the vulnerable in our societies. These two stories are examples of being emotionally intelligent. Prior to 1990, the term Emotional Intelligence (EI) belongs practically in uncharted territory. What we were familiar with was Intelligence Quotient (IQ). Scholars believe that to be truly successful in life goes far beyond being intelligent. Emotional intelligence is the ability to understand and manage personal emotions, as well as recognising, influencing and assisting others manage theirs. The term was first coined in 1990 by researchers John Mayer and Peter Salovey, but was later popularised by psychologist Daniel Goleman. Goleman highlighted the importance of emotional intelligence, especially in leadership this way: “The most effective leaders are all alike in one crucial way: They all have a high degree of what has come to be known as emotional intelligence. It’s not that IQ and technical skills are irrelevant. They do matter, but…they are the entry-level requirements for executive positions.” Over the years, EI has evolved into a must-have skill. A recent research by EI provider TalentSmart shows that emotional intelligence is the strongest predictor of performance. As a result, employment consultants took notice. In a workplace survey by CareerBuilder, 71 percent of employers said they value EI over IQ, reporting that employees with high emotional intelligence are more likely to stay calm under pressure, resolve conflict effectively, and respond to co-workers with empathy. While I was busy writing this piece, I stumbled on a BBC documentary, “Secrets of Singapore” which explored the history of this small but remarkable country. Like Nigeria, Singapore is a melting pot of several ethnicities. One of those interviewed, whose great grandfather emigrated from India, narrated how the country had its fair share of ethnic, religious, economic and identity crises which it eventually surmounted with time. Though the documentary did not delve into politics and governance, the impact of one of its leaders, Lee Kwan Yew came straight to my mind. I had read how he transformed Singapore from a third to a first world which was captured in his book of the same title. The book clearly showed that Yew was an emotionally intelligent leader. It is therefore not surprising that corporate organisations tapped into the importance of EI in growing organisations because they discovered that intellect alone cannot get the job done. The good thing about EI is that it cuts across board; in essence, it applies to rich and poor, the leader and the led etc. Many of us believe great leaders are born, specifically, we attach certain characteristics to our version of what we believe is successful. So, what are the key traits most of us believe a leader should possess? Passion, vision, fearlessness, infallibility – might top the list of what is deemed as positive characteristics to define a leader. Great leaders are aware of their own leadership style. For them, having awareness of how their style influences their citizens (team) makes these already great leaders, exceptional. Truly great leaders identify, understand and not only manage their own emotions, but are able to do that with others in a very empowering way. This is what EI is all about. As I look around in my daily interactions, listen to the news and read newspapers, I’ve discovered that we as a people have deviated from the deep empathy that used to define our nation. I’d like to now identify some of the traits I believe a leader should imbibe in order to lead effectively. Leadership here cuts across board – politics, schools, public/private institutions, the home etc. Top on my list is compassion. Leaders who possess EI are compassionate, they strive to understand and feel what the people feel. They bring this compassion to bear in policy formulation. The EI leader, in my opinion, must also be an effective Communicator. He must share his vision or strategy often with those around him, so everyone is on the same page. This is because motivation comes from effective communication. This extends to being able to listen without judgment, keeping emotions under control and to ask questions when necessary to seek to understand. Self-awareness is also another crucial trait. Clarity on strengths and weaknesses is important for any leader to recognise. With self-awareness a leader can focus on the strengths he or she possesses by incorporating individuals who perform well in areas where the leader lacks astuteness. Having awareness includes understanding others and promoting their strengths. If a leader lacks awareness, this may encourage subordinates to take actions that are antithetical to the overall vision. An EI conscious leader should also be authentic. Lao Tzu once said: “Knowing others is intelligence; knowing yourself is true wisdom. Mastering others is strength; mastering yourself is true power. If you realise that you have enough, you are truly rich.” In essence, knowing oneself and acting from that truth draws people to the leader. Being real, making decisions that are in alignment with how a leader truly operates rarely requires second-guessing. Such leaders must understand their own values and be consistent in applying them. As part of that, the leader needs to possess the courage to hold true to them, without losing sight of reality. I must equally add respect. Respect is not just about others; the EI leader practices self-respect. How leaders treat themselves matters, because it is reflected back in the people they manage. Leaders who respects themselves and others do not speak disrespectfully at any time, even when mistakes happen. The way to get the best out of people is not through demeaning behaviour, but by respect, whether the person is a friend or foe. 