The National Coordinator of Conscience of Ogoni People (COOP), Chief Gani Topba, has urged the Federal Government to appeal without delay, the judgment on the 20-year renewal of operatorship of Oil Mining Lease (OML)-11 in Ogoni land by the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC). Topba, in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, accused SPDC of failing to adopt good oilfield practice in the operation of OML-11 in Ogoni land. The Federal High Court (FHC) in Abuja on Friday (August 23) ordered the Minister of Petroleum Resources (President Muhammadu Buhari) to grant the renewal of OML-11 to SPDC for 20 years. FHC Abuja’s Justice Taiwo Taiwo, in his judgment delivered on Shell’s suit, with reference number: CS/524/19, ruled that the renewal would be for 20 years and not 30 years, as requested by the Anglo/Dutch oil giant. SPDC was sent packing in 1993 from Ogoni land’s four local government areas of Khana, Gokana, Tai and Eleme, while a renowned environmentalist, Kenule Saro-Wiwa, and eight other Ogoni martyrs were hanged on November 10, 1995 at the Port Harcourt Prisons, during the regime of the late Gen. Sani Abacha. COOP coordinator said: “SPDC fell squarely below Nigerian standards throughout the about 40 years it operated the OML-11, let alone international standards recommended by the Mineral Oils (Safety) Regulations,1997. The lease expired on June 30, 2019 and it ought to have been reverted to the Federal Government of Nigeria. “SPDC did not give up, but surreptitiously instituted the suit in bad faith, in order to foist a fait accompli on Ogoni people. The Ogoni people’s agitations for environmental, economic and social justice from the Nigerian state suffered an unprecedented military repression of the most disproportionate magnitude meted out on Ogoni leaders and Ogoni communities in the 1990s. “The frenzy of the guns could not stop the will and determination of the oppressed minority to force SPDC out of Ogoni land. The then President of the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP), Kenule Saro-Wiwa, and 12 other prominent Ogoni leaders were executed by the Federal Military Government between 1994 and 1995. Ogoni land became a pariah ethnic nationality in Nigeria and was rendered a complete ecological wasteland. “SPDC’s desperation to return to Ogoni at all costs, through the suit, is a sad reminder of the decades of ecological and military war waged against the Ogoni people from 1958 to date. By the suit, SPDC has deliberately set out to remind the Ogoni people of the dark days of the military oppression, genocide, economic strangulation, environmental degradation and execution of the Ogoni heroes. “Officials of SPDC have consistently stated publicly that the oil company is no longer interested in a return to Ogoni land. The present suit has vindicated the position of the Ogoni people and COOP that SPDC is still a huge fan of the Ogoni oil. Shell is an irresponsible corporate citizen that will go to any length to have its way at the expense of the peace, happiness, life, health, well-being and environment of the Ogoni people.” Topba also reiterated that Ogoni land was currently boiling, in terms of insecurity orchestrated by violent clashes and bloodshed, with many innocent people being killed, communities being sacked and valuable property worth billions of naira being destroyed, with the people now living in fear. He saluted the courage of the Federal Government of Nigeria, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, which he said had continued to show compassion to the Ogoni cause, by resisting the pressure mounted by SPDC and Royal Dutch Shell to renew OML-11 and stood on the side of justice, fairness and respect for the lives and environment of the Ogoni people. The national coordinator declared Ogoni people’s solidarity for the Federal Government of Nigeria. He said: “SPDC remains persona non grata in Ogoni land. Ogoni people will continue to non-violently resist the clandestine and back-door tactics adopted by SPDC in its bid to actualise its grand design to decimate the Ogoni population, impoverish the people, destroy their livelihoods, economy and render their environment an ecological wreck. “I call on all Ogoni people to be resolute and steadfast. We shall collectively mobilise our people to non-violently and peacefully fight for our rights as indigenous people, recognised under international law and we shall win.” Topba also pleaded with friends of Ogoni people and the international community to continue to support the agitations of the marginalised Ogoni people for their liberation.