Lecturers and students of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), were thrown into mourning at the weekend when the news of Malam Sulaiman Ibrahim Gatawa’s death spread across the campus. Until his death, Gatawa who reportedly passed away following a brief illness, was a lecturer in the Department of Modern European Languages and Linguistics (MELL). The deceased, CAMPUSLIFE gathered, had been battling an undisclosed sickness for over a month before he died on Sunday morning. He has since been buried at his residence in Gagi Area of Sokoto, according to Islamic rites. Tributes have continued to pour in from all corners on the virtues exemplified by Gatawa while alive. A lecturer in the Department of Modern European Languages and Linguistics, Isah Muhammad Galadima, expressed sadness over the incident. Galadima described the deceased as an epitome of humility and friendliness. “He (Gatawa) was an elderly mentor and a dedicated colleague UDUS would forever remember. My heart goes out to the entire colleagues of UDUS and to his family,” Galadima said. “Mallam Gatawa was a great colleague with whom I shared same office for about six years. He has been an elderly mentor and a colleague who has been there for me all the time and in all circumstances. He is one of the sincere, dedicated and committed lecturer UDUS would forever remember,” Galadima added. Some students of the deceased also took to their social media accounts to register their condolences. A  200-Level undergraduate of Literature in English, Ayobami Tijani, said the deceased would be remembered for the passion he inculcated into teaching. “He taught me last year. His skills in lecturing are indescribable. We, students of Modern European Languages and Linguistics, sipped well from your fountain of knowledge. Rosheedat Suleiman, a final year student of Modern European Languages and Linguistics, described Gatawa as ‘a father’. She recalled her last moment with him and relayed how the deceased promised to vet her ‘project’ once he got over his illness. “What a great loss. Must it be this lovely and caring man? I could remember during Eld-el-Fitri, I visited him and jokingly asked for my Salah gifts. He joked that his students should be the one to feed him. He gave me N500 and promised to attend to my project despite that he wasn’t feeling well. Former Students’ Union (SU)president, Ibrahim Shehu Kalgo, also registered his condolence. One Abubakar Kyari’s facebook post read thus: “We lost him (Galatawa) to death. Malam Gatawa is one of the friendliest, gentle and brilliant lecturer we had. May Allah make Jannatul Firdaus his final abode.” The incumbent SU president Faruk Barade, also condoled with the bereaved-family and the university community over the loss. Barade described the late Gatawa as “a dedicated and vibrant lecturer. Dean Students’ Affairs and colleague of the deceased, Prof Aminu Mode, equally described the deceased as a detribalised fellow, who related with everyone irrespective of tribes or religion. “It is not only me; everyone has one or more to say about him. He is highly diligent and reliable. His death will leave an irreparable scar. He was very hard-working and committed. In fact, he was a father to all and a great colleague as well,” he said.