RESIDENT doctors of the Federal Neuro Psychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Lagos, are on an indefinite strike. The strike started on Wednesday afternoon after the doctors rose from a congress. According to the doctors, worsening conditions of service resulting from non-employment of more doctors necessitated the strike. Speaking to The Nation newspaper, the President of the Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) of Federal NeuroPsychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Dr. Enifeni Afeez, a senior registrar, said that the doctors are overworked and stressed, having to attend to huge number of patients. He said that as a result of this, doctors don’t have enough time to see patients. He also complained that this workload was affecting their studies. According to Afeez, in 2014, there were 56 resident doctors but the number has dwindled to 33 resident doctors presently. Prior to the strike, he said the doctors had complained to the hospital management for over a year and had met the Hospital Governing Board in the first week of July but nothing was done to look into the matter. “Now, it’s not a good thing but it’s become a tradition of the hospital for Residents to always have to get to this point,” he said. “Even before now, we had given a warning. And because we’re quite reasonable persons, we looked at the situation and we gave them more time. We halted the warning strike action and we went back to work. We did all we could. We continued engaging them. We also wrote letters. We met with the governing board of our hospital. But nothing came out of it all,” he said. Speaking on the response of management, Dr. Emeifeni said: “At some point in time, they said the letters they’ve sent to the ministry for employment got missing in transit. If they had done it at the right time, we wouldn’t be at this position. “And during all these time, we have made resolutions. We’ve also even given them way out or stop gap measures or other measures they can take but they were all bluntly refused.” Also speaking on the strike action, an ex-officio II, Dr Ajayi Dami, said: “When we resumed in 2014, all the residents were 56 and for four years, residents were leaving the system on a yearly basis, sometimes, twice a year. And they (Hospital Management) were not replacing them. So much so that now, we have 33 resident doctors. And the resident doctors are the ones who are on ground, who are taking calls, they are the ones who are seeing the patients.” Dr. Ajayi said the management reneged on an agreement that employment of residents should be on a regular basis. “But they would go and lump employment of all staff together when all other staff are permanent staff and residents are contract staff. It is disheartening. Senior registrars are supposed to be doing research. We’re supposed to have mastered clinical work but a lot of us don’t have registrars to work with. We just are by ourselves. I’m running a ward by myself. “