Former Yobe State Deputy Governor Abubakar Aliyu was one of the ministerial nominees screened by the Senate. Correspondent DUKU JOEL examines the challenges that will confront him in his new position. To many observers in Yobe State, former Deputy Governor Abubakar Aliyu has been a sacrificial lamb during general elections. His nomination as a minister, therefore, came as a surprise. It was shocking to the people who perceived him as a victim of power play. Although he aspired to be a senator, luck did not smile on him. Aliyu’s nomination can be described a voyage on a political  sea characterised by turbulence. Observers thought that the ‘Jarma of Potiskum’ was effortlessly and blindly swimming against the tide. Everything seemed to be falling in the opposite direction. However, his admirers beleve that his nominationwas an act of God. Many thought that Aliyu, an engineer, would succceed his former boss, Governor Ibrahim Gaidam, after his two terms of eight years.But, he cautioned his supporters against making unnecessary moves on his behalf to avoid heating up the state. Instead, he urged them to pray and allow the will of Allah to be done. Aliyu lost out during the selection process. Govenor  Mai Mala emerged as the anointed candidate of the party. Also, the former deputy governor lost out during the senatorial shadow poll. Although he was given the House of Representatives ticket, he declained. Aliyu explained that he did not want to disrupt the existing zoning agreement in his constituency. Hailing his humility and honesty,  Senator  Kabiru Gaya (Kano North) described him as “a loyal, humbled and competent gentleman.” During the screening in the Senate, Gaya alluded to these virtues. Thus, he was asked to “take a bow and go.” It was a rare privilege. Gaya had urged the Senate to set aside its tradition and accord Aliyu the honour. He said:“He has been a loyal deputy governor for 10 years. I have known him for  many years. This is a person that was given another opportunity to take a seat at the House of Representatives, but he refused. He has been nice and humble. He is also a fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers. I believe he is qualified . I appeal to our colleagues that this is a gentleman to the core and we should allow him take a bow and leave”. To Senator James Manager,  Aliyu earned himself the respect of the Red Chambers because of his “fantastic humility.” Senate President Ahmad Lawan also said he was proud of the nominee, based on the testimonies about him. The Senate President said:“He is loyal, committed and competent. He has been doing well and he followed the footsteps of the former governor. We are proud of our nominee.” Aliyu was an outstanding deputy governor. Hehas received many awards as the most loyal  and longest serving deputy governor in Nigeria.  Throughout his tenure, he maintained  cordial relations with his boss, despite efforts to create rifts between them. Reflecting on his political career, Aliyu said: “Naturally, I am a very loyal person. Not only to my boss, but everyone that comes my way and interacts with me. “To my boss, I am and would always be, because he is my mentor. Another thing is that, one has to be patient, honest, truthful and avoid lying, breaking promises or hypocrisy. I always tried my best not to be found in any of these. I don’t harm or reciprocate harm. That is why I was considered loyal and my inspiration is from the teachings of my religion, Islam.” He added: “As a deputy governor, l maintained loyalty to the governor, which added value and trust into our relationship. Unlike what was obtained in some places, my governor invested his trust in me and nominated me twice to serve as his deputy. The 10 years have been of service to the people.” Aliyu’s asset is competence. He was never found wanting in any assignment given to him by Gaidam, who delegated many duties to him, including overseeing the Ministries of Health, Commerce, Integrated and Rural Development. His exemplary leadership at the State Ad-hoc Committee on Immunization propelled Yobe State into that first position as the most improved state in primary health delivery. His commitment to the success of the ‘Save One Million Life’ also earned the state a $29 grant and accolades from the Bill Malinda & Gates Foundation and Dangote Foundation. Aliyu developed a strong coordinated approach with humanitarian actors in the state, following  his appointment as the chairman of the  Ad-hoc committee on the Resettlement, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation. He brought the humanitarian actors working under one roof and streamlined their activities to mitigate duplication in interventions in care and welfare of displaced people. An elated Lawan, who is from Yobe, assured that Aliyu will succeed as minister. He said: “We from Yobe are very proud of the choice of Engr. Abubakar Aliyu as our nominee. He is one person that everyone in the state is proud of his nomination as minister.” Aliyu’s choice  has also underlined the unity of purpose in Yobe APC. However, many challenges will confront him. Many expect him to support the present governor, who was his rival during the primary. Aliyu is also expected to extend the same cooperation to the National Assembly members from his zone who were also his co-contestants.