THE Executive Secretary (ES), Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Mr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, has been awarded the Transformational Business Leader in Public Sector. The NCDMB was recognised as the Government Agency of the Year for Enabling Business. The awards review committee said the ES has provided exemplary leadership at the NCDMB and had spearheaded several initiatives which help to create conducive environment for the private sector to thrive. It added that the award celebrates “a public officer under whose inspirational leadership new opportunities for domestic prosperity are being unlocked”. The two awards were given by the Nigerian Business Leadership Awards of BusinessDa in Lagos. Receiving the awards, Wabote thanked the company and its Awards Review Committee for the awards and expressed delight that “the media and populace fully appreciate our efforts in using Nigerian Content to create employment opportunities and to promote the growth of the local economy” . He dedicated the awards to his family and NCDMB workers, stressing: “I have succeeded in this role simply because I have the full support of the management and staff of the NCDMB. Their commitment and dedication to duty is second to none.” Wabote thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the opportunity to serve in NCDMB and underscored the support received from the Presidency to deliver on the mandates contained in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD) Act. He stated that the Board had pushed a few new ideas in the last two and a half years, including equity investments in strategic third party projects, introduction of Service Level Agreements (SLAs) with international and indigenous operating companies to enhance the Ease of Doing Business, creation of the US$200million Nigerian Content Intervention Fund to provide affordable and accessible credit for local oil service companies, progression of industrial parks to domesticate oil and gas components manufacturing and construction of the Board’s 17-storey Headquarters Building in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. He added: “We feel highly elated that our modest ideas and efforts are making the desired impacts and have attracted recognitions,” assuring: “These awards will reenergise us to do more for our country.”