Some students of the Covenant University (CU) in Ota, Ogun State, have converted waste polythene materials to interlocking solid blocks which can be used to rehabilitate roads in their host community. Their innovation won the first prize at the just-concluded ENACTUS National Entrepreneurship Competition. The feat earned the team a ticket to represent Nigeria at the ENACTUS global challenge holding in California, United States, next month. WALE AJETUNMOBI reports. THE bad roads in Ota, the host community of the Covenant University (CU) in Ogun State, spurred some students to look for a solution to the problem. The students, who are members of ENACTUS team in the school, introduced what they called Pet City project. Under it, they converted plastics and polythene waste indiscriminately dumped in the environment to durable building materials that can be used to fill potholes in Ota township. The students went round the town to collect plastic wastes. The accumulated materials were taken to the foundry of the school’s Mechanical Engineering Department, where the students converted the residual amalgam to masses of interlocking solid materials. After the first try in March, the improvised materials were assessed to be durable and sustainable; the production was also evaluated to be eco-friendly and cost-efficient. This led to the deployment of the interlocking materials to fill the potholes on some roads in the school. The job earned the students praises from the management, which said the innovation eased the difficulty in passing through the rehabilitated spots. The innovation won the first prize at the just-concluded National Championship Challenge of the ENACTUS Nigeria held at the Civic Centre on Victoria Island, Lagos. A team of assessors declared the Pet City Initiative as an ‘Outstanding Entrepreneurial Action”. The event was co-sponsored by African Capital Alliance Foundation, Act Foundation, Sahara Group, KPMG, SC Johnson, Seplat Petroleum Development Company, Axa Mansard Insurance Plc, Coca-Cola and Nestle. No fewer than 900 students and academic leaders from 35 tertiary institutions participated in the three-round national competition; Eighteen teams presented projects in the first round. The students’ teams implemented community-based projects targeted at addressing real developmental, social and economic problems. The objective of the projects was to equip young people with viable entrepreneurial skills to help them transform lives and solve the developmental challenges facing communities around them. Fourteen teams were screened out, leaving CU and three other teams moving to the final round to compete for the first prize. Other teams in the final were students of  Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Kaduna State; Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi (FUAM), Benue State; and Bayero University, Kano (BUK). The teams presented their innovative projects before a panel of judges comprising corporate executives in multinational firms, business development managers, entrepreneurs and industry professionals. To replicate the innovation in their school’s host community, the CU students told the judges’ panel that they improvised a machine to scale up production of the interlocking materials in large quantity. During the presentation of the project, the team said: “After we discovered that the interlocking stones were good and durable, we decided to employ people and seek partnerships to scale up our project. We are currently talking with the Centre for Economic Policy and Development Research for partnership to produce 85,000 units of interlocking bricks to repair Ota-Idiroko road. “We are also into business discussion with Pertinence Company, which requested for a supply of interlocking bricks for the conclusion of its real estate project in Ibeju-Lekki area of Lagos. We should be able to meet the demand because our collection capacity has been improved. We can potentially gather three metric tons of plastics, weekly, while empowering women for the collection and sorting of plastic.” CU team’s second project tagged: Toles  is aimed at recycling used and scrap tyres into eco-friendly and durable footwear while engaging financially-disadvantaged persons in the production. The team’s project focused on tackling food insecurity that followed the lead poisoning in Zamfara State. The students set up a mobile farming model using aquaponics system to help victims of lead poisoning and banditry improve their livelihoods through agriculture. BUK’s project tagged: Zazoo is an innovative solar-powered smart tricycle, which depends on renewable source of energy to power itself. It was specifically designed to aid mobility and create decent job for persons living with disability. The FUAM team designed a social enterprise programme christened:  Prison Entrepreneurship and Reform Programme (PERP) to equip prison inmates with life-long academic and agriculture skills for their complete re-integration into the society after their release. Having assessed the teams’ projects, in relation to the impacts made and investment potential, the judges declared the CU team the winner of the contest and it was presented a N400,000 cheque to support its projects. The ABU team was the first runner-up; the BUK team came third. With this feat, the CU students will be representing Nigeria at the Global Entrepreneurship Contest coming up next month in California, United States (U.S.). The team will be competing for $50,000 prize alongside students from 40 other countries. The event also featured a leadership and innovation summit sponsored by Act Foundation with the theme: Multi-stakeholder collaborations: A tool for achieving sustainable large-scale social impact. Panelists at the summit included Chief Executive Officer of Sahara Group Mr Tonye Cole; Osayi Alile, Dekunbi Wuraola, and Abosede George-Ogan. The ENACTUS Country Director, Mr Michael Ajayi, said: “Beyond the competition, ENACTUS provides the unique opportunity for capacity development for the students in the areas of leadership and entrepreneurship, while we encourage selflessness and promote volunteerism.” There was also a keynote address by council member of Africa Capital Alliance Group, Mrs. Yeah Osa-Oboh, who spoke on: “Leapfrogging human capital development”. She also charged students on critical thinking, noting that success of any projects depends on communication, critical reasoning, creativity, conviction and character. ENACTUS is an international non-profit organisation that brings together students, academic and business leaders who are committed to using the power of entrepreneurial action to improve the quality of life and standard of living for people in need.