Praise Centre (Aya) Road in Effurun, Delta State used to be a source of worry to residents and motorists. But there was joy when contract for the construction of the road was awarded and eventually completed. Regional Editor, Port Harcourt Shola O’Neil reports that residents are sad again as a result of the road that has failed few months after its completion. Then construction work on Praise Centre (Aya) Road in Effurun, Delta State commence months ago, it elicited celebrations by, not just the thousands of residents of the area, but also inhabitants of other suburbs of Jakpa, Refinery, Ekpan and other parts of Effurun, headquarters of Uvwie Local Government Area. The road is strategically located to link the area to other parts of the twin-cities of Effurun-Warri, as well as to cut users off gnarly traffics from Jakpa and Sokoh Estate Junctions in that axis, and that of Ekpan/Housing Complex roads, which are usually knotty during rush hours. Sadly, barely two months after the road was opened to traffic, residents and motorists alike are seething over the failure of the multi-billion naira road project awarded by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in the area. Various sources told our reporter that the contract for the project linking Jakpa Road, through Aya (Praise Centre) Road, to Sokoh Estate Road was completed early this year, to the relief of thousands of motorists and road. “We were very grateful when the contract was awarded and started. When it was completed, we heaved sighs of relief because we can now cut off the tragic jam on Jakpa Road when going to Airport Road and other parts of Effurun and Warri,” an aggrieved resident of the area told our reporter. Our checks revealed that the smiles have turned into frowns as the main road and others adjoining it have started caving in just months afterwards. Findings showed that the deplorable state of the road was due to an obvious wishy-washy job by the contractor and failure of NDDC engineers to carry out due supervision. Our reporter, who visited the area noted that the road has failed at several portions, notably at points where it connects with Jakpa Road, much to the chagrin of users and residents of the area. Several potholes are growing by the day, revealing very thin layer of tar over earth. Attempts by our reporter to get the details of the contractor that executed the project were futile. A signpost at the Church of God Mission (Praise Centre) section showed that the project was awarded to Comme Le’Etoile Limited. The job was listed as ‘emergency maintenance’. It reads: “Project: Instruction for Emergency Repairs of Failed and Unmotorable Sections of Praise Centre Road Linking Sokoh Estate Road, Effurun, Delta State.” Findings revealed that designation of the project as ‘Emergency Repair’ is inaccurate because some of the roads listed in the contract were earth roads and footpaths that had never been barred. This development raised suspicions that the description was deliberate used to bypass directives on award of new projects by the NDDC. “This is one of the abuses of the “Emergency Repair’ activities of the NDDC. The powers that be there know that it takes longer process to award new projects. So, what they do is to hide under the ‘Emergency Repair’ to award any contract that they want to,” a source, who asked not to be named revealed. Our source said he is compiling a list of projects similarly misnamed as part of a petition to relevant authorities on the issue. Meanwhile, attempts to get clarification from Messrs Comme Le’Etoile  were unsuccessful, as neither the company nor any of its officials could not be located at the No. 9, Abacha Road, GRA Phase 3, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, address listed as its office. Business owners and workers at the complex told our reporter that they do not know any occupant or business by the name. When contacted, the office of the NDDC Executive Director, Projects, Mr. Adjogbe Samuel told our reporter that there was no cause for alarm over the project, stressing that the contractor had more to lose than the NDDC, as it was yet to receive payment for the job. The EDP’s media aide, Mr. Ogheneovo Itefue, in a telephone chat with our reporter, assured that the contractor would not be paid until the commission is assured that the quality of the jobs passes its strict scrutiny on durability and specifications. “It is in the interest of the contractor to do a very good job because they will not be paid until a time when we are sure that the work has passed all tests,” he added. The claim could not be independently verified, even though feelers from the site hinted that the beneficiary might have received payment for the job. “What we are hearing is that the contract was awarded to a businessman, who is developing a property on this (project) area. The road also cuts through his property and that was why we are surprised at the quality of this road project.” A source said a contractor involved was in the past awarded a contract for the construction of the road on the street where he lives. The road project was also bungled, and is said to be in total ruin at the time of this report. “You then begin to wonder why the eggheads at NDDC continue to award contracts to people and companies who have record of not properly executing such jobs. We constantly reward people for misbehaving.”