Time flies indeed and it was exactly 50 years ago on 29th July that the legendary founder of the famed Lagos’ darling club, Stationery Stores, Chief Israel Adebajo, breathed his last. Adetilewa Adebajo, the son of the late founder and current chairman of Stationery Stores, here gives a glimpse of his father and where the club is headed to in the nearest future in this interview with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. 50 years after the passage of the founder of Stationery Stores, what were your childhood memories of your father? The football, the factory and the church. Those were the three important things to him. Basically, we had the players around as they were family and they had a house in Apapa where we all lived in a camp; they were professionals. The house was in Apapa and my dad’s factory and his retail outlet was also in Apapa and he had branches all over the country. He did not joke with church on Sunday and was in Sunday school from age three and could recite the Lord’s Prayer in Yoruba at that age. He personally did the shopping for all his children’s Sunday wear so it was an event. As a traditional African man with wives and children you can imagine. As per football, his most joyous football moments were the Challenge Cup victories. The victory parties with players and well-wishers at his residence were a lot of fun. In retrospect, it took him about eight years after acquiring the club to achieve that first success. The 3-3 draw between Nigeria and Brazil at the Mexico Olympics must have also pleased him as nine of his players were in the Nigeria starting eleven in the first major international outing. In the good old days, he and his mates in the NFA took responsibility for funding the NFA from personal and corporate contributions, without government’s involvement. He also served as treasurer for the NFA. What were the things you think he would have done differently if he was alive? Not much, he was pretty focused. He had done Olympics with the national team and was looking forward to the World Cup and winning the African Club Champions league. Super Stores have struggled ever since, what are you putting in place to bring back the fond memories of yesteryears when the club was the darling of Lagosians? Stationery Stores and its struggles is a reflection of the state of Nigerian football. The Supersport people have six state-of-the-art OB vans sitting idle with no match to cover and they have made multimillion dollar investment without any progress. 95% of clubs are controlled by government and they do not care about market-driven revenues from TV rights, merchandising, sponsorship and gate takings. They use tax payers’ money to subsidise football. We depend on this to survive, so they have killed modern football. When football is focused on market-driven revenue dynamics, stores will survive and thrive. With the new Onikan Stadium coming up, we will use this as a platform to create a new business model for Nigerian football. We thank Baba Ijebu for their support without which we will not feature. So many players have passed through Stores, who were your heroes and how well are some of them being integrated into the new scheme of things? Too many names. It will be a disservice to mention but Muyiwa Oshodi, Willie Andrews, Peter Aneke, Haruna Ilerika, Yakubu Mambo, Sanni Mohammed, Muda Lawal, Peter Fregene, Wakilu Oyenuga, Peter Rufai, Ike Shorunmu, Arthur Moses. All my heroes, I grew up with them; they are my uncles, brothers and the new crop now are my children. How much have you succeeded in your repositioning drive for the club and what are your immediate and long-term plans? The business model for Nigerian football is wrong. Football has to be privatised to get it moving and all the referees have to be replaced. No Nigerian referee has gone to the World Cup as they are highly corruptible. If football is not restructured and privatised we remain where we are. Over the years, the club has been bedevilled with succession of leadership, how well has this problem been fixed? That is not true as majority of the board members you might be surprised to know were never and still not really interested in football. We had Chief Oyebanjo and Gansallo who helped sustain the club after my father passed. My goal is that this 60-year-old iconic brand, the oldest surviving club in Nigeria today, can be listed on the stock exchange and become an institution once we can restructure and privatise Nigerian football How are the younger elements coming through, are there some you are already tipping for greatness? There is a fundamental flaw in Nigerian football. We used to recruit from the academicals ranks from secondary school, with good games masters. Now we have to go back and start from primary school. There is proliferation of fake academies teaching nonsense and churning out age cheats and trafficking players abroad. So as you can see with talent, we can’t find up-and-coming talent in secondary schools any more. Finally, what are your thoughts on the performance of the Super Eagles at the recently concluded AFCON, what are your hopes for the future? Encouraging fair performance and a reflection of how our standards have dropped due to lack of depth and talent pool for selection and the state of football in Nigeria and how we have lost our dominance.