Principal Consultant/ CEO of NECCI Limited, Nkechi Ali-Balogun, has said Juilliard Academy and Berkley Science Magnet School is achieving its mission of producing the crème of pupils the nation needs. Mrs Ali-Balogun made this known at the annual valedictory service and Teachers’ Appreciation programme of the school last week, where she urged the pupils to keep updating themselves with knowledge of the next level. “This is the time to build yourselves – in body, mind, capability and so on. Build yourselves and the time to live will come. If you live too early, then you will see later on that you will not have lived a fully-fledged life. Aim for the moon and strive for the best, be knowledgeable,” she said. Mrs Ali-Balogun also asked them to be focused. Addressing the graduands, Group Managing Director of Orglearning Group, Dr Maria Onyia, owner of Berkley Science Magnet School and Juilliard Academy told them to be focused. “This is just a starting point in your life, a part of your larger journey, as such; do not rest on your oars. I advise that you stay away from get-rich-quick scheme and even career choices that will deter you from furthering your education. Even if you decide to become a footballer or musician, ensure your education. While doing that, learn a new skill. “Start now to reflect on your life and plan for the next phase of your life. Develop an audacious plan, dream big and believe in yourself and leave your comfort zone when planning. Write your personal mission statement. Do all these and they will give you a direction in life. “Think outside the box when choosing a career to study in the university. Pick a university that best serves your chosen course. Also, while chasing your dream, do not let anyone talk you down, be steadfast and you will succeed,” Onyia implored. Among the highlights of the programme was the cutting of the valedictory cake, presentation of awards, which included: academic awards to students, presentation of awards to outstanding members of staff and recitation of poems.