For a long time, European explorers had known the West African Coast as the White Man’s grave.  This is because of the terrible fever they contracted from this region of the world.  They called it “bad air” or “mal aria” as they thought it was from the air. However, malaria disease appears to have been known by the Greeks and Romans more than 2,000 years ago who described patterns of fever that we now recognize as malaria fever.  The parasite that causes malaria, plasmodium, was discovered by Charles Louis Alphonse Laveran in 1880.  Mosquitoes became recognized as the vectors of the parasite for malaria in birds by British army surgeon Ronald Ross in 1897 who was given the 1902 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. The Italian physician and zoologist, Giovanni Battista Grassi, was a pioneer in the science of parasitology, especially malariology.  “He was the first to describe and establish the life cycle of the human malarial parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, and discovered that only female anopheline mosquitoes are capable of transmitting the disease” (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giovanni_Battista_Grassi).  Since then scientists have gained encyclopedic knowledge about the single cell (protozoan) malaria parasite, plasmodium, and its vector, the mosquito. There are several well studied types of Plasmodium which cause human malaria: Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium ovale, Plasmodium vivax, and Plasmodium malariae.  Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax cause the most severe malaria and they are found IN Africa, Asia and South America.  In Nigeria and many parts of West Africa, malaria is mainly caused by Plasmodium falciparum but Plasmodium malariae and Plasmodium ovale are also endemic. Plasmodium vivax is more prevalent in the Indian subcontinent and Central America.  Plasmodium malariae is found in sub-Saharan Africa, in much of southeast Asia and on the western Pacific Islands.  Plasmodium malariae and Plasmodium brasilianum which infects monkeys are found in some parts of the Amazon Basin of South America. P. knowlesi which infects animals can rarely cause disease in humans. Some of the mosquito species, Anopheles gambiae, carry the plasmodium parasites and transmit them to humans without getting the disease.  In humans, depending on the degree and duration of infection, the parasites cause fever, liver and kidney failure, convulsions, coma, and death.  This is because the parasites lodge in different tissues of the human body. Plasmodium falciparum is the most dangerous and can kill rapidly, even within a few days, and may be responsible for infant deaths in sub-Saharan Africa and Oceania. The female Anopheles mosquitoes which takes blood meals from humans ingests the parasite with the blood of infected people.  The female needs this blood meal to get nutrients for its eggs. The parasites taken with the blood live and reproduce within the mosquito. The infected mosquito then introduces the parasites into the next human beings that it bites.  This is done through its saliva that it injects first to facilitate blood sucking. Plasmodium may infect red blood cells in mammals, birds, and reptiles.  Apart from mosquitoes, some other biting insects such as mites may transmit plasmodia.  It is generally good to avoid biting insects in endemic areas. They life cycle of plasmodium is completed between the mosquito and human hosts.  The asexual reproductive process is within the human and the sexual process occurs in the mosquito. In human hosts, the plasmodium parasite can be found in various stages or forms: the blood parasites and the tissue parasites.  There is also the vector stage that lives in the mosquito. The Mosquito injects sporozoites into the human victim. Different forms of the plasmodium then emerge, passing through the liver (exoerythrocytic stages) and into the blood (erythrocytic stages ): tissue hypnozoites, blood and tissue schizonts, blood trophozoites, blood and liver merozoites, and gametocytes.  Gametocytes ingested by mosquitoes during a blood meal transform within the mosquito into, zygotes, ookinetes, oocyts and sporozoites. The size, shape and appearance of the forms are characteristic. For example, the microgametocytes presents a large nucleus that is ready for gamete production, the macrogametocytes present a cytoplasm with numerous ribosomes for protein synthesis.  Within humans, the plasmodium may become a hypnozoite, a long-lived dormant stage, that persists in tissues even when a person appears recovered from the disease.  Schizonts are vegetative forms which rupture to release daughter cells called merozoites that infect  red blood cells (erythrocytes). Merozoites can adapt to lodge in liver cells and can remain in the liver for more than one year. They later emerge from liver cells and enter into the blood as blood forms.  The malaria parasite is thus a serious health threat because it has developed ways of staying in the human body both as an active pathogen that can cause disease and alert the immune system and also as a dormant potential hazard that does not seem to readily alert the immune system.  Moreover, the different forms have different susceptibility to different types of drugs such that each drug in use can affect some forms and not other forms of the parasite within the body.  The more commonly used drugs such as artesunate destroy schizonts. Presently efforts are being made to produce effective malaria vaccines that can prevent malaria by inducing personal immunity. A malaria vaccine approved in 2015 is RTS,S, (trade name Mosquirix). However, it requires four injections, and its efficacy is low. Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635