The second edition of the Southwest regional convention of the Nigerian Medical Students Association (NiMSA) might have come and gone, but the connections, bond, inspiration and great friendship among participants would endure for long. The three-day event, organised by the Afe Babalola University (ABUAD) Medical Students Association, had in attendance over 150 medical students drawn from all medical schools across the southwest. The event with the theme: ‘Access to healthcare: The doctor, the patient, and the government’, kicked off with an opening ceremony, which was graced by the Acting Vice Chancellor, Prof Micheal Ajisafe as well as Provost and Dean of the ABUAD Medical School, Prof  Joseph Olurotimi Sanya, among others. In his opening speech NiMSA Southwest regional coordinator, Oguntade Tobilola, said the event was an avenue for medical students within the Southwest region to foster friendship and brainstorm on ways to improve the health sector in Nigeria. Ekiti State co-ordinator of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Dr Clement Lugala, who delivered the keynote address, emphasised the need for a multi sectorial action to achieving the universal health coverage (UHC) in Nigeria. According to him, it is sad Nigeria still has less than 10 per cent coverage of UHC while smaller countries like Rwanda have achieved over 90 per cent. “Despite the poor health indices in Nigeria and problems facing access to healthcare in the country, I am charging you these day as medical students to brace up for the challenge upfront. We can’t continue to lament. I encourage you all to prepare yourself and be adequately read to solve the challenge head on,” Lugala said. Founder of Doctooora, Dr Debo Odunlana; Founder HelpMum Dr Adeyemi Abiodun and Co-Founder TREP Labs Abdulwaheed Alatande, equally delivered various presentations on ‘Digital health technologies: The future of medicine’. The trio agreed that the future of work has changed and there is the need for medical students to be tech savvy. “With the way the world is evolving, if you don’t have tech skills as doctors, there is the possibility of you not being able to function, Alatanda warned. The event ended with a movie night for participants.