THE African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) is going to have an impact on Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). The Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM) has come up with five initiatives to create more opportunities for them under the trade agreement. A statement on Monday by NEXIM said these initiatives would double the bank’s steps towards deepening regional trade, through which it seeks to create more opportunities for MSMEs and integrate the informal traders into the formal sector. The bank said it has since recognised that “more of Nigeria’s manufactured products are traded in the regional market, as a result, the Nigerian Export-Import Bank, a few years ago, launched the ECOWAS Trade Support Facility (ETSF) to boost SMEs access to funds, increase formal trade and improve the payment system.” NEXIM added: “Arising from our participation at the MSME Clinics and the deeper insights into the operations of small businesses, the Bank has developed many initiatives towards promoting the sector and enhancing its contribution to export trade.” The key initiatives of NEXIM to prepare MSMEs to take advantage of the AfCFTA as well as offer them support and promote the Sector are: introduction of the State Export Development Programme , which is an intervention scheme specifically designed to catalyse and incentivise regional export investments and promote diversification and industrialisation, based on the economic potentials and resource endowments in every state of the federation. It is specifically targeted at developing and supporting the SMEs, including Startup projects in furtherance of the objective of the government’s policy under the Economic Recovery & Growth Plan (ERGP). The scheme is designed as a partnership arrangement with the state governments, whereby suitable projects will be identified in collaboration with NEXIM for business advisory services and funding.  The beneficiaries of the funds are however businesses from the private sector, while government’s role is to provide an enabling environment. Under this scheme, at least N1billion has been earmarked for each state of the federation from the Export Development Fund. Another initiative is the Anchor Exporter Programme (AEP), which the bank has developed along the same line as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Anchor Borrowers Programme. It is targeted at export-oriented projects. “NEXIM’s intervention is targeted at the entire value chain from production to export of products and is designed to incorporate Aggregators, who will create market access for the Small & Medium Enterprises”. Under this scheme, NEXIM has also signed an MoU with the Nigerian Incentive Risk-Based System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), towards providing risk-mitigating instruments (guarantees/insurance) to facilitate the access by SMEs. There is the Intervention Scheme for Women and Youth, which the bank says is its contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. The Bank has earmarked about N3billion to support industries that are major employers of women and youth under a special economic empowerment scheme for the vulnerable groups. This fund will be provided at the highly concessionary rate and the key objective will be the promotion of women and youth empowerment. The SME Rating Agency of Nigeria (SMERAN) is another initiative, which NEXIM has developed to ensure that MSMEs in the country tap into the AfCTFA benefits. According to NEXIM, this “was conceived as a specialised institution to develop and implement a rating mechanism for the Small & Medium Enterprises in Nigeria as a way of generating requisite business information towards improving the operations of the sector and boosting access to funds. It is a collaborative arrangement between government agencies including the Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Bank of Industry (BOI), the Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM) and Dun & Bradstreet (D&B), who have been working together and signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in October, 2017 to unveil the scheme. This scheme is designed to address the issue of information asymmetry limiting access of SMEs to funds, while the collaborating parties are currently working to fine-tune the modalities towards the commencement of operations.” The next initiative is Promoting Factoring. In this case, NEXIM, in partnership with key stakeholders under the auspices of the Nigerian Factoring Working Group, which includes the CBN Financial System Strategy (FSS 2020), and other institutions is also promoting the introduction of Factoring as a trade finance instrument and an MSME development and financial inclusion strategy in Nigeria. Towards this objective and as part of efforts to institute a regulatory/legal framework, a draft Factoring Bill for Nigeria has been developed. The Bill passed through the first and second reading at the 8th National assembly, while the public hearing has been conducted by the House of Representatives. Consultations and engagement are on-going towards ensuring the early passage of the Bill by the National assembly.