A police offensive against violent crime is helping to dislodge kidnappers and armed robbers in Abia State, reports SUNNY NWANKWO Aba, the commercial capital of Abia State, has always held an attraction for all shades of criminals. The regular pickpocket, burglar, armed robber, kidnapper, and child trafficker, among others, target the city’s buzzing population and business proceeds. This is what keeps the police and other security agents on their toes, necessitating constant clampdowns. On April 5, in Abuja, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Abubakar launched a bold offensive tagged ‘Operation Puff Adder’ meant to smoke out criminals from their dens and keep them out of business. On April 24, Abia State Commissioner of Police, CP Ene Okon accompanied by senior police officer in the command launched the Puff Adder operation in the state. Investigation by our reporter has it that the centrality of the state to other states in the Southeast and Southsouth coupled with the high volume of economic activities in the state, particularly Aba, make the commercial city vulnerable to the activities of hoodlums and other criminally-minded elements. “Operation Puff Adder” has helped to dislodge criminal elements from their hideouts. Through intelligence gathering, some of the hoodlums were arrested in the act, while others were caught attempting to launch their evil mission. According to sources in the state police command, some of the suspects arrested by police operatives are either still being investigated or already standing trial in various courts across the state. After the launch of Puff Adder in the state and its successes especially in the urban areas, the State Commissioner of Police in the company of other members of his team returned to Aba to dialogue with stakeholders in security business including traditional rulers of various communities in the state, Civil Liberty Organisations, NGOs, and market union eladers, among others, especially in Aba Area. Okon was seeking ways the police can work with security agencies and stakeholders in security business in the state to ensure that perpetrators of heinous crimes who have relocated to the hinterlands were not only fished out, but to appear before court of competent jurisdiction to face the consequences of their actions. In his remarks, the Abia State Police Boss who noted that the hoodlums have relocated to the rural areas where they feel comfortable and more relaxed to continue with their illicit businesses after they were confronted by the police and other security agencies within the metropolis, said that indications have it that kidnappers who operate in the state come and retreat to the villages to keep their victims while negotiating with their families as armed robbers hide their loots and stolen properties in the village. Okon who said that the importance of community policing cannot be overemphasized, disclosed that kidnappers and armed robbers’ intention of relocating to the hinterlands, was to keep kidnap victims and stolen properties away from the prying eyes of security agents. According to him, the meeting with the stakeholders is to rub minds with them on how best they think that security agencies could tackle crime in the state in partnership with leaders of various markets, business owners, religious organizations and security experts. Assuring that the state police command would work cooperatively with the traditional institution in the state, members of various vigilante groups to ensure that the state and the entire local governments were safe for people to live and do business, assured that they will do their best in ensuring that the interest of credible sources were protected. Speaking at the occasion, a traditional ruler, Eze Asonye among other speakers commended the police and its sister agencies and demanded that they do more in information sharing and intelligence gathering. Chibuike Akwara, Basil Uka and others who spoke as well, called for the protection of informants who may be at risk after volunteering to provide security agencies information about the activities of hoodlums in their areas. The state governor Okezie Ikpeazu represented by his former adviser on security matters, Capt. Awa Udensi (Retd) reinstated the commitment of the present administration to make the state safer and conducive for people to carry on with their business and economic activities in Aba and any other parts of the state without any fear of molestation by any group of persons.