It would appear we are faced with bush insurgency. We may have to find escape route by blaming the bushes for the wanton killings and kidnappings that have become regular features on our highways. Or how else do we account for the discordant views on whose shoulders to rest the blame for the senseless killings and kidnapping for ransom on our highways perpetrated by faceless elements hiding under the cover of seemingly impenetrable bushes. From Boko Haram insurgency to armed banditry, kidnapping to the insurgency of the herdsmen, all enjoy one common denominator of launching their dastardly and mortal escapades from the bushes. Perhaps, with the exception of the Boko Haram insurgents, there has been some difficulty pinpointing precisely those responsible for the killings and kidnappings that have now reduced journeys on our highways to a dreadful enterprise. In the far north, we hear of bandits that raid villages killing people at random and abducting others for ransom. There is also the phenomenon of cattle rusting and the hostilities it engenders; killings associated with illegal mining for gold in Zamfara State and ancillary criminal activities. In the Middle Belt states of Plateau, Benue and Taraba, there are killings, sacking and despoliation of communities that are blamed on the herdsmen. Those who perpetrate these dastardly acts also operate under the cover of the bushes and mostly at nights when the indigenous people are asleep. They strike their targets with utmost precision leaving in their trail sorrow and awe. The southern parts of the country are home to killings and kidnapping for ransom on the highways, armed robbery, cultism and sundry criminalities. But unlike in the past when armed robbers waylaid their victims, dispossessing them of their money and other valuables, the narrative now is that of well-armed people emerging from the bushes, killing travellers indiscriminately and taking others for ransom. They operate with great speed and precision only to flee into the bushes with the victims who are made to face debasing assault, raping and all manner of cruelty. Those who have had the ill-luck of encountering these men of low means say they are Fulani herdsmen. They were fingered in the killing of the daughter of the leader of the Afenifere. Blames traded and sentiments raised on that singular killing are still very fresh in our minds. Pastors of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, kidnapped in Ogun State a fortnight ago had similar stories as to those they encountered when taken into the bushes. But despite this seeming convergence of views on those largely responsible for the bush insurgency in the southern parts of the country, it would appear no group wants to take responsibility for the criminality. That is why each time killings and kidnapping take place; the police blame bandits for culpability even as the source of the criminality does not seem to be in doubt. The police authorities may be right in their position especially given their inability to get a handle to the rising spate of insecurity on our highways. Because of this difficulty, they attribute all criminalities on the highways to bandits whoever they are. Yes, there are armed robbers and kidnappers on the highways who may have nothing to do with cattle breeding. It is also quite possible for the criminal activities of this group to be attributed to the herdsmen. We cannot rule out the possibility that some of them may even disguise as herdsmen to carry out their dastardly activities. This dimension exists. Yet, these are not sufficient to exculpate the herdsmen from the accusations levied against them in the rising killings and kidnappings that have reduced travelling on our highways to a nightmare. The fact that other criminals could disguise as herdsmen and commit crimes suggests that something is wrong with the way herding is done in this clime. Apart from the account of those who have encountered these criminals, one thing that reinforces the culpability of the herdsmen is their affinity with the bushes. They live in the bushes; graze their cattle in the bushes and are more familiar with bush terrains even when they are not indigenous to those areas. And because they can easily be found in bushes where people dread to enter, they become easy suspects for most of the criminalities coming from there. Moreover, herdsmen are known to be wielding AK-47 riffles against the usual sticks and knives they hitherto used to drive their cattle and for self-protection. It was not for nothing that some governors in the north-east recently passed a resolution to disarm herdsmen and sundry armed groups in the zone. Perhaps, if the police had been more efficient in bursting those responsible for the anarchy on our highways, the identity of the masterminds would have been exposed and the nation saved the attendant speculations and altercations. In the absence of that, the various nationalities especially in the south have had to hold herdsmen liable for much of the criminality on our highways. The herdsmen may not be alone in this.  But their affinity with the bushes and the fact that they are found in the remotest parts of dreaded bushes seem to give them out. One thing that stands out and very distinctly too, is that we are confronted by the insurgency of the bush. The bush has become our greatest problem; our undoing in effectively protecting lives and property in this country. The bush has become our albatross. It provides cover for all manner of criminalities and has become our greatest challenge. We must confront the bushes with the entire military arsenal at our disposal such that will make it a risky enterprise for any human to hide there and levy war on the rest of us. The insurgency of the bush was in action and effective in the Sambisa forest as it nurtured the Boko Haram insurgency in the north-east. For years, that forest was the bastion of the onslaughts of the insurgents against our soldiers. Our soldiers dreaded that forest and have bitter tales on the difficulties it posed in “technically” winning the war on terrorism. That the war is still far from being won, illustrates very poignantly the potent danger the bush has become in the maintenance of law and order. We are confronted by the same predicament in the southern parts of the country and the Middle Belt. We must confront the bushes; forests and dislodge all those who hide there to make life difficult for ordinary citizens. We must get to the locations where human activities especially herding is carried out inside the bushes and have effective surveillance over them. With this, it will be easy to determine who exploits the cover of the bushes to make life miserable for the rest of the society. Nigeria is currently gravitating towards unmitigated disaster should the insurgency of the bush be allowed to continue unchecked. There is a grave risk in ignoring the recurring blame trading as to those exploiting their affinity with the bushes to hold others to ransom. The way out is to invade the bushes and clear them of undesirable elements. Once our security agencies are able to penetrate the bushes, we will begin to understand the nature of activities that go on there and those responsible for them. If we find the predominance of herdsmen in some of the flashpoints of the killings and kidnappings, then the issue of whom to take the blame would have been largely resolved. Where we find other sets of humans inhabiting the bushes, they should be made to account for what business they have there. But if we really want to resolve altercations arising from killings emanating from the bushes, there has to evolve very effective monitoring of the activities of the herdsmen. It is time to do away with their itinerant nature; confine them to specific locations where there activities can be effectively monitored. That is the safest way of reducing the tension arising from suspicions that herdsmen are largely responsible for much of the criminalities on our highways. We need total conquering of the bushes such that will make it difficult for the criminal minded to take advantage of their impenetrability to levy war on the rest of us. If it takes confining herders to areas they can be easily monitored or flushing them out of flashpoints of insecurity, so be it.