By and large, psychosis is the type of mental illness that often comes to the attention of the public and especially noticeable. It is often associated with violence, self-neglect, aggressive behaviour, criminal conducts, self-injury or injury to others, bizarre behaviours or outlandish claims. In the eyes of the public, this is the “true madness” or mental illness. This view of the public is contrary to established facts as I have stated in previous articles on the subject. In the main, the number or percentage of persons who are psychotic and are violent or with criminal conducts is very small indeed. Psychotic illness can broadly be classified as schizophrenic illness or manic, hypomanic, schizo-affective or bipolar disorders (depression at one time and mania at the other end).  It may also be that psychosis may be combined with depression in psychotic-depressive illness.  Each of the listed illnesses may occur, independent of the other or in combination. Schizophrenic illness itself can be subdivided into various subtypes depending on the way the individual patient presents and behaves. In some occasions, psychotic illness may be undifferentiated and difficult to classify. As a general rule, mental illness may either be temporal (acute) and get resolved or be permanent (chronic or run a long course) and last a lifetime in the person. Therefore, psychosis is not different. Psychotic illness may run a short course and get resolved or the disorder may become chronic. On the other hand, it may just re-surface sporadically or occur when the person is under serious pressure. Causes: As to what exactly causes psychotic illness, the causes are in general in alignment with as previously outlined in Part 1 of the article.  As a reminder, psychosis can run in the family as a result of genetic or hereditary factors. Psychosis may also be due to effect of misuse of substances. Stressful life events such as loss of loved ones, breakdown in relationships may give rise to psychotic illness. It may also be due to factors such as traumatic experiences as in war and abuse and accidents of birth. Psychosis may occur due to other reasons such as brain injuries no matter how it appears as inconsequential. The main and fundamental character of a psychotic person is that the sufferer loses touch with reality. For the purpose of this article, let us now deal with common types of psychotic illness. Hypomania and Mania: Hypomania is a lesser form of mania.  It’s a matter of severity and degree of presenting, but both are alike. A hypomanic or manic individual may be speaking in excess of what is considered reasonable. The person may be unstoppable when talking. Hypomania sufferers are full of energy and are often the “heart and soul of the party.”  They are “racy” thinkers though their speech, thoughts and behaviour are by far irrational. They are difficult to convince or be stopped.  They may have excessive sexual energy and very often loses the reasonability and risk of contacting sexually transmitted diseases (STD). Manic or hypomanic person can suffer from sleeplessness and or eat in excess to fuel their insatiable energy.  They act as an embarrassment to their relatives and to themselves without realising it that their behaviour is odd. If the hypomanic has money, he or she spends without due regards to diligence. They may give money to total strangers who had no reason to receive such money. Where a hypomanic or manic patient had no money, he or she may go on a borrowing spree and thus get into huge debt or make promises that are doomed to a failure. Sadly, because of their racing thoughts, they can convince their audience with ease. Such audience frequently falls as a victim of the mentally unwell hypomanic. Personal and business projects as well as promises often fail as is self-administration. One other distinguishing character of manic or hypomanic person is that they are often grandiose, claiming what they are not. He or she may laugh inappropriately, or jubilate and seem happy at sad news when everyone else is grieving. Some may claim ownership of items, children or political positions that are not theirs. They can be very outlandish and unaware of their damaging characters. Sadly, in our society, we laugh and jest about the challenges of the hypomanic, being unaware of their difficulties. On the good side, because of their grandiosity and larger than life thoughts, hypomanic persons can be very successful in life if they manage not to break down into illness. The management of hypomania and mania is for the family or friends to recognise deterioration in the mental health of the victim and to seek appropriate intervention as soon as possible. There is no need to beat the “evil” or “cast” the demon out of the person. No need to burn the feet of children or adult in the course of curing them as is in some traditions.  Hypomania and mania can be controlled by medications (such prescriptions are beyond the remit of this article) in addition to psychological interventions. Police and law enforcement agents only need to help control aggressive persons and to take the individual to a place of healthcare as soon as possible before any damage is done to the ill-person or damage done by ill-person to members of the society and property. In concluding article, we shall deal with schizophrenia and mental illness in special situations. 