As the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the Redeemer University, Prof. Adetokunbo Adesanya chairs the council that makes laws for the university and in charge of the general management of the university. A legal luminary, a businessman, an investor and business counsellor, Prof. Adesanya, for over 10 years, sat on the board of Guaranty Trust Bank Plc and other companies. In this interview with PAUL UKPABIO and BIODUN ADEYEWA, Prof. Adesanya, who is a pastor, tells the struggle of growing up despite being born born into wealth and opulence. WHAT can you say shaped your life into the person you are today? I had a disciplinarian for a father. He never believed in spoon-feeding anyone. To put it in a nutshell, I had a tough background and upbringing and that shaped who I am today. Where did you grow up? I grew up in different places. I started life in Cameroun, came to live in Lagos and schooled in Ibadan, before leaving for England. What took you to Cameroun? Were your parents there? Yes, my father was there; he was there in the Cameroun where he was practising law. Then I came to Lagos. I went to school at Ibadan primary school; I went to secondary school in Dublin, Ireland as well. So, would you say that you were a privileged child? That would be a paradox.It is a paradox in the sense that, I was in a family that could have been said to be comfortable, very comfortable but I lived like a servant. How did that happen? Were you in a polygamous home? Oh no, my dad was just a strict fellow, very strict. I cannot remember a car ever taking me to school as a child. In fact, the railway was working at that time. And I remember that the trains were working then and the railway ticket fare was one shilling three pence. I used the railway but it was his clerk who used to take me to the train station to board a train. And whenever I got to Ibadan, I used to board a bus to school then, which was in Molete. At a later time in life, he told me that, the reason why a car was not taking me to school was because it was he who had the car and if there was a change in his circumstance, he wouldn’t want it to affect me. He said if I had the privilege of being driven to school, that I would get used to it and if anything happened to him and I couldn’t be driven to school anymore in a car, that my friends will laugh at me. But if I never enjoyed anything that he had, even if anything happened to him, nobody would know. I remember when I came out of the university, when my mates were getting very good cars, I could only get the least of the cars in those days from my dad. It was called Daihatsu. It was the least of the cars, comparable to Picanto of today. Did that help you in any way to personally develop yourself? Did you see it as a challenge? Oh, I lived through it. Like St. Paul said in the bible, the son of a king under tutelage is a servant until he assumes the throne. Well, I lived through it. I endured it. It actually taught me to know that one can exist in any circumstance. Of course, part of the explanation he gave me in later years was that he deliberately wanted me to go through that kind of lifestyle to know that no man is superior to another. That it is only circumstances of life that puts you wherever you are. Today, I cannot walk pass a man sweeping on the road and not greet him. It taught me humanity. While it was tough for me to live under those circumstances, the benefits are enormous. Perhaps if more people had had that experience, we probably wouldn’t have the kind of Nigeria that we have today. You went on to study Law, who determined that choice for you? First, I wanted to read Medicine but I had always admired my late father in the legal world and in his lawyer’s robe. He was a cynosure to me. When the choice presented itself, I didn’t have difficulty in choosing Law. I studied at the University of Ife. How was the University Ife in those days? (His face warmed up in a full smile) Oh, Ife then was comparable to the best universities in the world. It was different from the other universities in Nigeria, which operated the course system; that is, if you failed a course, you had a choice of retaking the examination. If you failed a subject in year one, you could carry it to year four. But it wasn’t so at the University of Ife. Once you fail one subject, you repeated that year. Nothing was easy at the University of Ife in those days. We used to have this joke that even if you were in Physical Education department, to make sure that it is difficult for you, they will probably say you should be running backward instead of forward during physical exercises. I remember one of our lecturers, now Prof.Itse  Sagay, who is today in charge of Anti-Corruption, there was an external lecturer who came from Cambridge to mark our papers and he said this fellow deserves a first class but they gave him a 2:1 result. The university body replied him that there wasn’t anything like first class; that they had never given anyone first class before; that 2:1 was the best. Today, Prof. SagayOsagie has two bachelors degrees. He had to go to Cambridge, where he eventually got a first class. What kind of student were you on campus? People said I was a gentleman because I went to a public school in England. The training we were given there was to rise to become a gentleman in behaviour and in every other aspect of life. And I came straight from England to the University of Ife to study. I remember that I used to see young boys like me then jump the queue, push the girls, but I would stand up to them and tell them no, that is not right! So, before I knew it, people had started telling stories about me on campus, calling me ‘that Oyinbo boy!’ (Laughs). Yes, I was not born again at that given time, but it wasn’t about being born again then. It was more about being proper. I loved to be proper Did you meet your wife on the campus? (Laughs) No, I didn’t find her there, that’s actually another aspect of my life on campus. I can tell you that throughout my stay in the University of Ife, I never dated a girl. Again, that was part of the training I received in the public school in England. The way I saw it then was that, it was difficult to go out with a person when you knew that you were not ready to marry. We were taught not to break a girl’s heart! So, I had to discipline myself to know the boundaries. So, I met my wife after campus. She is an accountant who veered off to become a school administrator and proprietress. How did you get to become the Pro-Chancellor and got associated with the Redeemer University? 