The Federal Government has been urged to tread with caution over Rural Grazing Area (RUGA), to prevent it from degenerating into tribal or religious war. A professor of Environmental Sustainability, Osun State University (UNIOSUN), Anthony Kola-Olusannya, who gave this warning at the Lagos State University (LASU), urged governments to seek homegrown solutions to the matter. Kola-Olusanya, who spoke at a public lecture organised by LASU’s Centre for Environmental Studies and Sustainability Development, noted that some unscrupulous politicians have hijacked the RUGA initiative, using same to escalate trouble among locals. He warned government not to trivialise the matter by taking it to the National Assembly ostensibly for debate. Rather, the locals should be made to engage in conversations and ground-shifting, a practice which he said once encouraged a symbiotic relationship between the two groups in time past. He said: “The (farmers-herdsmen), crisis is facilitated by tribal leaders, by eminent personalities so that the matter would be taken to Abuja for solutions. But it is not that kind of solution whereby you sit in Abuja, or National Assembly to debate, we need to engage the locals- community leaders, farmers, youths and women, so that we now devolve solutions arising from such conversations.  I strongly believe those ones formed out of serious conversations that can bring about lasting solutions. “The farmers and herders conflict could also be interpreted as Christian-Muslims. Who are the Christian? Farmers! Who are the Muslims? Herders!, In another manner, it can become a tribal war-like the Jukuns and Tives in the middle belt if care is not taken.” “Ab initio farmers and herders used to be at peace. How did they do it? The issues are what the two groups can discuss between their relationships in a non-acrimonious way. “See, the locals have always been talking about how to promote peace between herders and farmers. It is unfortunate the politicians have hijacked this.” He also condemned the labeling of Fulani herdsmen as ‘kidnappers’, particularly in the Southwest. Unfortunately, he said Nigerians are now beginning to associate all sorts of atrocities committed to the Fulani tribe alone. “But we have crafted that gun-toting herdsman into our memory with a negative image,” Kola-Olusanya lamented. He also frowned at Nigerians condemning the Federal Government’s Rural Grazing Area (RUGA) initiative to end farmers-herders clashes nationwide. According to him, RUGA could alternatively be modified into ranches, grazing area or cattle colony, adding that it is the ‘RUGA’ nomenclature that is now inspiring suspicions among Nigerians. Nonetheless, he praised the government for suspending RUGA initiative because of the misconceptions it has generated. “RUGA simply means rural grazing and does not connote anything in Hausa or Fulfulde as it is being speculated,” he added. “I also want to say RUGA is not what is generating problem; rather, it is some unscrupulous politicians trying to create problems in the country because they are no longer benefitting from the pot. So, these people have made politics out of the issue of RUGA and continue to create fears in the mind of the people. “There are many towns that have been labelled into banditry even in Yoruba land and these acts of banditry are being perpetrated by indigenes. All of a sudden, all those killings have been associated with the Fulani. It takes somebody within to allow an enemy without to come in. So, suppose we say, Fulani herdsmen are running over us, that then means there are collaborators across Yoruba and other ethnic groups,” he said. The host and VC, Prof Lanre Fagbohun, who was represented by his deputy (Academics), Prof Olumuyiwa Noah, thanked Kola-Olusanya, who is an alumnus and former president of LASU Students’ Union. Fagbohun noted that the country has always had issues across ethnic, religious lines but usually come out unscathed. “Nigeria had in the past had problems along ethnic and religious lines, but in all these we survived. So I believe Nigeria will definitely survive this too,” Faghohun concluded.