As we conclude our discussion on the 2010 “Next Generation” report chaired by Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala; a sub chapter: “On a knife edge” captures the dilemma the country would be facing if appropriate steps were not taken to critically look into the issues Nigerian youth identified and raised. It warned that strong economic performance cannot be taken for granted. “Should Nigeria slip back onto the economic trajectory it experienced during the ‘lost decade’ of the 1990s, the average Nigerian will actually be economically worse off by 2030. Unemployment will remain dangerously high and young people, in particular, will be left idle and prone to unrest. The risk of crisis will quickly rise, possibly to critical levels. If Nigeria fails to collect its demographic dividend, the seriousness of the country’s predicament should not be underestimated. Its prospects will be bleak, and could be catastrophic.” To further drive home the point, the report cited a research by Population Action International which explores why countries experiencing a demographic transition are at an increased risk of conflict. It posed the question: Why are youth bulges so often volatile? The short answer is: too many young men with not enough to do. Young men commit three-quarters of the world’s crimes. They are also at the heart of any war, whether as part of a regular army or an insurgent force. Competition for scarce resources also intensifies the pressures that lead to violent conflict. The research identifies four demographic factors that fuel civil conflict: A high proportion of young people in the population; rapid rates of urbanization; competition for scarce cropland; competition for scarce freshwater. Each of these factors has the potential to increase the risk of conflict by between 150-200%, while a high death rate among adults also appears likely to increase a country’s vulnerability. If we look at the four outcomes of the research dispassionately we can identify with them.  Major cities like Lagos, Port Harcourt, Kaduna, Kano etc. are already bursting in the seams. It is estimated that close to 25 million people reside in Lagos. Also, at the heart of the herders/farmers clashes remains the quest for farming and grazing land. One fundamental aspect of the report I identify with is its frankness in outlining routes to be taken to achieve the best results. It pointed out, for instance, that: “Our research demonstrates clearly that Nigeria is balanced on a knife edge between demographic dividend and disaster. The opportunity is an enticing one. Nigeria’s vision is to be one of the world’s top 20 economies by 2020, and to demonstrate sustained regional and global leadership. The Task Force’s work shows that this objective is indeed within reach, but only if the country fully exploits its now-or-never demographic opportunity. Inaction puts Nigeria at risk of becoming over-burdened and facing further decades of economic stagnation.” Again, the report did not shy away from the fact that the opportunity and risks toward achieving these goals have quite different characteristics. To this end, “The path to growth is long and will require many decades of farsighted and effective stewardship. Social unrest will strangle the economy, while conflict could destroy a generation of progress in little more than the blink of an eye. These are not long term concerns. The demographic window is beginning to open now. Nigeria must act urgently to prepare itself for its new demographic challenges.” Sadly, this hasn’t materialised. So, is Nigeria ready for the future? Can she claim her dividend? The bedrock toward achieving this remains the tripod of quality education, healthcare and the creation of jobs. These accomplishments, the report stated in clear terms, require sound economic policies and consistent investment in human capital. “Unfortunately, Nigeria lags behind benchmarks established by a set of reasonable comparison countries, both within and outside of sub-Saharan Africa. Without significant and rapid improvements in its priorities and policies, Nigeria is highly unlikely to collect its demographic dividend in full.” Nigeria, it continues, now needs to create a reinforcing cycle of improved living standards, better health and education, and stronger and more effective governance. Increased national confidence – and the unity that this brings – will play a vital role in Nigeria’s future. Policy will need to be balanced between short and long term action. Over the next decade, Nigeria must develop a framework that can strengthen its business competitiveness over the entire period of its demographic dividend. Nigeria must also implement remedial measures to increase opportunities for the current generation of young people. Nigeria is a vastly diverse country, with a pressing need to build a cohesive and well-integrated society. For this reason, attention must be directed to the country’s many poor and marginalised groups, ensuring that they can have an increased stake in the country’s future. How can this be achieved? “Nigeria is fortunate to have many resources available to advance its economic improvement. Its oil is expected to last for around another 30 years, a period in which global demand and prices will increase significantly. Other industries offer greater potential for sustained growth and improved equality within Nigeria. The communications industry in Nigeria is growing quickly, and manufacturing of cars and textiles can be expanded with the willing manpower standing by. Mining of resources other than oil in Nigeria is underdeveloped, but has the potential to contribute to a boom in this economy. Diversifying away from oil and creating jobs in these infant industries – communications, manufacturing and mineral resources – will create wealth and better equality for the baby boom generation.” By investing the wealth generated from oil in the future, Nigeria can kick start the much-needed diversification of its economy and prepare itself for a period when it will no longer be able to rely on oil. Policymakers need to combine a forthright analysis of how prepared Nigeria is to collect its dividend, with a bold vision of what steps it can take to maximise its opportunities. Nothing poses more threat to Nigeria’s unity than unemployment. When the report was released in 2010, it said roughly three in ten Nigerians are currently unemployed, with unemployment and underemployment a particular problem for younger people. This figure, according to some conservative estimates, now hovers between seven and eight out of ten Nigerians. A highly educated Nigerian is not significantly more likely to find work than one with no education at all. Many are also forced to accept jobs that do not use their qualifications to the full. Brain drain has resulted in massive numbers of Nigerians leaving the country to seek employment abroad. The need for jobs will continue to become more pressing with every passing year, as growing numbers of youth enter the workforce. Increased educational requirements will also mean growing demand for skilled opportunities. The report calculates “that Nigeria will need to create 15 million new jobs over the next ten years (2010-2020) just to keep employment at current levels. If Nigeria aims to halve unemployment, it will need to create 24 million new jobs, expanding the labour market by almost 50%. If unemployment is to be brought to 7% by 2030, the labour market needs to nearly double in size, creating almost 50 million jobs. A young Nigerian who contributed to the Task Force consultation said: “Once the youth realise the urgency of the situation with regards to their futures, I think a mass movement will ensue. Then and only then can change be effected in Nigeria.” For those who have their ears to the ground, there are already signs that the pressure for change is building, very soon networks of young people may emerge to campaign for reform. Many will be making use of the new opportunities that online technologies bring. I will close with a quote from the report: “The energy of the next generation gives Nigeria’s leaders a choice. If they view young people’s enthusiasm as an asset, they will find an important ally in the struggle to take their country forward. If they regard it as something to fear, they will find themselves in a struggle against a generation that is increasingly determined to make its voices heard.”