Some worshipers at St Dominic Catholic Church, Yaba, Lagos and other road users have begged the Federal Government to replace the damaged foot bridge on Herbert Macaulay Way and others on the axis. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a portion of the foot bridge at Barracks bus stop in Yaba, Herbert Macaulay Way, has been ripped off on the Ikorodu Road bound carriageway. A correspondent of NAN, who visited the site of the damaged foot bridge on Sunday, observed that the guard rails and walkways on the portion were totally removed. NAN also saw the ripped steel carcasses laid aside on both sides of the highway, leaving some steel support hanging loosely to the bridge frame. However, the bridge was cordoned off on both sides with heavy logs of wood, big flower pots and red caution tapes to prevent usage. Eyewitnesses, including military personnel at the Nigerian Army Marda Barracks, Yaba, told NAN that the bridge was ripped off in an accident that involved an articulated vehicle on Saturday. Worshipers at St. Dominic Catholic Church, residents and road users told NAN that the bridge was important and should be urgently replaced or repaired. Mr. Amos Udoeno, a commercial tricycle operator who plies WAEC Junction to Sabo, called for rehabilitation of the bridges on the axis. Udoeno told NAN that parts of other foot bridges on the axis had been ripped off, steps and the walkways allowed users to see vehicles underneath through the holes. “A few people use this metal bridge here at WAEC Junction, maybe because they do not trust the strength. I am calling on the government to repair the bridge at Barrack bus stop, this one here and others,” he said. Miss Moyo Salami, a shop attendant at the University of Lagos, told NAN that “a tipper carrying too much load pulled off the bridge yesterday.” “The bridge is already weak, if it was concrete, this cannot happen, so the government should change this one and all the bridges on this Herbert Macaulay Way to concrete,” she said. Some worshipers at Saint Dominic Catholic Church appealed to the government to relocate and replace the damaged foot bridge. Mrs. Deborah Shopotan, a member of the church, hailed operatives from the Sabo Police Station whom, she said, impounded the articulated vehicle that damaged the bridge. She, however, appealed for relocation and replacement of the foot bridge to better serve residents and worshipers. “There is no bus stop here in front of our church where they sited this damaged bridge. So, I am appealing to the government to construct another bridge with cement at the bus stop where vehicles drop people,” she said. Mrs. Deborah Adeosun, another worshiper, appealed to the government to consider including a zebra crossing sign on some sections of the highway to cater for people with phobia for heights. “No matter how good any pedestrian bridge is, I just cannot use it because I have fear for heights. The government should repair all the foot bridges, but they should help us with zebra crossings here too,” she said. Mrs. Bola Atinega, a visitor from Abuja to the church, Mrs. Modupe Adigun, Mr. Michael Udem and other worshipers appealed to the government to replace the bridge to save lives.