The Arewa Perishable Foodstuffs Market Association (APFMA), Mile 12 Market, has called on the Lagos State government and private sector to partner her in its ongoing renovation of the market aimed at making it a world-class vegetable hub. The call for support, the association noted, became necessary given the level of finance needed to complete the projects. According to the market spokesman, Femi Odunsanya, the project is also aimed at attracting investors to the market as it does not only serve Lagos and other southwestern states, but also the West African sub-region. He explained that since the assumption of office of the market’s executives, led by Alhaji Shehu Usman, they begun the reconstruction of the market, starting with the renovation of its front view from the Kosofe area to Maidan area. “The market now has different gates to monitor entry and exit, and security to regulate the stipulated market hours of 7am to 6pm,” Odunsanya said. Other features being built into the market include perimeter fencing, demarcating it from the road to ease off traffic and to stem loitering around the market areas. The front view is being aesthetically designed and upon completion would have signpost, the country’s flag, flowers and others. A recreational centre would also be built around the market. Odusanya noted that the project would address street trading in the area as every seller would be mandated to sell inside the market. He said it would also discourage open defecation in some parts of the market, combat hooliganism and insecurity. “We want to achieve security. The market is time operational. We want to ensure that we are able to monitor and secure the market properly.  The market starts by 7am and closes by 6pm; with this fencing and gates, it will help us a long way. “Again, there would be no loitering, waiting or hanging around the market corridors. We also want to ensure there is free flow of traffic along this axis.  Again, when the environment is always clean, it will keep off those who see every spot as a toilet. Since this new leadership began, they have been trying to give the market a befitting metropolitan aesthetic look that would attract investors and also give buyers a sigh of relief to shop comfortably in the market,” Odusanya noted. To achieve this, he explained that the union has recruited 100 security personnel and taskforce agents that would synergise with the police force and army unit in the market to make the project fruitful. Odusanya further explained that the association would also be constructing its interlocking roads within the market that would aid easy and quicker offload of goods brought into the market. He noted that from the Bill of Quantity of the union, the project for the road construction is estimated  at N300million. So far, he said, almost N30 million had been expended to give the market a new look. He added that a good drainage system, borehole and sandfilling of the swampy portion of the market were also part of the project the union wants to achieve. He advised the government to see the step taken by the association as a motivating factor to assist the executives in executing the projects. “We are hopeful that this will energise and motivate the government, private organisation and financial institutions to come and partner with us. There are a lot of potential in the market that people have not really tapped.’’ His confidence in this may not be faulted. For instance, the country is said to lack tomato preservation plant, irrespective of the fact that the crop is a seasonal product. Besides, agricultural practice in the country is rainfall dependent, meaning there are very few mechanised irrigation farms around. These factors, among others, make the sector unattractive. Odusanya explained that owing to this, there were times traders were forced to sell a 40-kilogramme basket of tomatoes for as low as N2, 000; the same size of tomatoes at off-season period, can be sold for N40, 000. He contended that if the market could have a preservation plant that could preserve tomatoes during   bountiful harvest, it would help make the crop available at all seasons at cheap prices and also reduce post harvest wastages. “We want to have a new modern market. The state and the local governments get revenue from this market; so, it is ideal for them to give back. We are appealing to the private sector and financial institutions to come and partner us on these projects to make this market a world-class market hub. The Department of International Development (DFID) UK Aid has done alot in training tomatoes traders and handlers. We have been trained, but there are no infrastructure to support or practice these training as they are not available in the market. We need a Public-Private Partnership system because there is a lot to be done which the country can benefit from,” he added.