A professor of Choreography and Performance Aesthetics, Federal University, Oye Ekiti (FUOYE), Rasaki Ojo Bakare, has said arts and culture possess enormous potential for fostering national peace and unity if well harnessed. He believes the three instruments of entertainment – drama, dance and music – remain potent weapons in solving myriads of problem confronting the country. Bakare presented his inaugural lecture with the theme: “The healing properties of the performative trinity for a troubled society”, on  the university premises. Going down memory lane, Bakare, a former director-general, Abuja Carnival, noted that culture and art were once veritable sources of succour and meaningful engagement that invariably excited people, especially youths, regardless of individual challenges. He said drama, dance and music could also be used as part of the strategy for socio-economic re-engineering of the country. Bakare described the aforementioned components as critical mobilising factors capable of healing the wounds in the hearts of the country and its people. He said music in particular has been acknowledged as a form of therapy which artists often deploy to fastrack the healing of patients. “Beyond the clinical use of music as a therapy and its communicative power through lyrics, it also aids social engineering as well as act as catalyst for behavioural change,” Bakare said. He continued:“This is because members of any given society require art as an avenue for self-perception and self analysis so as to engender social instruments of judgment and value measurement. “For instance, with particular focus on the youths, cutting across the diverse ethnic, cultural, religious and ideological divide, dance can be used as an experimental instrument in form of carnivals, festivals, street dance and contests.” The renowned dance specialist recalled that at a time in Nigerian history, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, in response to negative publicity and global diplomatic setbacks experienced by Nigeria, adopted cultural diplomacy as an image building mechanism which eventually worked for the country. “Dance, like the other two components of the performative trinity, communicates and administers healing, especially when the moral order of the society is ruptured and dance is deployed to the rescue. “Art, with reference to the performative trinity, has served as veritable alternatives for the youths of this country in the context of positive empowerment and engagement. This has helped in the reduction of the rate of social vices in the country. “In critical times such as this, a country like Nigeria, where insurgency, ethnic crisis and communal clashes, among others, are the order of the day, the availability of a functional arts sector helps to reduce the rate of the unfortunate results. “The sector also has the primary responsibility of providing creative consultancy and prevent leaders and other stakeholders from taking rash or impetuous decisions,” he added. Bakare claimed to have to his credit over 400 songs as well as musical works, including choreographing  200 dance works as part of his contribution to the academia and entertainment.