The last time Imo State was flooded, residents suffered multiple losses. This time, under the Emeka Ihedioha administration, proactive measures are taken to minimise damages. OKODILI NDIDI reports Imo, one of the flood-prone states, as indicated by statistics released by the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), is already contending with the fury of nature. The rains, true to forecast, have been breaking every human barrier and submerging homes, farmlands and roads. But the state has risen to the occasion. Many measures have been taken to curtail the rampaging flood and clear the state of filth and waste that had literally taken over the state with its attendant environmental and health hazards. Most significant among the steps taken so far to tackle the menace and clean up the state, is the monthly environmental sanitation exercise which has been reinvigorated. Granted, across the country, every last Saturday of the month between the hours of 8am to 10am is set aside for sanitation but the exercise in Imo State is no longer business as usual. The state government is now fully committed to ensuring that the monthly sanitation exercise is not just a mere ritual. A review of the July edition of the exercise showed the seriousness attached to cleaning up the state by the government. The Committee for July sanitation exercise was headed by a former governor of the state, Ikedi Ohakim, while the state Commissioner of Police, Commander of the 34 Artillery Brigade Obinze and other heads of security agencies were members. The governor of the state, Emeka Ihedioha, on the day, defied the early morning rain to flag off the exercise. To demonstrate that the exercise was not a mere publicity stunt, the governor participated fully by helping to scoop dirt and waste from drainages into wheelbarrows to the admiration of his aides, who had no option but to join in the exercise. Similarly, across the 27 Local Government Areas of the state, Council Chairmen and other top government officials mobilised for the exercise and the result was not below expectation. It turnout was unprecedented as various volunteer groups came out to participate in the cleanup exercise without any form of coercion. The governor said that his participation as a demonstration of his commitment towards making the state the cleanest and healthiest in the country. Speaking during the exercise, Ihedioha, who distributed refuse bins to residents in Owerri, disclosed that his administration is poised to reclaim its position as the cleanest state in the country. He commended residents for coming out in their numbers to participate in the exercise and urged them to sustain the renewed spirit of keeping their environment clean, while stressing the inherent benefits of a healthy environment. The governor commended the Chief Ikedi Ohakim led Sanitation Committee for a job well done and assured that the exercise will continue to receive the necessary support from his administration, “until the lost glory of the state is restored”. According to him, “I am happy that this exercise from the reports we are getting across the state, is a huge success and we urge everyone to continue in this renewed spirit. We understand the importance of a clean environment. Aside the health benefits, it encourages commercial activities. This exercise is deliberately designed, such that the Brigade Commander is leading the team in Okigwe zone, while the Commissioner of Police is leading the team in the entire Orlu zone, with the stakeholders in these areas actively involved. “The commitment that has been demonstrated by our people gladdens my heart. Interestingly legislature, judiciary, civil servants, security agencies, students, market women and traders, the youths, religious leaders and the traditional rulers are all involved in today’s exercise. We are also working towards tackling the flooding in the Owerri and other parts of the state”. Chairman of the Imo State Planning, Sensitisation and Implementation Committee on the Cleanup and Sanitation and former governor, Ikedi Ohakim, disclosed that the government engaged over 470 trucks and 120 pail-loaders as well as over 5000 volunteers for the exercise across the state. He expressed satisfaction with the level of compliance, adding that the present government has shown capacity to rebuild the state and promised that more work will be done to recover the environment once the rain stops. According to him, “the Governor Ihedioha is poised to rewarding hardwork and commitment to the exercise through the Governor’s Prize. On his part, Hon. Alex Emeziem, Secretary of the Committee and Special Adviser Environment and Sanitation and General Manager, Imo ENTRACO, expressed great delight at the level of success the exercise recorded across the state. He disclosed that the Governor Ihedioha led administration is committed to ensuring that the exercise is sustained for the overall good of the people and urged the continued cooperation of the entire citizens. Similarly, the governor in furtherance of efforts to cushion the environmental challenges has set up a committee to tackle the flooding of the Imo State University. The governor during a tour of the University to ascertain the extent of the flood, urged  the institution to ensure a clean environment at all time. He lamented the menace flooding in the campus and the Owerri capital city, assuring that steps are being taken to mitigate the menace. “I have come for an assessment of the university, to see state of infrastructure and facillites. My attention has been drawn to the manace of flood within the campus which I consider a huge threat. I have gone round and seen some buildings submerged by flood. “We will arrest the problem of flooding here and in Owerri in general. To this effect, I have directed the Vice Chancellor, to set up a team of engineers in the university to identify the root cause so as to tackle the issue”. 