Nigeria Mortgage Refinance Company Plc (NMRC) and a German agency, Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) have signed an agreement to deepen affordable housing. The deal was signed on the sidelines of the just-concluded 13th International Housing Show in Abuja. NMRC Managing Director Kehinde Ogundimu noted that the  collaboration would be focused on  access finance  housing. GIZ’s Cluster Coordinator for Sustainable economic Development, Hans Ludwig Bruns noted that GIZ and NMRC would leverage their synergies for the benefit  in the GIZ-SEDIN focal states: Ogun, Plateau and Niger. The collaboration would be done through the World Bank and international cooperation institutions. The engagement also falls under the primary mandate of the NMRC to address the challenges in financial innovations required to develop affordable housing from a private sector perspective by acting as a conduit between the capital markets and housing markets. Meanwhile, Chief Executive Officer, West African Ceramics Limited (WACL), Mr Bhaskar Rao, has said developing the rural areas will resolve the housing, insecurity and unemployment crisis in the country. He made this known during the Nigeria Housing Awards at the 13th Abuja International Housing Show, where he was recognised for his company’s initiatives in promoting affordable housing through the use of local building materials. According to him, leaving the rural areas underdeveloped will continue to encourage migration, which will put pressure on urban centres. “If the rural areas are left undeveloped, it will have consequential impact on managing the cities because there would be continuous influx and migration of people from rural areas to the cities which would become overbearing on the existing infrastructures, resulting in pollution, unemployment, and insecurity,” he said. Rao, however, acknowledged that the government alone could not solve the housing and unemployment problems of the country and called for the enabling environment that would promote entrepreneurship and encourage the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) to thrive. According to a statement by WACL, the award was in recognition of his leadership in the tile manufacturing, contribution to housing and support for affordable housing. Nigerian Institute of Building President Mr Kenneth Nduka, who presented the award, praised Rao. He said: ‘’I have  interacted with him and the company he manages which have earned our endorsement.’’