The Halal Certification Authority (HCA) has called on the Federal Government to ensure halal certification on consumable goods. HCA said the Federal Government should emulate developed countries which are abiding to such rules. Halal means permissible things in Islam. It is an assurance that goods have passed hygiene test, among others. The group said this had become a global phenomenon. At an Awareness Seminar organised by Halal Compliance and Food Safety (HaCFoS), in collaboration with HCA, Associate Professor at the International Islamic University (IIU) in Malaysia, and HaCFoS Executive ConsultantL Lukman Zakariyah said halal certification was a guarantee of security for consumers to be able to choose food that were good for them. “Food products that have halal certification are products that in the processing process meet standards in safety and cleanliness,” he said. Zakariyah said the United Kingdom, United States and South Africa, among others, had embraced halal on goods. He advised Muslims to be cautious of their intake and look for HCA certification logo on products they consume to be sure that the product was certified. “The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) should come up with a blueprint on it,” he said. HCA’s Auditor and Senior Quality Control Officer in University of Lagos Dr. Abdul Ganiy Adelopo, said HCA was the first halal certifying board in the country. Adelopo said it was borne out of the need to strengthen the emerging halal industry in Nigeria and Africa. He noted that the primary objective of the corporation was to provide halal services to organisations and companies through efficient application of professional skills and knowledge. The auditor urged manufacturers to embrace halal certification evaluation because it conveyed the value of products to consumers. “We have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with NAFDAC and SON. “Once you go through the procedure, then your product become certify halal, ” he said.