Bayelsa Governor Seriake Dickson has sent jitters into the camps of other aspirants outside his Restoration Caucus of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) following moves to keep close watch on party’s delegates loyal to him. Investigations at the weekend revealed that Dickson has tightened all loose ends to ensure that delegates within his sphere of influence remained committed to their promises of casting their votes for his caucus’ preferred aspirant at the September 3 governorship primary election. The strategies rolled out by the governor were said to be causing panic in the camp of a major contender for the ticket and other aspirants, who were making frantic efforts to poach most of the delegates known to be loyal to the governor. To strengthen his grip, Dickson, who controls majority of the delegates, at the weekend, reportedly dazzled his opponents with the appointment of 148-member committee, which he named the Restoration Governorship Primary Election Committee. A peep into the list of the committee signed by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, showed that members were selected to cover all the wards, constituencies, local government areas in the state. The committee, it was gathered, was set up by the governor, to keep delegates busy and prevent a major contender for the ticket and other aspirants from infiltrating his camp. The committee comprised six central campaign deputy directors-general, 43 campaign mobilisation and contact committee members headed by the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Tonye Isenah; campaign secretaries, security and media committee and seven members each to represent the eight local government areas. It was also observed that each state constituency had coordinators to oversee the activities of the restoration caucus members within the constituency. The statement said the committee would be inaugurated by Dickson on August 19 at the executive council chambers. The statement said further appointments would be made to cover Ward coordinators, advisory teams, women and mobilisation team.