No fewer than 15 communities are flooded in Imo State, leaving residents in agony as Governor Emeka Ihedioha calls for lasting solution. OKODILI NDIDI reports Wading through the flood that has already risen to waist level was a forlorn-looking old man likely in his mid-80s. Slightly bent and shaking from the cold occasioned by long exposure to rain and floodwater that has taken over what used to be his home, he tried to put on a smile before a delegation of interventionist agencies including the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and the Imo State Emergency Management Agency led by the member representing Ohaji-Egbema-Oguta-Oru West Federal Constituency, Hon. Kingsley Uju. The feigned smile, however, could not conceal the agony of losing his home and his crops to the ravaging flood that has completely submerged his community, Orsu Obodo in Oguta Council Area of Imo State. The look on his face told the whole story. At last, barely above whispers, he said, “Help me, I have lost everything and I don’t know where to go from here. The flood this year is massive, I was not prepared; I lost my crops and fish farm.” The above picture captures the plight of residents of the 15 flooded communities in Imo State. The flood has ravaged Ohaji-Egbema and Oguta Council Areas of the state, submerging two hundred homes and displacing six thousand people, among them, women and children. Scores of farmers in the various farm settlements were also trapped. According to some of the victims, the flooding of the communities along the coastline has become almost an annual occurrence but was more devastating this year. When The Nation visited some of the affected communities, where used to be homes and roads have been completely submerged in the flood. At Nmahu community, dejected fish farmers pointed at the ruins of their once flourishing farms. Tearfully, they gave graphic accounts of how a pre-dawn rain wreaked havoc in the community, “the rain started at about 3am that fateful Sunday like every other day but after a couple of hours, we were driven out of our homes by the rushing flood.” One of the residents, Princewill Ogor, said, “We are totally devastated and we have nowhere to go, our farms have been washed away and we lost our fish ponds. The children are all sick and the only health centre we have is now submerged, we don’t know what to do, we are waiting for the government to intervene otherwise we are finished.” Reacting to the plight of the flood victims, member representing Ohaji-Egbema/Oguta/Oru West Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Kingsley Uju, has appealed to the Federal and Imo State Governments, as well as the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and other interventionist agencies to rescue and resettle trapped farmers in the 15 flooded communities in State. According to him, women and children are also in dire need of urgent attention as health challenges have scaled up in the area following the flood. He raised the alarm that if urgent measures were not taken, there could be humanitarian crisis and epidemic in the area. The lawmaker, who was on assessment tour of the affected communities in Ohaji-Egbema and Oguta council areas, said 15 communities have been submerged so far, with over 6000 people displaced. Uju, accompanied on the tour by officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), also disclosed that various farm settlements have been swept away by the flood, adding that some of the farmers were still trapped in the flood. According to him, the few health centres in the affected communities are currently overwhelmed. “What you are seeing is a major disaster,” he said. “The health centres cannot manage the crisis. From the assessment so far, 15 communities have been submerged and over 6000 persons displaced from their homes. The farmers are forced to harvest their premature crops, we need urgent attention to forestall humanitarian crisis. “I am calling on the FG and NEMA to come to the aid of my people, as you can see they have lost their homes, businesses, farms and other forms of livelihood to the flood. Some of the farmers are still trapped in the flood. “The flood is caused each time the River Niger and the Orashi River surge as a result of the rains and then that happens, all the communities along the coastline will be flooded. This issue of flooding has become an annual occurrence but it seems to be worse this year. Something need to be done to find a permanent solution to the problem like the construction of shore embankment to save the communities along the shoreline.” He enjoined the people to remain calm, assuring that their plight will be brought before the relevant authority for prompt intervention. Meanwhile, the flood victims who recounted their losses, appealed to the lawmaker to bring their plight before the requisite authorities, lamenting that they have been abandoned to their fate. A fish farmer whose farm was washed away by the flood, Mr. Bonadventure Nzoma, said that he lost over N11million to the flood. He disclosed that he lost over 3,000 fishes including fingerlings and crocodiles when his farm was submerged. The Head, Imo/AbiaAbia Operations Office  of NEMA, Evans Ugoh, attributed the the flood to the topographic nature of the communities surrounded by the Orashi river and Oguta lake. He said, “We have been on assessment of the flood in the last two weeks that it started, from the reports, 15 communities have been completely submerged along the coastline, it happens every other year but it is massive this year. We are advising those in affected communities to evacuate to forestall possible casualties. “After the assessment, we will do our report and relief materials and other forms of assistance will be sent to the victims.” Meanwhile, worried by the level of devastation caused by the flood in the state, Governor Emeka Ihedioha has rallied professionals and experts in the state to brainstorm how to tackle the menace. The governor, who presided over a meeting between the government and the leadership of various professional bodies in the state, constituted a task team headed by Prof. Ukachukwu Awuzie with a charge to articulate implementable plans to address the menace of flooding and erosion. Addressing members of the bodies which include; Nigeria Society of Engineers, Institute of Architects, landscape architects, surveyors, town planners, quantity surveyors, environmentalists, the governor said, “This meeting is imperative as it will enable us to review where we are, the status of flooding in Owerri and other parts of the state and planned solution, which require holistic discussion with stakeholders. We consider it important to carry everybody along so that people will understand what we are doing and where we are going.”