Lagos State Government is adopting a new security measure that will tighten the noose on criminals engaging in pipeline vandalism and kidnapping, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said. He spoke at the weekend after a closed-door meeting with the commanders of security formations to review the strategy being adopted to strengthen security. Sanwo-Olu said the meeting was a routine briefing from the security chiefs, but hinted of an imminent security operation that would be targeted at crimes around the waterways and government assets. He said there would be renewed security assault against oil thieves and those aiding pipeline vandalism. The new measure, the governor said, would lead to demolition of residential buildings and structures built close to oil pipes, to protect Lagosians. He said: “We’ve just finished our regular security meeting and I am reiterating our assurance to residents that security operatives in the state are well motivated to ensure security of lives and property. We have reviewed current security situation. This has helped us to further re-energise our strategy that will make our state safe, secure for living and business. “There are other strategies that will be coming up, but we have formulated our strategy in the areas of priority that we need to tackle. We are getting reports of possible threats around our waterways and government’s assets across the state. We are ready to tackle these security challenges and logistics will be put in place as required. “Another priority is the incident around pipeline vandalism, which unfortunately brought us down last month. It was extensively discussed, and we resolved that we would stop at nothing. We will do everything possible, including engaging the community to give our people assurances.” The governor said there was aerial security surveillance conducted on communities hosting oil pipelines, which showed connivance between vandals and residents. He said some properties had been identified as criminals’ hideouts and would be demolished during the operation. Sanwo-Olu said: “Part of the things that will be happening is that some properties will be removed in some locations because we have done area surveillance and have seen people from area shots harbouring illegal jerry-cans and bunkering. We are telling these people that the government is coming to remove the structures and destroy the facilities.” He said attention was being given to other crimes, including armed robbery and traffic offences by motorcyclists, adding that his administration would focus on measures that would make the state safe for business and living. Security chiefs at the meeting included the Commander, 651 Base Services Group, Ikeja, Air Commodore Sunday Makinde; Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, Lagos Police Command, Mr. Alli Muhammed; Commander of 9 Brigade, Brig.-Gen. Etsu Indagi and Commander, Nigeria Navy Ship (NNS) Beecroft, Apapa, Commodore Ibrahim Aliyu.