Just how cheap it is for a country to waste its youth needlessly was exemplified by the killing of Precious Owolabi, a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member serving with Channels Television. July 22, 2019 will remain indelible in the minds of the parents and relatives of Owolabi, who was killed in Abuja along with a deputy commissioner of police during the Shiites protest on July 22. Owolabi must have woken up that fateful morning full of enthusiasm when told he would be among the team to cover the protest. Little did he know that he would not live to tell the story. As with many of his compatriots who died on national service, his death was avoidable. Owolabi’s death once again brings to national focus the risks that corps members go through in the country. When the Yakubu Gowon regime introduced the (NYSC in 1973, the main idea was to foster national integration. But, these days, youth corps members are involved in several other activities, some of which put their lives in danger. For example, the country has lost several corps members to electoral duties and other senseless killings. On March 20, some hoodlums attacked the hostel given to some corps members by the proprietor of Victory International School, Swali, Yenagoa, in Bayelsa State, where they were posted to, killing two corps members, Oluwatobiloba Popoola and George Onakpoma. There was also the case of Fortune Ihechukwu Ihe at the NYSC Orientation Camp in Sokoto State. The 21-year-old graduate of Economics reportedly died on April 14, 2019, while engaged in camp strenuous activities. The list is endless. The rising mortality rate of youth corps members nationwide has become a matter of serious concern. National service used to be fun, which graduates of higher institutions looked forward to with great expectations. Not so anymore. These days, parents can only heave a sigh of relief after their children who went for national service successfully complete their service and return home in one piece. This insecurity is what has prompted many Nigerians to begin to question the raison d’être of the national service. As a matter of fact, not a few would argue that there is more ethnic discord in the country today than there was in 1973 when the NYSC Scheme took off. Without doubt, some of these observations are unassailable, but then, is beheading the solution to headache? Certainly not. The solution lies in the Federal Government doing everything possible to secure the country. Moreover, if corps members are to be assigned electoral responsibilities, then the government must ensure adequate security for them, even as it must be ready to punish electoral offenders to serve as a deterrent to others. Of course it is not only corps members that are endangered species. Insecurity is a national issue. But then, corps members’ cases are somewhat different because the youths involved are usually posted to stations far from their states of origin. In which case they know little of the terrain and therefore find it difficult to escape in crisis situations. But one question that we rarely ask in the deaths of these corps members is who killed them? For instance, in Owolabi’s case, was he killed by police bullets or bullets from the protesting Shiites? We seem contented with being told that they are dead; paying visits to their relations, giving graveside orations, and moving on with life until yet another tragedy strikes. This should not be. Another area of concern is payment of compensation to the families of the dead. This usually takes unusually long time to come. Something has to be done about the sum paid too and the time this gets to the bereaved. Although no amount of money can replace a lost life, this is necessary for families who need it and should be paid to them on time, so the memory of the dead does not linger beyond reasonable periods. We sympathise with the relatives of Owolabi and other corps members who died on national service. It is bad that parents cannot sleep with their two eyes closed until their children return in one piece from national service.