THE Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) has held a meeting with its various customers to sensitise them on the ongoing Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) scheme. It advised them to go through the appropriate channels to obtain meters or lodge complaints to avoid falling victims of fraudsters. IBEDC management gave the advice at its maiden town hall meeting with customers at Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital and its environs. IBEDC officials engaged and educated the customers and other stakeholders on the MAPs scheme. According to the utility firm, the scheme will help customers  get meters and check or stop the estimated billings, among others. IBEDC Chief Operating Officer, John Ayodele, who led the management, stated this during the town hall meeting. Ayodele said the company has pegged the cost of a single-phase meter at N38,325 while a three-phase meter cost N70,350, including the  Value Added Tax(VAT). Ayodele said: “IBEDC management is committed to ensuring that its over 988,915 customers have  meters with ease at a going of N38,325 for a single-phase meter while a three-phase meter costs N70,350 with Value Added Tax included. “Ibadan distribution Company (DisCo) also appeals to you customers to go through the proper channel to avoid fraudulent activities as there are no hidden charges, no processing fees and no application fees of any kind. “Customers are to apply for MAP application form after which a technical evaluation of the customer’s apartment is carried out and the customer gets a MAP identification number. This MAP identification is all that is required to pay at any bank in Nigeria. Meters are installed in customer’s premises within 10 working days after receipt of payment.” Ayodele explained that the MAP scheme was established under the MAP Regulation 2018 and introduced by the regulator – the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to put a stop to the incessant complaints about estimated billings by customers. He assured that the scheme would bridge the metering gap and accelerate meter roll out and thus enhance revenue drive. He explained that IBEDC has engaged seven meter vendors under MAP scheme to cater for the customers across its franchise areas of Ogun, Oyo and Osun states. According to him, the meter providers drawn from private sector are licensed by NERC to encourage the development of independent and competitive meter services. “The MAP scheme is not only for the provision of meters but, also responsible for the installation , maintenance  and replacement of faulty meters,” Ayodele said.