The Amaba and Ovim communities in Isiala Isuamawu Autonomous Community of Abia State are engaged in a land tussle. Palace Secretary of Amaba Chiefdom Obiora Ogonsiegbe accused Ovim of always vandalising the area. He said: “On May 23, 2012, and again on March 27, 2018, able-bodied men from Ovim, armed with cutlasses, clubs and crow bars, descended on the Ogwumabiri market and surrounding farm lands and reduced them to rubble. When my people got word that Ovim people had concluded plans to bulldoze the entire area (market, farmlands and residential buildings) on August 17, 2019, we immediately alerted the police and other law enforcement agencies on August 15. “At the police area command at Eluama, Isuikwuato council, we were told that Ovim people had already obtained a written permission from the Police Headquarters in Umuahia to bulldoze the area, divide into plots and sell to developers. This is in spite of the fact that Amaba people reminded the police that the matter was in court, with the next hearing date being October 15, 2019.” Ogonsiegbe regretted that the police, which should be neutral, told one of the parties in a land dispute to ignore court processes and embark on self-help. According to him, this was a bizarre twist, which led to apprehension, with both parties preparing for the worst. He added that the Ovim people asked for police protection as they bulldozed Amaba farms, market and residential buildings. The secretary said the gloom in the community turned to outrage and defiance when Ovim people brought in two bulldozers last Friday. Ogonsiegbe said the people mobilised themselves to location to keep vigil, vowing to be bulldozed as well. “There was tension, despair, but also defiance and a readiness to die in defence of our land. We felt that the injustice and high-handedness by the Ovim community and the police has become unbearable and had to be resisted…” A spokesperson for Ovim Chief Orji Uche did not deny the accusations, but insisted the land in dispute belonged to them. According to him, Amaba disregarded a court ruling and attempted to take laws into their hands because they didn’t like the slant the case was taking and the delay. It was, however, learnt the police later directed parties to the dispute to refrain from entering the land until the court gave a directive on the matter.