A new original equipment manufacturer (OEM), Vivo, said it launched in the country because its devices are targeted at the youth segment of the market. Country Manager, Vivo Nigeria, Felix Lu, who spoke during the unveiling of the firm’s new Y Series smartphones, said the devices were ‘inspired’ and powered by ‘youths’, stressing that users will get a first-class experience of professional grade photography, the Y15 and Y17 unveiled in the country. He said: “With ‘Powered by Youth’ as our guiding light, the Y Series is a clear example of our commitment to bringing advanced and premium features to our energetic and dynamic consumers from all walks of life in Nigeria and across the world. “The Y Series is made for the youth and we are bringing our latest photography innovations to many more young consumers through two stylish smartphones – the Y15 and Y17 – both under the Y Series family.” He said the devices include Powerful Artificial Intelligence (AI) Triple camera and halo fullview display that lasts due to a large 5,000 mAh battery to empower young consumers’ lifestyle. The Vivo Y15 and Y17  share the feature of a huge and powerful long lasting 5,000-mAh battery. “Creating the perfect shot is easier than ever with the vivo Y series’ AI Triple Camera. The combination of a 13MP Main Camera, 8MP Super-Wide-Angle Camera and the 2MP Depth Camera assists the user in capturing magnificent landscapes and beautiful portraits effortlessly. The AI Super Wide-Angle Camera can even expand your view to 120, so you can capture more,” Lu said. He added that the 6.35-inch Halo FullView Display provides the two phones with a screen-to-body ratio of 89 per cent for great visual impact with super narrow bezels on all sides. Despite the size and broad view, the 19.3:9 aspect ratio and the specifically designed gesture controls provide effortless one-hand control, he stressed. Lu said powering this amazing experience is a large, industry-leading 5,000 mAh battery which keeps the Y Series going for alonger time; more than enough for all your photography, video and gaming adventures. It should interest users to know that intelligent power-saving technologies extend battery life to make battery worries a thing of the past. The Y15 and Y17 provide such premium experience and offers a variety of specifications to meet the diverse needs of allconsumers. Y17: The Go-to phone for selfie lovers and Techies on-the-go The Vivo Y17 sports a 20MP FrontCamera to capture delicate facial details for clearer results. With AI Face Beauty to automatically enhance your facial features, you can easily capture the perfect selfie for your social media feed. For the techies who love using their smartphones on the go – The Y17 boasts of Vivo’s exclusive Dual-engine fast charging technology to re-juice the massive 5,000 mAh battery even quicker, making sure you can always be onlineanytime, anywhere. The technology also meets high safety standards, thanks to the nine charging protection technologies for battery and charging.