The General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, has advised Christians to have faith in God and hasten to His word to enable them overcome life’s challenges. He said: “God may speak to a multitude of people but it is the one who hearkens diligently that will hear Him. God spoke on Mount Camel and it was one person that heard the sound of abundance of rain. “The power behind a statement determines who speaks. When you have faith in the one who speaks, it will affect the way you behave.” Adeboye spoke on Thursday at the ongoing 67th annual convention of the church on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, with the theme: “And God Said”. The eminent cleric said the Almighty God has the power and authority to proclaim a thing and make it to come to past. Speaking on the topic: All Will Be Well, he explained that the power behind a statement determines who makes it. Highlighting various meanings of the topic, Adeboye noted that when God makes a pronouncement, nobody can stop or hinder Him. “To the sick, you will recover from your sickness because He is the one who can repair what is wrong. To the poor, your poverty will be over. To the one who has failed, you will never fail again. To the barren, you shall be fruitful. To the captive, God is saying forces of darkness will leave you alone because He is the Lord of hosts,” he said. The ICU, the third in a series of ultra-modern health projects facilitated by A non-governmental organisation (NGO) and an arm of the church, His Love Foundation, inaugurated an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) yesterday at the Redemption Camp, headquarters of the church. It was the third in the series. The first and second were donated to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, and Plateau State Specialist Hospital, Jos. Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun cut the tape to open the facility in the presence of some traditional rulers from Lagos and Ogun states. On the state of the nation, Adeboye said any effort to restructure the nation must take into account a special constitutional role for the nation’s monarchs. He said: “I am convinced beyond all doubts that any restructuring that Nigeria may need must have a very special place for traditional rulers. Any form of government in Nigeria, which does not recognise the traditional rulers or push them to the background, is faulty. This is because they have been ruling us before the British came and they are doing a good job. “The British have come and gone, our traditional rulers are still our traditional rulers. In whatever restructuring we are doing, we have to consider them.”