THERE is an increasing prevalence of drug abused-induced mental disorders among children, adolescent and adults, the Medical Director (MD) Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Yaba (FNPHY), Dr. Oluwayemi Ogun, has said. Relying on hospital records, she disclosed that weekly, 150 new cases of mental disorders were admitted at FNPHY and the Child and Adolescent Centre, its annex in Oshodi, Lagos. Ogun, who also lamented the continued neglect of child and adolescent mental health disorders, said at the children centre alone, between 20 and 25 new cases are seen every week. The MD spoke during the unveiling of a programme to celebrate the hospital’s 20 years of child and adolescent mental health services. Discussing the theme: “Murals and music in health,” she stated that it was time to bring mental health to the front burner of public discourse because without good mental health, there would be no good health. According to her, if one  in five  Nigerians has a mental health challenge, which means that in all families, there is somebody somewhere suffering from one mental challenge. Lamenting that mental health has been pushed to the background, she insisted that urgent steps need to be taken to avert a national crisis. “Until the issue of drug abuse, people felt unconcerned. But today, we know that the issue of drug abuse is real and it is with us, with our children, students and it is everywhere.  For years in this place, in two years, we will not even see one or two adolescent that is brought in here for drug abuse, but now we are admitting in droves. At Yaba where we admit adults, the case is the same. The prevalence has really gone up. If it is not for tramadol, it is Indian hemp and all sorts of things that were never described in the textbooks.  Indian hemp is more but our youths have gone innovative in taking so many drugs,” she lamented. Continuing, she noted that between 10 and 20 per cent of children in any population have mental health disorders. Ogun explained further that in childhood, the percentage may be a bit around nine and 10 per cent, but by the time they got to adolescent, the prevalence jumps to about like 20 per cent. “We are told younger children, less than 19 years, form more than 60 per cent of the population. If we calculate between 10 and 20 per cent of such, we will know that we are dealing with a massive thing.  When we talk about 10 per cent of 60 per cent of Nigeria’s population of 200 million, we know that we are dealing with something massive in the country.” The MD, who also lamented poor funding of the hospital, disclosed that most of the facilities are ageing without any form of budget for their upkeep from the government. On the benefits of murals and music in healthcare, which was celebrated in partnership with Tidas Foundation, she noted that music therapy and medical treatment go hand in hand. “It is therapeutic. Shakespeare said: ‘if music is the food of love play on’. So, music has been recognised as something that helps us cognitively. Murals are about light and colour; it energises the children, the caregivers as well as the team members. For children that have problems, those that are anxious, and depressed, music can be a form of therapy for them.” Founder/Executive Director, Arts in Medicine Projects, Mr. Kunle Adewale explained that the introduction of murals in hospitals were part of changing the narratives in medical treatment and hospital environment in Nigeria, which is always gloomy compared to other hospitals overseas. He said the paintings, which he stressed would last for so many years, would help brighten the hospital environment and lift the spirit of the sick and the medical workers. “As a visual artist, I looked at what we can do differently with art, and we find that the use of art in hospital places are not really being maximised considering what is happening in developed countries like the US, Canada. So we decided to change the narrative in hospitals,” he said.