Contributors or Retirement Savings Account holders and retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) would soon have opportunity to change from one Pension Fund Administrator (PFAs) to another. Contributors have been agitating for flexibility  to be able to  change their PFAs owing to poor customer service by some PFAs but have been unable to do so, 15 years into the establishment of the CPS. The change is expected to occur through the transfer window platform. But the opportunity appears near with the recent deployment of Enhanced Contributor Registration System (ECRS) by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). The ECRS is an electronic platform for the submission of requests by (PFAs) for the registration of contributors and issuance of Personal Identification Numbers (PINs). Consequently, the Commission has transited from the use of existing Contributor Registration System (CRS) to the ECRS. Acting Director-General, PenCom, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, in a report said the commission is working tirelessly to address the yearnings of the contributors. She stated that the ECRS would also provide a platform for the Registration of Micro Pension Plan Participants among others. She explained that the ECRS provides a more dynamic and friendly user interface and fully addresses the issues identified with the CRS. According to her, the ECRS has also been integrated with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) for authentication of the uniqueness of individuals seeking to register under the CPS. She, however, called on contributors to visit their PFAs to provide their National Identification Number (NIN) and other information that may be required by the PFAs. She said: “The deployment of the ECRS will greatly enhance the integrity of contributors’ data and also provide a platform for the Registration of Micro Pension Plan Participants and Cross Border individuals like participants living abroad and foreigners living in Nigeria wishing to participate in the CPS; Electronic submission of employer code requests by Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) or employers and the full automation of the process of issuing employer codes; and provide updates and edits of contributors’ information on the National Databank maintained by the National Pension Commission by the PFAs. “Accordingly, contributors are advised to visit their PFAs to provide their National Identification Number (NIN) and other information that may be required by the PFAs.The deployment of the ECRS is a major step towards the introduction of the transfer window, which will enable contributorschange to the PFAs of their choice, in line with Section 13 of the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014. “The Commission is assuring all stakeholders that it will continue to come up with positive innovations and policies that will not only address the yearnings of the contributors but also enhance the regulation and supervision of the pension industry”, she added.