Canada-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), Life of Hope Foundation, has appointed a Nigerian journalist, Chief ‘Femi Shodunke, into its Board of Directors (BOD). Shodunke, a one-time Deputy Editor of Nigerian Compass on Sunday, will henceforth participate fully in the activities of the foundation, its Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Anike Stella Onile, said in a letter addressed to the journalist. Onile explained that the confirmation of Shodunke, who is also the publisher of Gateway Mail in Canada, was informed by his enviable track record of excellence in journalism and social pedigree as a community leader, particularly on his shared vision to help the underprivileged, especially children. “I am pleased to confirm your appointment as a Board Member of Life of Hope Foundation, effective July 24, 2019,” Onile said in letter, dated July 25. She added: “The appointment is for a term of renewable three years ending on July 31, 2022. “All directors are required to actively contribute to the work of our Board Committees, established to assist the Board in the oversight and control of the organisation. “Directors are also expected to participate in any strategic planning sessions, Life of Hope annual general meeting and any briefings, together with the occasional Life of Hope functions during the course of the year. “I take this opportunity to welcome you as member of our Board of Director in Life of Hope Foundation and look forward to your contribution on the board.” Shodunke, who was the President of Olumo Progressive Association in Canada Inc, Toronto, and Honorary Vice President of Yoruba Community Association (YCA) Canada, expressed his readiness to contribute his human and material resources to the growth of the foundation and its beneficiaries. “I confirm receipt of your letter appointing me as a Board Member of your non-profit organisation, Life of Hope Foundation,” Shodunke, currently the Public Relations Officer of Egba National Association U.S.A and Canada, said. “Indeed, your letter was really apt as it came at the time I was looking forward to launching my (our) foundation next year in honour of my deceased daughter, with the sole aim of caring for children in the area of healthcare,” he stated. “This idea was nurtured in Nigeria and has matured over the years, particularly since my arrival in Canada. “However, rest assured that I shall dutifully discharge my utmost responsibilities in ensuring that the vision and mission of your organisations are achieved, particularly in the overall interest of our toddlers and young adults and those who will ultimately benefit tremendously from your Foundation, both in Canada and Nigeria,” the publisher, who is also the Baaroyin of Igbein land, assured.