Veteran Nigerian actress, Mrs. Idowu Phillips fondly known as Iya Rainbow, on August 10th, 2019 had said the only way to prevent the Nigerian film industry from going into extinction is for the government to support actors and actresses with financial aids. The octogenarian made these declaration in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital at the kickoff of her 77 birthday ceremonies organised by Gulf Platform, tagged “Unveiling Mama Rainbow at 77 in Dubai”. The tour is expected to take place in October and November respectively this year. Phillips, also made it known that the advent of social media, internet and modern technology has negatively affected the practitioners in the industry. “It is worrisome that most producers and film makers run at loss after producing home videos, because most of the films will have been on the internet before they are released.” Phillips in appreciation of being recognized added that the federal government needs to save the film industry from going into extinction due to the adverse effects of internet and the social media. “I appeal to government to support us to avoid this profession going into extinction. I don’t want it to go into extinction. We are begging the government; we are urging them to look at our side. The marketers are the ones giving us money in the past, but we don’t get what we spend on the film now, that is the one of the reasons we don’t get support again. Before a film is out, it is already in the internet.” “I am appealing to the government, to make money available to us as loans. It is the marketers that are borrowing us money and we don’t get our money back again. You will see a situation when someone will spend two million for a film and in return he gets six hundred thousand naira because the film will have been on the internet before it is even out for sale.” She added that the introduction of internet has reduced the patronage for home videos which has made many actors, actresses and producers to be in debts. Philips also addressed the attitude of young actors showing up their wealth on the internet. “It is those who are not wise that are showing their wealth on the internet. How can you be showing that you have fifteen million when you don’t have five million? Those who are still exposing their bodies, we are still talking to them at locations because we do not like it. “I don’t want them to go astray. God said that we should cover our body, why do you have to expose yourself. Lack of role models and masters is another issue. In the past, we have masters who train people and many upcoming actors and actresses will be under that person, but now, someone with money will just come without enough training, and is accepted. That is one of the things killing the industry.” Directors of Gulf Platform, Mr. Olusegun Davids added that the organisers decided to celebrate the octogenarian because of her contributions to the theatre industry in Nigeria. “Today, we are kicking of the 77th birthday of Iya Rainbow. We are gather here to appreciate her contributions and that is why we are honoring her as she turns 77 on October 16th.” At the event were the Chairman, Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) Oyo state chapter, Mr. Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, Nollywood actors: Saheed Balogun, Peju Omobolanle-Ogunmola, Toyin Adegbola, Razak Olayiwola, Yemi Sonde, Mr. Olusegun Davies and Mrs. Juliana Afonrinwo, among others. 