A senior member of the National Executive Council of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), representing Lagos State, Chief Alamu Otegbeye, has decried the endorsement of a new chairman in the state. At a news briefing in Lagos on Wednesday, he said it was the responsibility of the NURTW’s National Administrative Council, in collaboration with other members of the union, to decide who becomes the next chairman of NURTW in Lagos State, and no one could assume the office through the back door. Otegbeye, who is also one of the founding members of the Elders’ Forum, Lagos State Council of the union, described as laughable, how the outgoing Lagos State Chairman of NURTW, Tajudeen Agbede, recently endorsed Michael Odugunle, alias Ajilo, to take over from him. He urged some factional members peddling a rumour that Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Oluomo, was planning to cause mayhem in the state to desist from such character assassination. Otegbeye said the allegation was unfounded and a figment of the imagination of those bent on dividing the union because of ulterior and selfish motives. “MC Oluomo is one of the respected members of NURTW. He has been promoting the union within and outside the state. He is someone who has the welfare of the members at heart. So, there is no way such a person will be plotting evil against same members,” he said. Stressing why the endorsement by Agbede cannot stand the test of time, Otegbeye said the state chairman had no right to install his successor. He said it was mandatory by the constitution of the union to follow the laid down rules and regulations in choosing a new chairman. Said he: “Without the dissolution of the state executive council, no one has a right to take over the office. No state chairman has a right to choose incoming chairman because the present state executive’s tenure will expire by the end of this month.” Otegbeye added that no elder of the union in Lagos was in support of Agbede’s move to install a stooge as the next chairman.