To achieve rapid economic development, experts have called for the promotion of values and national rebirth. They made the call at tthe 60th Anniversary Symposium/Public Lecture of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) in Lagos. The event had as theme, “The Nigerian state and values: Need for alignment”. The experts examined the challenges and progress made in  the industry and proffered solutions to how the economy could emerge strong from its  challenges. The guest speaker, Biodun Fijabi, called for a renewal on the national identity, stressing that the nation needs to work on redeeming its negative image abroad. He stated that over 40 countries have discriminatory visa policies against Nigerians, adding that this is not good for national development. He said: “Nigeria needs to have good identity to move forward and this is why we have to shun corrupt tendencies. We must understand that when corruption reigns, all sectors of the economy suffer. “There is need for values to be inculcated in the younger generation through schools and homes because Nigeria’s future is as good as the direction it focuses the attention of the young one.” Chairman of the event, Olola Olabode Ogunlana, called on all arms of the industry to close ranks, work as a team and intensify efforts to educate Nigerians on the need for insurance. According to the former CIIN president, the industry should be more visible and articulate, while operators should be aggressive in marketing their products. He charged the operators to do more in creating awareness, stressing that as long as Nigerians do not see or are not convinced of the relevance and value of insurance, the penetration of insurance would remain low. CIIN President Eddie Efekoha, who was excited over the progress made by the institute, pledged to continue to create new ways of taking the institute and industry to lofty heights. Group Chief Executive Officer, Emerging Africa Capital, Mrs. Toyin Sanni, urged operators to prioritise integrity, adding that every Nigerian should place value of selflessness. The Public Affairs Project, Manager, Nestle Nigeria, Mrs. Gloria Nwabuike, called on insurers to intensify their marketing efforts and should strive more to meet their customers’ needs.