A 25-year-old Yusuf Isiaka was on Sunday stabbed to death by his friend Segun Banji over ram fighting. The incident occurred at Oke Oko in Isawo, Ikorodu around 12pm. Banji, a resident of 15, Araromi Street, Oke Oko was said to have stabbed Isiaka on his left chest causing an instant death. Trouble was said to have started after the duo had a N500 bet on ram fighting but the one whose ram lost the fight refused to remit the money to the other. Although it was not clear who was the reneging party, an argument was said to have ensued between them which led to a fight. Banji was said to have broken a bottle during the fight and stabbed Isiaka on the left chest. As soon as he realised his friend was down, Banji, it was gathered fled the scene and went into hiding but was eventually fished out by officials of the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps Safety Corps (LNSC) with the help of Owutu community members. A source said while the suspect was bring moved to the agency’s office in Bolade for onward handover to police, a military officer in Ikorodu stopped the team and directed that they stayed back for police to come and take him. “We took the suspect in our patrol vehicle but the military base within the area headed by Captain Ogbodo said we should wait at their check point till the police arrived. “On the arrival of Owutu anti-robbery squad, the captain directed we should handover the suspect to the police and we all moved down to the station. A woman Inspector was detailed as Investigating Police Officer (IPO),” he said. A relative to the deceased said the suspect was transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) and that the suspect had been begging for forgiveness. “He is only begging to be forgiven. The deceased’s mother is alive and mourning. It is very painful. His body is still in the mortuary because police are still doing their work,” he said. Contacted, the spokesman for the agency Olawale Afolabi confirmed the incident, adding that the suspect was handed over to the police.