ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately. Nigerians, take the challenge. India sacks police boss where a kidnapped youth was murdered. We need such policies in Nigeria, abi no be so? There are 48 months in a government cycle, minus the months of elections. There is something unimaginably fulfilling to receive genuine praise for honest work. Try it, governor. Do the governors and incoming ministers have ‘personal targets to do good to others’? They face problems of insecurity, unemployment, poor water and electricity supply. It is easy for the leadership to mistakenly fixate on legacy projects, while ignoring the ‘1000 little pinprick problems’ that, if solved, would immediately relieve the daily misery of millions. Life is like a sieve and life’s problems are the 1000 holes in the sieve needing plugging. Politicians forget to fill the 1000 little holes daily irritating the citizenry – traffic, potholes etc. Yes, to good legacy projects. However, governors and ministers have unrecognized power of ‘presence’ in orphanages and simple ‘Letter Writing’ recognizing citizens and birthdays 80, 85, 90 years. These points of contact are more valuable than contract awards and ‘political settlement’ appointees. Nigerians know the power of any authority to ‘change’ citizens. Once a governor or minister overlooks ‘lateness’, he signs a ‘permission to be late and disobedience’ certificate for government employees. Corruption will follow. Governors cannot supervise every latecomer. No! Government officials have performance yardsticks to measure staff and supervisors. Unsupervised supervisors do not properly ‘Monitor and Evaluate’ staff fearing a backlash. All youth who passed through good schools and universities courses are fully aware of punctuality and work supervision by prefects, teachers and lecturers. Today we see ’school uniforms’ outside school at 8.30-9.00 am nationwide. Any ‘fatherly’ governor will stop this number one of 1000 problems with one 8 am televised school visit. The regular, 50 times a year, ‘Diary of Leadership Appearances’ must include, surprise appearance or presence of a governor or minister at a state secretariat, hospitals, clinics, schools, ministerial departments or the 20 traffic jams in every town all abandoned by traffic wardens. These would bring sanity and good governance out of fear of penalties. The only beneficiary would be the much-abused citizen using government facilities which abuse the SERVICON contract with the public. Yes, governor and minister; wake up early and your civil servants will too. Motivate them by being first. Do they operate out of loyalty or fear of penalties? And warn senior staff to show ‘punctuality leadership’ and ‘supervisory responsibility’ and ‘administrative maturity’ to monitor and move files move As And When Due, AAWD, and decisions taken timely- Introduce ‘Time and Motion Studies’ for file movement monitoring and actions to locate and eliminate corruption bottlenecks. That is good use of power in a country where citizens are punished for needing government services and report at clinics, for passports, for pensions as early as 4-5 am to get into a limited number queue or be insultingly told ‘come tomorrow’ and sit on the ground for hours. It is necessary for governors and ministers to ‘Make Ministries Work’ Yes. Remember Nigerians learnt and did not forget to queue at bus stops and were punctual at work during a military regime. We know that some governors and ministers work hard, but if we give them a working week of five days x 52 weeks x 4 years = 1,040 days and with leave or days off of 10 days a year or 40 days in 4 years, we have left 1,000 working days to change sport, potholes, traffic junctions, education, women’s safety during delivery, health for our children, reducing traffic chaos management, school clubs. You can add 1000 things you, the reader, would do to make life easier. Governors and ministers institute ‘Operation Move Around’ your constituencies and make people feel more in contact with governance. Imagine alternate monthly State Executive Council or ministerial heads meetings or even NEC meetings around state and country with emphasis on bringing local people into the governance picture. That decision will immediately fill 1,000,000 potholes nationwide. Potholes are a huge full stop to development. Kill potholes now! Improve access to your towns and cities by alleviating junction traffic in every town by moving traders off tarred roads and government built pedestrian pavements, remove okada clusters choking junctions  increasing travel times and frustrating business. Potholes and choked roundabouts worsen the ‘Ease of Doing Business in my state’. Relocate taxis 50 metres from junctions and have supervisors. Maintain two-lane width especially through markets. Deploy traffic wardens/police before traffic build up and certainly available from 6am to as late as 9pm if necessary and especially when it is raining when most traffic authorities abandon their posts. Every community, state and school is afflicted by ‘The Disease of 1000 Little Things’. The governor and ministers should become ‘the god of little things’ and develop strategies to receive daily reports of the little things needing doing to make life better. ‘Small small’ government is as important as ‘big big’ government. Governors and ministers have tens of thousands of heads, hands and feet to move the government’s chosen agenda and also bring ideas from them to do the 1000 little things to make life easier for voters.  Civil servants live in the community and must know what will improve community life and can provide many of the ‘1000 little things’ for the governor’s ‘To Do Lists’!