THE lawmaker representing Nkanu East/West Federal Constituency, Enugu, in the House of Representatives, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji, has praised the efforts of the Enugu State Governor, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to checkmate the spate of banditry and kidnapping in various parts of the state. Nnaji, while speaking with reporters at the weekend, noted that the governor has in the last two weeks held strategic meetings with various interest groups and stakeholders with a view to finding lasting solutions to the security challenges confronting the state. “He started first with all the leaderships of the security agencies in the state immediately after the brutal murder of Reverend Father Paul Offu, the Parish Priest of St James the Greater Parish, Ugbawka, Nkanu West Local Government Area. “Our peace-loving governor equally held other series of meetings with community leaders and those of the Hausa community in Enugu State during which he sought their cooperation with the security agencies in their quest to arrest the rising insecurity in Enugu. “It is also instructive to add that Governor Ugwuanyi has ordered the immediate recruitment of 20 able bodied youths per ward to serve as vigilantes with handsome remunerations.” He said the vigilantes and the forest guards earlier being engaged will complement the efforts of the security agencies with check points in all exit and entry points in all the local governments and communities of the state. “Special Police Squad, (SPS) has also been raised to patrol the black spots within the state while Military Check Points, (MCP) have been increased to further make it impossible for criminality to thrive in Enugu henceforth”. The lawmaker, while acknowledging that Ugwuanyi’s strategy was beginning to yield positive results, also commended the leadership of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, (MACBAN), Enugu State chapter, for coming out to sensitise its members towards exposing any criminal elements that might infiltrate their ranks.  