Mustafa Sarkin-Kebbi, Comptroller of Customs in charge of Zone B, says the Customs officers face enormous risks in the fight against smuggling. He, however, says his men remain undaunted in the face of battle. His zone, with headquarters in Kaduna, comprises states in Northwest and Northcentral, including Abuja. MUYIWA LUCAS met him. You operate in a high risk zone. How are you able to achieve lesser casualties with increased seizures? Let me start by saying that this unit made 623 seizures amounting to total Duty Paid Value of N1,050,500,000 between January and June 2019. This value for the 2019 half year seizures almost doubled that of 2018 which was N504,112,150  in the first half of last year. Now, my background in the service is the Customs Intelligence Unit (CIU). I was in CIU for more than 15 years. From my first basic training, I was posted there in the early days of my joining this service. When I came we had situations of casualties, even my own cousin was shot dead in Katsina. So, I looked at it and decided to embark on more intelligence-driven operations. If we discover that applying force may be fatal, we allow smugglers to come in, we identify the warehouses being used and at the appropriate time we strike in the wee hours of the night to evacuate the smuggled items. Smugglers operate using smaller vehicles to bring in items in bits. If we decide to engage them at that point, it may be disorganised with higher casualties and lesser seizures. We allow them to converge in one place and we strike. Sometimes we trail trucks to safe positions I call no man’s land before striking. Another thing is the appropriate use of weapons. We have told them that the guns are not for decoration. We have always told our men to apply weapons as provided by the law to protect their lives and ensure criminal elements do not murder them. We assure them of our support. Human right community is unfair to us. When Customs officers are unlawfully killed, human rights crusaders are quiet but when our officers kill suspected smugglers in the course of protecting their lives, human rights activists rise against us. I have told my officers that I will always defend them whenever they use their arms lawfully in the discharge of their duties. They cannot be armed and cowardly allow lawless people to maim and kill them as Customs officers on duty. That has been my position and luckily for me, my Controller General has also given us such support from the top. My CGC frowns at a situation where an armed officer will allow smugglers to stab them kill them and walk away. Officers who allow such don’t know what they are doing. Some of the states under your watch experience some form of insurgency and increased military presence. Do you enjoy any form of cooperation from the armed forces? Yes, we do. Let me mention only two states where these security challenges are more pronounced –  Katsina and Zamfara. In Katsina, we all work together. The military, police, customs and all others work hand in hand. In most cases, we share information and intelligence. Where one security agency is covering, the others may not be there, so we share information vice versa. That is what we do to survive. There is an outpost called Basari in Katsina, we got information that bandits and smugglers were planning a big attack on our men in Basari. The information came from a sister agency. Our men vacated in the interim. Lo and behold, they came and rained gun fire on our outpost thinking our men were inside at that moment. Our sister’s agencies also give us back up when it appears smugglers want to overpower us. I have reasons to suspect that bandits are working in league with smugglers. Why I say this is because there are times the bandits will strike shooting sporadically and smuggling activities will take place within the same period. It is not impossible that there are some form of criminal collaboration between the bandits and smugglers based on the coincidence of simultaneous operations between them. To what extent have traditional rulers in the border communities supported your fight against smuggling? They are strategic stakeholders we have to relate with. We interface with them because they are close to their people. Even the big traditional rulers, like the Sultan, Emirs and many others were not left out. Whenever we have a visit to our men on the fields, we include the traditional rulers in our itineraries. We educate and re-educate them on smuggling and its dangers. We approach them in ways that does not criminalise everybody in the community. While we are applying our enforcement powers, on one hand, we use enlightenment on another hand and also the traditional rulers. We tell them about the ills of smuggling and its effects on the people. We cite issues of insurgency and other insecurity that could be fueled by smuggling and they agree with us. We remind them that smuggling contributes to the killing of local industries and throwing a lot of people out of jobs. We apply wisdom and tact to seek the traditional rulers’ cooperation. I also encourage my men on the field to always be close to the traditional rulers to get their confidence and it has been working. We have had instances where traditional rulers gave us information and we have achieved some results with it in the course of our operations. If we were confrontational with them and make their entire communities look criminalised, they will not be happy to offer us any form of support. I must tell you, our strategies are working. What major challenges do you face ? I took a study of the area comprising 10 states, including the Federal Capital Territory. I discovered that most of the states are border states, meaning the Customs will have to relate with some largely rural communities with porous entry points into the country. The areas are vast and not all the places can be manned at the same time. My findings revealed that there are over 2000 illegal routes leading into Nigeria from the border routes. Another challenge is the more daring nature of smugglers. They have become more deadly and more sophisticated. We have realised that most of the border communities are aiding and abetting smuggling. In ignorance, they believe smugglers are doing a legitimate business. This is one strong area members of the press have to come in to help sensitise the communities.