Fuel marketing company Enyo Retail and Supply has organised a two-day customer enlightenment programme which offered customers free car diagnostics and services. The event, tagged “Vehicon & Grills”, apart from providing customers with free car diagnostics and services, was part of the company’s efforts at promoting car-consciousness and customer satisfaction. The event, which took place at the Enyo Olowo Eko Station, saw to the servicing of over a hundred vehicles and premium car checks was held in conjunction with Castrol lubricant- the second largest premium lubricant in the world. The company provided customers with safety car care classes, taught customers how to change their tyres, check their wipers and engine oil levels as well as signs of bad brakes. The Castrol team was also on ground to educate customers on which Castrol lubricant that best suits their car and other appliances. Enyo mechanics & technicians training academy, MECHTECH, recently graduated its second batch of auto mechanics skilled with the technical know-how to diagnose and repair high end vehicles. These auto mechanics that have graduated are now experts and they were present at the event and carried out all the free car servicing and diagnostics. Speaking on the initiative, Sales and Marketing Lead, Enyo Retail and Supply, Olabanjo Alimi, said the event was not just to create awareness about Vehicon and Castrol Lubricant, but more importantly to promote car safety and prevent unforeseen car breakdown on the road. “We organised this free car diagnostics for customers to prevent possible fault with their vehicle, get professional insights on the right auto-services and products best for their cars and interact on a personal basis with our team of professionals. We want to show our customers that beyond sales, we care about the quality condition of their cars as well as their safety, especially this season,  because we understand this weather is a cause of concern when it comes to road accidents”, Olabanjo said. One of the beneficiaries of the event, Ganiu Olalekan, who had his car diagnosed said: “I applaud Enyo for saving me the expensive cost of diagnosing my vehicle. Besides saving me a huge sum of money at the mechanic, I have learnt about the various types of lubricants and the importance of frequent car checks. This initiative has helped provide me with the ability to detect and prevent faults in my car with the right measure. “It was also impactful learning about the different Castrol lubricants and the most suitable for my car. Following the oil change using Castrol lubricant, my car engine has greatly improved. Henceforth, I will ensure that my mechanic uses Castrol Lubricant for my engine,” Olalekan added. Enyo Retail and Supply continues to advocate for innovation in the downstream oil industry whilst exploring initiatives that will contribute to the economic growth by providing quality products and services, Olabanjo said.