After being bogged down in controversies that led to the sack of its management and board, the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) now has Prof. Mohammed Sambo as its executive secretary. Vincent Ikuomola writes on how the new leadership can reposition the scheme for optimum performance. After about four years leadership crisis, the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) now has an Executive Secretary (ES), Prof. Mohammed Sambo,  who was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari about a month ago. The agency had been riddled with crisis in the past two years, leading to the suspension of Prof. Usman Yusuf as ES over allegations of misconduct. Since its establishment 20 years ago, the agency has had 10 chief executives. Apart from the first ES, who completed his term, others were eased out, no thanks to allegations. Thus, the agency has had an acting ES and a director who steered the ship of the health insurance agency. The new ES, who has since assumed office, has unveiled his three-point agenda on how to move the scheme forward. Sambo, a professor of Health Policy and Management, has a huge academic and operational interest in healthcare financing, making him a perfect fit for the job. As an academic and technocrat, his emergence was greeted with excitement, being a seasoned round peg in a round hole, whose arrival at the critical moment in the agency’s chequered history is expected to redefine health insurance  and quicken the pace towards universal health coverage. For the period the crisis lasted, the agency became a theatre of war. On one hand, the governing board was at loggerheads with the ES over the scheme’s budget, which was said to be bloated, among other issues. On the other hand, workers of the agency were divided into two camps, one supporting the ES and the other supporting the board. So, the news of Sambo’s coming, who was among the pioneer staff members of NHIS, was welcomed, especially by those who have been following the activities of the scheme. Stakeholders in the health sector see the coming of Sambo as a big relief, since it can end the crisis that has become synonymous with the agency. Many expect the agency to rise from its slumber and do what it is created for, if the country is to ever achieve universal health coverage (UHC). And in doing this, stakeholders are of the opinion that the scheme has to start executing its regulatory mandate. It is also expected that the new ES, with his vast experience, should be able to help the scheme to standardise operations of the health maintenance organisations (HMOs) and the healthcare providers to ensure that Nigerians have health insurance. Mr. Theophilus Egwudah, vice chairman, Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (NHIS Chapter), described the appointment of Sambo as a right step in the right direction. He hinged his optimism on the fact that the new ES has seen it all, especially as he was part of the agency at inception and played a great role at the formation stage; hence, there can never be any better person to pilot the agency’s affairs. To the workforce, it is a light at the end of the tunnel as the union leader said Sambo’s coming marks the end of nepotism in the agency. “We can now see light at the end of the tunnel, especially an academic who has experience in healthcare financing. Nepotism and religion shouldn’t be his weaknesses like others,” he said. For enrollees, the agency must be made to work as they could not be allowed to be at the mercy of healthcare providers, and this could only be achieved if NHIS lived up to its billing as a regulator. According to many enrollees, the agency has neglected its monitoring and regulatory responsibilities and this, they claimed, was responsible for the shabby treatment being melted out to them in some health facilities. Besides, the enrollees want the new ES to update health facilities to ensure that accredited hospitals were not lacking in standards. They said the agency should work out a payment settlement scheme that would not disturb the provision of services at health facilities, since the government is mandated to pay the premium. An enrollee, Mr. Godwin Garuba, said consultancy is the only service he enjoys from his healthcare facility, lamenting that he is asked to get his drugs outside his healthcare provider. He said: “The only thing I benefit from my NHIS is the consultancy as there is always no availability of drugs even for malaria.” Not knowing who to blame for this, Garuba said the new ES should look into availability of drugs and   the quality of drugs in accredited healthcare providers. On the part of the HMOs, Dr. Lekan Ewenla, managing director and chief executive officer, Ultimate Health Management Services, expressed hope that the new ES would focus on actualising the mandate of the agency. He said the focus of the new boss of the agency should be on regaining its regulatory responsibilities to ensure standards for healthcare facilities and also regulation of the HMOs. On the expectation of the group, Ewenla said the NHIS was set up as a regulator of health insurance and to accredit HMOs and healthcare facilities. “What that means is that HMOs are the drivers of health insurance in Nigeria. So, the NHIS is meant to regulate the operations of the HMOs and that is why whoever is going to run as a health maintenance organisation is expected to get NHIS accreditation before you can operate as HMO. Also, the same goes to healthcare providers or facilities. It is the statutory responsibility of the NHIS as the regulator to accredit service providers. Before now, NHIS has lost focus of its statutory responsibilities. So, what is expected of the ES is to look at the laws establishing the scheme and run by them,” he said. Ewenla, also the Public Relations Officer of the HMOs, also identified other challenges bedeviling the agency. According to him, the non-existence of actuarial department in the agency needs to be addressed urgently. The actuarial department, he said, should be saddled with the continuous review of utilisation analysis across the three tiers of healthcare facilities as it will expose them to what percentage of increment should be added to primary health services, secondary and tertiary services. He also stated that the actuarial recommended tariff for the public sector scheme is overdue for review, explaining that the review is meant to be carried out every 24 months. The HMOs are also expecting the scheme to review the spread of the enrollees across facilities, with the aim of reconfiguring the spread to make tertiary facilities referral centres. “The bulk of enrollees are spread solely across several facilities. So, those facilities with low enrollees are not providing qualitative services. There is a need for the agency to look into the spread of the enrollees and embark on strategic reconfiguration so that the reference centres can play the role of referral centers because the bulk of the enrollees as we speak today are being warehoused by the so-called teaching hospitals that are meant to be referral centres,” he said. Another expectation of HMOs is the deploring of information communication technology (ICT) in the agency. This, Ewenla said, was necessary for easy monitoring of activities of other stakeholders to ensure transparency and accountability in services and payment. “The implementation of a robust ICT software platform that will mirror the operations of the HMOs and healthcare providers is overdue. That will eliminate HMOs not paying the facilities as at when due. It will also eliminate the health insurance scheme from being manually driven.  NHIS is not meant to be going round the country looking at the books of the HMOs. It can be seen on a screen from the NHIS office. There is fund for that to be done. He needs to look at that, so that he can automate the operations of NHIS,” he said. Ewenla urged the new ES to also have an internal check, especially in staff welfare. According to him, “NHIS is meant to be utilising only 10 per cent of the fees for its operations and as at the last check, it is already using about 46 per cent. These are issues he needs to look at. They don’t need that volume of overheads.” On how best to address the mistrust between the HMOs and the agency, Ewenla noted that Sambo needs to use the big stick on any HMO that fails to play by the rules. He said: “I say that any HMO that is found culpable of not remitting should be sanctioned.” He advised the new NHIS boss to set a timeline for settlement of services, saying that there is the need for the agency to stipulate clear guidelines and the timeline for the health facilities to send their bills to the HMOs and the timeline for the HMOs to settle those bills. “As a matter of fact, there is nothing stopping the critical stakeholders: NHIS, HMOs and healthcare providers looking at a better payment platform agreed for settling of payment for services rendered. This should not be more than 48 hours. So, if HMO is found culpable, it doesn’t require fighting on the pages of newspapers. The agency regulates; once we have strong regulations, everyone falls in line. So, we look forward to a very harmonious working relationship. We have no doubt that the new ES is going to change the narratives of health insurance,” he added. The HMOs also want the ES to look into the warehousing of workers’ premium. He explained that the fund is the major cause of its wranglings and the earlier it is removed and warehoused, the better. The fund, he stressed, is responsible for its lack of focus. “Whatever fund is in the custody of NHIS, it should be defined and what should be done with that fund. If there is a need for separate platform to be created for the management of that fund, let the government look into that because what brought about distraction in the operations of NHIS is the warehousing of the Federal Government premium. The premium is not meant to be warehoused or managed by the NHIS, but the moment that fund got to the NHIS, the agency lost its regulatory focus and begun to focus more on funds disbursement and management. “So, the government should look at that. For example, NHIS can get 10 percent of its fees for the year. The balance should be warehoused elsewhere. If this is done, there will be sanity,” he said.