The African Democratic Congress (ADC), Unity Forum, Oluyole Local Government chapter, Oyo State, has hailed Governor Seyi Makinde for appointing its members as commissioners. The commendation was made by its leaders at a meeting at the party secretariat in Idi Ayunre, the headquarters of Oluyole Local Government. Among the leaders at the meeting were Alhaji Rasaq Akilapa, Elder Gbolagade Olarinde and Deaconess Victoria Adewale; ADC Chairman and Secretary, Oluyole Local Government, Adewale Adejare and Shuaibu Olayiwola Fasco. The party said the appointment of four of its members, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun, Seun Asamu, a lawyer, Mr. Niyi Adebisi and Alhaji Bashir Lawal was a manifestation of the promise made and kept by Governor Makinde. The leaders said: “We want to use this medium to praise Governor Makinde for fulfilling part of his promise during the campaign that his executive council (exco) members would cut across parties that formed the coalition during the governorship election. “We want to state categorically that anyone, irrespective of party, who says the appointment does not cut across the coalition, is nothing but a pathological liar. “We take this opportunity to commend the ADC leaders in the state, most especially Chief Michael Koleosho, Chief Olayiwola Olakojo, Senator Olufemi Lanlehin, Senator Monsuratu Sumonu and others for their efforts in bringing this administration under the leadership of Governor Makinde to power. “Also, we use this medium to thank Mr. Olusumbo Olugbemi, the former House of Representatives member representing Oluyole Federal Constituency, for his commitment to the party. “We congratulate Governor Makinde for bringing smiles to the faces of Oyo State people, especially civil servants and pensioners, through his administration’s payment of 100 per cent emolument. “This action demonstrates Makinde’s respect for the people he governs, his fulfilment of electoral promises and an attestation of his genuine care for the people. “The citizens are certainly in for a dose of compassionate administration. We ask the people to take cognisance of the new developments and their readiness to support the new dawn in the state under the leadership of Governor Makinde, to move Oyo State to a greater height.”