In the wake of the World Breast Feeding Week which lasted from August 1 to 7, with the theme ”Empower Parents, Enable Breastfeeding”, a visit to some communities in Akpabuyo Local Government Area of Cross River State revealed that more mothers are now complying with exclusive breastfeeding for at least the first six months of their babies’ lives. The visit, which was supported by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), revealed that even more parents were getting more persuaded on the need to ensure their babies were fed with nothing else but breast milk in order to improve their health, as well as save cost. At Ikot Ekanem Community in Akpabuyo Local Government Area, Immaculata Effiom Edet, a 28-year-old mother said though her child was three years old and was not breastfeeding at the moment, her experience having complied with exclusive breastfeeding for the child had yielded positive results. “My child is three years old so I no longer breastfeeding him, but in the first six months of his life, I practised exclusive breastfeeding and the result is showing. Currently, the baby is strong and healthy. He does not get sick. I would have been giving him water and artificial milk but because I was advised by the hospital I stuck to exclusive breastfeeding, and I am happy I did. I have also been encouraging other mothers to stick to exclusive because I can attest that it is the best. Fortunately other mothers have seen me and are convinced and they are also doing the same. They are listening to me now. It has made me closer to my baby and I am happy about it.” Glory Asuquo Effiong, who is 26 years old from Ikot Adiaha community, has a 14-day-old baby. According to her, she was advised by the clinic in her community to stick to exclusive breastfeeding, which she did and could see the positive difference from her first child, who did not get exclusive breastfeeding. “My baby is just 14 days old. I was advised by the nurse in the hospital that it would make my baby very strong and healthy and that is what I am doing. So far, I am happy with the results that I have seen. I have to see that I have seen more improvement with this baby than the first baby. I encourage other mothers to stick to this because it is the best for them and their children,” she said. Abasiama Brown Edet, a 26-year-old mother from Ikot Community, who has a two-month-old baby that is her first said she was happy with the result she has observed so far, exclusively breastfeeding her baby. “My baby is two months and this is my first baby. I am adopting the exclusive breastfeeding method. I am happy with the result so far and I would continue until at least six months,” she said. Nkoyo Effiong Okon, a 32-year-old mother from Abakop Eneyo community who has a six-week-old baby pledged to practice exclusive breastfeeding for the baby, which is her fifth child. She admitted that she did not practice exclusive breastfeeding for her first four babies, saying she had noticed a remarkable difference with the fifth child so far. “My baby is one month and two weeks old. This is my fifth child and this is the only one I would be practicing exclusive breastfeeding on. I am doing this because this is what I have been advised in the clinic to do. I must say that so far I can see the difference between this baby and the other babies I have had. This baby at just one month and two weeks is looking so much bigger and healthier than the other ones I had before at the same age. Because of what I have seen so far, I must continue till at least six months,” she said. Elder Mrs. Bassey Oja, who works at the St Joseph’s Hospital in Ikot Ene Community in Akpabuyo Local Government Area said they had done a lot in sensitising parents to the need to exclusively breastfeed their babies for, at least, the first six months. She said almost every mother in the local government area was complying with exclusive breastfeeding and had good testimonies. “More mothers are breastfeeding their children. We sensitise them all the time. We do that in every clinic here in the area. We even go to their homes to meet them one-on-one to emphasise the need for exclusive breastfeeding for their babies. “We encourage them. We show them children who have were breastfed exclusively and how healthy they look. The children don’t get sick and there is also no stress of having to buy artificial milk, which cost money, and no stress of having to wash utensils in the house. You only need to eat well. “It also encourages bonding between the mother and the child. It makes you get closer to the baby so that you closely observe the baby’s development or if there is any issue that needs attention. It enables the baby keep staring at you and recognising you and makes you closer to your baby. “We also ask mothers who have breasted their babies to share their experiences and they see real testimonies and are convinced it is the right thing to do. As I speak to you I have grandchildren, who are six and five, and are highly intelligent because they were exclusively fed for six months with breast milk. You need to see letters they wrote you would think it was children that are much older that wrote them. So exclusive breast milk is the best for the child,” Oja said. Director of Public Health, Ministry of Health, Dr Iwara Iwara, said they always sensitize mothers as well as visit facilities across the state to ensure mothers breastfed their babies exclusively. “We teach mothers to know that the best practice to feed a baby is through breastfeeding. Breast milk is the richest and best for every infant and we encourage them to feed for the first six months and if possible for the first one year. It contains antigens and a lot of other factors that helps the baby grow. The immune status is built up. The defense system is built up. Brain development is built up and the general child development is built up. “These go into better cognitive development in the later years to come. We encourage them to drink plenty of water and try and eat well and rest to sustain the breastfeeding,” he said.