A coalition of youth groups in Abia State under the umbrella of Abia Youths Vanguard, has accused the immediate past finance commissioner, Obinna Oriaku, of plotting to tarnish the image of the state governor, after engaging himself in financial misappropriation. In a statement by one Emmanuel Ukwa and made available to The Nation in Abuja, the youths challenge the former Commissioner to tell the people of the state why workers and pensioners were owed several months of salaries and pension when he was the Finance Commissioner despite boast of prudent financial management. The youth were reacting to a recent publication by the former Commissioner refuting allegations of corrupt practices which allegedly resulted in the inability of the state pay workers salaries and pensioners for several months. They claimed that “despite his claim of doing a good job, salaries were owed in ministries and the higher institutions where a company” and asked the state governor not to reappoint him into his cabinet. They want Governor Okezie Ikpeazu to purge Abia state government of all forms of corruption through his appointments, by ensuring that the state funds are entrusted in the hands of prudent citizens who will properly manage it and ensure that workers and pensioners are not owned, and government projects are executed accordingly. They said: “In his feeble attempt to discharge the burden of obvious facts against him, like expected, he went on a wild goose chase in his rebuttal. His explanations are vague, devoid of substance, but laden with self-praises and invisible records of his achievements while the situation on ground differs from his claims. “Mr Oriaku is on a mission to tarnish the image of our hardworking Governor. During the 2019 workers day, the pensioners clearly stated, who the architect of their troubles is. We may recall that not even the Governor’s name was on their placards but Obinna Oriaku, our billionaire commissioner for finance. “You can not be claiming that you have saved Abia from “hawks” when there are no physical evidences to support your much taunted managerial prowess to counter those who are constantly saying that you are the thief within and the real enemy of the state.”