An Ado Ekiti High Court on Thursday sentenced two men Adewa Sunday (34) and Adedayo Amos (33) to death by hanging for armed robbery and illegal possession of firearms. Delivering his judgement, the Chief Judge of Ekiti State, Justice Ayodeji Daramola who sentenced Sunday and Amos, held that the prosecution have proven its case of armed robbery and illegal possession of firearms. Daramola submitted that all the evidence tendered in court had convinced the court beyond the reasonable doubt that the convicts committed the offences. “I found the accused person guilty of armed robbery as laid down before me and they should face the supreme punishment for the offence. “Therefore, the sentence of the court upon you is that you be hanged by the neck until you are dead. “May the good Lord have mercy on your souls,” he ruled. The prosecuting counsel, Barrister Gbemiga Adaramola said that the convicts burgled and robbed one Mrs. Abosede Oyeyemi Malomo at Ilogbo Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government Area of the state on June 4, 2015. Adaramola alleged that they robbed the victim with guns, cutlasses and other dangerous weapons, thereby inflicting bodily injuries on her. The victim was said to be reading at night when they broke into her apartment and robbery her at gunpoint. During the operation, one of the convicts was said to have made a mistake of calling the actual name of his colleague, which served as a veritable lead for the police to carry out their investigations He said the offence committed contravenes section 1(2) (a) of the robbery and firearm special provisions laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The hearing into the case began on March 27, 2017 and two count charges bordering on robbery and illegal possession of firearms were slammed on them. During hearing, the prosecuting counsel, called two witnesses and also tendered a cut to size pistol, iPad and the victim’s statement on oath, as exhibits. The lawyer to the defendants, Barrister Adeyinka Opaleke didn’t call any witness.