Nigeria’s latest millionaire and die-hard fan of English Premier League side Manchester United, Emeka Cephas, has finally revealed the secrets that led to his staggering earnings of N50M ( Fifty million naira) with just a paltry N13,000 stakes on the BetWay platform. “I don’t bet on Manchester United based on sentiments,” explained Cephas. “I have won between 18 and 25 million, now I have won N50million. Unfortunately, another company did not pay me. I’m happy that BetWay have paid me to the last kobo. They are not owing me a dime.” Cephas, who is a Port-Harcourt based realtor, can be described as a pundit extraordinaire but hardly admits that he has the gift of clairvoyance, even as he yet revealed his winning formula: “Well it has been hard work and grace. I keep late vigil to make forecasts to avoid distractions. But I don’t consult with any powers to play my games. Betting is a passion for me and not a profession; I’m not addicted to betting. “But I pick Betway because there is 50million while others are between 4million and N10m. Betway is the highest and their odds and bonus are also good. “Again Betway is real, honest and keep their promise and I can only advise other punters to keep betting with BetWay. I don’t take betting as a profession, I am into real estate. I take betting as an activity. That’s why they always say bet responsibly, so I bet once in a while. “I look out for something different, unique. I don’t play what most people play, like 2.5. I look for something different and I play games like handicaps seven goals and the likes.” Cephas said he has invested handsomely on past earnings and would do same with his latest jackpot to take care of future unforeseen circumstances that usually befall greedy punters. “I am going to use the money to re-invest in my business by buying properties. I used my past wins  to acquire landed properties in Port Harcourt. I plan to do more with this.  I can take any risk while betting, but I’m never desperate because I don’t play what I cannot afford to lose.  I bet once in a while. After shuffling my games, I place my bet and also I don’t buy games. I support Manchester United globally but no club in Nigeria. “I bet on my club whenever they are doing well, but when they are not, I just look for something else. “This N50 million win would not change my lifestyle. The only thing it has done is that it has exposed me to the public. People have seen my pictures trending; stories in the papers, television, radio, facebook and so many other platforms. “The reception and publicity has been incredible from BetWay and the press. This will rather make me humble. I am so grateful to BetWay,” noted Cephas.