It’s been such a busy week with so many activities hence you may have missed some of our most interesting stories. We take a moment every week to bring you top stories you might have missed. Buhari’s new Ministers, Re-arrest of Wadume, NASU, SSANU warning strike, IPOB’s attack on Ekweremadu, EFCC’s probe of Obasanjo govt’s $16bn power project, fraudulent practices by 80 Nigerians in US, and other controversial news dominated the socio-political discourse this week. To make sure you’re up-to-date, The Nation brings you a brief round-up of the major stories this week. Alao Abiodun Reports Here is a recap of the week’s big news: Taraba Killing: Police Re-Arrest Suspected Kidnapper, Wadume The Police have arrested suspected kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Wadume who was named in the clash between the police and soldiers two weeks ago in Taraba State. Mr Wadume was arrested in the Layin Mai Allo Hotoro area of Kano State by Inspector General of Police (IGP)’s Intelligence Response Team. Reacting to the suspect’s arrest, IGP Mohammed Adamu commended the police operatives for their perseverance and painstaking efforts. He also thanked Nigerians for their support and empathy to the police and the families of the officers killed in Taraba. Buhari swears in ministers Nigeria’s president, Muhammadu Buhari, has sworn in his 43 new ministers. The ministers were sworn in on Wednesday, inside the Federal Executive Council Chambers, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Among those present at the event was the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha and the national chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole. President Buhari had on July 23 appointed a total of 43 ministers from the 36 states and Abuja. Among the appointees are former Akwa Ibom State governor, Godswill Akpabio; senior lawyer Festus Keyamo; ex-Benue governor George Akume; and 40 other nominees. The president also retained Babatunde Fashola, Chris Ngige and a few other returnee ministers. The appointments were made across the six geopolitical zones. 80 Nigerians charged for massive fraud, money laundering in America The United States Department of Justice has released a statement announcing that 80 defendants, most of whom are Nigerians have been charged with conspiracy to commit fraud, conspiracy to launder money, and aggravated identity theft. A 252-count federal grand jury indictment charged 77 Nigerian nationals with participating in a massive conspiracy to steal millions of dollars through a variety of fraud schemes and launder the funds through a Los Angeles-based money laundering network as uncovered by the FBI. The indictment was unsealed after law enforcement authorities, led by the FBI, on Thursday morning arrested 14 defendants across the United States, with 11 of those arrests taking place in the Los Angeles region. Two defendants were already in federal custody on other charges, and one was arrested earlier this week. The remaining defendants are believed to be abroad, with most of them located in Nigeria. NASU, SSANU, demand N30 billion earned allowance Nigerian university workers held a warning strike from Monday, to press the federal government to meet their demands. The one-week strike lasted from August 19 to 23. Non-academic staff of universities had earlier planned for a nationwide protest on July 15 ahead of an indefinite strike over the failure of the federal government to implement its agreements with them. The agitation is coming four months after the Academic Staff Union of Nigerian Universities (ASUU) suspended their two-month strike. Nigerian non-academic university workers have demanded N30 billion as payment of their earned allowances from the Nigerian government. The union lamented that 80 per cent of the money earlier released to the universities was for academic staff which it described as ‘discriminatory’. In its address, the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of the non-academic unions, Solomon Alfa, said the five-day warning strike embarked upon last Monday to press home their demands was very successful. The striking unions include the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU). 133 Nigerian refugees return from Cameroon About 133 Nigerian refugees have returned from neighbouring Cameroon. The returnees are part of the over two million Nigerians displaced by the Boko Haram insurgency. Most of those displaced are within Nigeria, but several thousands are also living as refugees in neighbouring countries like Cameroon and Chad. The 133 returnees touched down at the Yola International Airport aboard Nigerian Airforce C130 at about 5:00 p.m. local time on Thursday. Officials of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, said the refugees volunteered to return home on their own. Some of the refugees described their experiences while in Cameroon as nasty, with one saying “life over there was difficult.” Condemnations trail IPOB’s attack on Ekweremadu This week, more condemnation trailed the attack on former Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu by suspected members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Germany. He was to give a keynote address at the Second Annual Igbo Cultural Festival and Convention organised by Ndi-Igbo in Nuremberg, Germany, on Saturday. IPOB claimed responsibility for the attack in a statement on Sunday, saying it ordered its members in 100 countries to attack Igbo leaders when they see them. Reacting to the attack, the All Progressives Congress (APC) asked the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to apologise to Nigerians for supporting IPOB. APC National Publicity Secretary Lanre Issa-Onilu described PDP’s reaction to the attack as hypocritical. “No Nigerian should be assaulted in the manner Senator Ekweremadu was. It is an indecent action and it is below the acceptable standard of behaviour expected of our citizens, whether in Nigeria or abroad.” Southeast Governors’ Forum Chairman and Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi said that the problem with the members of the IPOB is illiteracy. He said that majority of them were suffering from illiteracy and needed to be enrolled in school. Tribunal nullifies Dino Melaye’s election An election tribunal sitting in Lokoja, Kogi State, has nullified the election of Dino Melaye, senator representing Kogi West. The tribunal ordered a fresh election to be conducted in the senatorial district. Mr Melaye’s closest rival, Smart Adeyemi of the APC, had challenged his victory at the tribunal. Mr Melaye was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2007 to represent Kabba/Ijumu federal constituency. He served two terms and later won election as a senator in 2015. He was declared winner of the February 2019 to serve another term in the Senate. Mr Melaye in June confirmed he would be contesting the forthcoming governorship election in Kogi State. The Kogi governorship election holds on November 16.