All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Ganiyu Johnson represents Oshodi-Isolo Constituency II in the House of Representatives. In this interview with reporters in Lagos, he speaks on his activities in the National Assembly, Constituency projects and other issues EMMANUEL UDODINMA reports. What are the major challenges in your constituency? Oshodi-Isolo is in the heart of Lagos metropolis, but the level of development in the area is not what it is supposed to be. The constituency has suffered from inadequate representation in the past. That is why we have not had meaningful development in the area. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has a depot at Ejigbo and over 50 trucks come there on a daily basis. The road needs to be upgraded. The Okota road that was built by the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) is in need of urgent attention. The Kpako-Cele road from Okota is also in very bad shape. The canal in my constituency is supposed to be a very big asset to us but, today, it is a dead trap. This is because, once there is heavy rain, everywhere would be flooded. I am pushing for the canal to be dredged. If this is done, we can have water transport from Ejigbo to Lagos. The airport that is in our backyard, like the canal is also supposed to be an asset to us, but the reverse has become the case, because all that we are getting from the airport is noise pollution. A lot of our children are developing hearing problem, because of the noise. So, it will not be asking for too much, if the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) begins to recruit a certain percentage of our youths as a way of compensating us. They must not wait until we become militants or begin to carry placards before they would know that the people in Oshodi-Isolo need compensation, because that can be termed our own crude oil. As the former Lagos State Commissioner for Works, what do you have to say about the deplorable state of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway? Well, the road is part of the ECOWAS Highway, so that makes it a federal project. There were insinuations that it was abandoned. The truth is that it was never abandoned. What happened was that the company handling the project scaled down their staff, because of lack of money. The road started from Eric Moore and from there to Mile Two has been completed. Originally, the project was given to two companies: Julius Berger is in-charge of the road project, while CCECC is handling the rail line. So, there was problem of interface. For instance, there was a time that Julius Berger had to stop work to enable CCECC to put up the railway stations. It was the problems that arose from these interfaces that made government to hand it over to one construction company. An adage says that when two elephants fight, the grass suffers. So, while the interface was going on, it was Lagosians that were bearing the brunt; that is suffering the consequences of the interface. Therefore, as a responsible government, Lagos State Government decided to intervene, so as to ameliorate the suffering. It decided to build the road from Mile Two to Agbara, so that the Federal Government will continue from there to Seme. This is also what the Lagos State Government did with the Murtala Muhammed International Airport Road. When we noticed that the Federal Government was dilly-dallying with the project, we had to take it up, because it is Lagos State that the road is giving bad image and not the Federal Government. The Murtala Muhammed Airport road is the first thing that foreigners see when they land in Lagos and as you know, there is no second chance to make a first impression. Oshodi-Isolo is dominated by non- indigenes. How were you able to win? Well, I don’t live in Ikoyi or Lekki. I am living in my constituency with my people. So, I feel what they feel. If there is reason to cry, we all cry together and if there is reason to celebrate, we all celebrate together. So, I have a good relationship with most of the people in the constituency, because I am a home boy. I have an NGO called Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson Foundation, which I have used over the years to put smiles on the faces of the people. We buy GCE forms, we empower the widows, and we give soft loans. That is why they have no problem giving me their mandate to represent them at the National Assembly. Why are you not attracting many constituency projects to the area, given the billions of naira being budgeted yearly? Let me tell you the truth, it is not as if we lawmakers don’t want to do constituency projects. The issue is that the way the constituency funds are allocated is disadvantageous to the big states. For instance, some states have more than 30 local governments, while some have less than 20. But, in allocating funds for constituency projects, all the states are given the same amount of money. For example, Oyo State has 33 local governments, while Bayelsa has only eight. If N200 million is given, Oyo and Bayelsa would be given the same amount of money. You can see that if the money for Oyo State is shared among lawmakers from the state, it would amount to peanuts. That is why lawmakers from such states prefer to hold seminars, workshops and do little empowerments. That is the challenge that the lawmakers from the big states have with regard to constituency projects. You know that this is a constitutional issue. But I feel that we can come together and change this narrative. What informed your decision to reach out to supporters of all political parties during the recent Eid-El Kabir celebration? The lesson of Eid-El-Kabir is that of love and peace and there cannot be love when you are discriminating against one another. Electioneering is over and by the grace of God I now have the mandate of my constituency. It is true that I contested under the All Progressives Congress (APC), but right now I am representing everybody in Oshodi-Isolo Federal Constituency II, whether they are in the APC, the PDP, the Accord Party (AP) or any other political party. That is why I decided to extend my widows mite to them, so that all of us would celebrate together. I am an advocate for progress and development. But you know that there cannot be progress and development if there is no peace and if the people are not united. Since the election is over, I believe in inclusiveness representation. If I am able to bring a road project to my constituency, you cannot say that somebody in another party will not drive on it, because he or she did not vote for the APC. It cannot happen. My mission in the National Assembly is to help to attract development to Oshodi-Isolo, to make it a better place.