Mr Eli Humoshe, the father of the 24-year-old Edmond Eli, who regained his vision after 21 years, said on Sunday that his son, who missed school over the years, will be enrolled for adult education. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Edmond, who went blind at age three, regained his sight at the weekend, following a free surgery offered him and many others at the just-concluded one-week medical outreach. The outreach was sponsored by Senator Binos Yaroe (Adamawa South) at the LCCN Referral Centre in Demsa town, the headquarters of Demsa Local Government Area of Adamawa State. Mr. Eli Humoshe said the blindness had robbed his son of the opportunity to get education, making him a reserved person who hardly talked. “As you can see now, he is still quiet and just starring at things. “I and overwhelmed with joy and short of words on how to appreciate God, Senator Binos and the doctors for this miracle. “My plan for him after he fully recovers is to enrol him in adult education,” said Humoshe. The elated father said the problem started when Edmond was just three years in Kpasham village of Demsa Local Government Area, where he returned home claiming that some boys put sand in his eyes. “We took him to a local clinic and the General Hospital at Numan, where we were referred to Kano but could not go due to lack of money. “That’s how we continued to manage him as he completely lost his sight up till now that we heard about the free medical outreach organised by the senator,” Humoshe said. Head of the Eye Unit at the medical outreach Dr Ugochukwu Anunwa said the operation was performed by a consultant who identified the cause of the problem as juvenile cataract. Anunwa said during the one-week medical outreach about 200 successful surgeries were conducted, mostly for cataracts and pterygium. Senator Yaroe said he was also excited and remained fulfilled seeing Edmond and other patients getting the treatment they were yearning for to be like other normal people. “I am a very happy person and I am thankful to God and all volunteer medical personnel that came for this outreach. “For me, it is like testing the waters and the way people received it. “The joy on the faces of beneficiaries and their relations is something that cannot be quantified which encourages me to do more. “We are planning to organise another outreach; in fact, we are already talking with some partners in the United States (U.S) that have expressed their desire to also join us in future out-reach,” Yaroe said. The senator said he organised the outreach in collaboration with a non-governmental organisation (NGO), Soteria-Afrique Rural Healthcare Initiative, and the Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN). NAN reports that statistics from the hospital showed that 8,030 patients were attended to during the free medical outreach.