The family heads of Ibadan ruling dynasty otherwise known as Mogajis on Sunday described the withdrawal of the suit on the Ibadan 21 Kings at the Court of Appeal and the request for out- of- court settlement by Governor Seyi Makinde as the best option to ensure peace and progress of Ibadanland. The Mogajis, who praised the wisdom of the governor for the courageous step, also warned against misinterpreting the action of the judges of the appellate court. They told the people of Ibadanland to understand the decision of the judges of the Court of Appeal to return the case to a Lower Court for settlement rather than engaging in twisting the judgement that returning it to lower court was rejection of settlement out of court. Their spokesman, Mogaji Wale Oladoja, urged the people to consider the peace of Ibadanland as paramount important than fueling crisis that was supposed to be a family affairs. The statement further said the people of the Ibadan land are resolute on ensuring that the chieftaincy crisis are resolved and peace return to the family of Olubadan-in-council without delay. The statement reads: “Without mincing words, Governor Seyi Makinde has made us proud on withdrawal of the suit seeking appeal of the Olubadan chieftaincy legal battle. “The family members send their warm greeting to the governor that they are happy with his move to ensure the case is withdrawn. “With all indications, Makinde has proved that he has the interest of Ibadan land and the entire Oyo state in mind. “We therefore appeal to our High Chiefs to accept the move of withdrawing the suit for peace, progress and prosperity of our land.” On the importance of understanding of the judgement, they said:”We know that some enemies of progress are misinterpreting the judgement but it is noteworthy to emphasise that the judgement was to return the case to the lower court for settlement-out-of-court because the Appeal Court was set for judgement before the state government approached it for withdrawal of the case. “We need to understand that when court set for judgement, it can only return judgment to a lower court. “We therefore appreciate the effort of Olubadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Osi Olubadan, High Chief Rasidi Ladoja, for their role in ensuring that peace returns to the family of Olubadan-in Council and the personal conviction of Otun Olubadan, High Chief Lekan Balogun to see the course as family affairs and his advocate for peace.”