Divine Mandate International (DMI), has warned the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) that it won’t tolerate any intimidation on Governor David Umahi or any other Igbo leader by the outlawed group in UK. The warning came on the heels of the last weekend attack on Senator Ike Ekweremmadu in Nuremberg Germany by members of IPOB and further threats by same group to attack South-East Governors and other Igbo leaders anywhere they are seen abroad. This was contained in a letter to Governor David Umahi by the group jointly signed by the Chairman, Dr Nick Nwokporo, the Secretary, Dr Francis Kalu and the Public Relations Officer, Dr. Bartholomew Aleke. The group strongly condemned IPOB for attacking Ekweremadu, describing their action as shameful, barbaric and disgraceful. While reiterating their unalloyed supposed and faith in Governor Umahi and other Igbo leaders, they challenged IPOB to dare make real their threats. DMI promised to cooperate with UK authorities, Ohanaeze UK and other affiliate organizations to ensure that the miscreants and their supporters anywhere, face the full weight of the law. The letter read: “We the entire members of DMI, UK totally condemn and repudiate in it’s entirety the shameful attack on Senator Ike Ekweremadu by IPOB group in Germany. “We also challenge the threat to our Igbo Leaders as posted by the group and their sponsors. “We, therefore, wish to reiterate our unalloyed support and faith in you and other Igbo leaders. The actions of IPOB are barbaric, disgraceful and uninformed. “We will cooperate with relevant authorities to ensure that the miscreants and their supporters anywhere, face the full weight of the law. “Additionally, we are working with our UK authorities and Ohaneze UK and it’s affiliate organisations to weed out such actions. The UK can never be Germany. “Sir, we will not tolerate any intimidation on you or any other Igbo leaders when visiting the UK or wherever. Neither will we ignore any threats to your safety when visiting the UK. “Please continue your good works and be rest assured of our continued support. May your good heart not be poisoned by threats from people of no standing”.