The former Director General of Gbajabiamila/Wase Campaign Organisation, Abdulmumin Jibrin, yesterday posted a humorous tweet about his status as a Federal lawmaker. He described himself as the “Chairman, Committee on babysitting and Member, Babysitters’ party”. His rigorous campaign for Gbajabiamila led to his landslide victory on June 11, was not listed as a chairman of any of the 109 committees announced by the Speaker last month. In his tweeter handle @AbdulAbmJ, the lawmaker was seen in a picture, carrying his last baby, Farha, and tweeted in pidgin English: “Chairman, Committee on babysitting and Member, Babysitters party. Make una no blame me o; na condition make crayfish bend. (Don’t blame me; “When you no get Committee and somebody say ‘u no be your party member’, you have to look for job to survive o. NB: my baby Farha has grown so fast.” Expectedly, there were various reactions with a member admonishing him that he had carried the joke too far. A member of the House Ad Hoc Committee on Media and Publicity, Yusuf Gaji, had said there was no rancour between the Director General of the Gbajabiamila/Wase Campaign Organisation and the Speaker. He also explained why Jibrin’s name was missing from the list of committee chairmen. He said: “Regarding to the Director General of his (Gbajabiamila’s) campaign, Abdulmumin Jibrin, there is nothing between Jibrin and Mr Speaker. “They are working together; perhaps Mr Jibrin is going to be considered for something bigger than a committee in the National Assembly. Gbajabiamila himself confirmed this in a tweet on July 26. He wrote: “Let me clarify that Abdulmumin Jibrin was not excluded from the leadership composition. He was involved in the composition process and declined accepting any committee leadership. “He had, repeatedly, made clear his intention to leave the House. My persuasions and that of some other leaders convinced him, reluctantly, to stay a bit longer. “Jibrin wants a fresh challenge and his preference will be to return to the university and pursue his professorial ambition, face his private business or serve in the executive arm of public service.” On 27 July, Jibrin responded in another tweet. He wrote: “Thank you, Mr Speaker, for the clarification and your kind words. On a lighter note, very soon, I may be in the labour market. I will be a free agent. My CV is ready. Any offer?” Earlier on July 25, Jibrin had tweeted: “Walking Mr Speaker to his car after a surprise visit this morning. We have announced leadership of Committees and did our best to ensure merit and fairness. Mr Speaker went through extreme pressure but as usual, he showed courage. History will be kind to him.” Many members of the House in particular and other Nigerians are still mystified about what is happening to Jibrin’s political career as the All Progressives Congress (APC) chapter in Bebeji Local Government Area of Kano State, on July 31, suspended him for alleged anti-party activities.