The Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) says efforts have been intensified to introduce quality bus corridor in the metropolis to tackle transport challenges. An Assistant Director of LAMATA, Mr. Kolawole Ojelabi, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos, said the government was aware of the need for improved transport service, as a direct consequence of migration to the state. “In Lagos State, we have the issue of bus routing. “When you look at the number of buses we have, you will discover that they are not enough to service the population,” he said. Ojelabi said the state had a population of more than 20 million people. “The past government brought in about 880 buses in a bid to improve the transport system. “These buses are being redeployed by an agency of the government called the Lagos Bus Services Ltd., who is also in-charge of asset management,” he said. Ojelabi said road development is being taken gradually for effective management and spread. He said the government was, therefore, working on quality bus corridors, which would spread to more parts of the metropolis. According to him, this will take effect before the end of the year. He noted that the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) services had not got to every part of the state; hence, the need for creation of the corridors. Ojelabi said where the BRT services were not available, the government would provide new medium-sized buses to service people’s transportation needs. He said: “These will come with bus terminuses and shelters to ensure easy access.” The LAMATA assistant director told NAN that the government had intensified efforts to speed up implementation of its Blue Line rail project from Okokomaiko to Marina. “There is a lot of work ongoing on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway. “The essence is to fast-track the progress of work from the Lagos end here to at least Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo. “By the time this is completed, we will designate BRT buses there, while we will also carry out testing on the rail project. “We could have begun the testing, but we want to ensure that we take it up to Marina,” he said. Ojelabi said completion of the road and rail projects would discourage residents of the area from driving their cars to Lagos Island, as they would prefer using train or BRT. “Once this is done, it will also reduce cases of attacks by hoodlums on commuters, who will have the opportunity of riding in BRT or train. “It is a gradual process, but we will surely achieve these. “I can assure you that work has been intensified to realise this, as the government is working to ensure the completion of the project and beginning of operations before the end of this administration,” he added.