•Nigeria’s population growth outpacing resources and promises danger IT is a ticking time bomb, and it is humans as bombs. It is the rise of Nigerian population that is potentially peaking at the Malthusian explosion. President Muhammadu Buhari lamented this as he welcomed his new cabinet to a two-day retreat. He noted quite correctly and portentously that “our population is close to 200 million today.” He added that “By 2050, the UN estimates put Nigeria third globally behind India and China with our projected population at 411 million.” This is food for thought for his new team as they get into gear to turn projects into happiness for the teeming population. The Nigerian population has been growing above the world’s average for decades, and for many it was a blessing. It is only in recent times that we have exercised a sense of futuristic fear for coming generations that the sins of today may create a plague for the unborn. If the population of Nigeria is above the world’s average, it is because there are excesses that are peculiar to us. They include a fatalistic sense, steeped in religion, that there should be no restraint in bearing children. This makes families bear children that have no parents to care for them. That accounts for why the yearly growth rate is 3.2 percent while the world’s average is below 2 percent. And over 60 percent of our population is young. This is also tied to mass illiteracy. With many who do not understand that there are scientific explanations to prosperity rather than a mere appeal to faith and pious surrender, we shall continue to be a nation where a man who cannot even fend for himself is father to 20 children . It is also this lack of education that compels families to bear many children in search of a preferred gender, usually the male child. This preference for the male child has created scenario where a man who has seven female births in a row would not stop because of the lottery game of winning a male into the family. This sometimes leads to marrying more wives as though another woman could guarantee the desired gender. We also have infant mortality rate inspired by the belief that having a child or two is a risky proposition because of the prospect of losing both of them. Some parents have turned their children into social security. Children traditionally have been part of a family’s workforce. So, the more children, especially male, the sturdier the productivity of the family and the wealth of the patriarch. The population rise is felt especially in the urban areas with a desperate flow to places like Port Harcourt, Kano and Lagos. Yet the calculation of population explosion depends on the resources of the country. Nigeria’s population, with 60 per cent of them young, should ordinarily be an asset. But it is a tragedy on the make. With low employment, the spate of banditry, kidnapping and insurgency in the past two decades only shows that population is increasingly a scourge. Rather than help the country, we have suffered many of the effects of too many persons in the land. One, the level of energy consumption is overwhelming – coal, lignite, petrol, natural gas, geothermal electricity. Two, carbon emission and air pollution arising from urban industrial activities will continue to worsen. The same applies to the effluence of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, hydrocarbon and organic acids. Lagos has been a test case of this rising scourge, with a manic migration of persons, many of whom are illiterate, with little or no skills. The industrial pressure continues to mount, and in spite of its relative superior endowment and productivity, the explosion will be real there and anywhere in the country. With this picture, the time to tame the monster is now.