IT was in the news the other day that Senior Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) has returned to the pulpit a month after stepping down. In case you are not abreast of the news, Pastor Fatoyinbo stepped down following allegation of rape against him. Bukola, now wife of a popular musician, Timi Dakolo, accused Fatoyinbo of raping her 20 years ago. What interests this columnist is the sermon of the returned preacher of the word titled “Sudden Victories”. In it, copious Bible references were made. Timothy 6:12, Mark 4:35-37 and 1 Corinthians 10:13. He spoke of challenges that would confront people and how they could be overcome by tackling them, not from the surface but from the roots. What are we talking about here? Did the alleged rape occur? Was Fatoyinbo a pastor 20 years ago? Why did Busola choose to come open now? Befuddling, all these seem to me. My take-away from all these is that we will come face to face with challenges from time to time and how we try to overcome them will depend largely on our purity of heart. What could lead to rape? Why do women indulge, for example, in polyandry? What could propel a father to be having carnal knowledge of his daughter? Or with brothers sleeping their siblings’ wives? Etcetera. Tyranny of the flesh and love of filthy lucre are largely responsible. In a few other isolated cases, you hear of these things being attributed to people under spells. Not for any love of lust or liquid cash. These things get so complicated that not all men and women of God are immune from it. Or, have you not heard of pastors, men and women, who preside over marriages and openly encourage their dissolution, or, more appropriately, their destruction? Digging it deeper may amount to condemnation or passing judgements on ministers of God, which the Scriptures tell us we are incompetent to undertake. That being the case, let us be reminded that there are Solomons and Rahabs in all of us. Only the Almighty can save us from the tyranny of the flesh and the plainly vengeful nature of human beings. Urgent task for Sanwo-Olu at MOCPOED, POKA-Epe A columnist is not just an onlooker. He is, in more sense than one, a curious observer, an investigator, an analyst, a humorist, a satirist, an essayist, a commentator; all rolled into one. The multi-tasking assignment makes the columnist a ‘busy-body’ of sort. But, no matter. Once the brush of observation, analysis, and criticism is not dirty with bias and prejudice, it is meant to keep the clothes better, not dirty. I was in Eredo, the northernmost part of Epe division of Lagos State earlier in the week for a family function at Ibonwon; and the curious mind prompted me to drive into the premises of a special and uncommon institution named after a former civilian governor of the state, the first to emerge from that area, Sir Michael Agbolade Otedola. In terms of infrastructure, the Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCPOED) at Poka is massive. If one wants to know about TETFUND (Tertiary Education Trust Fund), funded by the Federal Government, MOCPOED is the place to go. Buildings sponsored by TETFUND dot the school’s landscape such that one gets the temptation to think it is a federal government institution. But, it is not; it is 100 per cent owned by the Lagos State government. The authors of the idea of that college deserve commendation for bringing it to life. But if the brilliant idea is not to be washed away by erosion, the newly-inaugurated Sanwo-Olu administration in Lagos State must take more than a cursory look at the place and move fast to prevent a slip to mudslide. Evidently, there is no road worthy of its name in the whole premises. A road network must be in the school master plan but in my driving round the premises, there was hardly any trace of tarred road in the place. Laterite is more visible and the gullies, craters and contours created by erosion on the road network in the massive premises, create visible landmarks more than the imposing buildings that are also threatened by erosion. Anyone in doubt must go and survey a massive building at the farthest end of the premises which has already been wrecked by the storm water which detour, in the absence of any drainage, directly into the building. The can-do spirit in Governor Sanwo-Olu is high. That swashbuckling enthusiasm in him must compel an urgent visit to MOCPOED at Poka today and do the best of which he is capable, to avert a looming ecological disaster there.  Thank you, Mr Kaka, for that lesson of life I read it a long time ago that generosity is a shield against evil. I confirmed its truism in a native homestead last Tuesday. I moved away from my Lagos observatory to attend the 8th day fidau of an uncle’s wife at Ibonwon, Eredo in Epe division of Lagos State and I came face to face with a life drama that had a salutary effect on me. A middle-aged man moved to where I was seated and scrouched at my feet. I hardly recognised him until he reminded me that I had done him an unforgettable favour 25 years ago when I presided over the affairs of the local government in Mushin, Lagos. He was so excited about the matter that at a point, he summoned three of his children to come over and join in thanking me for the help I did him way back in 1994, the help which, in his testimony, rubbed off on those innocent young men and lady. According to Engineer B. O. Kaka, if I had forgotten about the help I rendered him then, he would never forget, as it changed his life and that of his family profoundly for ever. What touched me most were these words he uttered in deep excitement: ” You may have forgotten but I can never forget; that’s why I came forward to meet and thank you. If you had done me wrong, the same way I will remember that wrong today, and you know what that means”. Morals of the encounter: One, never shy away from doing good. Once you are in a position to help people, do so without any hesitation. Two, everyone is a messenger of God; deliver His messages to fellow human beings diligently and sincerely. Three, and most importantly, there is just reward for every deed done, good or bad. No wonder, the profundity of the sentence: Generosity is a shield against evil!