Kano State Governor Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has directed the five emirs in the state to compile the names of parents who refuse to register their children in schools. Ganduje said the order was aimed  at achieving free and compulsory education at primary and post-primary levels in the state. The governor asked the monarchs to forward the list to the government and that those who do not cooperate, would be punished, adding: ‘’A law will be in place to punish those who refuse to help in the education of their children.” The governor gave the diretive to the emirs of Kano, Bichi, Rano, Karaye and Gaya, when they visited him during Sallah. “We need your maximum cooperation for the successful implementation of our free and compulsory primary and post-primary education policy. “Our traditional rulers are part of our critical stakeholders who will see to the hitch-free implementation of this all-embracing and people-centered policy. You are in all nooks and crannies of our dear state. “You should, therefore, direct your energy towards integrating your District Heads (Hakimai), Village Heads (Dagatai) and Ward Heads (Masu Unguwanni) and other community leaders, to help assiduously in that direction,” Ganduje said. Ganduje assured the emirs that, due to government’s concern for effective and efficient implementation of the policy, schools, including Almajiris’, would be equipped. “All the schools will be given some special resources to properly handle the implementation of this new policy. Hence, bank accounts to this effect will soon be opened for the schools, purposely for that so that they can have what is needed for their day to day upkeep and other things.” He praised parents who have aligned with the new government policy. “Reports reaching us indicate that, in some places, parents have started putting themselves into clusters to partner with government for the achievement of this laudable policy. This is encouraging indeed. “Provision of quality education must start from basic and move upward, as this context indicates. That is the main reason we won’t relent in the proper implementation of this policy. Education is always key to genuine and sustainable development,” he said. He said a summit on free and compulsory education and the remodelling of the Almajiri school system was underway.