Dear Ma, You’re really doing a great job! You’re saving the lives of thousands of girls out there! My prayer is that God should see you through at the point of your need. Your final word- “Chastity does not belong to the past. It saves you a lot of trouble, preserves your beautiful destiny and stands you out from the crowd…” is always ringing in my head! May God continue to empower you. You are wonderful!
Luiz Beryl Dear Aunty Temilolu,
Early last year, I dreamt someone was telling me God would speak His word to people through me and that I’d be the solution to my family problem. But to be sincere, I never followed that direction, in fact I lost touch with God through my immoral acts and now not only are my academics suffering while I’m in my final year, I’m facing serious financial hardship which has been my family’s major problem and there’s no one to help! Unfortunately, I may end up having an extra session and only God knows how I’d cope. I’m falling into depression. I need your mentoring please!
Miss E. Dearest Miss E.
I’m so sorry you missed the way and have to go through this hardship. However, when I looked through our thread of discussion, I discovered I had counseled you about boyfriend issues since 2017. I really wish you heeded my counsel perhaps you wouldn’t be dealing with this now! I consider it a huge privilege and an opportunity of a life time for you to have had that revelation and I imagine you and your family would have been on your way out of generational battles which is what’s causing you great discomfort. However, I thank God you are still in school and not in the family way because things would have gotten worse! It’s a simple matter my dear as God is ever ready to carry you in His arms and see you through! First, you have to forget your setbacks and worries as I don’t need to tell you to drop any boyfriend you may have and shut the world away! When I mean shut the world away, you have to live and act as though the only reason you are on earth is to please God! I keep telling you girls that what A’s destiny can endure could be what would kill yours! Perhaps you’ve been surrounded by friends who have boyfriends they engage in sex with and you ended up seeing no reason you shouldn’t have one. Perhaps, you’ve been spending too much time and taking solace in the social media to the detriment of your studies and coasting in worldly dictates, perhaps you’ve been worshipping at churches which do not hammer on the word of God, holiness and the narrow way- worldly churches if I may call them that and so many other reasons! All of the above fetches TROUBLE! I’m really sorry but like I earlier wrote, you are on your way to the right track! From now, every spare time you have outside your studying should be spent with God! Be determined to live a life of holiness. Fall in love with your bible, find a place of worship which practices the “old-time” religion, organize a prayer and fast timetable. Believe me in less than a month, you’d be amazed at what God would start revealing to you! The stupid, bad devil would always put up a fight when it sees its captives about to be delivered and your spiritual dullness/sinful ways sold you out easily and scuttled what God assigned you on your family’s behalf! Before the end of this year, you’d be perplexed at the uncommon glory ahead of you as you move in the spirit. I assure you once you cancel depression and surrender whole-heartedly to God, He’ll sort you out financially- just get the devil off your soul and see! May this counsel pierce your soul and may the spirit of God overshadow your life in Jesus mighty name! Girls…girls…girls…
Do you even have the faintest idea why you are in this world? Are you manifesting God’s plans for your life or the devil’s? Sadly, many of you think you are enjoying life living in sin not knowing you are enjoying crumbs from the devil’s disgusting mouth! May you receive heavenly sense in Jesus name! To start with, if you missed my last three articles, please Google search, Girls, develop yourselves into FORTRESSES not MISTRESSES!This is a very serious matter and the articles would help condition your mind better for the future ahead of you!
To be continued. I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.