The Senator representing Adamawa Central Senatorial District, Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed (Binani), said one of the best ways to fight unemployment is through acquisition of skills. She said she has conducted an empowerment training programme for 385 youths and women on various skills aimed at lifting them out of poverty. She said such training programmes are crucial if the Federal Government is to successfully mitigate the growing unemployment situation in the country. Senator Aishatu spoke in Yola while addressing participants drawn from the seven local government areas in her district. She said: “I am glad to personally attend this flag off ceremony for the training of our youths, women, boys and girls in various trades and skills that will enable them to be gainfully employed. This is very important if we are to address the increasing unemployment challenge among our people in this country and our state in particular. “It gives me double joy to be with you at this programme, which is intended to provide avenue for our youths to be gainfully employed and even employ other people. “In addition, this training workshop is my first direct effort as your senator to provide you opportunity to acquire skills of a lifetime. When you acquire skills of any type, the gates of opportunities become wide for you and the sky is your limit.” She commended the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) for collaborating with her in providing the training and support for her constituents in Adamawa Central Senatorial District. She added that the selection of the trainees for the empowerment opportunity was not based on party affiliation. “We are here to serve our people irrespective of party, religious or gender differences,” the senator said. On its part, the Adamawa State Government commended the senator for initiating a programme that would enable 385 youths, spread across seven Local Government Areas, to learn various skills and trades towards self-employment. Adamawa State Deputy Governor  Crowther Seith gave the commendation in his speech at the flag-off of the training exercise held at the Lelewal Hotel in Yola at the weekend.