Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has urged men and women of integrity to participate in politics to sanitise the system. The governor said the involvement of people of integrity in politics would enhance good governance. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, said the governor gave the charge at The Cathedral Church of St David, Ijomu Street, Akure, during a thanksgiving service organised by members of the Omorege dynasty, his maternal family, to celebrate his electoral victory. According to the statement, Makinde admonished Christians and people of honesty and integrity to get involved in politics. He said the journey would not be easy, but God would take them to where He intended. Makinde said: “When I started the journey into politics, the two mother’s close to me [referring to his mum and his aunt] woke me up at 12 a.m., one spoke in Ibadan dialect while the other spoke in Akure dialect and all they said was that I should be wary of what I collect from politicians. Ordinarily, they knew the son they had but at that point, they doubted me, because the general perception was that politics is dirty. “The general perception is that a child of God cannot be in politics. My mothers doubted me, and so if people who are not close to me doubt me, I will understand. What matters is to serve the people honestly and serve God through service to humanity.” The governor added: “Today, I have the testimony of being a politician that attained the governorship without a godfather apart from God the Father. I am telling you that participating in politics cannot stop our going to heaven. We need to participate. Things may not be easy, but God will take you to the top. It was not easy for Joseph but God made him prime minister in Egypt, the most powerful country on earth at that time. Even David that was anointed, it was not easy for him. “I have come to thank God, because I came to this church and I said that if God does what I want, I would come to give thanks. I thank the church and the people for your help. I thank the clergy for their prayers. Continue to pray for us, because what is ahead is more than where we are coming from.” A priest, Venerable C.O. Osinyemi, who spoke on the topic: “Indices of acceptable service,” charged Makinde to add value to the lives of the people. The clergyman admonished the governor to focus on developing the nooks and cranny of the state, empowering the youth and women, and defending the rights of those who are weak. He urged him to revive the farm settlements built by Pa Obafemi Awolowo, because according to him, there is no way government can employ everyone but that a lot of people could be reached through agriculture. Osinyemi charged the governor to pay attention to payment of salaries and pensions. The governor was accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Tamunominini Makinde, Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin some members of the House of Assembly; Chairman of the State Advisory Council, Senator Hosea Agboola; Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters Funmi Orisadeyi; Commissioner for Environment Kehinde Ayoola; Chairman of SUBEB, Dr Nureni Adeniran; Chairman of BCOS Prince Dotun Oyelade and other party chieftains.