People of Ado-Ekiti are set for their new year, according to their tradition. The new year is ushered in with a festival, the Udiroko festival. Unlike the other years which the festival was celebrated just among the Ado Ekiti people, the organisers of the festival, in conjunction with the Ekiti State government, have decided to promote the festival and elevate it as an annual tourist event that both local and inbound tourists could mark in their calendar and attend. The organisers early this week held a press conference to announce the date for festival. The festival will hold from  Monday, August  12  to  20. Speaking on the festival, the chairman of the Planning Committee, Professor Sunday Akindele, said: “The essence of Udiroko is to, annually, remember the historical foundation of the Ado kingdom. Udiroko has nothing to do with fetish idolatry or secrecy. All our programmes are documented. All our programmes are accessible to everybody. So, Udiroko is a festival that strikes at the root of Ado’s historical development . “Udiroko signifies the esxistence of the Ado people as an entity.   Udiroko literarily derived its name from under the Iroko tree. Udiroko is the first in the calendar of Ado, dating back to 1300AD, dating by to the 12AD when the first Ewi left Ile- Ife in company with his brother, dating back to when the third Ewi established Ado Ekiti by conquest. So, the subsequent Ewi from then, made it compulsory that every year, we have to remember the first meeting of Ado people under the Iroko tree. That is what has been done until our 28th Ewi who has been on the throne since 1990.” Speaking on the festival, the Ewi of Ado Ekiti,  Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe Aladesanmi III, the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, said the Udiroko festival is usually a period set aside to give thanks to their creator. He said Udiroko was derived from the venue of the festival, which was beneath the big Iroko tree at Ewi’s Palace and  that it is cultural celebration to showcase the history, culture and tradition of Ado-Ekiti. The king  said indigenes of Ado-Ekiti also use the opportunity to pray for themselves and the town for remarkable achievements recorded over the years. He said: “The festival has nothing to do with rituals, fetishism and idolism, as it usually starts with Jumat Service on Friday which immediately precedes the first day event of the week-long celebration. “It ends with church thanksgiving service, and it is usually rotated annually among the various churches in Ado-Ekiti. “It is appropriate to say that there is nothing fetish or idolatry about the Udiroko festival. “These aspects of the annual festival which start and end in prayers in the houses of God clearly indicate that the festival is not fetish by any standard and not shrouded in secrecy. “Theme of the festival is: ‘Enforcing and Sustaining the Solidity of our History, Culture and Tradition’. “ Through this festival, we constantly celebrate our ancient past and showcase the rich cultural heritage of Ado people in ways that give currency to the past and precisely situate the present for the productive future.” The monarch said that Udiroko is a euphemistic expression of the significance of the first meeting of the Ado-Ekiti people under the Iroko tree to celebrate the founding of Ado Kingdom. Aladesanmi  said this was under the kingship of the Ewi, who thereafter, gave a royal proclamation of the first gathering under the Iroko tree as the first day in the Ado-Ekiti calendar year. “It is our hope that from now on, the Udiroko Festival will gain further international recognition that would propel it amidst its cultural peers in other kingdoms and climes,” he said. Earlier, Mr Wale Ojo-Lanre, the Director-General, Ekiti State Council for Arts and Culture, said the state government had decided to partner Ado-Ekiti people to rebrand the festival, globalise its celebration and seek marketers for the festival. Ojo-Lanre said this was to make the festival become self-sustaining and involve Ado-Ekiti indigenes in the diaspora, as well as those outside the shores of Ekiti. “We have noticed the energy and vigour with which the Ewi and the people of Ado prepare and celebrate Udiroko annually,” he said.