There was drama on Friday at the Ekiti State House of Assembly complex as former governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose staged a surprise visit to the chamber in less than twenty four hours after the lawmakers summoned him to appear over alleged fraud. Fayose stormed the premises of the assembly at about 1:15pm and went straight to the office of Speaker, Mr. Funminiyi Afuye to throw light on the alleged financial misappropriation. Fayose was accompanied by Hon. Henry Aladeyelu, Hon. Sam Omotosho, Hon. Dayo Akinleye and his media aide, Mr. Lere Olayinka. He was received by the Speaker, Mr. Funminiyi Afuye and the Deputy Speaker, Hakeem Jamiu met with them behind closed doors for about 40 minutes. Fayose said he came to Ekiti House of Assembly to tell them “I am here and if they need any clarification, I can answer because a clear  conscience fear no foe.” The assembly had at its Thursday plenary session summoned Fayose to appear before its Committee on Public Account over alleged misappropriation of local government funds while in office. Also summoned alongside the former governor are the former chairman of the Association of Local Government Chairmen, ALGON, Mr. Dapo Olagunju, the former Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Mr. Kola Kolade and all the former 16 local government areas chairmen. Fielding questions from journalists after the brief meeting, the former governor said that he received the summon on him via television and decided to come to see the lawmakers. “Let me say that I got their summon through the news media and I called the Speaker last night to confirm whether it is true or not and he confirmed it. You know my style, when EFCC wanted me, I told them I am here. “Today too I have come to the Ekiti State House of Assembly to tell them, I am here and if they need any clarification, I can answer. “I am ready to give account of my stewardship. That is why I am here.” On whether he was given a soft landing by the Federal Government on his case before the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), he said, the Fayose you know won’t compromise standard. I won’t follow multitude to sin. However, another twist was added to the unfolding drama yesterday when Fayose in a phone call alleged that he narrowly escaped being attacked after left the assembly and was on his way to his home town in Afao Ekiti. The former governor alleged that thugs in an unmarked black Hilux Jeep trailed him and hauled stones on his moving Range Rover Jeep. He, however, did not give details of the attack on him but said he was grateful to God for sparing his life. He said he was not hurt and nobody in his entourage was hurt. Meanwhile,  the Speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly has disclosed that the former governor of the state, Mr Ayodele Fayose’s ambush to the House of Assembly complex was resisted because he came unannounced. The Speaker, in a press release signed by his Special Adviser, Akogun Tai Oguntayo, disclosed that after the resolution of the House at the plenary inviting the former governor to appear before the House, he called the Speaker to confirm if the report was true.