Ebonyi state government on Friday warned members of the Indigenous People of Biafra(IPOB) against organizing any activity in the state. It also maintained that the group remained proscribed in the country. Members of the group had a week ago organized a protest in Abakaliki against the suspended proposed RUGA settlement for herdsmen and other policies of federal government. But piqued by the audacity of the group, the state government warned members of the public against further participation in the activities of the organization. This was made known via a statement issued by Secretary to the state Government, Dr. Kenneth Ugbala and the State Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Kenneth Uhuo in Abakaliki, the state capital. The government advised parents and guardians not to allow their children and wards to engage in any unauthorized gatherings as according to it, security agencies have been mobilized to deal with any individual or group found to be involved in any unlawful gathering in the state. It noted that constructive engagement with the federal government will address all grievances of the Igbo in the country. According to the statement, any individual or group that has any genuine reason to agitate should do so through the platforms of the South East Governors Forum, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and other legitimate means within the country. The statement reads ”the attention of the general public is hereby drawn to a federal high court order, which proscribed the Indigenous People of Biafra(IPOB) since September, 2017 and classified it as a terrorist
organization in Nigeria. “By that order, the IPOB has become an unlawful organization, and all its activities become criminal within the provisions of the Terrorism (Prevention) Act of 2011. “Members of the public are therefore warned that any participation in the activities of the organization, under whatever guise has become an offence punishable under various laws of the country. As a responsible
government committed to maintaining law and order, the state government is not going to allow IPOB to endanger lives and property of their citizens, by organizing any form of activity in the state. “Any individual or group that has any genuine reason to agitate should do so through the platforms of the South East Governors Forum, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, and through other legitimate means within the Nigerian
federation. “The Ebonyi state government reiterates its belief that constructive engagement with the federal government shall gradually address all grievances of the Igbos in Nigeria. “Traditional rulers and Town Union leaders should be vigilant, and not hesitate to report to security agencies every suspicious movement in their domains”.