Association of Professional Mediators and Negotiators (APNM) National President Dr. Dorncklaimz Enamhe has praised Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade on his compliance with the rule of law. He said the governor’s commitment to peace was worthy of commendation. “His leadership style is devoid of the usual politics of intimidation, aggression and the usual persecution of political opponents whether real or imagined,” Enamhe said. He was among stakeholders at the 10th anniversary of Sharing Passion Nigeria Initiative, which held in Abuja. Discussants at the event tagged: Sheathing our sword, took time to appraise Governor Ayade’s leadership style and scored him high. Enamhe said: “I am going to look at good governance and political tolerance from the prism of the incumbent governor of Cross River State and the ways he has been able to impact on the state positively. “Right from the campaign slogan of Prof. Ben Ayade, it was an all-inclusive campaign and his governance has shown that he is a detribalised Nigeria. “He has spread infrastructural amenities and appointments across the three Senatorial zones in the State without recourse to where he came from. “He made peace with all the political groups in the state including all aspirants from his political party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), bringing to mind the fact that there was no history of violence or intimidation all through his campaigns. “This explains why the state government had people from all the major political parties, including the very small parties, to the extent that the political parties had to pay a visit to the Governor, to thank him for a violent free electoral campaigns and elections,” he said Enamhe hailed the governor on the peace the state enjoys because restive youths were all brought into government and given a sense of belonging. He said the Governor also took very serious interest in women and engaged them, especially in the state garment, noodles, piles and pylon, toothpick, biofertiliser, calachika and Calapharm factories. On the state’s indebtedness, Enamhe said: “Governor Ayade listens and takes advice. He just set up a committee to look at the state indebtedness and advise him according accordingly. That was very humbling of a Governor who is a professor.”