A man identified as Yusuf Isiaka was on Sunday afternoon allegedly stabbed to death by his friend, Segun Banji, over ram betting. The incident occurred at Oke Oko in Isawo, Ikorodu, Lagos around 12pm. Banji, a resident of 15, Araromi Street, Oke Oko was alleged to have stabbed Isiaka, 25, on his left chest, leading to death. Trouble was said to have started after the duo had a N500 bet on ram fighting, but the one whose ram lost the fight refused to give the money to the other. Although it was not clear who was the defaulter, an argument reportedly ensued between them, which led to a fight. Banji was said to have allegedly broken a bottle during the fight and stabbed Isiaka on the left chest. As soon as he realised that his friend was dead, Banji, it was gathered, fled the scene. He went into hiding, but was eventually fished out by officials of the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps Safety Corps (LNSC) with the help of Owutu community members. A source said while the suspect was being moved to the agency’s office at Bolade, Oshodi for onward handover to the police, a military officer in Ikorodu stopped the team and directed that they should stay back for the police to come and take him. “We took the suspect in our patrol vehicle, but the military base in the area said we should wait at their checkpoint till the police arrive. “On arrival of the Owutu anti-robbery squad, the captain directed that we should handover the suspect to the police and we all moved down to the station. A woman inspector was detailed as the Investigating Police Officer (IPO),” he said. A relative of the deceased said the suspect was transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), adding that he had been begging for forgiveness. “The deceased’s mother is mourning. It is very painful. Isiaka’s body is still in mortuary because the police are investigating the incident,” he said. LNSC spokesman Olawale Afolabi confirmed the incident. He said the suspect had been handed over to the police.