The Management of Abia State Polytechnic Aba, has denied the rumours making the rounds that it is under investigation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). In a briefing at the institution’s Council Chamber, Rector of the polytechnic Prof Ezionye Eboh attributed the rumours to machinations of mischief makers who are not happy with the planned restructuring of the institution by the incumbent. He urged mischief makers to remember that the institution is greater than any individual. He said:  “We have clean bill of health with TETFund (Tertiary Education Trust Fund). The management will not allow this institution to die. There is compelling need for restructure to take place in the school to make this institution result-oriented and lessen the financial burden on the school. There must be a necessary surgery that must be done now to save the soul of Abia Poly. He continued: “I am sure that those who sponsored the publication that the management is being investigated by the EFCC are those who are not happy because this present management has been able to plug most of the loopholes through which they have been siphoning the finance of the institution in the past. We have introduced e-payment system which doesn’t allow people to handle physical cash. “Our cashless policy has shown the level of transparency of the present administration. There is no doubt that it is not yet over, but we will continue to plug holes through which money is being siphoned as soon as we identify one.” Eboh said courtesy of TETFund, the school has been able to raise some structures at its temporary site which would have been a huge financial burden on the school. He promised to ensure collaborations and maintain robust relationship with key stakeholders like TETFUND and National Board of Technical Education (NBTE), which he said has helped the institution maintain a conducive environment. He said management has set up a committee that would source for sponsorship or partners that would consume things produced by the institution in order to boost its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). He also used the opportunity to disclose that the institution’s bread is awaiting the approval of the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) before mass production.