President Muhammadu Buhari declared in March 2019, shortly after winning his re-election, that his second term in office was going to be tough. While receiving the last Federal Executive Council on congratulatory visit in Aso Rock, he had stated that his fight against corruption was going to be intense, among the administration’s three cardinal objectives. But doubting Thomases never believed Buhari’s declaration as they thought it was going to be business as usual. Especially, those who felt and claimed that Buhari was fighting corruption using double standard. To them, Buhari was using insecticide to fight corruption in the National Assembly, Judiciary and the larger society, while using deodorants to fight corruption in the Presidency. Apart from claims that Buhari was selective in the fight against corruption in his first term in office, Buhari was also said to have been put under pressure before moving against the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir David Lawal, over alleged contract scam. Even last Thursday, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank, had alleged that Buhari’s government is now more enmeshed in corruption. He had declared that governance is now in the hands of looters, claiming that some members of the new cabinet inaugurated last week Wednesday have been involved in high profile corruption. While calling on Nigerians to lower their expectations for true dividends of democracy, he asked them to expect unprecedented and astronomical rise in corruption. He pointed out that 70 to 80 per cent of the new ministers have, at one time or the other, been the guests of anti-corruption agencies with most of them still battling corruption charges in courts. Frank had said, “I urge Nigerians to brace for more hardships as corruption and incompetence have been enthroned with corruption masters turned ministers to run the affairs of government in Nigeria.” But the Presidency’s moves in the last two weeks, have shown that the government was ready to expose anybody involved in corruption, no matter how highly placed in Buhari’s administration. As a starter, the Chairman of the Special Presidential Investigation Panel (SPIP) for the Recovery of Public Property, Mr. Okoi Obono-Obla, was suspended from office by President Buhari on the 14th of August, 2019. He was suspended due to allegations of misconduct, abuse of office, intimidation, unauthorized and malicious investigations. His suspension, according to the letter signed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, will also subsist until the conclusion of ongoing probe of his academic records and financial impropriety allegations levelled against him by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). While the mandate of SPIP is to investigate only cases referred to it by the government, the SPIP under Obono-obla was said to have carried out unauthorized arrests, seizure of assets and prosecution. The Presidency was also shocked that Obono-Obla was implicated in illegal secondment of over 100 policemen to the SPIP. The suspended chairman was found to be engaging lawyers to file charges against suspects without recourse to the Attorney-General’s office. The Presidency was said to be left with the suspension option after Obono-obla refused to follow due process after the Presidency drew his attention to his excesses and made him signed an undertaking to follow the procedure. Shortly after Obono-obla’s suspension was made public, the news of the grilling of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs. Winifred Oyo-Ita, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, hit the air waves. She was said to have been probed over alleged N3 billion contract scam. Her offence also included alleged abuse of duty tour allowances, money laundering and stealing of government funds. The N3 billion was allegedly traced to her through proxy companies. This was said to have been linked to her when some detectives were investigating the activities of a former Minister under whom she served as Permanent Secretary. While about N600 million was said to have been traced to the account of one of her aides, the aide had not given any justifiable explanation for the money. To get to the root of the alleged scam, the EFCC was also said to have quizzed two Permanent Secretaries and three Directors of Finance. While the two above cases are yet to be fully resolved, the Buhari’s administration last Thursday also promised to beam its anti-corruption searchlight in more areas. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), said the anti-corruption agencies would now beam their searchlight on banks that had been aiding corrupt practices in Nigeria. “As bad news to the rogues within our financial system, in the next four years, the Federal Ministry of Justice, in collaboration with anti-corruption agencies, will beam searchlight on the financial institutions and non-designated financial institutions in order to make them pay dearly for the dastardly roles they played and are still playing in encouraging and deepening corruption in Nigeria. “From arms procurement fraud, INEC bribery case to Diezani case and several others, quantitative data available to the Federal Government abundantly shows that financial institutions are directly involved in most of the major corruption cases investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission from 2015 till date,” he said On the August 19, 2019 award of $9bn against Nigeria by a British court, he said “It must be placed on record that the Federal Government strongly views with serious concerns the underhand manners by which the negotiation, signing and formation of the contract was carried out by some vested interests in the past administration in connivance with their local and international conspirators all in a bid to inflict grave economic adversity on the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the good people of Nigeria. “As a government that has the mandate of the people, and their interests at heart, we shall not fold our arms and allow this injustice to go unpunished as all efforts, actions and steps shall be taken to bring to book all private individuals, corporate entities and government officials — home or abroad and past or present — that played direct and indirect roles in the conception, negotiation, signing, formation as well as prosecution of the purported agreement.” But in Nigeria, there is no step any leader will take that is not viewed with suspicion. It’s on record that one geopolitical zone have always suspected the other. So despite the current efforts to rid the country of corruption, some Nigerians still believed that there may be an underground plot as the last three major suspects, including the former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, are from the southern part of the country. While the fight against corruption is expected to go round all sectors and geopolitical zones, what is really important is starting at a point. From his antecedent, Buhari is not likely to shy away from nailing any of his kinsmen involved in corruption as his main interest is for Nigeria. But the next four years will really show how far the President will take the antigraft battle. Will it be without fear or favour? Or protection of people from his area as being feared in some quarters? Only time will tell.