General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye has declared it is an aberration to take Holy Communion during the day, which explains why he doesn’t take Holy Communion in other churches. Adeboye spoke at the Holy Communion service at the just- concluded 67th convention of the church at the new auditorium at the Redemption Camp. 1, 850 pastors were ordained and 109 children born- 56 boys and 53 girls at the convention, which ended with so much excitement. Adeboye, who preached on the importance of the Holy Communion in line with the theme of the convention which is And God Said, noted it is an aberration for any church to take the Holy Communion in the day. He pointed out that it is the Lord’s Supper which by implication should be taken at night adding “the first time the Passover was taken in the Bible, it was taken in the night on the eve of the Israelites freedom from Egypt. Jesus also took it in the night with his disciples.” He said that whenever he is invited to some churches and they are serving Holy Communion in the day, he would decline taking simply stating: “I am fasting”. Adeboye posited that taking of the Holy Communion at night is symbolic. He said: “Tears may endure for the night but joy comes in the morning. The night period is symbolic. It means the end of sorrow. “It means the end of suffering. It means the end of stagnation. The supper is taken in the night and not in the day.” He explained further the Holy Communion is a serious matter and should not be taken unworthily. “Many are eating it unworthily that is why they are experiencing so many things they should not experience. “You can’t come to the Lord’s Table and bear grudges and harbor hatred in your heart against your brother or sister. You will be doing yourself a great harm,” he said. In his sermon to the newly ordained Pastor of the church, the Assistant General Overseer of the church in charge of Administration and Personnel, Pastor Johnson Odesola challenged them never to despair as they go about in task of evangelising the world for Christ. He said that preaching the gospel message is task that must be carried out as Christians await the second coming of the Lord.