President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba has confirmed the appointment of Comrade Emmanuel Ugjoaja as the new General Secretary of the Congress. Wabba, in a statement, said the appointment of Ugboaja followed the retirement of the former General Secretary, Dr. Peter Ozo-Eson. Until his appointment which was confirmed at the National Executive Council meeting of the Congress in Kano, Ugboaja was the Head of Organising Department of the Congress. There has been speculations in the media that the NLC NEC meeting has appointed Ugboaja who contested the House of Representatives election in the last general election as the new General Secretary. The statement reads: “We bring you fraternal greetings from the Nigeria Labour Congress. “I write to notify you of the appointment of Comrade Emmanuel Okechukwu Ugboaja as the new General Secretary of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). “This follows the retirement of his predecessor, Dr. Peter Ozo-Eson, after years of meritorious service to the Congress. “The appointment of Comrade Emmanuel Ugboaja as the new General Secretary of the NLC follows the approval of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the NLC at its regular meeting held in Kano, Kano State on 21stAugust, 2019. The appointment is with immediate effect. “Comrade (Barrister) Emmanuel Okechukwu Ugboaja born on 15th May, 1966 is a 1987 Law graduate of the University of Calabar. In 1993, he became the first lawyer in Nigeria to work full time for a trade union when he joined the National Union of Chemical Footwear Rubber Leather and Non-Metallic Products Employees (NUCFRLANMPE), an affiliate of the Nigeria Labour Congress. “He rose through the ranks of the union to serve as the General Secretary from 2000 to 2005. “Between 2006 and 2009, Comrade Emmanuel Okechukwu Ugboaja was appointed as the Coordinator, Advocacy and Mobilization of the Alliance for Credible Elections, a foremost Nigerian Civil Society Organization with focus on electoral matters. “In 2005, Comrade Emmanuel Ugboaja was a delegate to the 2005 President Olusegun Obasanjo’s Political/Constitutional Reform Conference. He was also a delegate to the President Goodluck Jonathan Constitution Review Conference of 2014. “We urge you to extend your good hands of fellowship and goodwill to Comrade Emmanuel Okechukwu Ugboaja in his new position as the General Secretary of the Nigeria Labour Congress.”