The Ogun State House of Assembly yesterday urged chairmen of the 20 local government councils and 37 local council development areas suspended by the eight legislature to submit detailed report on their tenure between October 2016 to May, 2019 before Friday, August 16. The Assembly, through its Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs led by Jemili Akingbade,  issued the directive while playing host to the chairmen at the Assembly Complex at Oke- Mosan, Abeokuta. Akingbade said the report was expected to include details of capital projects executed since assumption of office, the bidding processes of contracts awarded, revenue heads and full disclosure of revenues and expenditures for scrutiny by the lawmakers. The House Committee Chairman, who was with his colleagues, assured the chairmen of justice, fairness and equity in the examination of petitions against them. He said the meeting was an avenue for the local government helmsmen to exonerate themselves of allegations levelled against them. Akingbade added that the leadership of the Assembly would liase with the appropriate government agencies to ensure that the suspended chairmen have access to relevant records required to prepare their reports, adding that the Assembly would step up plans to resolve the issues concerning the suspended chairmen within three weeks. Deputy Speaker Oludare Kadiri, Minority Leader Ganiyu Oyedeji and a  member representing Abeokuta South I, Yusuf Adejojo, as well as his Ijebu North- East, Abayomi Fasuwa, promised that the Assembly would ensure holistic consideration of the allegations bordering on misappropriation of fund and abuse of office levelled against  the chairmen. They hinted that the Assembly would come up with its findings based on the reports from the chairmen in response to the petitions earlier submitted to the 8th Legislature with a view to promoting accountability and transparency in the running of the councils. In their separate submissions, the representative of the Chairmen from Ogun East, Bayo Osikomaya and Kafaru Femi Felix; West, Mr. Obafemi Edun and Saheed Alagbe as well as that of Ogun Central Senatorial Districts, Taofeek Olabode and Mr. Kunle Folarin, appealed to the leadership of the Assembly to ensure speedy consideration of the issues raised as their tenure would lapse in October.