PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to stop official funding for food imports has further reinforced the earlier decision of the apex bank to restrict foreign exchange allocation to importers of milk. The directive, which is expected to take immediate effect, is bound to have some implications for manufacturers and ancillary businesses in the short term. Since the order is directly from the Presidency, it is a matter of conjecture what the CBN will do with processes that are ongoing, or that have been concluded and awaiting implementation, and others that have bilateral and multilateral encumbrances. Since trade facilitations are governed by agreements and binding on all consenting parties, any breach that might arise in contravention of the spirit and the letter of the rules would be frowned at by the injured parties, irrespective of the source and the nature of the directive. Not minding the long-term benefits of the Presidential directive, implementation of the order wholesale, will have serious dent on businesses in the short-to-medium term. It must be understood that some imported items classified as foods, serve as feedstock, or raw materials for some industries. There will be serious implications for employees and employment generation in the short and the long-run, if necessary steps are not taken to defer the implementation of the directive and erect timelines on its implementation. Self-sufficiency in local production of food for Nigerians in whatever guise should be a welcome development. Buhari has never hidden his desire to ensure food security for Nigerians. It is that fervour that informed his unbridled support for the CBN in its various intervention programmes, including the Anchor Borrowers Scheme that has resulted in the increased production of primary food crops, including rice. The initiative is being lengthened to include other food crops. As it stands, if the President’s directive is followed through without any consideration to other interests, the CBN, may be inadvertently drawn to avoidable legal issues, since to-be affected businesses will contest abridgement of agreements that they may have concluded with the apex bank and other government agencies. Beyond Nigeria’s shores, other foreign firms and businesses will raise dust and accuse the nation and her government agencies of breaching bilateral and other institutional agreements they may have signed prior to the announcement. Therefore what may be required, going forward, is for the relevant authorities to space out the implementation of the decision and give all interest parties, time to adjust to the impending changes. Attempting to adopt a fixated and an unbending approach to implementing this decision will do more harm than good. A little shift and flexibility to allow for negotiation and adjustment, giving all parties more time to allow for the necessary and required adjustment, that will result in a win-win situation for all. 