Fifteen alumni of Nwafor Orizu College of Education  Demonstration Nursery and Primary School, Awka in Anambra State have given back to their alma mater 30 years after they left the school. They returned to the school to give it a lift and spent some time with both members of staff and students. Returning to the school, according to the old students, was a home coming of sorts. Their coming to the school made them to see the need to reciprocate the positive impact the school made on them, especially in their formative years. Part of the face lift was the renovation of some sections of the school, which included repainting and tiling of classroom blocks as well as providing white boards in all classrooms. They also upgraded the toilet facilities and mounted a new sign post at the entrance. Five  foundation teachers who taught them while in the school were also honoured. Speaking on behalf of the group, Chief Amobi Ogum said the old boys, who he referred to as “magic class,” decided to carry out the project in view of the deteriorating state of the school’s infrastructure. He said the project gulped over N5.7million and was donated by 15 of them between last October and April, while the project took off in July. He said: “We got linked up through the internet and decided to give back to the society that has given so much to us. “We were over 35 during our set, but about 15 of us were involved in this project. Some of us came from overseas, including Europe, Germany, Texas and London. “We repainted the entire school, tiled the classrooms, provided white boards, renovated the toilet facilities and erected new ones.” Another alumnus, Chuka Uzozie, said they decided to give back considering the school’s impact on their lives. “The motivation was borne out of nostalgia and the impact the school, particularly the teachers, made on us. That was why we decided to honour five of them today,” he said. One of the celebrated teachers, Mrs Mabel Ajator was full of gratitude for the honour bestowed on her, calling on the pupils to take their studies seriously so they could emulate the alumni when they grew up. She urged teachers to be devoted to their duties by creating quality time in molding the pupils. “Teaching should not be taken as alternative employment. It should be purely for those with passion because any child mistakenly handled is marred for life,” she added. On her part, the school’s Headmistress, Lady Philo Enemuo said the alumni undertook the rehabilitation after identifying critical needs of the school during a visit. Expressing her gratitude, she called on other sets to emulate them in supporting the school. “As a human being, I had my doubts on the possibility of accomplishing their desire bearing in mind the present economic hardship facing our country. “Today, history is being made and your names have been printed in gold in the sand of time. Posterity will remember your wonderful gesture which time and space will never wipe away,” she said. Also, the Principal of the secondary section of the school, Mr Gabinus Ukah described the benevolence as feat worthy of emulation.