Ondo State Head of Service (HoS) Dare Aragbaiye has assured all workers in the state that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s administration would continue to interact with the leadership of labour unions in order to sustain the cordial relationship between them and government. Aragbaiye gave the assurance at the 2nd quarterly Joint Negotiating Council (JNC) Management meeting held at the weekend in Akure, the state capital. The HOS had at different fora acknowledged the support of workers to the numerous achievements of his administration in the last two years. He hailed Akeredolu for prioritizing the welfare of workers within the available scarce resources of the government, adding that the government would not deny them any of their entitlements. He described workers as the engine of government with which it can actualise its policies and programmes, saying that government would sustain the quarterly meeting so as to continue to enjoy the support of workers to deliver more dividends of democracy to the people of the state. The Permanent Secretary, Department of Establishment and Training, Victor Olajorin appreciated the HOS for facilitating and personally attended the meeting which he said is a right step towards achieving harmonious government – labour relationship in the state. While welcoming the leadership of the unions to the meeting, the Chairman Joint Negotiating Councils(JNC) Comrade Opeyemi Oloniyo congratulated Aragbaiye on his new appointment . He also commended him for being the only HoS that would attend the meeting in the last six years. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Gbenga Adelae and his counterpart in the Teaching Service Commission, Mrs Funmilayo Ajayi were also at the meeting to address issues bothering on labour matters. Representatives of various labour unions in the state public service also deliberated on the on-going verification exercise at the local government councils, conversion of workers from one cadre to another, training of workers and other matters relating to public service.