The National Vice Chairman (Southwest) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Eddy Olafeso, in this interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, speaks on the challenges of reconciliation in the opposition party, zoning and other partisan issues. The PDP is in court over the Presidential election, which has not been decided. Some people are already urging former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to contest in 2023. Is this not a distraction? We are not giving up in our mandate. The Nigerian people are not fooled because they saw what happened during the election. They saw how the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in connivance with security operatives tried to undermine the election. We will continue to respect the constitution of the country and pursue our grievances within the ambit of the laws and we will follow it to the very end. So, if people are beginning to clamour for Atiku in 2023, is it not an indication that the people are very sure that the last three years had been wasted? Kaduna State government recently said the zoning political offices should be discarded for competence and merit… El Rufai says what he feels like saying without recourse to history and the sensibility of the nation. The truth is that for many of us, we are of the school of thought that leadership should come on the basis of capacity, integrity, readiness and the diversities of our nation. But then and for the convenience of bringing the nation gradually together, we must work toward the understanding that Nigeria is for us. El Rufai started well when he was with us in the PDP, but I don’t know what came upon him. Like men that are victim of power, they arrogate with is impossible for human being and promote themselves to demi god. The truth is that the Nigeria people will continue to take decision on what they think can bring the Nigerian people together. The people are sensitive to issues in the land; they will ensure there is equity in the land. Are you saying that now that the north had done it for eight years, it is no longer important for zoning to take place when the issue of presidency is being considered? I think he is just being selfish on the issue. As a friend of El Rufai, I will urge him to try as much as possible to make history for himself. This is somebody who started well and suddenly he turned out to become a charlatan. Lagos PDP is finding it difficult to reconcile its warring factions, even with the intervention of Senator Ben Obi… Immediately after the general election, the National Working Committee (NWC) met and looked at what is happening in Lagos, we set up a committee headed by Senator Ben Obi, who is more or less a Lagosian by birth. We are very confident that his recommendation for a new beginning will make better contribution for Lagos PDP. Since 1999, the PDP has not won anything substantial in Lagos despite its entrenchment and massive support it enjoys from the people of Lagos. So, making the party better in Lagos is what we are trying to do. We have taken a look at the circle of conflicts at the leadership. We want to stop that at this moment, so that we can have a three clear years of united party that will come into the general election in 2023. We are doing this in one single focus for winning Lagos State for PDP. We are doing the best to put our leadership in good shape. So, immediately after the sitting of the Ben Obi committee, we set up a reconciliation committee that is working hard to end the division. We are urging all our people to come together. Part of the problems of the PDP in Lagos is the infiltration by the APC into our rank and file. They use the resources available to them to divide us, but now that the people have seen consequences of being divided, I think it is about time for those who are selling themselves for pittance to come together as one. For us in the Southwest, I think the leadership is determined; there is no option than to have a formidable leadership in Lagos. That is what we are going to do and we are committed to ensuring internal democracy, committed to scout and hunt for quality leaders. We will continue to ensure we manage our own conflicts in such a way everybody will see himself as a stakeholder. The PDP bragged that it would capture the Southwest, but you only won in Oyo… We won in Oyo. We are very proud of our accomplishment, as the chairman of Southwest zone; I think we have done very well. So, winning Oyo State for governorship, winning Ondo State at the presidential election, winning two senators and three House of Representatives members was not cheap. I think it is a fantastic performance and we will continue to improve on what we have been doing. When we came on board in 2016, there was nothing on ground; some of our members were with Senator Ahmed Makarfi, some with Senator Modu Sheriff. Some of the key leaders in the zone divided themselves into those cleavages; this of course, had effect on our unity and togetherness.  But I have been able bring unity and we thank God for the governor of Oyo State, Governor Seyi Makinde who had actually taken leadership role seriously. I know his tenure is going to affect a lot of things that will change the Southwest and we are going to be the strongest in the region. For me, the Southwest is ready and even looking at the result of the last election; the PDP is still ahead as far as the zone is concerned. We did very well even though our efforts were marred by thuggery, violence, using of INEC and security agents to whittle our efforts. Many people are still of the opinion that the PDP could not have changed anything if Atiku was given the mandate. Do you align with this position? Atiku is a democrat and he will not do things that will not support the development of the country. That is why we have the Federal Character Commission to guide in appointments and ensure fairness and balance. He understands the country far better than the current President. He will do things that can bring about unity which is not there. Everything that belongs to the country had been taken and nothing is left for other members of the federating units. So, how can that bring about unity? For us in the PDP, we have a template; we have a master plan that must redefine this nation. That is the reason why Atiku was in the forefront of the restructuring that is going to give back power to the people. The template recognizes our diversities and those things that threaten our unity. That is why I know the PDP will do far better than what the APC is currently doing. The APC is not looking at unemployment; it is not taking about the economy. The man visited Daura and said he had directed that forex should no longer be provided for food importation, without any plan to boost food production at home. He should have made all the necessary provisions before making that pronouncement. The APC is not ready to govern Nigeria and the fact remained that the PDP was ready because we have tshe experience and ability to deliver. 