Ogun State governor Dapo Abiodun, again warned that houses harbouring kidnappers or being used by kidnappers to perpetrate acts of kidnapping would be pulled down and their certificates of occupancy revoked. Abiodun who issued the warning at the inauguration of reinvigorated Ogun State Security Trust Fund, assured that with the launch of the fund, the full security architecture for internal safety of lives and property has been fully emplaced. The Governor added that he has fulfilled yet another promise to provide good governance to the people He disclosed that the amended Ogun State Security Trust Fund law is a private sector-driven programme that would support the state government in addressing various security challenges facing the state. “It is a demonstration of our government’s unreserved commitment towards ensuring that the people have a good life and pursue their legitimate business in a secured environment. “The aim of these security trust fund is to have the private sector support the government in addressing various security challenges facing our dear state, these new and reinvigorated trust fund will be responsible for sourcing and efficiently deploying the resources towards achieving a safe and secured environment,” the Governor said. “It is our sincere belief that with this Trust Fund, our security will be further strengthened to provide a more secured environment where our people will live a more prosperous life,” he said. He noted that the new security trust fund would be responsible for sourcing and efficiently deploying the resources towards achieving a safe and secured environment,  adding that it would be uncharitable to believe that the state could single handedly provide all the funds that would be needed to ensure the security of lives and property. According to him, the inauguration of the security trust fund was another approach towards giving the people, individuals and corporate organizations a window of opportunity to contribute towards the overall development of the state. He urged people to have it at the back of their mind that resources given towards actualizing a sound security network would be prudently used by the team set up to manage the states security trust fund. The committee has Mr. Bolaji Balogun as Chairman, (Rtd AIG) Olushola Subair,  Kamar, Chief Financial Officer, Access Bank,Seyi Kumapayi, Group Executive, Commercial Banking, First Bank, Seyi Oyefeso, Executive Director, Wema Bank, Wole Akinleye, while Mr. Opeyemi Agbaje would serve as the Executive Secretary. The governor tasked the committee to provide money for the acquisition and deployment of security equipments and such human material and financial resources that shall be necessary to prevent crime and preserve public security in the state, promote the efficiency of all the security agencies in the state, to hold for the benefit of all residents of the state, gift, property and money for the purpose of crime prevention and public security in the state. He also  tasked them to mobilize funding and resources in cash or kind from the public private, corporate, institutional or all other sources and to manage those resources in a transparent and accountable manner for the purpose of public security in the state, reserve part of the fund for the training and retraining of security personnel in the state and to do all other things and perform all other functions for the purpose of public security as and contained in the Ogun State Security Trust Fund Law of 2011, as amended by the Ogun State Security Trust Fund amendment law of 2019. In his response, the chairman of the Ogun State Security Trust Fund, Mr. Bolaji Balogun acknowledged the effort of the state governor, to have a secured state, describing him as a man of history, who came in as governor at the right moment. Balogun assurred that the Committee would work hard and not disappoint the state, saying the activities of the states security trust fund would be transparently done.