A Bachelor of Laws is a high-ticket investment, for your career but also for your personal development. Those who are interested in upholding the highest standard of justice in their societies should consider an LLB. Globally, legal practitioners are in high demand. Not only that they are fondly regarded as distinguished professionals, but their services are also usually in high demand. This is because they help to achieve a balance in societal jurisprudence. Individuals need them to help attain legal justice, and corporations require their services to help navigate through the waters of business regulations. Legal services are generally required to create a balance for societal progress; through justice, equity and fairness. As we may know, law and order play a fundamental role in every society, not only in terms of rules and regulations but also in shaping behavioural pattern and conducts. By implication, this involves the manner at which citizens and entities respond to set rules and guidelines. A lawless society will invariably lead to gross disorder and eventually, chaos. Therefore, the legal system helps to ensure justice, equity and fairness in the society. Law degrees cover a diverse range of subjects with the aim of providing a generalised understanding of human society and its laws. As agencies, businesses and corporations seek to operate within the stipulated ambit of the law, lawyers consequentially have become on popular demand for legal guidance.   A Bachelor of Laws degree is highly valuable for many obvious reasons and holds many immense benefits for legal practitioners. The career opportunities and diversification the profession makes available for practitioners is a common reason why the profession has been a top choice for many. Not only that, there are a variety of job roles in law – paralegals, legal executives, judges, legal secretaries, among others. Practitioners can also specialise in a wide range of legal studies. Some of these areas could be in business law, constitutional law, criminal law, health care law, among others. One of the most common career benefits of studying law is that it could give you access to all industries. Practitioners could represent as secretaries, business legal advisers, and could represent an organisation’s legal unit, to mention but a few. For these businesses, legal practitioners often stand as the interface between the organisation they represent, and the regulatory body. They also provide useful legal advisory services to the organisations and represent them in case of legal dispute. The option to still join a chamber as a pure solicitor is also still there. For many, it is the most common start to practice with a reputable legal chamber before going into the business world or practising independently. This helps practitioners to practically study in a real-life scenario, the administrative technicalities in legal studies. A law degree teaches you useful skills, transferable across many professions, including problem-solving, critical thinking, logical reasoning and analytical skills. After which, you become grounded in fact-finding and more articulated in analysing information. An LLB helps students to develop a sound understanding of the formations of law and its application to modern-day society. This also includes analytical and research skills required to solve day-to-day legal problems. Specialisation is fondly encouraged because of the complexity of the profession. They can choose a specialised knowledge of a wide range of areas in law, covering the entire spectrum of the legal study. Students of law also go through rigorous disciplinary approach while studying. This is to ensure a level of sanity in their conducts while practising. Nonetheless, to attain the status as a Barrister, students will acquire a first degree in law, which will allow them to be admitted into the law school. Earning a law degree in Africa typically requires between 5 and 6 years of study and large financial investments for contemporary institutions. After which practitioners will study for an additional year at the law school or law society depending on the country. The students will be called to the bar upon graduation from law school or law society. Here, they will learn a more practical approach to legal studies. Today in Africa, many students now opt-in for international education. This is to give themselves a competitive edge in the global legal ecosystem, including easy access to international law jobs. Studying for an LLB in an international institution in most cases will make students more conversant with international laws and the international legal ecosystem. With this, they stand high chances of getting a job in international outfits and unions. This could be organisations, unions and authorities like the United Nations, African Union, World Bank, International Criminal Courts (ICC), ECOWAS, among others. Not only that, but they could also easily diversify to other areas of laws which are more needed in international communities. This is could be international laws, international business laws, among others.   Although international education may seem interesting, it is only limited to those who can afford it. However, the advent of online higher education has interestingly changed the game for many. It has set a new pathway for students who seek international education, with an eye for international jobs. Online education is rapidly increasing in many developed countries, although that isn’t the case in Africa. Nonetheless, there are a number of African universities, and other international universities offering top quality and affordable higher education. For this, Unicaf University stands out as a premium choice for many. Unicaf University is among the pioneers of online higher education in Africa, and the degrees awarded are globally recognised. Unicaf University is a leading pan-African independent university. The distinguished institution with its university partners has served over 25,000 students across the globe. This has positioned the institution as the leading pan-African institution today delivering through online and on-campus study system. It is also important to mention that Unicaf University has set footprints in about 11 African countries.  African students seeking international education in law, including other areas can visit its country offices or campuses to apply, or apply online here. The new wave of education which is online comes with numerous benefits such as ease, convenience, including affordability. For instance, aspiring legal practitioners can study for an LLB in Unicaf University from any part of the World. They can study in their home countries and graduate abroad. Studying online also allows them to engage in other activities for self-development or research. Not only that, students seeking international degrees at Unicaf University can qualify for a partial scholarship. In the end, they will obtain the same quality of degree with on-campus students from the institution. Unicaf University is a member of the United Nations Academic Impact (UNAI). The Pan-African institution is also a member of the Southern African Regional Universities Association (SARUA). The institution offers undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes of premium quality. It is currently a popular choice for working professionals, entrepreneurs and fresh graduates who seek a more flexible system and quality international education. Students interested in studying for an LLB can do so by visiting the application page here. After making their application, they will receive a follow up from a student adviser at Unicaf University. Most importantly, their admission will come with an automatic partial scholarship which is over half the cost of the tuition fees. Emmanuel Ebanehita (Writer) 