Baby-mother. This best summarises the experience of Masenengen Targba, the 10-year-old orphan that was living in an internally displaced persons (IDP) camp in Benue State, who was raped and impregnated by an unknown man. We have Chigozie Effe who shared the news on Facebook to thank for bringing her plight to the public space. Targba was dumped at General Hospital, Makurdi, at Northbank, by an unknown person in the early hours of August 4. She was said to be in labour pains because her time to deliver was due. She however needed surgery but could not afford it.  It was during interrogation that it was discovered that she is a Tiv and an orphan from Benue State, but she had been living in an internally displaced persons (IDP) camp in Benue State, where she was eventually impregnated. Mercifully, a Good Samaritan, one Mr Ukan, took her to Foundation Memorial Hospital, Makurdi, Benue State, where Dr Ijoko and Dr Yima carried out an operation to deliver her of her daughter in the early hours of Monday. Targba’s experience is a wakeup call on the Federal Government and its security agencies to intensify the war on terror, with a view to decimating the terrorists on time and ensuring that peace returns to many of the country’s troubled states which necessitated the setting up of IDP camps in the first place. One thing is clear from reports emanating from many of the IDP camps: we do not have the capacity to ensure sanity in those places. IDP camps are supposed to cater to the needs of people who have been forced to flee from their own homes due to reasons beyond their control. They are supposed to be given the best of humanitarian care in a way that they would not have much nostalgic feeling about their predicament. Without doubt, there is no place like home; so they cannot be comfortable in the IDP camps the same way they would be in their homes. But then, we can still afford to show them some care and love because anyone could have been victims of what they are suffering. However, what we have in many cases are reports of the people who are supposed to make life meaningful for them in the camps exploiting their situation. Food items and other materials that are meant for the IDPs are converted to the personal use of some of the caregivers who do this unabashedly. This is bad enough. But more worrisome are the reports of some of these caregivers taking advantage of women and even young girls in the camps by making some of the essential items available to them in exchange for sex. Unfortunately, despite media reports of this ungodly behaviour, hardly do we hear of any punishment being meted to those involved, to at least deter others from toeing the same path. This is what has continued to embolden some people to commit these atrocities with impunity. Perhaps if some of those involved had been sanctioned, Targba would not have been in the situation she is in now; tending to her baby when she should herself still be under parental tutelage. Rape has assumed an epidemic dimension in the country. There is hardly any day that stories of rape are not highlighted in the media. It is high time the governments – federal and state – did something to check the trend. The country cannot continue to watch helplessly while people who cannot control themselves take undue advantage of women and children, sometimes ruining their lives and careers in the process. Our anti-rape laws should be made tougher to deter potential rapists. As for those in IDP camps, the only way out is for the Federal Government to quickly put the terror war behind us so that everyone can return to their homes without any fear of being traumatised again by terrorists.