It seems strange because of their circumstances, but the saying that ‘no place is like home’ still rings true for the displaced persons living in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital city. Shorn of the comforts of their homes in towns and villages across security-challenged states of Borno and Yobe, one would assume that the glitter of Abuja would be alluring enough to inspire a longing for continuous stay but that is not the case with the thousands of internally-displaced persons (IDPs) living on the fringes of the city. Speaking with Abuja Review during the humanitarian outreach of the Abuja-based International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education (ICICE) to his Area 1 IDP camp – one of several such camps around Abuja, Mr. Idris Ibrahim Halilu, the Coordinator and spokesman of all IDPs in the Federal Capital Territory stressed that the exposure to health challenges alone represents a serious threat that moulds lesser challenges such as poor nutrition and homelessness, into burdens of Sisyphean magnitude. “I can assure you that ninety-five percent of IDPs here in Abuja want to go home; we find the humanitarian outreach of the ICICE most impressive, since we cannot afford to access hospital services in Abuja, we are more than happy with the free medical diagnosis and treatment brought to us, we excited because it is a rare event,” he stated. More than three thousand IDPs live in the camp. According to Idris Halilu, a former public relations executive whose home and family in Borno state had virtually been eviscerated by Boko Haram terrorists, ongoing insurgents’ attacks and the international dimension of the prolonged threat make it difficult for IDPs from the affected areas to return home. “Parts of Borno and Yobe states remain no-go areas, the government is trying but let us not pretend about the problem. The insurgency in the North East is a special challenge because of the terrain – mountainous areas, rivers and borders with different countries. We hope that the international community will give government further support but there are neighbouring countries that we seemed to have offended decades ago when Nigeria supported their past leadership and people have suspicion that they have now chosen to pay us back,” he said. With excellent diction that tells the story of how misfortune can befall virtually anyone, he tells the sad story of his life. Born in Shani local government of Borno state, he attended teachers’ college in Gombe and the University of Somalia. “I did postgraduate studies at Al-Hari University, Cairo and did external courses in journalism and I was a pioneer production staff of NTA in 1975. After that, I went into Public Relations for about 17 years worked with some companies as Public Relations director. In 2005, I retired, went home and got confronted by an insurgency I had seen coming. I had seen it coming and was warning since as far back as 1997,” said Idris Ibrahim Halilu. At the Area 1 IDP camp in Durumi area on the peripheries of Abuja, the two-room school closed down about one and half years ago because of lack of teachers, water is still a big challenge with the use of only one borehole and maximal utilization of IDPs’ proximity to a stream known for very unhygienic water. Most of the population defecates in the surrounding bushes, adding to the load of infectious diseases in the air around the camp. Dr. Amina Kumalia, head of the ICICE medical team from Al Nur mosque in Abuja was in charge of the medical outreach to the IDP camp. “As you can see, we have a lot of patients, mostly women and children; many men in the camp have gone out to find something for their families. Here, like most of our other outreaches, the prevalent health challenges are malaria and peptic ulcer. “In children, we also have upper respiratory tract infection, skin infections and cases of diarrhoea; most of the children are lethargic and weak. Thus far, we do not have significant cases of hypertension and diabetes. “Upper respiratory tract infection in children is overwhelming. Once children have untreated URT infection and they stay together, re-infection continues and may never leave them. As you can see, the surroundings also contribute to incidences of URT infection. The environment is very dirty. We need the help of AEPB to come and sort things out because of the adverse health effects here,” Dr. Kumalia stated. Drawn together by a common misery, the IDP population in Abuja, including those at the Area 1 IDP camp sees no need to discriminate on the ‘usual’ basis of creed or tribe. The ICICE, an Islamic humanitarian initiative too, discriminates against none, registering, diagnosing and giving medical assistance and pharmaceutical supplies to all found to be in need. “We are humbly undertaking a service to humanity; every needy person that we can help is freely entitled to our assistance and resources,” ICICE’s Director-General, Dr.Kabir Kabo Usman said. Explaining further, Alhaji Garba Sani who was a financial consultant I the UK for more than twenty years before returning home and volunteering his services as ICICE’s Director of External Relations, Research and Consultancy, explains further. “We chose this camp because we haven’t been here before for medical or any other type of outreach; secondly, we recognised after discussing with them that they have never had this kind of visit in all the years they have been here – definitely not at this scale. The population is about 3, 016 men, women, children living here and it warrants attention; with that sort of number, we had to prepare more than other previous outreach assignments. “The health outreach, including deworming is open to all of them, according to their (medical) needs. We at Al Nur Mosque International Centre For Islamic Culture and Education always appeal to individuals, non-governmental organizations and others to come and support humanitarian initiatives like these because we cannot leave everything, especially the challenges facing IDPs to the government,” he stated.