Ogun State students, under the aegis of National Association of Ogun State Students (NAOSS), have  elected new executive members to manage their affairs for the one year. The peaceful election, which took place at the Training College of the Civil Defence Corps in Abeokuta, had in attendance delegates from various tertiary institutions. Under the watch of reporters, security agents and stakeholders, they voted their preferred candidates. According to the electoral committee chairman,  Comrade Kehinde Olaonipekun, Zaka Abidemi Azeez emerged president with 17 votes to defeat his closest rival, Ogunrombi Gbemileke, who had seven votes, while two votes were voided. Other executive members are: Akinremi Samson Eniola (Vice I); Okeleye Odunayo (Vice II); Adegelu Collins (Vice III); Sowole Basit (General Secretary); Abdulazeez Bashir Adegboyega (Public Relations Officer I); Jolaosho Azeez (PRO II); Nurudeen Popoola (PRO III); Abolade Ibrahim (Financial Secretary); Adeyeri Sodiq (Treasurer); Adekunle Tobi (Welfare Director), Abidogun Abisoye (Social Director), Olaniyi Timothy (Assistant General Secretary I), Bamgbela Surprise (AGS II). Similarly, elected legislators are: Sodiq Shakiru (Senate President); Ajayi Oluwafemi (Deputy Senate President), Oshikomaya Gbolahan (Clerk) and Sodunke Ganiu (Chief Whip) Olaonipekun described the election as satisfactory and in line with the constitution of the association. The electoral chairman also used the medium to state why the previous election was cancelled. “You will recall that the first election was held at Iwe Iroyin last month, but was hijacked by some miscreants. In the wake of that incident several petitions were received from the delegates, chapter heads, stakeholders and security agencies. As a result of this, we declared that election null and void. “I am happy that today’s election is peaceful and followed due process. We had 26 chapters accredited out of 48 as a result of threat by some hoodlums, who do not want this rerun to take place,” he concluded. In his reaction, Zaka, a 400-Level Mechanical Engineering undergraduate of Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), expressed appreciations to all who stood by him. He promised to sustain the peaceful atmosphere in Ogun State and work with  Governor Dapo Abiodun in the interests of all indigenous students