Reactions have continued to trail the recent ban on prayers in all markets across Anambra State by the Anambra State Amalgamated traders Association (ASMATA). The announcement by the new chairman of the body, Chief Ikechukwu Ekwegbalu had triggered wide spread criticisms particularly among Christian denominations across the state. Those who spoke to The Nation on the development expressed divergent views over the order. While some described it as a step in the right direction, others said it was a handiwork of some occultic groups to unleash terror and mayhem on the traders, claiming the prayers were adversely affecting their businesses. A cleric, Pastor Raymond Momah of the All Believers Assembly, Okpoko, however described the ban as a war between the children of God and the devil. “The battle is on and we will know who among us is serving the living God,” he asserted. An authordox clergymen who spoke on the condition of anonymity, was of the view that the measure was in the interest of everybody as the privilege was being grossly abused. “The intention is no longer to win souls for christ but for stomach infrastructure. I commend the government for that noble action,” he added. An industrialist, Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka described the ban as a welcome development, stressing that the prayers were detrimental to the state economy as it scared visiting traders from the markets. Ezeonwuka, who is one of the patrons of ASMATA, maintained that the prayers not only constituted noise pollution, but a nuisance in the system. He said, “Market prayers are not only time consuming which irritate and frustrate visiting traders but also constitute noise pollution and other elements of nuisance in the system. “It also scares visiting traders from the neighbourhood and across the country from coming to the commercial city of Onitsha in particular to buy or sell goods to the detriment of the economy of Anambra State. “Market daily prayer is a fallacy. The best form of prayer is to work hard and to be honest. To work is to pray. You are as good as praying when you are working tirelessly.” According to the businessman, the time the traders devoted to prayers were better channeled to clearing and cleaning the market environment. “Cleanliness is next to godliness. These traders don’t know this, that is why they spend much time on prayers and end up scaring away those willing to patronise their businesses. “Market prayers on daily or weekly basis are harming the economy of the state because a lot of people who normally come to Onitsha to do businesses have diverted to other places. “If you budget two hours for a trip and end up spending five hours won’t you be irritated and frustrated? Won’t you find alternative?” On its part, the State government however said it did not instruct anybody or group of persons in whatever capacity to ban prayers in the markets as speculated in some quarters and published in some media. Commissioner for Commerce, Trade and Wealth Creation, Dr. Christian Madubuko, said the state government did not ban prayers in the markets but directed that the prayers be regulated and organised with decorum.     