Activists and members of a civil society group, Global Integrity Crusade Network (GICN), have urged the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to order the arrest and prosecution of a former Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Michael Kaase Aondoakaa (SAN), in the next seven days for alleged corruption and abuse of office. In a petition addressed to the chairman of the anti-graft agency, dated Tuesday, August 13, and titled: “Pending allegations against Mr Micheal Kaase Aondoakaa (SAN) bordering on fraud, corruption, flagrant abuse of his office as Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice between 2007 to 2010 as well as involvement in the $182 million Halliburton scam,” the group spoke in Abuja through its Director of Special Duties, Akan Augustine Eneji. The petitioners alleged that in 2010, Aondoakaa was stripped of the prestigious rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) by the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee, following several petitions against him for alleged unethical conducts while he was the AGF. The petition reads: “We recall with bitterness how Aondoakaa, being a close associate of James Ibori, the disgraced former governor of oil-rich Delta State, worked openly to undermine the independence of the EFCC and to derail domestic and international efforts to bring Ibori to justice. His strong-arm tactics and near usurpation of the powers of the commission earned him considerable notoriety…” “Available information shows that he interfered in many of the EFCC prosecutions and destroyed cases relating to corrupt governors, mostly by discontinuing hearings and trials – even without clear power to do so. “In one such instance, it happened that after the EFCC appealed a decision by the Court of Appeal, transferring the case to Ibori’s home state – where Ibori still wielded enormous influence – the (then) Attorney General ordered that the appeal be withdrawn. “Mr. Aondoakaa is also alleged to have interfered in the money laundering case against Ibori and his associates in the United Kingdom (UK). After an English court froze $35 million of Ibori’s assets in August 2007, Mr. Aondoakaa provided Ibori’s lawyer with a letter stating that Ibori had been ‘investigated’ in Nigeria and no charges had been filed against him, despite the fact that the EFCC was still investigating the matter and finalising criminal charges. The letter led the English court to temporarily lift the freeze on Ibori’s assets. “According to leaked United States (U.S) State Department cables, Mr. Aondoakaa also refused to negotiate a broad prisoner transfer agreement with British authorities unless the UK dropped efforts to prosecute Ibori for money laundering. “We are aware that the EFCC, in November, 2016, invited and quizzed Mr. Aondoakaa for several hours over his alleged role in the $182 million Halliburton scam. The case, into which he was frustrating investigations during his time in office, relates to an alleged contract involving a four-company joint venture to build a liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant on Bonny Island. “It is on record that in 2009, KBR, a former subsidiary of Halliburton, agreed to pay $402 million after admitting that it bribed Nigerian officials through office of the Attorney General and that Halliburton paid $177 million to settle allegations by the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission without admitting any wrongdoing. “It is our demand that investigations into this very sensitive case be reopened as a matter of urgency with a view to arraigning Mr. Aondoakaa before the court. “This will go a long way in proving to the overwhelming population of Nigerians, who stand on the path of justice, that the EFCC is truly committed to tackling the menace of corruption headlong, no matter who gets offended. “It is rather unfortunate that Mr. Aondakaa has continued to walk the streets as a free citizen and strengthening his hands in Benue State politics, instead of cooling (his feet) in prison. We maintain that the inordinate delay on the part of the EFCC to arrest and prosecute Mr. Aondakaa for the aforementioned Halliburton scam is an attempt at shielding him…”