The Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs has donated tilling machines to 80 farmers and fishing gears to 90 fishermen from Akpabuyo, Bakassi and Calabar-South local government areas of Cross River State. Deputy Director, Department of Economic Empowerment of the ministry in Abuja, Mr. Philip Ndiomu said as part of the economic plans of the Federal Government, they were not only reaching out to business owners, but also to farmers and fishermen. Speaking while handing over the items to beneficiaries in Calabar, he explained that the tilling machines, which were simple to use, would take over the jobs hoes and cutlasses do in the farms, and would enhance productivity. He said the fishing gears, including nets, hooks, floaters, sinkers and twines were demand-driven, and most of the beneficiaries were displaced people of Bakassi, who are predominately fishermen. Ndiomu said the only cost attached to the tilling machines, which were simple to use and maintain, is the petrol to power them. He further said for a litre of fuel put into the machine could till about two hectares or even more depending on the terrain. “We hope it would also boost production because farmers would be able to work on a larger scale, produce more, take care of their families and contribute to the food security of the country. “For the fishing gears, they are demand-driven facilities. They were things that were requested for specifically by the people. For now, we are also concentrating on the Bakassi returnees. There was a time we conducted a needs assessment in Bakassi and this was one of the things they said they required. “So, it is based on their needs that the government wants to meet. For the fishing gear, we have 90 beneficiaries. For the tillers we have 80 of them,” he said. The member representing Calabar-South, Akpabuyo and Bakassi Federal Constituency in the Federal House of Representatives, Apostle Essien Ayi, said the programme from the Niger Delta Ministry, was his constituency projects embedded in  last year’s budget. Ayi, who is the Chairman, House Committee on Niger Delta, said empowering the people in such manner was better than putting up projects which deteriorate over time due to lack of maintenance. “This is part of the 2018 budget which I was able to put for the constituency which I represent which is Calabar South, Akpabuyo and Bakassi. You are conversant with the history of the displaced people of Bakassi and predominantly, the people are fishermen. “So, I felt whatever I can do to cushion the effect of their suffering, I should be able to do for them. I had to, within my project; include fishing gears which would aid them in their profession. I also looked for fishermen in Akpabuyo and Calabar South. I had to spread it for the three local government areas and I made sure that the people who are real fishermen are nominated. “By the grace of God, I was reappointed Chairman, House Committee on Niger Delta. So, for the next four years, you will see more of this. I also had these tillers, which are farm equipment to aid the farmers. You know we are trying to diversify from oil economy to an agrarian economy. So, those items would aid the farmers in tilling their farms and have a good harvest. It would help them to have a good yield,” he said. Ayi said the fishing gears cost N50 million, while the tilling machines cost N150 million, but the budget had not been 100 per cent implemented yet. He said at the moment he could not ascertain the level of percentage of implementation until he goes for oversight function to the ministry, even as he said he was not sure the implementation was up to 50 per cent. Elder David Bassey Effiong, a farmer from Akpabuyo, who received a tilling machine said: “I was given this machine to enable me to till my farm. Before now, I was using hoes to till my farm. I am sure this tilling machine will help me to do my farm better. I appreciate this gesture and I hope they will do more for us.” Also Sunday Omini Ibiang of Calabar-South expressed gratitude to the ministry for the gesture, saying, “I am happy and glad for having this. Before, I was using cutlass to do the farm work. Now, I will be using the tiller for my farm work. It will make me work faster and the productivity would be very high.”