In order to be able to fulfill his promises on provision of social amenities, enduring infrastructure, regular payment of government obligations and other amenities, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state has pleaded for the support of different stakeholders operating in the state on adequate deductions, prompt remittance of taxes and other levies. This was stated during a One Day Sensitization workshop on Computations, Deductions and Remittances for Federal and State Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) as well as Tertiary Institutions in the state held at the House of Chiefs, Secretariats, Ibada Speaking through the Executive Chairman, Oyo State Board of Internal Revenue Service, Aremo John Adeleke, Governor Makinde reiterated that the intention of the present administration was not going to over-burden any business enterprise either small or big but rather to ensure government get its fair and reasonable share of all its eligible tax revenue. Makinde said “Presently, the fluctuations and other complex gyrations of the international oil market and the global economy means unstable and often lower revenue from federal allocation. The need to look inward to generate enough internal revenue to cater for the much societal demand has never been this much. “We count on companies and other businesses to ensure they regularly deduct and remit their employees’ PAYE tax to coffers of our treasury. This will ensure mutual reciprocation of rights and duties on the part of all parties. I regard such complying institutions, business and contractors as friends of my government and corporate citizens of this State of enduring opportunities. Welcoming the participants in his speech, Aremo Adeleke tasked professional bodies, tax professionals, consultants, taxpayers and agents to discharge their responsibilities as stipulated by the National Tax Policy of 2017. He also urged all MDAs, federal and state as well as tertiary Institutions to ensure they give patronage only to individuals and companies with a record of regular and up to date remittance of their employees’ Pay As You Earn (PAYE). In his remark, the head of the partnering firm, Mr Femi Adeniji explained that the workshop was about sensitizing various agencies about their responsibility that pertained to tax and other dues, adding that participants will be taught the right ways of making deductions so as not to shortchange the government. The workshop had in attendance officials of State and Federal Ministries, Directorates and Agencies (MDAs), private business sectors representatives and other stakeholders. 