Security experts have called for preventive and proactive measure through state policing, effective judicial system amongst others as solutions to tackling corruption and insecurity in Nigeria. These solutions were brought to the fore during a panel discussion tagged ‘fighting corruption and insecurity in Nigeria: the way forward’ organised by scroll report media organization at Sheraton Hotel Ikeja. The event had in attendance, Ex-Commissioner of police, Lagos, Fatai Owoseni; Satguru Maharaj II; 2019 Oyo state female governorship aspirant, Bolanle Aliyu-Sarumi; Kenny St. Brown, Mr. Wahab Shittu, Mrs. Toun Sonaiya; Head of Department Mass Comm, UNILAG, Prof. Abigael; Mr. Frank Onita, Mr. Martins Oloja, Mr Ojikutu Ahmed, amongst others Speaking at the conference, Ex-commissioner of police, Lagos state and the current special adviser to the Oyo state governor on security matters, Fatai Owoseni said the elites were parts of the current problem of this country.  He said “Nigeria is one of the most difficult places to govern and enforce law. Those creating problems in this country are the leaders who are no longer in power and cannot control their children and cronies” He therefore called on civil societies and media organizations to drive the needed change stressing on the need to stop the rhetoric and move things. The 2019 female Governorship aspirant in Oyo state, Mrs Bolanle Aliyu-Sarumi who spoke on ‘corruption against women in politics’ stressed that the lack of enabling environment caused people to sell their votes and also the current administration under President Muhammadu Buhari has failed to fulfil the 35% quota for women in its cabinet. Satguru Maharaj II in his own remarks stressed the need for divine and spiritual knowledge in solving the corruption and insecurity challenge facing the nation. He said, “there is need to reconnect with the culture and tradition of the ancestors like it is being practiced holistically in other areas of the world.” He further advised the government to fund education properly, increase the entry salary of security agencies and also allow the creation of state police. Mr. Wahab Shittu stressed on the fact that insecurity and corruption are both threatening the survival of the country urging the government to deploy proactive measures and also look into the creation of state police as a deliberate effort to address local issues. An IT expert, Mr. Ahmed Ojikutu while giving examples of various technological strategies that can help curb criminal activities in the country, urged the government to employ the use of technology to fight the insecurity challenges facing the nation. The Inspector-general of police who was ably represented by DCP Okwa Effiong-Etim in his keynote speech reiterated that the security of the nation is a collective responsibility and not for the police force alone. Mr. Martins Oloja, Editorial board member of the Guardian newspaper, stressed on the fact that corruption and insecurity has made the nation missed so many opportunities in advancing further.