DURING the reign of Jose Mourinho at Chelsea, Victor Moses, Nigeria’s former international and part of the victorious Eagles campaign at AFCON 2013 in South Africa, was almost surplus requirement. But then came Antonio Conte and everything changed.  Under Mourinho, as an out-and-out winger, Moses’s playing time was rather limited.  But Conte had a joker, into which Moses fitted pat — the modern wing-back. Now, nobody ever doubted the audacious skills of Moses, whose impudent dribbles could take your breath away!  But he also had in abundance the proverbial African strength, as grand reservoir for the energy a wing-back needs, as he defends this second; bears down the opponents’ penalty area the next; and still boasts enough vim to dash back to his own box 18, should his team lose possession! That was the niche Conte located in Moses and milked it to the full.  Welcome a brand new Moses, that ran riot with Chelsea, in that 2016/2017 season, en route to the English Premier League (EPL) title. All of a sudden, Conte’s Chelsea was incomplete without Moses — talk of the stone that the builders refused that nevertheless became the head cornerstone!  Moses — the quintessential, ultra-mobile, modern wing-back!  So good was the deal that Moses called his international career to devote full time to his darling Chelsea. Well, good — or bad — times don’t last; and Conte soon departed.  Enter Maurizio Sarri, he of the famous  Sarri ball; but for Moses, a Pharaoh that knew no Joseph, leading to inevitable exodus to Fernabache, the Turkish top league side, on loan, in search of more playing time. But old plague (playing as a winger, with little or no goals) at Chelsea appears catching up with Moses at Fernabache. Ersun Yanal, his Fernabache boss, is grumbling about low productivity (a euphemism for few goals).  That means the playing time he junked his international career to secure might yet again dry up! But umpteenth salvation appears beckoning from good old Conte, now boss at Inter Milan, that famous Italian club side that shares the famous San Siro Stadium with the no less famous, AC Milan, a one-time dominant force in the UEFA Champions League. Apparently, Conte wants Moses to replicate his Standford Bridge wing-back magic at the San Siro. Will a deal happen — who knows?  If it does, Moses would yet again become the football equivalent of Sidney Carton, the “fellow of no delicacy” in Charles Dickens’s A Tale of Two Cities — the mule that did all the work, while Charles Darney, his alter ego (“the fellow of delicacy”) got all the glory. That again reminds you of compatriot, Joseph Yobo and Everton.  In a particular season, Yobo played every single match of the EPL season for his club side.  That was a record but its effect was dire! Moses and Yobo are examples of how African footballers perhaps have to do much more than their peers from elsewhere, to corral playing time. Moses the mule?  Perhaps that is serious warning that Nigeria — indeed, the whole of Africa — should develop own domestic  leagues, to avail their youngsters opportunities at home, rather than  go abroad to grind. 