Prince Tonye Princewill was the Director, Strategic Communication for the APC Governorship Campaign in Rivers State for the 2019 Elections before the Supreme Court excluded the party from the contest due to internal crisis. He was a chieftain of the Action Congress of Nigeria on whose platform he aspired unsuccessfully to be governor of River State. In this interview with Tony Akowe in Abuja, Princewill who is a close associate of Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, speaks on the crisis that cost the party River State, the security situation in the country and lots more. After the 2019 elections where the APC was excluded in Rivers State, are there efforts to carry out a comprehensive reconciliation among members and where does the party in the state stand ahead of 2023? Anybody who wants to win wants peace, especially anyone who is not blinded by ambition. I know peace efforts were made before the elections and I suspect peace efforts will be made again soon. But it has to be initiated from outside. That means it is the duty of the party to find a way to bring all sides back to the table. The national office in my opinion is best placed to midwife a genuine peace process. Disagreements are commonplace in politics. Friction is a function of interaction. So we await the party. Clearly as the dust begins to settle and ministers are put in place, the need for a state by state reconciliation will come to the front burner. I will say however that party disunity at the state level was not what cost us the election. It was disunity at the national level buoyed by a few in the judiciary and in INEC that were willing to use the guise of local issues to implement a plan hatched in Rivers State Government House. We were naive to think that those threatened by Amaechi were only in PDP. Now we know that was not the case. His unadulterated closeness to Buhari and his refusal to “play” with some of his fellow leaders at the national level meant that his enemies became Wike’s friends. If an Amaechi without a state government is so influential, an Amaechi with a Rivers State Government would be unstoppable. 2019 for us was about 2023, not 2019. Amaechi was taught a lesson and we in Rivers State paid for it, through no fault of our own. Anybody weak enough can be induced to be disunited. Our fault was we underestimated how much Amaechi was hated within his own team. So at the federal level, we were really in government, but we were not in power. At the national level, the party seems to be fragmented along interest lines. There are those who feel your party is losing its goodwill and that the party may not be in reckoning come 2023, particularly considering that the cult-like followership of President Buhari will no longer be there. How do you react to that? It was the former British Prime Minister that said “A week is a long time in politics.” That applies here too. My prediction is that there will be an alignment and realignment of interests leading up to the next elections. We see it all the time. It’s nothing new. What may be new is the President may sign into law a new electoral act that will introduce electronic voting. People will become more important to politicians if that is the case. In many states, that has not been the case. Both the APC and the PDP will be affected by this and it means the possibility of a third force will become more likely. I agree APC will need to begin to reflect on life after Buhari. Like I said earlier, it was Buhari that won that election, against all odds. So if he isn’t there, it will be different. But if Buhari raises the hand of anyone, he or she already has a head start over the opposition. Buhari won’t raise anyone’s hand in 2023 unless he genuinely believes that such a person can do justice to Nigeria and take her to the promise land. It will be that person versus someone who can take us back to the days of sharing and I know, in the end, the progressives, under whatever banner, will win again. Amaechi is perceived in certain quarters as a stumbling block in Rivers APC and not a rallying point. He couldn’t stomach Magnus Abe, Lulu Briggs and a few others who left the party because they alleged he imposed Tonye Cole. You are a strong force within. What is your take? Let me start by saying that I am not a strong force, just a very stubborn politician who will not play politics as usual. I am easy to understand. My loyalty to party is not at the expense of my loyalty to my people. As long as my party respects my people, my party can have no problem with me. Who are my people: the youths, the vulnerable, the disabled, the masses, the Niger Deltans, the Ijaws, Rivers people and of course, the Kalabari Kingdom. Mess with any of these groups and you have messed with me. It is therefore impossible to impose someone where I am seated. I won’t take it. Amaechi did not impose anyone on us. He did not even allow the writing of results at the ward, LGA and state congresses. He, like his father Buhari, became an extreme democrat. The amount of sincere consultations we did in Rivers State, impressed even a sceptic of our politics like me. I’ve been a victim of the popular will being reversed many times and I can tell you, that didn’t happen in Rivers State. Yes, its true Amaechi expressed an opinion as to Tonye Cole at the end, but he did so only after we gave him that option. I was one of the last to agree. But I know Amaechi has genuine love at the grassroots and the best way to fight the opposition was lining up behind one position, no matter whose ox was gored. Can I agree behind closed doors and reject it publicly? No. I cannot do that. We the leaders agreed on the process of choosing a candidate and we agreed on Tonye Cole – collectively. With respect to my brother, the distinguished Senator Magnus Abe, he jumped the gun and expressed an interest to contest very early. Amaechi refused to endorse him, but he was left free to express his views and free to associate, including with Wike. He could never have won, so he ensured nobody won. I’m sure he is very happy about how he made his point. Wike owes a lot to him. We are experiencing dwindling external reserves and the GDP isn’t encouraging. In specific terms, what do you think should be done by the new cabinet to drive the economy, particularly from its mono cultural status? There are a lot of things they can do sector by sector. But I think there are a few areas that I see quick wins. Improved agricultural output is already a priority and I expect that the government will do more; same for infrastructure. We need more rail, roads, better ports and airports. Our refineries also need to be online and effective. Decades have passed without progress. But two areas are dear to me. The first is that I want the power sector to be a key target and I want to see it improved, especially at the level of distribution. This issue frustrates me so much so I took time to study it. No matter how much we generate, we don’t have the infrastructure to distribute more than 4,000 MW. The discos are a bottle neck and I now see why. The issue needs to be addressed. The next area for me is the creative industry, our music, our film, our comedians, our artists and our collective culture, popularly called the entertainment industry. This is the life blood of our youths and one of the largest employers of labour. I see that the CBN and BOI are doing a good job of recognising them. But they need to do more and this has to be a serious and a directly supervised initiative by the executive under the Ministry of Information and Culture and supported by Justice Ministry. You have been around for long: a friend to Atiku, you worked with Tinubu in 2007 and you are one of Amaechi’s confidants. Yet you are at home in the Villa. How have you been able to manage or navigate around all these power blocks and tendencies in our polity? I am a willing student and I did not join politics for what I can take. I joined for what I can give. Both Atiku and Asiwaju brought me up very well politically. Atiku gave me the opportunity to contest and allowed me a voice; Asiwaju stood by me and gave me the tools to fight for justice. They both handed me over to Amaechi even though they both denied it at the time. I now know why. Since then, we have been a team, even though his refusal to support me for governor kept me away from him for a while. All politics is local and so in Rivers State; you are either with Wike or Amaechi. I’ve tried the third party option. It doesn’t work. There is no way I can work with Wike. As for the Villa and the Presidency, I believe in Buhari and I’m not alone. Ninety (90) percent of my LGA agreed with me. He got our votes. We rejected anything and everything associated with Wike and we have seen a man for the masses. I’m sure they see that in me. With the problems that trailed APC’s adoption of direct primaries in some states of the Federation, do you see it as a better method than indirect primaries? If well managed, it can be a solution to many of our problems. It’s expensive and it can be an invitation to violence. But if you can check that, I will forever be an advocate for it. The Buhari administration has faced strong criticisms from Nigerians who feel he is not holding on to his campaign promises, especially in the area of fight against corruption. Would you not agree that the fight against corruption could be better fought? Of course it could be better fought because there is room for improvement. I will be the first to agree with this. But let us not be fooled by those who think nothing is being done or no significant progress is being made. Critics are available like sand. I ignore them. What I watch out for are the constructive critics. They want to see more high profile convictions and fast tracking of cases and their wishes are being heard. I am reminded of what a banker once told me. He said he can’t make it impossible for people to steal money. What he can do is make it harder and harder for them. From your arguments, it is obvious that you consider the last governorship election in Rivers State as a sham. But there are those who would argue that Governor Wike is solidly on the ground in that state and that he understands the politics better and has earned for himself the sobriquet, Mr. Project in Rivers. What chances does the APC have with another four years of Wike? INEC declared him governor. So, that is what he is until the Judiciary says otherwise or till his four year term expires or God takes control to the contrary. We all know it was a sham; it’s not breaking news. What was a surprise was who and who were involved. But now we know. He is now planning to endorse Austin Opara as his successor because he has seen that cash is King; anybody can be bought: the media, the police, the judiciary, the opposition and the youths. He knows our moral fibre is weak and that hunger has left many of us thinking with our stomachs and not our heads. We are here and watching. Let the buying begin. APC’s chances depend on APC. If like in 2015 and 2019, you predicted a President without Rivers; that may not be the case going forward. We need candidates who are popular, grass-rooted and can appeal across party lines; at all levels. We can’t afford a disgruntled electorate.