Lagos Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso has assured Lagosians that members of the executive council have been fully equipped to deliver on the promises of the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Omotoso gave the assurance while addressing correspondents in the company of some of his colleagues and the Head of Service (HoS) Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola on the outcome of a 4-day retreat organised for the exco members and permanent secretaries at Eko Hotel and Suite, Victoria Island, Lagos. He said the retreat has prepared them fully for the tasks ahead, promising that Lagosians will see a lot of actions from the government. “We have had an intensive, energy sapping and intellectually -fulfilling four- day retreat.
“It is a spring board for us to take off. Now Lagosians are going to see a lot of actions from this government because everything that has been planned will now be put into action. “Everything that we needed to know we have been told; we have giants from both the private and public sectors as well as professionals from all walks of life in the cabinet. “We are fully armed and fully energised and we are going to go into action and Lagosians will see a good, better and greater Lagos. “The Lagos that we all have been dreaming of, that will be the pride of everybody,” the commissioner stressed. Muri-Okunola said the retreat, which was “funfilled, intensive and with strategy packed sessions will benefit Lagos and Lagosians at large”. According to him: “It was necessary to have a forum that will create a synergy between the permanent secretaries and the new cabinet members. ” It is also aimed at bonding the relationship between the two principal officers of government.” The retreat, Muri-Okunola said, was characterised by a high level of leadership topics, with leaders of thoughts like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Babatunde Fashola, Ben Akabueze, Director-General, Federal Budget Office; Wale Edun, Atedo Peterside, Mo Abdu, Dele Lake as facilitators. He said: “They came to grace the occasion with their knowledge and personal as well as public service and public life with variety of topics aimed at creating a shared vision for everybody to key into, setting a tone for the administration sitting primarily on the pillars established by the governor with the acronym THEMES.” Commissioner for Establishment, Training and Pensions, Ajibola Ponle, said they have been told what is required of them to render service.