The Senior Pastor, Crown of Christ Victory Church Lagos, Prophet David Ayilara, speaks with Ibrahim Adam on the state of the nation. Excerpts: What is your message to the government? They should have the fear of God. They should remember that some people were in that position before them and one day they will also leave that position and this earth. They should do the needful because the blood being shed everyday will cry for vengeance according to the Bible. It will not be on those that killed them alone but the people that permits the killings too. They should seek for wisdom of God and they should also desist from greediness because this has led us to the problem of corruption. What do you have to say on the current state of the nation? My message to the Christians is also the same to those who are not Christians. Our God is not a God of confusion. God is a God of unity and love. The Bible says he that does not love does not know God. When you say you love, it is a pity people don’t understand the definition of love. What majority take to be the meaning of love is not love. Love is not kiss me I kiss you. Love is not greet me and I greet you. There was a statement by former President Goodluck Jonathan that there are Boko Haram members in the corridors of the Presidency. This means there are people there backing Boko Haram and they are trying to destabilise whatever he is trying to build. There is no leader that wants the people dead. But a tree cannot make a forest. If we join hands with the President and leaders in the country, things will go well in Nigeria. Christians have been praying and I have been praying for Nigeria. We have prayed a lot and it is time for action. I am not saying we should stop praying but we have prayed and action should be the next thing. We cannot be praying and behaving contrary to our prayers and expect God to answer us. I believe there can be peace in Nigeria if we can back our prayers up with action. What do you mean by action after prayer? What I meant is that like we are having soldiers fighting for us trying to defend the country. We should listen to their agitations if truly we want to fight insurgency. There are things they are complaining about which we all know. They complain of their food, the firearms and almost every family has one or two persons in the army. If truly we want to win, we need to listen to those people because it seems to some people that insurgency has become a business. If care is not taken, nobody will be safe in few years to come. Nobody should think we have a fenced house. We have to think of all this this things to allow peace to reign so that every person will not suffer at the end What is the 72 -hour marathon prayer all about? It is a programme we do once in a year. This year’s programme is coming up by 14- 16 of August with the theme ‘Breaking the seal’ taken from Revelation 5. When you read it, you understand the word sickness and this demonic power used it. It is only one person that can break it, which is our Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says in that revelation that you are looking for someone to open the book and to break the seal. The Bible also says there is nobody worthy here on earth and in heaven but Jesus Christ that has sacrificed himself for mankind. So, this year according to the Lord, every soul that has been holding individuals from fulfilling their destiny, be it the seal of barrenness, poverty, singlehood, mental illness and every kind of demonic seal shall be broken because it is the power of God and not the power of man because there is no man that can do it except God. This is not the first time and we know the Lord that has been performing miracles in the years back will do more this year. We are going to be having breaks as the programme progress. We have afternoon session from 12- 3pm. The night session is from 11pm- 3am because we are also considering people going to work. Those who can fast at a stretch can do that but it is not compulsory for them. It will be better to check your health before fasting. What inspired the prayer session? We don’t do except the Lord says do this. Because whatever you do and the Lord is not in it, it will not yield results. The Lord told me 15 years ago that we should be having the prayer meeting once in a year. I don’t believe in copying any church or any pastor but I believe in hearing the voice of God and obeying it.