A Yenagoa-based socio-political association, Forward Action Restoration (FAR) has given reasons why Senator Diri Douye representing Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, should be given the Peoples Democratic Party((PDP) governorship ticket. In a statement by its secretary, Comrade Steven Tubolayefa, FAR said: “Senator Douye Diri, is a unifier and a man of the people. This aspiration is genuine and no form of desperation at all. “The attacks on his person are unnecessary distractions. He has a resolve to serve the people and wants to remain focused “We are confident that with his track record and agenda for the people, Senator Diri will win the election with the support of Ofurumapepe himself, if the party gives him the ticket”, the group affirmed.” The group alleged that the aspirant had through a faceless PDP Stakeholders group under the auspices of the PDP Monitoring Group (PMG) said some uncharitable things about the Senator. The group cautioned all governorship aspirant under the People’s Democratic Party (PDP),l to play by the books. It further advised all aspirants to desist from unwarranted attacks on Douye but remain focused ahead of the primaries which has remained open to all the 21 PDP governorship aspirants. The group expressed “deep concerns about such a political move allegedly to paint another aspirant as weak and went ahead to threaten the Restoration caucus under Governor Dickson of a possible loss in the election.” The statement further reads: “We thought that all the aspirants agreed to play by the rules and be civil in their campaigns. The content of the publication portrays betrayal of trust and we call on His Excellency, Governor Seriake Dickson, to call this aspirant to order. This is not good for Restoration family. Senator Douye Diri is in the race to win like every member of the family.”, FAR said. “ We are not aware that the Governor has picked any aspirant or has shown any bias towards any of them. The race for the ticket is open. “The publication by the aspirant is pre-empting the Governor or is attempting to curry favour or pressure the Governor. “This is purely bad politics and it is not in the interest of the Restoration Caucus”. “But it is of interest to remind other aspirants that Senator Diri, won a landslide election in the last general election into the upper chamber and won even in Southern Ijaw Local Government by popular votes. “It does appear that the publication is to pressure the Governor with voting strength of Southern Ijaw. “We are all Bayelsans and we are one. We need votes across the 8 LGAs to win. Sincerely, this approach adopted by is not the best.