The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has signed eight contracts for the development of ongoing Nigerian Oil and Gas Park Scheme (NOGAPS) projects in Bayelsa, Cross River and Akwa Ibom states. The beneficiary companies include O.K. Isokariari & Sons, Megastar, EST Masters, Altex, Faithplant, Erdis, and Linzo. Two of the projects will be executed at the park located at Ikwe, Onna Local Government Area of Ibom State and they entail the sandfill and fenceworks of the 31hectares of land mapped out for the project. Similarly, three contracts will be carried out at the Bayelsa park situated at Ogbialand and they include the construction of hotels, blocks, mini park estate, construction of security and administration block and construction of capacity building centre. In the same vein, four projects were penciled down at this stage for the Cross River state park, located at Odukpani and they include the construction of security and administrative blocks, erection of capacity building centers, construction of internal roads, drainage system and construction of hostels and mini park estate. The Executive Secretary NCDMB, Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, explained that NOGAPS was conceived to develop facilities close to oil fields where manufacturing of oil and gas components can be carried out. He described NOGAPS as the Board’s flagship project, which is in line with the mandate “to develop indigenous capacities for the oil and gas Industry by creating the enabling environment for in-country domiciliation of manufacturing and fabrication of oil and gas components.” He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the award of the contracts and underscored the key roles played by the Bureau of Public Procurement and the Ministry of Petroleum Resources in driving the projects so far. He expressed optimism that the delivery of the contracts will help to further develop the contractors’capacities as well as the communities hosting the industrial parks. Wabote pointed out that the seven successful contractors were wholly indigenous firms, stressing that the Board was practising Local Content in its projects. He emphasised that the contracts included provisions for hiring a minimum of 80 percent of all ‘unskilled labour’ from the host and immediate communities for the project implementation. He added that “a minimum of 50 percent of the semi-skilled and 20 percent of the skilled labour requirements are also expected to be sourced from the host and immediate communities except where there is no response to such advertised positions from the community. Community suppliers shall be included in the supply of sand, granite, water, fuel, and other items as determined by the contractor. Such supplies shall be to the quality required and of fair market price.” He advised the contractors to build the capacities of indigenes of the host communities to participate in the projects, assuming the right competencies could not be found amongst them before the start of the projects. Responding on behalf of the contractors, the Managing Director of Megastar Technical and Construction Company Limited, Harcourt Adukeh, thanked NCDMB for the opportunity to contribute to delivery of the oil and gas parks. He expressed optimism that several stakeholders will benefit if the parks are developed and operated as envisaged. He promised that the companies will keep to the terms of their contract and collaborate amongst themselves in the delivery of their various scopes.  