They are fashionable oldies spiced with a few not-too-old and not-too-young ones. Over the years, they have proven that age really is just a number when it comes to fashion sense! These beauties have the keys to the haven of style. Mo Abudu  Would you look at Mo today and believe that the Media Mogul and entrepreneur clocked the golden age some years back? Not with the way she looks. At above 50, she is still turning heads. It’s hard to imagine that she has two adult children. Betty Irabor  She is the forever young publisher and founder of Genevieve magazine. That this author is beautiful is not in doubt. She is both a fashion expert and an icon. And the fact that she knows what counts in current fashion despite being above 60 is not contestable. For as long as anyone can remember, Mama Betty has been a trendsetter in style. With her not too skinny figure, she looks way more radiant and healthier than many people her age or younger. Kate Henshaw  Nollyswood actress and fitness enthusiast Kate Henshalw looks almost the same way she did decades back. She looks like immune to aging. Regular exercise, healthy eating habit and hard work are responsible for her great physique. The fitness enthusiast follows a strict regime of long exercise. She looks like she is in her 30s. Mama Bakassi  Ageless Senator Florence Ita-Giwa, a former senator with powerful presence in the corridors of power, also enjoys a very strong presence on the fashion scene. She chooses only the best of colours, the boldest of prints, the classiest of accessories, the most fashionable footwear and the most exquisite jewelry. The ageless beauty has always been one step ahead of the game in fashion and accessories. She sure knows how to pull the look together without going overboard. Rita Dominic  Nollwood actress Rita sure knows the location of the fountain of youth. The actress turned 44 this year, but you would not believe it because she looks like someone in her 30’s. Rita looks a lot more beautiful that she did in her youth. Her hard work at keeping that her body toned and fit can be seen when she steps on the red carpet. Genevieve Nnaji  Nollywood star Genevieve Nnaji, always turn heads wherever she goes. This rocker in her forties looks way younger than that and could easily stare for a young adult role. Whether it’s because of flawless genes or temporary makeup surgery, this actress still looks like she did back in the days. Her skin is so radiant, and she looks as fresh as morning breeze. Bambam  Actress, entrepreneur and former BB Naija housemate Bamike Olawunmi, known professionally by his nickname BamBam, with her cute figure and maybe a few temporary makeup surgery (lol) Bambam continues to turn heads and give the older generation of celebrities a run for their money. She’s always red carpet worthy Nancy Isime  It’s hard to list the stylish and fabulous ones in Nigeria without a mention of Isime, and you can’t help but take a bow for her. Nancy is one of the hottest OAPs and actresses. She’s each and every man’s dream. As a model, she has worked with Ade Bakare, Adebayo Jones, Zizi Cardow, Shakara Couture and others Beverly Naya  Beautiful from whatever angle you look at her, the British-Nigerian actress is one of Nollywood’s best and she has remained a constant feature on the style and social scene. She was the winner of the Most Promising Talent award at the 2010 Best of Nollywood Awards. A sucker for classy pieces, she is still a force to be reckoned with when it comes to fashion and style.