A non-profit organisation, Musa Halilu Ahmed Foundation, committed to consolidating effort of government in achieving social justice across Nigeria has facilitated the release of 41 inmates serving various jail terms at the Numan Prisons in Adamawa State. Founder of the organisation, Alhaji Musa Halilu Ahmed, who also doubles as Dujima of Adamawa the 1st, was in attendance at the ceremony alongside the Controller of Prisons in Adamawa, Mr. Audu Umar and other dignitaries. The Founder said the gesture was in the spirit of Eid-Mubarak and in alignment with the Federal Government’s efforts to further decongest the nation’s prisons. President Muhammadu Buhari had directed all governors in the country to do everything possible to decongest prisons. This, according to Dujima Adamawa, is his commitment to support the government of Adamawa in building a prosperous society. Those granted clemency were young men between the ages of 18 and 25 believed to form the productive workforce in the state. “The alarming rate of youths in Nigerian prisons is negatively impacting on the nation’s development. “This gesture will encourage these young men to become responsible citizens and live a crime-free life. “We want them to return back to their families and also contribute to the development of the country and this can only be done when we support and empower them with necessary tools to function effectively in the society and live a meaningful life. “Besides release, those granted clemency will be rehabilitated, reintegrated and empowered with Skills Acquisition for six months, thereafter, will be provided with seed grant to stay independent and become self-sufficient,” Halilu stated. He further promised continuous support to the prison command to improve the condition of its facilities in the state. The freed inmates, who could not conceal their joy, thanked the Dujima Adamawa, Musa Halilu, for securing their release and promised to be good ambassadors of their families and the nation. Comptroller of Prisons in Adamawa State, Audu Umar, thanked the Dujima Adamawa the First and advised the ex-inmates to keep away from crime to avoid going back to jail.