In line with its determination to revolutionise the gaming industry in Nigeria and Africa, gaming services provider Western Lotto Nigeria Limited has expanded its brand portfolio with the launch of Lotto9ja Limited. Unveiling the new online gaming platform, www.lotto9ja.com.ng, in Lagos, last weekend, the General Manager, Western Lotto/lotto9ja, Mr. Tajudeen Usman, said Lotto9ja was the future of online gaming in Nigeria. “After a two-year bullish run along the mandatory brand growth curve, full of challenges, leanings and acquired assets, we are once again proud to announce that one more star has been added to our crown, www.lotto9ja.com.ng – the spirit of 9ja!,” he said. Usman said www.lotto9ja.com.ng was created and positioned to offer premium gaming services to Nigeria’s growing online gaming population. “Lotto9ja will leverage lessons learnt and consolidate on gains made. We now know that online gamers are loyal to the spirit of 9ja; they want rapid exciting games that deliver instant results and many winners. They want games they can call their own and bond with as their own,” he said. According to Usman, Lotto9ja took the best the world has to offer, infused them with all that is positive and great about 9ja. “Lotto9ja offers games that are proudly Nigerian in their appeal. So, every Nigerian, across cultures and demographics is factored in the new lotto9ja,” he added. He also said there is something for those who want rapid gratification, instant gratification, as well as something for the big-time Very Important Personalities (VIPs) who play big ball. “Whatever the inclination, Lotto9ja caters for it. Above all, the prize is guaranteed; winnings will be the hallmark of experiences at www.lotto9ja.com.ng,” Usman assured. Launched in 2017, Western Lotto Nigeria Limited was set out to revolutionise the gaming industry in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. Its mission was to change the gaming landscape in Nigeria through dedicated and proprietary technology. The platform rapidly became a phenomenon that inspired the establishment of several other competitive brands hence, Western Lotto expanded to create Western Bet, a sister company, which evolved into what is now known as Western Lotto and Bet. Usman said Western Lotto and Bet have become formidable house of two extraordinary brands that have defied their start-up status to effectively compete with others that have been in the market for decades before they were established. According to him, both brands are high-end technology-driven platforms with regional offices across Nigeria, with aspirations to expand to the West Coast of Africa, providing undiluted entertainment through lotteries and sports betting. Apart from operating the largest lottery and sports bet network in the country, both brands also embark on good causes as a responsible corporate citizen, maintain fair and transparent business transactions, and build trust. This they do by delivering on their brands’ promises and reward to winners. They also provide other sources of income for the entrepreneurs, middle and low income masses. The general manager, however, raised the alarm that while both brands worked assiduously on their games, their brand essence was being cloned by unscrupulous elements. “While we worked, we determined not to be distracted by such and remained focused on the finish line. “However, we demand that our rights and sovereignty as a brand must be respected across board. It is our expectation that the clones will vanish because the real deal is now available. We have every proprietary right to Lotto9ja. Lotto9ja Limited is registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and we have the Trade Mark to the name, design and logo as approved by the Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment,” he said. The Western lotto/lotto9ja boss stated that the company was at a loss as to why anyone would want to muzzle it and deprive it of the fruit of its labour and sweat, just because they have the wherewithal. “We believe that Nigeria is a society that is governed by law and all responsible citizens and corporate organisations are expected to be corporately governed. We rest on this as we work to provide an unparalleled gaming experience for our highly esteemed patrons,” he said.