Afghan air forces have slowed down a new Taliban offensive on parts of the north-eastern city of Kunduz, officials said on Saturday. Various militant locations were targeted inside the city, said Provincial Councillor, Gulam Rabbani Rabbani, in fighting that has been going on for about 12 hours. Sporadic gunfire rang out in different parts of the city, but not with the intensity of the earlier hours, according to another Councillor, Mawlawi Abdullah. The city’s main electricity supply building, provincial hospital and the third police district are among the most important locations already taken over by the Taliban, according to local officials. There were civilian and military casualties but the councillors did not provide any figures. The clearance operation was being conducted cautiously to protect civilians, said a spokesman from the nearest major military base, the 217 corps of Pamir. The Defence and Interior Ministries said that at least 40 Taliban militants were killed as a result of the air and ground operations in the city. These numbers could not be verified. Commando forces had also been deployed to the city, the Interior Ministry said. Taliban spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid, said in contrast that the militants’ operation in Kunduz, which began in the middle of the night, was going “smoothly”. Mujahid published videos showing militants collecting munitions from a police compound apparently abandoned by Afghan forces. In another video, a number of policemen were shown giving up their weapons to the Taliban and leaving their compound somewhere in the city. The authenticity of the videos could not be verified. The attack took place amid talks between the Taliban and the U.S. to find a political solution to the 17-year-long conflict. Kunduz has been a flashpoint in the Afghanistan conflict over the past few years. In late 2016, the Taliban entered the city and fought with Afghan forces for several days before being pushed out. The Taliban took control of Kunduz for almost two weeks in late 2015 and made it the first provincial capital to fall to the insurgents since the American-led intervention in 2001. (NAN)