1. Sade takes Lagos A girl decides to take a vacation to Lagos after her parent’s separation. With hopes of making it big in her music, she is faced with challenges. Actors: Alex Ekubo, Seun Akindele, Tana Adelana
Director: Chibuike Ibe
Genre: Drama Release date: August 16, 2019 (Nigeria)  2. Once Upon a Night A psychology student with a fear of being alone imprisoned himself for one night to once and for all, face his demons. Only, not all these demons are unreal… Actors: Wale Ojo, Kiki Omeili, Ade Bantu, Daniel Egwede
Director: Gbolahan Akitunde
Genre: Thriller Release date: August 16, 2019 (Nigeria) 3. The Reunion Four friends from the high school reunite to plan the 50th anniversary of their alma mater. As the battle of superiority stirs up and issues from the past are revisited, secrets are revealed that threaten to tear up their seemingly perfect lives. Actors: Steve Onu, Femi Jacobs, Mercy Johnson Okojie, Tana Adelana, Mercy Aigbe, Jide Kosoko (Prince), Frederick Leonard
Director: Thomas Odia
Genre: Drama Release date: August 16, 2019 (Nigeria) 4. Love is Yellow Fighting for what you believe in can be one hell of a task but your life will only be hell if you never tried! Life serves us the good, bad and ugly in different colors. Love is yellow portrays the struggle and the pursuit of happiness in Lagos. Oladayo a tech entrepreneur finds a reason to shake off the dust from his once Shiny “Lagos Dream”. Actors: Bimbo Ademoye, Mofe Duncan, Timini Egbuson, Paul Utomi
Director: Kayode Kasum
Genre: Drama | Romance 5. Wings Of A Dove The movie is an emotionally charged story of two young Northern girls married off to much older men at the ages of 13 and 14 and all they want is freedom to be children. It takes you on an emotional roller coaster of the loss of childhood innocence, the consequences of being in a forced, arranged marriage and the hopes and dreams of a future that is stolen from them. Actors: Omoni Oboli, Amal Umar, Zack Orji, Sani Danja, Yakubu Mohammed, Martha Felix
Director: Omoni Oboli
Genre: Drama