As a business owner, there are numerous mobile applications you should have on your smart phones, if you must outsmart other businesses. Below are the five must have apps. 1. CamScanner With CamScanner, you can digitize any documents you see in real world and save those documents right away with your mobile phone. All you need do is Just to take a photo, and CamScanner take care of the rest for you. Features – Scan any kind of document in seconds, texts or graphics. – Scan multi-page documents – Batch scan documents – Auto-crop scanned photos – Smart-enhance the scan results – Several Enhance Modes available – Save scan results to system album – Create PDF files for scans – Customize PDF page size: 10 page size options (Letter, A4, B5 and etc.) 2. Google My Business Google My Business is a free tool that helps your local business stand out on Google and attract new customers. Use the Google My Business app to connect with customers and keep your business presence up-to-date on Google Search and Maps The Google My Business app is a free mobile app that helps you manage your business and makes your business appear on google search and on google maps. App Features · Manage how your local business appears on Google Search and Maps · Edit your business information (e.g. address, phone number, and hours) · Respond to reviews, questions, and messages from customers · Share new photos and post updates on special offers and events · See how customers find and interact with your business on Google 3. PayPal Business App This is one of the business apps that help you manage your business on the go, especially for small and medium sized businesses. features · Manage transactions · Create and send invoices, · review account activity, · Issue refunds, · Stay on top of your business with your mobile phone. 4. Evernote Evernote is a free app for your smartphone and computer that stores everything you could possibly imagine losing track of, like a boarding pass, receipt, article you want to read, to do list, or even a simple typed note. The app works brilliantly, keeping everything in sync between your computer, smartphone, or tablet. premium features · Mobile offline notes. Your notes are available anywhere, anytime, even without an internet connection. … · More uploads. 10 GB monthly note uploads so you never have to worry about limits. … · Larger notes. … · Business card scanning. … · Presentation mode. … · PDF annotation. … · Concierge support. … · Context and Knowledge Discovery. 5. ShopSavvy ShopSavvy is a mobile application for shopping that scans products and finds online and local stores providing those products. Features: · ShopSavvy compares the prices · displays user reviews · Will help you get paid when you shop. · Searches for best deals and discounts on scanned items.