Gospel Musicians’ Association of Nigeria (GOMAN) National President Evangelist Funmi Aragbaiye has called on Yoruba leaders to rise up to the security challenges confronting the land. She said the need for the leaders to speak with one voice became imperative in view of the devastating effect of insecurity of the lives of the people. In an address titled: “As in the days of Jehosaphat” and delivered yesterday, the gospel musicians expressed their readiness to partner with all the relevant stakeholders, including the government to address security challenges facing the country. Mrs. Aragbaye said: “The rate at which insecurity in terms of insurgency, kidnapping, ritual killing , rape, and all other vices in Nigeria are spreading is alarming. We were used to hearing about all these menace in far places, but today, the Yoruba nation is already suffering from the ugly incidences. This really calls for concern and speedy action, especially for the Yoruba nation.” Commending some Yoruba leaders, who have stood up in the face of threats, Mrs. Aragbaiye called on leaders of thought in Yorubaland and other regions to hold a security summit with a view to ending incessant kidnapping, banditry, killer herdsmen and other vices undermining the corporate existence of the country. On the part of the association, Mrs. Aragbaiye disclosed that the Lord has called on GOMAN to use their talents in terms of their voices and instruments to praise Him, just as in the days of the biblical Jehoshaphat to rescue the country from the hands of evil elements. “This incidence, coupled with the early divine instruction, spurred us to swinging into action, to organise this congress. Psalm 122:6 says: “Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee”. “Nigeria is our Jerusalem and not all of us will have the opportunity to relocate in the name of looking for greener pasture. God never made mistake creating us and situating us in this country, flowing with milk and honey,” she stated. Expected at the one-day congress scheduled to hold at Molete Baptist Church, Ibadan on Sunday, are: former President Olusegun Obasanjo; Ondo and Oyo governors Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and Seyi Makinde, former Attorney-General and Minister of Justice Akin Olujimi SAN and Juju maestro Ebenezer Obey Fabiyi amongst eminent gospel ministers across the country. Prayers were also expected to be offered, asking for God’s intercession in the dire security situation in the land. Appealing to the Federal Government to set a standard for the production of gospel music ministration, Dr. Aragbaiye, who was flanked by GOMAN  Deputy President Rev. Ekpeyong Okon Bassey and former Commissioner of Women Affairs, Pastor Kemi Jaiyeoba , urged the government to stop playing politics with security of lives, and property by ensuring justice and fair play.