Nigerians have been urged to learn other languages to promote unity and national development. A Chief Lecturer at the School of Languages, Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education Oto/Ijanikin, Mr Eze Cyprian Chidozie, gave the advice during the second inaugural lecture of the insitution. Eze, who spoke on the title: Igbo and Yoruba relationship: A linguistic overview, said: “We are classified as English but none of us speak the English like the native speakers. The worst calamity that befalls us is that many do not understand any Nigerian language, including their mother-tongue. Many do not even know the meaning of their native names. “For better understanding of one another, similar studies should be done in other Nigerian languages and culture. We may end up discovering that our similarities are more than our differences. Minor differences in language and culture should be a source of our unity and not disunity. Let us remember that language determines educability, and that the limit of our language means the limit to the world.” Eze, who is of the Department of Igbo Language, noted that there seems to be certain linguistic similarities between Igbo and Yoruba languages, despite that the history of migration claimed the former emigrated from Israel, while the latter journeyed from Mecca and Medina, the present day Saudi Arabia, before both were being colonised by the Europeans. Despite that claim, Eze argued that it’s possible that the two tribes might have shared the same ancestral origin, and interacted  long before the Europeans came. Backing his claim, Eze said instances show that certain lexical words share some resemblance. For example, ‘Ofeke’ in Igbo and ‘Ofege’ in Yoruba means fake; ‘ato’ in Igbo and ‘eta’ in Yoruba is three; ‘aru’ in Igbo and ‘arufin’ in Yoruba means law breaker; ‘ayo’ in Igbo and ‘ayo’ in Yoruba means joy; while ‘onu’ in Igbo and ‘enu’ in Yoruba means mouth. Other examples include: ‘ododo’ (Igbo) and ‘ododo’ (Yoruba) means flower; ‘nmiri’ (Igbo) and ‘omi’ (Yoruba)-water; ‘ebe’ (Igbo) ‘ibi’ (Yoruba)-here; ‘bia’ (Igbo), ‘wa’ (Yoruba)-come; ‘ru’ (gbo) and ‘ru’ (Yoruba)-pollute; among others. According to him, language usage in both Igbo and Yoruba communities is informed by age, status or sex variables. For instance, a native Igbo speaker will say: ‘Gbaghaara m’, (forgive me) before introducing a proverb in the midst of elders, the same manner the Yoruba speaker would say: ‘E fori ji mi to ba se bi owe’ (forgive me if it sounds like a proverb). Similarly, both Yoruba and Igbo have prefix and suffix to verbs while addressing an elder.The two languages also follow the consonant-vowel (CV), vowel-consonant-vowel (VCV), consonant-vowel-consonant-vowel (CVCV), as well as vowel-consonant-vowel-consonant-vowel (VCVCV) pattern. For instance: say means ‘si’ in Igbo   and ‘so’ in Yoruba for (CV); mouth means ‘onu’ in Igbo and ‘enu’ in Yoruba (VCV); what means ‘gini’ in Igbo and ‘kini’ in Yoruba (for CVCV); and cane translates to ‘utari’ in Igbo and ‘atori’ in Yoruba (CVCVC), among others. “Considering from the above, some of the similar words in Igbo and Yoruba did not emanate from borrowed culture. Even if we accept these words or some of these words were borrowed, it shows that we have lived together for a long time before the coming of the Europeans. The question is:  are we from the same ancestral origin? Examining the cultural similarities, it is either we have same source or lived together for a long time,” he said. 