None of the 255 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) under the pilot renovation and equipment in Kaduna State has the recommended 19 health personnel while only 18 have the required four nurses/midwives,a research has revealed The research also revealed that only three of the 255 PHCs run 24 hours service. Healthcare experts and civil society organisations working under the Partnership in Child and Family Health (Scale PACFah@Scale) Project Nigeria revealed this in Kaduna on Tuesday. The group said National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) recommends a minimum of 19 health personnel for every PHC but only 18 out of the 255 PHCs have four nurses/midwives. Speaking at the 2019 International Conference on Contemporary Issues in Social Science Research at the Kaduna State University KASU on Tuesday with the theme Health Care Service Delivery and Quality of Life: An Assessment of the 255 PHC in Kaduna State, Project Director of PACFah@Scale, Malam Mustapha Jumare lamented over the poor health service delivery in the state. Jumare. who doubled as the lead presenter at the retreat said: “The ongoing renovation of the 255 primary healthcare centres in the state and the review of the 2019 health budget showed significant non compliance to policy requirements needed for, to catapult the attainment of universal health coverage for citizens in the state.” He added: “Non release of timely budget allocation and inability of the state primary healthcare board to include primary health care under one roof implementation in the state and sub state under the state primary health care board has also been highlighted as a serious challenge to healthcare delivery in the state. “Kaduna State in its 2019 budget allocated the sum of N2, 462, 570, 274 for primary healthcare centres renovation and construction in the state with N15, 985, 600 was allocated to furnishing of three zonal cold stores at Zaria, Kaduna and Kafanchan and the sum of N550,000,000 as counterpart funding, but from January till date, the state government has not released any of fund mentioned.” He argued that, “poor funding of state primary health care board by the state government has led to non performance of most activities of the state primary healthcare board.” The group also called on the state government to provide adequate security for the PHCs as they said “despite the importance of security in protecting lives and properties, only 10 (4%) of the accessed PHCs have at least two security personnel. In addition, only 5 of the PHCs have general maintenance staff.” However, the state Deputy Governor, Hadiza Balarabe who is also the acting commissioner for health on Friday said that, as part of efforts to improve the delivery of health services in the state, the government has commenced the recruitment of over 5,000 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) while the rehabilitation of the 255 PHC facilities across the state will be completed by October this year.