The Children of Africa Leadership and Values Development (CALDEV) Initiative, the brainchild of a non-governmental organisation (NGO) aimed at identifying and developing leadership skills among African children, has called for entries into its maiden National Children’s Leadership Ideas Contest (N-CLIC) this year. In a statement, its Founder and a member of the House of Representatives, Bamidele Salam, said: “The idea behind this contest is to generate greater interest in leadership issues among young Nigerians and engender-inclusive dialogue on the ways out of the myriad of problems affecting us a people. “It will also bring out the patriotic zeal of Nigerian children and prepare them better for leadership responsibilities at a higher level.” The NGO, which is also involved in book publishing and youth mentoring, said the N-CLIC is a unique essay writing contest for children to bring their leadership abilities and creativity to life. “The contest entails writing an essay, which identifies a social, political or economic problem in Nigeria and proffering realistic and original solutions to the problem identified. “N-CLIC will afford Nigerian children the opportunity to contribute useful ideas that can be adapted by leaders in all strata of our socio-political and economic spheres,” the statement said. The competition, which targets children across Nigeria between 12 and 16 years, will receive essays that must not be more than 1,500 words and its entrants must be original and practical on the solutions to a social, economic or political problem identified. The essays are to be submitted at www.caldevafrica.org, beginning from August 20 (today) to September 15. CALDEV’s Executive Director, Dr Yemisi Obelawo, explained that the six best essays will participate in a grand final in Abuja on October 2 to mark Nigeria’s 59th independence anniversary. Winners, she said, will be determined by a panel of judges comprising eminent Nigerians selected from the academics, media and civil society. Prizes to be won include scholarships, fully paid trip to exciting locations, laptops, books and opportunity for international mentorship. Obelawo said the Kukah Centre and other leadership-focused organisations are partnering the NGO for the success of the N-CLIC.