Baby mama drama has been with us for as long as anyone can remember. Only that most of the drama did not get reported by the quality media in time past. But in recent times, the social media have brought the issue to our doorsteps. Now we know that baby mama soap operas now trail quite a few of our male celebrities. Without the drama, the society has come to accept baby mamas and their kids. The condemnation and stigma that such relationships and their offspring once attracted are no longer there. Nowadays, all over the globe, it’s not uncommon for male celebrities in particular to have children with different women who are called baby mamas. Here are some male celebs with one or more baby mamas. 2Face: Pero Adeniyi & Sumbo Ajaba African Queen crooner, 2Face Idibia, who is legally and happily married to long-time girlfriend, Annie Macaulay, has a total of seven kids, two with Annie, three with Pero Adeniyi-his first baby mama, and two with Sumbo nee Ajana. Although 2Baba has had his own fair share of baby mama drama, his kids appear to be very well taken care of. They are also doing well. His two ex-girlfriends have also moved on with their lives and are also doing well. Davido: Sophie Momoh & Amanda Nigerian singer, songwriter and record producer, David Adedeji Adeleke, better known by his stage name Davido, has two daughters. He had the first girl Imade, who was named after his late mother, with Ovation magazine publisher Dele Momodu’s niece and fashion enthusiast, Sophie Momodu. His second daughter, Hailey, came from his affair with his American-based girlfriend, Amanda. His main babe, celebrity Chef Chioma, who is currently rocking his world, is yet to have a baby for him. Wizkid: Sola Ogudugu, Binta Diallo & Jada Pollock It’s now official that Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun, known by the stage name Wizkid, a Nigerian superstar singer and songwriter, has three baby mamas. The first two are Sola Ogududu and Binta Diallo. His last child came from his current girlfriend who also doubles as his manager, Jada Pollock. Wizkid and Jada welcomed a son about two years ago. Jada recently accused her baby daddy of violently abusing her since they have been together. Flavour: Ex-beauty queens Sandra Okagbue & Ana Banner Chinedu Okoli, better known by his stage name Flavour, is a Nigerian singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and performer. Two ex-beauty queens, who are also models and entrepreneurs, have two daughters for Mr Too Fine-Flavour. Yet the news in town is that Flavour is still single and searching. We also heard from the grapevine that one of the mamas (Sandra) recently gave birth to a second child (son) for him. Timaya: Barbara Nwokolo & Tama The founder of DM Records Limited, Nigerian singer and songwriter Inetimi Timaya Odon, popularly known by his stage name Timaya, has three kids from two baby mamas. He had his two beautiful girls from first baby mama, Barbara Nwokolo, and his son, Emmaunel, last year with interior decor expert, Tama. 9ice: Olasunkanmi Ajala & Vicky Godis The ‘Gongo Aso’ crooner and former special Adviser to the Oyo State governor on Youths in the last dispensation, has children from different women. His first child and son, Zion, was born while he was married to his ex-wife Toni Payne. He has a set of twins with his ex-girlfriend Victoria ‘Vicky” Godis. He has also welcomed a fourth child with his fiancé Olasunkanmi Ajala. Jim Ikye: Dana Kinduryte Nollywood actor and entrepreneur Jim Ikye is famous for having ‘codedly’ dated some of the hottest women in Nollywood. He has a son with Dana Kinduryte, a law graduate who hails from Lithuania. Olamide aka Badoo: Adebukunmi Suleiman Nigerian hip hop recording artist, Olamide Adedeji, popularly known by his stage name Olamide Badoo or BaddoSneh, has a son named Batifeori with his long-time girlfriend Adebukunmi Suleiman. He is also rumoured to have dated a popular OAP who is pregnant. The rumour making the rounds is that Badoo is the father of this unborn baby.