The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, will lead other speakers to the 2019 edition of the Association of Energy Correspondents of Nigeria’s (NAEC’s) annual conference. The theme of this year’s conference is titled: “Harnessing Oil and Gas potential for National Development”. The conference will also have two panel sessions with sub-themes entitled: “Effects of sanctity of contracts on commercial operations’ for the first session and “Commercial viability in gas- to- power value chain’ for the second session. The event, which is scheduled for Eko Hotel and Suites in Lagos on August 22, 2019 will x-ray topical issues in oil and gas industry and will have in attendance chief executives of International Oil Companies (IOCs) and indigenous oil firms. Chief executive officers of power firms, including generation, transmission and distribution will also be attendance. Kyari confirmed to attend the event in person when NAEC executives led by the Chairman, Mr. Olatunde Dododanwa, paid him a courtesy visit at the NNPC Towers in Abuja last week. The NNPC chief also agreed to deliver the keynote address. Also, ExxonMobil Nigeria Managing Director, who doubles as chairman of Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI),  Mr. Paul McGrath, will  chair the conference and moderate the first panel session. Speakers and panelists include the Director of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Ahmad Rufai Shakur; Group Managing Director of Oando Plc, Mr. Wale Tinubu; Managing Director of Aiteo Group, Victor Okoronkwo; Managing Director of Total Nigeria, Mr. Mike Sangster; Managing Director of Nigeria LNG, Mr. Tony Attah and President of Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), Mr. Debo Fagbami. Others are: Managing Director/CEO of Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), Mr. Chiedu Ugbo; Managing Director of Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), Mr. Adeoye Fadebiyi; Managing Director of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Mohammed Gur;  Executive Secretary of Association of Power Generation Companies, Dr. Joy Ogali and President, Nigeria Gas Association (NGA),  Audrey Joe-Ezigbo, among others. The highlight of this year’s conference will be the conferment of ‘NAEC’s Award of Excellence’ on the Group General Manager (GGM), Group Public Affairs Division (GPAD), NNPC, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, and ‘NAEC’s Lifetime Achievement Award’ on General Manager, Corporate Communications, Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), Alhaji Yakubu Lawal. Other recipients were Shell Nigeria, Chevron, Total, and ExxonMobil, among others.