THE new cancer treatment machine at the National Hospital, Abuja will reduce patients’ treatment waiting time from 16 minutes to two minutes, its Chief Medical Director Dr. Jaf Momoh. He spoke at the inauguration of the equipment by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The Elekta Synergy Linear Accelerator radiotherapy machine, donated by the  Joint Venture of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo),   focuses on cancer tumour and does not impact other organs in the patient. Momoh described the donation  as timely, noting that first cancer treatment equipment in the hospital became disused in 2017 after 17 years. According to him, the first replacement machine “treated 850 patients in over 25,000 cycles of radiotherapy sessions. “With this new machine, the hospital is poised for effective and efficient cancer treatment with no interruption during periods of routine equipment maintenance,” Momoh said, adding that indigent patients would get subsidised treatment. Osinbajo said cancer prevention initiatives should be promoted, noting that many cases of the disease could be prevented. Osinbajo, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Health, Alhaji Abdullahi Mashi, said: “The increasing trend in the prevalence of cancer may be a reflection of lifestyles which goes to show that lifestyle modifications may go a long way in curtailing the scourge. This underscores the importance of awareness creation at all health facilities and provision of screening facilities.” The VP charged well-meaning Nigerians and organisations “to replicate what NNPC and Shell Nigeria have done in other health facilities to make cancer treatment easily accessible to patients”. SNEPCo Managing Director Bayo Ojulari said the gesture was  aimed at supporting the government  in increasing treatment access, reduce waiting time, and provide world-class facility. “The Elekta Synergy LINAC offers a unique radiation therapy technique that accurately shapes the radiation dose to the tumour with very little or no adverse effect on the surrounding organs, he said.