Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Director-General, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has said the agency’s target is to have a world-class registry. Peterside, who disclosed this at the weekend in Lagos while receiving the report of the committee on the review of the Nigerian Ship Registry, said the goal was for Nigeria to have a ship registry that would meet international certification standards and compete favourably with the best in the global maritime community. “NIMASA is working at giving Nigerians a ship Registry that is respected across the globe and that will be attractive to ship-owners, so they can fly the Nigerian flag. In no distant future, our ship registry will be more effective, more efficient and responsive to change, thus meeting international standards for certification,” he said. Peter noted that the agency had already begun the process of automating the country’s ship registry. According to him, from the preliminary report earlier submitted to the agency, diligent implementation of the committee’s findings would have a beneficial effect on the Nigerian maritime sector. “We are putting in place the necessary building blocks for Nigeria to be the first African country to achieve a five-star International standards certification by 2020. International standard certification for ship registration is our goal at NIMASA,” he said. The committee chairman,  Emmanuel Ilori, an engineer, who spoke before submitting the report, said ship registration and the effectiveness of established processes in a country’s maritime operations are critical in determining the health of a national maritime administration. “All the committee’s efforts were geared towards making the Nigerian flag globally acceptable. The committee carried out an extensive review of the Nigerian Ship Registry, took cognizance of stakeholders’ opinions and expectations, and carried out comparative analysis of the ship registration processes of some global registries in arriving at the report. NIMASA’s management should consider and implement submissions contained in the report,” Ilori said. The nine-man committee terms of reference, which was set up in February 2018, included to examine the status of the ship registry in line with international best practices, advise and recommend requisite improvements of necessity in the registry. The committee was inaugurated on February 27, last year to establish a strategy to revamp the Nigerian ship registration process in order to raise the profile of the Nigerian flag in the global maritime space.