Former Head of Yobe State Civil Service Ibrahim Abdulrahman has described the choice of former Deputy Governor Abubakar Aliyu and Babatunde Fashola as ministers in the Ministry of Works and Housing as a wise decision. He described the duo as a perfect team for the transformation of infrastructure in the country. Abdulrahman said he had known Aliyu since 1999 when he served under him as a supervising engineer in the Ministry of Integrated and Rural Development in Yobe State when he was the permanent secretary. He said Aliyu  was “a competent but a dedicated engineer who is always punctual, and proactive to any assignment giving to him”. Abdulrahman added: “When in set out to get a competent engineer, we had two candidates. One had HND, The current minister of State, Works & Housing had HND plus degree in Civil Engineering. We conducted an interview and from the look of things, he proved to be a more competent and more perceptive of what the government wish to do at the local level. “After the ministry took off, we made request to the government base on his own assessment which we sent him to the rural communities and those assessment were correct because there was no time that we went back to review his assessment. The costing was so clearly done by him. When we started construction, contracts of each construction site were giving a time limit. For instance, from A-B should be finished in three week or so. He proved not only to meet the date lines but actually completed the jobs before date lines. “First, his material assessment was correct. Secondly, he was a competent engineer. Thirdly, he never relents and make sure he reaches his objectives clear. As time progressed, government was aware of the impact we made in the communities. “We actually had no problems of funding because Bukar Abba graciously approved every fund that we made request and the Abubakar D. Aliyu did all the work with dedication and precision with all his staff and by the time we completed the project, we invited journalists to look at what we did and make their own assessment. That was the first impact of the Bukar Abba Ibrahim administration and everyone was talking about his government that he is transforming Yobe State rural communities”. On Aliyu’s appointment, he said: “Not only has President  Buhari made  the right choice, the president  has got the right man in Engineer Aliyu. He is always punctual. He insists on completing any job giving to him before completion. He is always proactive in all his assignment and I am sure him and Fashola will make a perfect team because I know that Fashola is also a very serious minded person. I am sure they will work as a team.” 