The federal government has been urged to direct the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and or other relevant anti-corruption agencies to investigate the $16 billion and other funds spent on the power sector under successive administrations since the country’s return to democratic governance in 1999. The South West Peoples Assembly (SWEPA) said in Lagos that a probe is imperative otherwise Nigerians might lose faith in the current democratic experiment. Chairman of SWEPA, Oseni Owolabi Ajimomuya, and the Secretary, Ismael Oguntoyinbo told reporters that despite promises by successive administrations to reposition Nigeria’s troubled power sector and the alleged scandals in past administrations, including the ones headed by former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan, little or nothing has actually been investigated or the culprits prosecuted and duly punished. The group hailed the House of Representatives and the Young Nigerian Professionals on their resolve to get to the bottom of the issue, and demanded “specific interrogation of key individuals in the whole power mismanagement saga.” They added: “It’s our belief that there are known actors that were responsible for overseeing the sleaze that took place in the power sector spending since 1999. “The most prominent, as every Nigerian possibly knows, is Obasanjo – who is reported to have spent about $16 billion on power, with nothing worthy or credible to show for it. “This is one major reason behind our decision to commend the House of Representatives for its decision to again re-investigate the power sector spending and join other well-meaning Nigerians in demanding for nothing short of a thorough inquest. “It is our belief that what the House is set to do represents justice for the people of Nigeria who have had to bear the burden and pain associated with the poor power situation in the country. Until this investigation and other related efforts that ensure transparency and openness are undertaken, Nigeria cannot really move forward or record any significant progress. The unearthing of the sleaze that took place in the power sector is key if we want to start a new footing that ensures proper accountability going forward,” they said.