Nigeria failed to make it to the podium in the judo event of the 2019 African Games as Egypt emerged as early leaders of the medal table after claiming four gold medals in the judo in Rabat. Judo is the first sport to host medal events in Morocco at the Prince Moulay Abdallah Sports Complex. The Egyptians led by 2009 World Championships bronze medallist Ramadan Darwish dominated the men’s categories with four gold medals. The 31-year-old earned his first ever African Games gold in the 100 kilograms category after defeating Morocco’s Mohammed Lahboub in the final. Egypt also beat Morocco in two other finals – Ali Abdelmouati defeated Ahmed El Meziati in the 73kg, while Abdelrahman Mohamed beat Hamza Kabdani in the 81kg division. The other Egyptian gold medal was earned by Ali Hazem, who overcame Tunisia’s Oussama Mohamed Snoussi. Hosts Morocco also won gold in the men’s judo, Issam Bassou beating Fraj Dhouibi of Tunisia in the 60kg. In the 66kg final, home hopeful Abderrahmane Boushita lost to Algeria’s Wail Ezzine. The heaviest category, the men’s over 100kg, was won by Mbagnick Ndiaye, the Senegalese fighter defeating Mohamed Sofiane Belreka from Algeria. In the women’s judo, Tunisia’s Nihel Cheikh Rouhou won her second African Games gold medal in the over 78kg division following victory at Maputo 2011. Two-time Olympic judoka Rouhou beat Cameroon’s Hortence Atangana. Another Olympian, Gabon’s Rio 2016 competitor Sarah Myriam Mazouz, also won gold in Rabat as she saw off South African Unelle Snyman in the 78kg. Elsewhere, the first female gold medallist for the hosts at these Games is Chaimae Eddinari, who beat another South African, Michaela Whitebooi, in the 48kg final. Soumiya Iraoui, however, suffered home disappointment, beaten in the 52kg division by Algeria’s Faïza Aissahine. Ghofran Khrlifi won the 57kg for Tunisia, beating Yamina Halata of Algeria; Cameroon’s Hélène Wezeu Dombeu beat another Algerian, Amina Belkadi, in the 63kg; and in the 70kg, Karene Agono of Gabon beat Tunisian Nihal Landolsi.