A digital  farming investment company, Farmcrowdy platform, has introduced Crowdyvest, an impact-driven platform that connects individuals and organisations, funds  farming and other activities that reduce food insecurity, youth unemployment. Speaking in Lagos, the Chairman, Farmcrowdy, Mr Onyeka Akumah, said the group was implementing a road map which focuses on creating wealth while fostering value addition to a variety of sectors. Through Farmcrowdy, he said the group has been able to shape the future of farming in Nigeria via a platform which helps small-scale farmers’ access market, capital and resources. He said the launch of Crowdyvest would see a successful migration of existing sponsors under the Farmcrowdy platform to the Crowdyvest platform without any need to create a fresh account. He said new sponsors would be able to sign up to a safe, secure and trusted platform. His words: “Every sponsor will continue to safely sponsor farms on the farms on the Farmcrowdy platform as well as other portfolio products and sponsorship opportunities to be launched via the Crowdyvest platform in the future.” He added: “We have been able to successfully implement a business model in one of the most challenging sectors in the world, driving agriculture. With our model, we have connected over 25,000 farmers to funding, technical expertise and market access.” Following the support the project has received from the national and global start-ups ecosystem investors, Akumah said the group decided to promote Crowdyvest to provide funding for other opportunities in other sectors in the bid to achieve the United Nations Development goals. According to him, it makes sense to invest in improving the livelihoods of Nigerians. He said there is a scope for the organisation to offer effective services by linking data platform, since the company has recorded success in crowd farming investment platform. He said there is a lot of space to make impact in agriculture, including crops and livestock production. Akumah, the Founder and Chief Executive of Crowdyvest, said the group is distinct from Farmcrowdy but it connects members of the group to multiple sponsored opportunities that are safe and trusted. He said the group will work with sponsors to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth. As influx of new technologies has transformed the agricultural sector, Akumah said the group intends to deploy it to ensure farmers earn better income. He said Farmcrowdy wants to get into impact investments that help in the battle to end hunger, poverty and promote social development. The Managing Director, Farmcrowdy, Mr. Kenneth Obiajulu, said: “It has been an amazing opportunity to lead a brand like Farmgate Africa and achieving a great amount of traction in such a short period of time. He said the plan is now to consolidate on the traction from both Farmcrowdy and Farmgate Africa to build a more robust Farmcrowdy that can create more value points across the African agricultural value chain. He said the plan is ensure enough beef supply for Nigerians, by proving 100 bulls per day and increasing the number of restaurants they supply.