Contributors under the Contributory Pension Scheme(CPS) have been urged to participate in the ongoing data recapturing by updating their data with their Pension Fund administrators (PFAs), Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp) President, Mrs Aderonke Adedeji, has said. She spoke at a media parley organised by the association to give an update on the activities and performance of the industry in Lagos. She urged the nine million pension contributors in the scheme to embrace the ongoing exercise across the country. She explained that the aim of the exercise was to update the data of contributors and address the problem of multiple Personal Identification Numbers(PINs). Mrs Adedeji, also the Managing Director/CEO, Leadway Pensure Limited, said the exercise would allow (PFAs) reconcile the information collected with the previous one to enhance the credibility of the new scheme. She added that the exercise would protect pension clients against cybercrime as well as other fraudulent intents and activities. According to her, the National Pension Commission (PenCom) had, since last year, been upbeat about data recapturing of pension clients while streamlining registration of prospective contributors in a move to have accurate database of contributors. Adedeji said: “Retiremet Savings Account holders should go and update their data and not wait for PFAs to come to them before they subject themselves to the exercise. The process has started, PFAs have invested so much into the project and operators are progressively approaching their customers to recapture their data. For now, there is no deadline, since the exercise is just starting, but in future, there could be a deadline, depending on the response of pension contributors toward the exercise. “The verification is aimed at ensuring quality data of contributors, which is in tandem with modern ICT trends, to synchronise data base for national groups. ‘’The exercise requires RSA holders to provide their NIM numbers to their PFAs and answer some questions that were not provided earlier, by the account holders,” she added.