One way to address the growing menace of oil theft is the setting up of oil refineries, a cross section of experts have said. Modular refineries, they reiterated, would help in no small measure to curb the rising cases of oil theft as well as pipeline vandalism especially in the oil-rich Niger Delta. According to the Chairman, Gas Users Group of MAN, Dr. Michael Adebayo, more modular refineries would help in solving the issues of crude oil theft, fuel high prices and scarcity. “It is far better than the analogue ones which is giving us problem in the country right now. Modular refineries would help in boosting the availability of refined products in the country, and with this, things can get better. With Dangote refinery coming on board by 2020 things will get lot better. This means that we will stop importing fuel, kerosene, diesel and other petrochemicals; it would be a better Nigeria. This would help in saving our foreign exchange instead of using them for dumping,” Adebayo noted. An economic analyst, who was a consultant to the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), Dr. John Isemede stated that if these illegal refiners in the Niger Delta are given license to operate, with a set standard by the SON, and other relevant authorities, the country would be having more than enough of these refined products. Isemede said, “There is nowhere in the world that people are not doing the opposite things. When these illegal refining activities are monitored and adequately supervised, to follow a set-up standard, petroleum products would be available at cheaper rate. It is easier to refine crude oil than to refine the local gin (Ogogoro). So, if crude is sold to them under the supervision of relevant agencies, mandating to install tank farms, have their trucks on the roads, and so on, I tell you that Nigeria will stop importation of fuel before December.” However, the Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Muda Yusuf, the country needs to moderate its expectations from modular refineries as a solution to the socioeconomic problems in the Niger Delta. “For instance, a 24,000 b/d modular refinery costs about $250 million. This is an equivalence of N72 billion. How many investors can afford this?  What this shows is that modular refineries should not be perceived as a possible substitute for the illegal refineries that currently exist in the oil producing areas of the country. These illegal refineries do not pay for crude. So they operate on zero cost for crude. Whereas a modular refinery would not operate with such a model since it will acquire necessary documents before commencing production. It is doubtful if the problem of oil theft, vandalisation of pipelines, environmental degradation, and other criminal activities can be solved simply by promoting investment in modular refineries,” Yusuf added.