Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu has ordered investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of three police operatives and one civilian in Taraba State. The victims were allegedly killed by soldiers. The attack also led to some officers sustaining injuries. According to a statement in Abuja on Wednesday by the Force spokesman, Frank Mba, the operatives were on investigation to Ibi in Taraba State when they came under attack. The statement said the operatives were in Taraba to arrest one Alhaji Hamisu, who was indicted in a series of high-profile kidnap incidents in the state. Giving details of the attack, Mba said: “The police operatives, led by Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Felix Adolije of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT), reportedly came under sudden attack and serious shooting by soldiers along Ibi – Jalingo Road, Taraba State. “The operatives, who were taking the arrested suspect, Alhaji Hamisu, to the command headquarters in Jalingo, were shot at several times by the soldiers despite proof that they are police personnel on legitimate duty. “Three policemen (one inspector and two sergeants) and one civilian died as a result of gunshot injuries sustained in the attack, while others sustained serious gunshot wounds. The statement said: “The soldiers thereafter released the handcuffed suspect, Alhaji Hamisu, who is now on the run. “Alhaji Hamisu, a notorious kidnap kingpin, has been on the police wanted list for his complicity in several high-profile kidnap cases, including the recent abduction of an oil mogul in Taraba State wherein a ransom of about N100,000,000 was paid.” Following the attack, the IGP also ordered the AIG Medicals to proceed to Jalingo to ensure concerted efforts in the treatment of the injured police officers. The remains of the deceased have been deposited in a morgue. The Force said it has begun investigation into the incident. Delivering judgment, Justice Oluwatoyin Abodunde said Asateru, 53, stands guilty and is convicted to serve a prison term of five years, adding that the convict will pay N50, 000 fine as stipulated by the Child’s Rights Law 2005. Prosecuting counsel Ronke Odetola said the convict defiled a five-year-old girl on December 23, 2016 at Ifisin-Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government Area of Ekiti State. The priest was arrested by the police and transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in Ado-Ekiti for prosecution. Odetola said the offence was contrary to Section 31 of the Child’s Rights Law Cap 7, Laws of Ekiti State Nigeria, 2005. The suit with registration number HAD/112/ 117 was first heard in January 2018 before Justice Oluwatoyin Abodunde on a one-count charge of unlawful sexual intercourse. Odetola tendered the doctor’s report and the defendant’s statement on oath to prosecute her case. She called three witnesses to testify against the priest. Olanrewaju Oluwasola stood for the accused person.