The administration of oath and assignment of portfolios to the 43 ministers by President Muhammadu Buhari marks the real take-off of the government. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) is a constitutional creation specifically saddled with the task of assisting the President and Vice President in running the affairs of state. The constitution mandates the President to choose his ministers in a way that each state of the federation is represented. Now, Nigerians know those who have the task of implementing the agenda of the Buhari administration and giving effect to the manifesto of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Highlights of the composition shows that there is no radical departure from the framework and philosophy of the government as may be deduced from the helmsmen assigned to the ministries. The President has reserved the petroleum ministry to himself, while appointing the former Governor of Bayelsa State, Chief Timipre Sylva, to directly oversee activities in the ministry. This suggests that the President attaches much importance to the ministry that administers the nation’s primary source of wealth. The stature and capacity of Sylva who had worked with a former petroleum minister and governed an oil-rich state is expected to help in translating government policy for the sector to a positive force for development. We hope he would be able to use his influence to block attempts by any presidential aide to sideline him and drive a wedge between the minister of state and the president who for unexplained reasons has retained the office of substantive minister. Also significant is the split of the erstwhile ministry of power, works and housing into two, with Mr. Babatunde Fashola retaining control of the works and housing component. The newpower ministry has been assigned to Sale Mamman from Taraba State. It was predictable from the list of nominees sent to the Senate that Major-General Bashir Magashi, a retired military officer, lawyer and politician would be saddled with the task of handling the defence ministry at a time that internal security challenges continue to mount. Speculations were rife until the President unveiled the portfolios as to the nature of the former Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola’s assignment in the administration. The energy, zeal and passion of the engineer-turned-politician might have recommended him for the Interior ministry where he would share defence responsibilities with the ministers of defence and police affairs. It is noteworthy that former Akwa Ibom State Governor Godswill Akpabio has been given the responsibility of supervising development in the Niger Delta, assisted, interestingly, by Mr. Festus Keyamo, a notable senior lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria who performed creditably at the Senate screening where he was asked his opinion on restructuring the judicial system. Abubakar Malami is returning as Attorney-General and Minister of Justice even though many are not impressed with his performance in the first tenure. Rotimi Amaechi remains transport minister and will therefore be expected to see through his move to open up the rail sector and probably the sea ports. Adamu Adamu as education minister, is believed to have performed below par, it remains to be seen if the Accounting graduate from Ahmadu Bello University can come up with new ideas for the very important sector. The establishment of Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Refugees and Internally Displaced Persons is welcome. At a time when management of humanitarian affairs has brought the country odium from the international community, the assignment of Mrs. Saddiya Farouk, a former Commissioner of the National Commission for Refugees, Migration and Displaced Persons to the office is fit and proper. Mr. Sunday Dare, the 53-year-old minister given the responsibility of overseeing the youth and sports portfolio is expected to restructure the ministry. We expect the ministers to take charge immediately as there is little time for them to make their marks. This administration took off in 2015 with the promise to effect fundamental changes in the security architecture, economic structure and employment generation. At best, modest achievements have been recorded. It is therefore important that the ministers work to ensure that remarkable improvements are recorded in the key sectors. They should bear in mind that the government has only two years to work assiduously towards upliftment of the infrastructural, human capital and social services sectors. The 2023 politics may degrade governance afterwards.This time calls for new thinking. We hope these men and women who have been within the system at the federal and state levels for decades will rise up to the occasion.