With increasing number of Nigerians grappling with complications of diabetic foot, arising from rising incidence of diabetes in the country, Rainbow Specialist Medical Centre (RSMC), a private hospital with focus on the management of diabetes and other endocrine and metabolism conditions, has announced plans to host a workshop on diabetic foot and podiatry. The annual workshop, being its 6th edition on diabetic foot and podiatry, is designed to equip Nigerian doctors, other health workers and people living with diabetes with basic knowledge and skills on diabetic foot care. A release signed by Dr. Afoke Isiavwe, medical director of RSMC and coordinator of the Diabetes Podiatry Initiative Nigeria, said the workshop, which will hold from August 12 to 16, was being organised in partnership with the World Walk Foundation (Jamaican Chapter). It is supported by some diabetes care companies in the country. According to its organisers, the workshop will help to stem the steady increase of diabetes mellitus and its complications. “It is important that primary care health workers should know the basics of diabetes such as how to recognise symptoms, how to diagnose and even know how to start treatment and most important, when to refer the patients. This will prevent misdiagnosis and mismanagement. The primary care service is essential because that’s where the people first present to whenever they have health challenges. Over the years, Rainbow Specialist Medical Centre, Lekki, Lagos, has been holding this capacity building workshop for Nigerian health workers both in the public and private institutions,” Isiavwe said. The release further disclosed that the 2019 edition would focus on building capacity at the primary care level and feature a diabetes refresher course for primary and secondary healthcare workers, Insulin refresher workshop for both primary and secondary healthcare workers and, also, basic and advanced Certified Diabetes foot course. “We are hoping hospitals will take advantage of the training and send their staff to attend. Diabetes is very common in our environment, presenting at any clinic – dental, ophthalmology, gynaecology etc. It is therefore important that doctors, nurses, community health extension workers know what to do and when to refer.” Dr. Isiavwe said people living with diabetes would receive free foot check during the period at Dover Hotel, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos, the workshop venue.