Barring any last-minute change in plans, a fresh batch of Nigerian migrants in Germany will be repatriated back to the country on Monday. The deportees, whose number could not be ascertained at press time, The Nation learnt, will depart Frankfurt Airport at 8 am and arrive the Murtala Mohammed International Airport between 2pm and 3pm. The deportation, if eventually carried out, will be the third in a space of two months by the German government. Two batches of Nigerians were deported from the European country last month. The Co-ordination Activist for Network Refugees 4Refugees, a political platform for refugees/migrant self-organisation based in Stuttgart, Germany, Rex Osa, disclosed this in a chat with our correspondent. Osa said:  “The flight will be from Frankfurt on Monday. For those who have been given the information, the plane will take off by 8 am and arrive Nigeria between 2pm and 3pm. “Those who will be deported will be picked randomly from their different accommodation centres from 3am till 5am at different regions and conveyed to a central place and finally to Frankfurt Airport. “When their asylum application is already expired, they are obligated to leave the country. “For those who don’t leave voluntarily, they will be given a what is I can translate in English to mean toleration status. This status is not a resident title; it is to show that the person is still there because the deportation is hindered because of one reason or the other. “These people are picked up early in the morning without expecting the police. “Some would be picked up from work also. When the police arrives in their rooms, they would be allowed to pack things not more than say 64 kilos.  The police will be standing to make sure the person does not escape.” The activist urged the Federal Government to come to the aid of the victims as many of them are coming with myriad of challenges. “Among these people are many sick people. Nigeria should be expecting a lot of people who have psychological problems, and people with spinal cord problems leading to paralysis,” he said.