Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday transmitted a second list of Commissioner and Special Adviser-nominees to the Assembly. Here is a look at some of those on the 13-man list: Joe Igbokwe Joe Igbokwe, a graduate of Mechanical Engineering from the University of Nigeria Nsukka, was a leading voice in the pro-democracy family. He was an anti-military campaigner during the June 12 struggle. It was during the dark days that the eminent politician and Afenifere Deputy Leader took notice of his honest activities and commitment. In 2007, Igbokwe became the Publicity Secretary of the Action Congress (AC), which metamorphosed into the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and later, All Progressives Congress (APC). Igbokwe is the Igbo face of APC in Lagos. He is a mobiliser, organiser and team worker. Under Tinubu and Fashola administrations, he was the General Manager of the Lagos State Infrastructure Management and Regulatory Agency (LASMIRA). He is the General Manager of Lagos Ports Commission. Akinderu-Fatai A grassroots politician, Moruf Akinderu-Fatai is a household name in the Osodi/Isolo progressive family. He is loyal, humble and patient. In 2007, he was elected into the House of Representatives. That was after serving as Senior Special Assistant (SSA) under his leader and mentor, former Special Adviser, and later, Commissioner Oladele Ajomale. In 2011, Akinderu- Fatai was re-elected into the National Assembly. He got re-nomination after a hard battle. His detractors peddled falsehood against him. After his two terms in the Lower Chamber, he returned home to continue his local politics of mobilising for party candidates. He was full of hope for a brighter future. Akinderu-Fatai is perceived as a politician of conviction, honest and committed. He would never rock the boat in the face of transient political adversity.  He is an adjusted player who thrives on hope the elixir of life. Arobieke Yetunde Arobieke is the Kosofe Amazon, who has attracted affection and hate, owing to her rising profile and capacity for survival. She is the wife of Pa Arobieke, a Somolu based political actor. She knows her onions; bold and brave. She rose to prominence as the Chairman of Ketu/Agboyi Council. She was re-elected. An ambitious woman, she vied for the Kosofe House of Representatives ticket. During the selection process, she lost to former Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs Commissioner Rotimi Agunsoye. Arobieke is a regular face at the empowerment programmes of Senator Oluremi Tinubu, Yeye Asiwaju of Lagos. Kabiru Ahmed Ahmed is the leader of Hausa/ Fulani bloc in Lagos APC. He is popular in Agege Council where he once served as Vice Chairman under Chief Enoch Ajiboso. Ahmed has also been a stabiliser. He had fostered peaceful coexistence among the diverse tribes in Agege axis. An architect, he has been part of the APC government in Lagos as a member of boards/ parastatal. Anofi Elegushi A prince of Ikate Kingdom, Lagos State, Anofi is held in esteem in the royal household. He loves to carry himself as a blue blood that he is. He is the former Special Adviser on Transportation. Tokunbo Wahab A lawyer, Wahab is a very articulate party youth; confident, daring and adventurous. He is loved by the people of Epe. When certain elements from the division rebelled against the party, he objected, saying that the house should not fall. He contested for the governorship in 2015. Lola Akande Akande is a woman known for her composure in the public. This has proved an asset for her in problem solving. A relation of Yeye Tinubu, she is a former member of House of Assembly from Ikeja Constituency, in succession to Adeniyi Oyemade, who was appointed Commissioner for Commerce. Mrs. Akande is former Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation. She is a respected party woman. Bonu Saanu Saanu is a political scientist. He teaches at Lagos State University, Ojo. His specialisation covers International Relations, Peace Studies and Conflict Management