THE Federal Roads Safety Corps and the Akin Fadeyi Foundation, conveners of the ‘Corruption Not In My Country’ project, a micro level anti-corruption TV Drama, have announced a major strategic partnership. The partnership will be driven on the platform of technology as the AFF is set to launch its newly designed Report Corruption App called FLAG’IT, which was funded by MacAuthur Foundation. According to a joint statement by both parties, FLAG’IT  shall serve as a tool to strengthen FRSC’s capacity to be integrity-driven, improve on public service delivery and be very responsive to public feedback. It shall also be a platform where citizens can provide positive feedback on credible and outstanding officers. Speaking at the event, the FRSC Corp Marshall, Boboye Oyeyemi said the Presidential decree 001, which supports the ease of doing business, has created more room for the government to be accountable and transparent in service delivery. He said the FRSC has improved tremendously through innovative projects like, the Joint surveillance activity, through which the FRSC partners with other agencies to improve governance in the country; Service improvement through which Nigerians can now secure their Driver’s licenses after two months, and after been certified by a regulated driving school; and a verification portal which helps track fake licenses issued to unsuspecting public. Programme Officer, Akin Fadeyi Foundation, Nabila Okino commended the Corp Marshall for boldly confronting corrupt practices within the Corps. She highlighted the Akin Fadeyi’s foundation’s objectives, programs and interventions in Nigeria, which includes Anti-Corruption campaign, which is driven through the ‘Not in My Country’ Edutainment skits and the ‘Never Again’ Radio Drama skits, which has been airing on CNN Africa and other TV Channels under the funding of the John D and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation; past training programs in schools and now the incorporation of technology in the fight against corruption. She thanked the Corps Marshall, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi of the FRSC and his Team for their continuous efforts in ensuring safety on Nigerian roads. Okino said due to the depth of endemic corruption in our society, it was impossible to achieve meaningful gains in the fight against corruption without partnering with major stakeholders. This according to her, was what birthed the partnership between the FRSC and the Akin Fadeyi Foundation. Also present at the event, the Deputy Director, MacAuthur Foundation, Dayo Olaide expressed his Organization’s delight at the development and was full of commendation for the FRSC under Boboye Oyeyemi, for opening up its processes to transparency and accountability.