Miss Kossy Okonkwo has emerged the winner of Queen Varisty Afrika 2019, carting home the grand prize one million naira. The undergraduate of Computer technology from Yaba College of Technology, Lagos beat five other finalists to clinch the crown on Sunday, July 28 in Lagos. Tagged ‘Beauty plus Brains’, the top five finalists, made up of two undergraduates and three fresh graduates, emerged from a total of 17 contestants called princesses, from 13 West African higher institutions. The runners-up are (1st runner up – Falola Druscilla, fresh graduate of Physics from Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), 2nd runner up – Skybrown, fresh graduate of Nursing from Ecole Professionnelle Specialise – La Cité University, Benin Republic, 3rd runner up- Omoye Arewa, fresh graduate of History and International Relations from Ekiti State University and the 4th runner up – Tonia Ifekandu, a Mass Communication undergraduate of National Open University). The grand finale had the top 5 finalists make two major appearances. The finalists made two appearances and were grilled on the inspiration behind their outfits, what motivated them to choose their school and course of studies, their 10 year aspirations and why they believe in Nigeria amongst other technical questions. The Varsity panel was made up of a Host  and two judges ; host of the event by name Benjamin Touitou a popular Nigerian actor, and a male judge Melvin Orji, CEO Talkative africa ent, and female judge Mallami Adeseun Ceo Blvckhair_ng. It was hosted on the FUNAAB campus, Abeokuta, Ogun State. The representative of the Ministry of Women affairs and poverty alleviation, promised to give their full support to subsequent editions of Queen Varsity Afrika Reality Tv. The representatives from FUNAAB and the representatives from the Brazilian consulate general said it was a laudable project. Queen Varsity Afrika is a reality tv show where female undergraduates or fresh graduates of any African higher institutions compete in intellectual battles to emerge as the Epitome of Beauty plus Brains in Africa. The 13-episode Tv Reality premiered on April 21, 2019. The show had guests from different works of life such as Representatives from the Lagos state Ministry of Women affairs and poverty alleviation, Representatives from the Federal University of agriculture Abeokuta, Representative Of the Consul General Of the Brazilian consulate in Lagos, amongst others. The Executive Producer of Queen Varsity Afrika Reality Tv, Jasmine Ofoegbu, explained that the show is not a Beauty pageant but a tv Reality show project that is aimed at grooming and empowering the African girl child for the future. She said the idea of show was conceived in the year 2010 but stalled because of financial constraints and that it is a dream come true celebration the grande finale of the maiden edition. She thanked FUNAAB for supporting the project with their school facilities and resources during the production period. She went ahead to thank the former president Olusegun Obasanjo for hosting the contestants, thus making it the first reality show ever to feature a former President.