MANAGING Director, Dees Travels, Daisy Olotu, has said policy somersault is having negative effects on the capacity of the travel industry to attain expected exponential growth. According to him, until government reworks existing polices to support the travel and tour industry a lot could not be achieved in the sector. Olotu who spoke in an interview in Lagos while opening a new head office in Dolphin Estate , Ikoyi said consolidation of travel agencies will accelerate the growth of travel logistic business. He said with over 30 years in the business experience has shown to him that nothing comes easy unless you put in hardworking and consistency . Olotu said :” Nothing good comes easy. It comes with a lot of hard work, consistency and as a tennis player; we always have our eyes on the ball. What that means is that we as a company have a goal and the goal is what we are working towards without any distraction. That has really helped us. It is not an easy task; we had to make a lot of sacrifices. We had to put everything in it; your time, resources without looking back.” He said his over three decades experience on the job has taught him that discipline is key in running any travel related business. Olotu said :” You know in airline business, the discipline must be there. If the discipline is not there, you are not going to get anywhere.” He said the consolidation of the biggest five travel agencies into Travel Investmeht Company Limited ( TICO) has expanded the frontiers of logistic business . Olotu said :” TICO is there but we discovered that this individualism of a thing is actually not allowing us to thrive. When we are ready to drop our individual names and become one, ofcourse we are going to be the biggest not only in Nigeria but in Africa. Some people in the business are actually not comfortable with that and they are working against it. If you look at the four of us that came together, we are ranked one to five in the sector, leading travel agencies in Nigeria. ” You can imagine what happens if four leading travel agencies to come together; you can imagine how big they will be. However, like I said, TICO is still there registered as a liability company. Anything can happen at any time. We are sleeping right now I will say that. We will wake up.”  