AT the close of a two-day retreat organised for ministers, and at their inauguration a day later, President Muhammadu Buhari told them they must go through the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, to schedule meetings with the president, and through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) in matters relating to the Federal Executive Council (FEC). It’s a quaint dichotomy. But the directive, which is merely a restatement of the practice during the president’s first term, triggered an uproar that lasted many days.  The president had said: “In terms of coordination, kindly ensure that all submissions for my attention or meeting requests be channelled through the Chief of Staff (CoS), while all Federal Executive Council matters be coordinated through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation.” Repeating the directive a day after he first enunciated it was probably an indication that the president was completely unfazed by public remonstrances. If the president’s directive indicated no deviation from the practice in his first term, public uproar may in fact be a consequence of their experiences under Mr Kyari whom many regard, rightly or wrongly, as overbearing or paralysingly slow. Indeed, to a significant number of commentators, the CoS, rather than inspire fluidity in the presidency, has created and reinforced gridlock. The president himself did not quarrel with the conclusion that he was slow in his first term, only that the slowness was in fact a sign of his respect for deliberateness. Could the presidency run much faster than it has done, and far more efficiently? Yes, said critics. But that is unlikely to ever happen, they argue, as long as Mr Kyari sieves the president’s actions and policies through his unhurried idiosyncratic administrative style. This may account for the frustration voiced by the public, especially critics impatient with the president’s dawdling style. But despite the president’s intransigence on how he wants his administration organised, the uproar over his directive finally elicited some trite explanations by his staff, principally by one of his spokesmen, Garba Shehu. Said Mr Shehu: “In the traditional presidential system, it is a primary function of a Chief of Staff, which may vary according to the needs and desires of each President, to supervise key State House Staff, control access to the office and the person of the President, manage communications and information flow and this includes that which binds the relationship with the two other arms of government. During the President’s first term those were the responsibilities of the Chief of Staff, and they remain the same responsibilities today. There is no change.” He then added: “When President Buhari explained to ministers that they would be expected to communicate with him and arrange scheduling to meet with him primarily via the Chief of Staff, he did so as many of the Buhari’s ministerial appointments are new and cannot therefore be expected to know how matters of liaising with the President operate. This is to stress that access to the President is open to ministers. It is not true that this is denied them in the Second Term. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) on the other hand is responsible for ensuring the effective coordination and monitoring of the implementation of government policies and programmes. All cabinet matters must go through him.” The criticism against the president’s excessive reliance on Mr Kyari’s sieving function is a total misreading of both the president and the presidential system of government. It is true that the president is at liberty to modify Nigeria’s borrowed American model, but he can legally choose to stick to it. In this case, and in some significant ways, he has largely adhered to that borrowed model. What the public may not be aware of is that while the reigning style in the presidency shows no significant deviation from the American system, not to talk of from the practice in his first term, it nonetheless masks a greater and more disturbing habit of abdicating virtually everything in the presidency to the CoS. It is hard to quarrel with the president’s style, as stultifying as it may seem, but it is less hard to revile it. Most critics and opposition parties which joined issues with the president over his directive accused the president of abdicating his office to an unelected official, and of displaying insensitivity to the wailings of the public. Nothing will come out of their remonstration. In his first term, the president was similarly accused of abdication. Not only did he ignore the accusations, he mocked his critics with his characteristic inflexibility. It was clear that his presidency was not running as smoothly and efficiently as the country demanded, but there was no moving or stampeding him. After all, in his first term, the accusations came to nothing. The public should have learnt their lessons. And as the president has indicated regarding how the presidency would operate in his second term, it is useless criticising him or pining for a change of style. There will be no change, not even the slightest hint of modification. By criticising the president, it is clear that the opposition and other critics fail to understand that what is at play is far more fundamental and consequential than they imagine. Policy, administrative acumen, ideology, and philosophy, among other great virtues, are not the president’s forte. It takes someone adequately equipped with these virtues to take charge of his administration, especially in a complex and heterogeneous society. Public expectation may not be misplaced; but they are dealing with a president who lacks surefootedness in modern ideas, especially their complicated interplay, and great administrative and management styles. Coupled with his lethargy, which is probably induced by his constant health challenges, the president has little choice but to cede control to someone else in the complex and challenging issues of modern governance. If the president is aware of the political paradox of ceding control of his administration to unelected officials, he has not indicated it, and may never indicate it. He will make occasional interventions, and now and again even overrule the CoS and presidency officials, but he will be incapable of doing anything revolutionary in terms of reshuffling staff and remoulding policies whose import escape him and his staff. His ideology will remain obfuscatory, given the manner he has trapped himself in the numbing obscurantism that plagues African governments; and so it will be asking for the impossible to expect the kind of initiatives and changes he and his party have so elegantly but futilely voiced and propagandised in the past few years. President Buhari is no policy or ideology buff. He will continue to rely on Mr Kyari, egged on of course by the fact that he is doing nothing to offend both the spirit and letter of the constitution as well as the presidential system. The president’s shortcomings would not have been so exposed had Mr Kyari himself displayed the energy needed for the times and demonstrated the alacrity indispensable for a smooth and efficient running of the presidency. As it is, the country and grieving critics will have to manage both the president and his CoS for the next four years. Mercifully, despite their harshest policies and obtruding style, the Buhari administration will become less and less relevant after the next two years. The country will look forward to another change, either of persons or of political party. And despite his projection of tough measures sometimes, and not being a politician and nationalist of the first rank, the president is unlikely to deeply and substantially affect the direction of politics expected shortly before the end of or after his tenure. In addition, for a government already out of its depth, the stasis that will be created as a result of the president’s excessive formalisation of power and office will make many ministers stand longer in the queue, bite their tongues in order not to create offence, genuflect before the new potentates, or resign to frustration. But for now, and regardless of whatever anyone thinks, the president will reign somnolent, and his CoS will wield unquantifiable influence over the affairs of the country, even sometimes serving as alternate president. If any revolutionary change is to occur in governance, it will be purely serendipitous rather than by design, or an act of God. However, these fail-safes seldom happen in real life. So, instead of railing against Mr Kyari or abusing the president, thus attracting the labels of terrorists and treasonable felons that the government casually throws at critics, the public should calmly weather the paralysing pace of governance and endure the lack of real or substantial change in policy, including the reshuffling of administration and security chiefs.