Govts at all levels must address the problems that predispose the youths to crime On August 19, the Lagos State Police Command announced that it had arrested eight suspected cultists during a ritual ceremony to initiate them into the notorious ‘One Million Boys’ cult gang in the Ojo Local Government Area of the state. Aged between 18 and 23, the new gang members were reportedly being inducted into the violent group by one Yusuf Abu on August 15, at No. 15, Alado Street, Shibiri, when they were apprehended. According to the police public relations officer in the state, DSP Bala Elkana, during the raid, which was carried out by operatives of ‘Operation Crush’ from Ilemba Hausa Police Station following a tip-off, three sharp cutlasses, a fetish calabash with dangerous charms and weeds believed to be marijuana were recovered from the suspects. This incident illustrates, once again, the worsening menace of cults and murderous gangs not just in Lagos but in several towns and cities across the country. The problem is understandably magnified in Lagos because of the state’s huge population and its magnetic pull as the country’s industrial and commercial nerve-centre. The ‘One Million Boys’ is one of several gangs in Lagos and its surroundings, which have gained notoriety for criminal acts such as armed robbery, communal violence and rape. In October 2012, about 130 suspected members of the group were reported to have been arrested by the police during a raid around Apapa and Ajegunle. On July 7, this year, the Lagos State Police Command also announced the arrest of over 100 suspected cultists during a pre-emptive operation to prevent their annual initiation ceremonies in different parts of the state. Parading the suspects at the state Criminal Investigation Department in Yaba, the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Zubairu Muazu, said the command effectively clamped down on activities of no less than 10 active cult groups in various parts of the state, preventing them from holding their annual July 7 initiation day also known as 7/7. The challenge of cult violence rose to a peak in Lagos State particularly in 2017 when, for several months, serial ritual killings were carried out in the Ikorodu area by a strange gang known as ‘Badoo boys’. Members of the group perpetrated their murderous acts using such weapons as stones, clubs, household grinding stones, pestles and mortars rather than guns or machetes that criminals are traditionally associated with. The dreaded ‘Badoo boys’ smashed the heads of their victims and collected the blood with handkerchiefs, which were reportedly sold for ritual purposes. It is to the credit of the Lagos State Police Command that it has decisively wiped out the ‘Badoo boys’ from the crime landscape. We believe that, with the requisite determination and motivation, the command can achieve the same feat with regard to the ‘One Million Boys’ and other criminal gangs in Lagos. However, it is also imperative for government to take cognisance of and address the root causes of the problem. Intertwined with the proliferation of cults and gangs across the country’s urban centres, for instance, is the widespread drug abuse among the youths. This, in turn, is a function of a general moral decadence that is also responsible for the surge in the number of dysfunctional families that are unable to nurture emotionally stable and responsible youths. Clearly, the most critical challenge, however, is for governments at all levels to get their acts together and find urgent solutions to the deep-seated economic problems that deepen poverty and inequality as well as worsen the large- scale level of unemployment that predisposes idle youths to such destructive activities as drug abuse, sexual perversion and cultism.