Ikeja Electric Plc (IE) has begun the roll out of meters to customer across its network, under the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme. In the first phase, which ended last month, metering was restricted to customers in Ikorodu, Abule-Egba and Shomolu Business Units. However, from the beginning of this month, the exercise has been extended to customers in Ikeja, Akowonjo and Oshodi Business Units. The MAP scheme is in line with the Federal Government’s commitment to bridging the metering gap. It entails the empowerment of third party companies’ identified Meter Asset Providers by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), to procure and install meters for consumers under this scheme. Ikeja Electric, and one of its MAPs, Mojec Metering Asset Company, held a Customers’ Engagement Forum to sensitise customers in the Shomolu Business Unit, on the registration process, survey, payment and installation of meters. Its Chief Operating Officer, Mrs. Folake Soetan, who spoke at the forum in Gbagada, reiterated the company’s commitment to leverage the opportunity provided by the MAP scheme to close the metering gap across its network and remove estimated billing. “The scheme will ensure accelerated meter deployment to unmetered customers and totally eliminate every form of controversy regarding the accuracy of electricity bills. We have taken concrete actions in terms of planning and manpower deployment for adequate metering” she said. In order to ensure a seamless meter registration under MAP scheme, she advised unmetered customers to register through IE website, map.ikejaelectric.com, using their Ikeja Electric’s account number on the bill to update their KYC (Know Your Customer) details after which a survey will be carried out to determine the type of meter that will be suitable for their premises. Mojec Meter Asset Company, Managing Director, Ms. Chantelle Abdul, in her remarks, said her company has adequate meters in stock for the MAP scheme. According to her, the cost of single phase meter is N38, 850, while the three-phase meter is N70,350, both inclusive of VAT. She revealed that all processes have been put in place, including bank loans for customers who cannot afford the meter outrightly. Some of the banks partnering Mojec where customers can get soft loans spread over a long time to pay for their meters, according to her, include Unity, Sterling, Zenith, First Bank, and First Option Micro Finance Bank. Soetan also pointed out that the company has set up a debt resolution panel in its six Business Units to address disputed outstanding bills and ensure reconciliation. She also stated that customers must always pay into the designated bank account provided on the online MAP portal and quote their Application Reference Number (ARN) when making any payment, urging new customers to visit the nearest Ikeja Electric office for account creation  to enable them start their registration for meter. As part of the registration process, customers will be required to provide a valid email address and telephone number as they will be contacted through the information provided. She urged customers to always ensure that they provide accurate data during the process. She advised tenants sharing the same service cable to separate their them by engaging the service of Licensed Electrical Contractor Association of Nigeria (LECAN). The event was attended by dignitaries, including the Baale of Bajulaye, Alhaji Ralialau Alabi Yunusa,  who represented Oba of Shomolu, Adedapo Oduguwa; Shomolu Community Development Committee (CDC) Chairman, Alhaja Olawumi Osiefa; Bariga  CDC Chairperson and Mrs Susie Onwuka, Head, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Council, Lagos Office.