An Ilorin- based lawyer Olarewaju Aluko along with his client Taiye Na’Allah on Thursday dragged the Economic and Financial Commission (EFCC) to a Kwara High Court for alleged defamation of character. The duo are seeking redress in court and also claiming N20 million damages from the commission. Ilorin Zonal office of the commission had on Wednesday accused the lawyer of defrauding one Pastor Adetunji Adedoyin of his property valued at N20million. The EFCC also claimed that Aluko was at large following invitation and interrogation of other lawyers reportedly involved in the matter. Adedoyin is also joined as, respondent in the suit, which had been assigned to Justice Hammed Gegele, of the state High Court. Aluko and his client, in the suit, prayed the court to restrain the EFCC, from inviting, arresting or prosecuting them pending determination of motion on notice filed before the court. The applicants in the motions on notice urged the court to enforce an order on the agency to tender unreserved public apologies in national dailies. They also want the court to institute N20million damage against EFCC over what they described as illegal, unlawful and unconstitutional online publication. They are also seeking that the circulation of the online publication against them prior to invitation to react to the petition or arraign them before any competent court is illegal, unconstitutional and against the fundamental rights of the applicants. Speaking with reporters on the matter, Aluko expressed disappointment over the operation of the anti- graft agency. He lamented that he was not at large as claimed by the EFCC in the report, adding that he was neither called nor invited for interrogation before the publication went viral on social media. He said: “I was highly surprised and disappointed over the EFCC operation; many people have been calling me that I have been declared wanted over allegation of fraud in which some lawyers were arrested. “I have never in my life been involved in fraud. The EFCC has never called me on phone or invited me personally or give me notice to come to their office in respect of the allegation made by one Engr. Adedoyin, who is now a pastor. “I read it online and heard from friends that I am at large. Honestly this is defamation of character and I am not going to take it lightly.” He explained that the purchase of the said landed property by his client followed due process, as there was court judgment to back it.