Lagos State Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu has been commended by the Women Leader of the state’s Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Jumoke Okoya-Thomas, for the inclusion of 12 women in his 38-member cabinet. Saying that it is unique and deserves commendation, Okoya-Thomas said “we recognize and laud the fact that this is the first time such honour and recognition would be done to the womenfolk in the history of Lagos
State. She further commended the governor for coming up with a list of well qualified persons as his cabinet members. Okoya-Thomas, in a statement she personally signed, said that the fact that the Lagos cabinet list comprises qualified, tested and competent men and women of integrity who are stalwarts of the APC, gladdens her heart. “Lagos women thank and commend Governor Sanwoolu for this wonderful gesture, which is a courageous acknowledgment and deference to the women affirmative action. “This has also shown that Governor Sanwoolu is a man of his words, during campaign he promised more women inclusion and he is delivering,” she said. The Women Leader also thanked “our gender-sensitive APC leadership and in particular the National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who has always stood with us and fought strenuously for the inclusion of more women in governance.” She assured the Governor that the women he picked “for this important assignment represent some of our very best and we do not have any doubt in our minds that they would deliver for our state.” “However, we still have many more competent women, who are eager and ready to serve the state and we know they would be tapped and considered soon for other assignments in the state. “We could not have expected any better team from Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his determination to assemble a solid team that would help him deliver on his promise of a greater, more efficient, service-driven and results-oriented Lagos.” Okoya-Thomas, who was a member of the Federal House of Representatives, stated that she was particularly excited and thrilled by the appointment of more women into the Lagos cabinet.