Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State on Thursday said his administration would continue to ensure that every child in the state had access to good, quality, qualitative and affordable education. Oyetola spoke while inaugurating Telemu Comprehensive Middle High School and Morinu Community Elementary School in Ola-Oluwa and Iwo Local Government Areas of the state respectively. The governor, who noted that children were the hope for a better future, said it was an offence for parents not to allow their children to go to school. He said his administration was leading other stakeholders to achieve its goal of using education as a tool for delivering prosperity and development to the people. Oyetola said his administration’s resolve to invest in the education sector was aimed at achieving the state’s objectives of delivering a better life for the people and driving development in the state. The governor appealed to parents to ensure that their children and wards were registered in schools and were well-behaved. He also said there must be a synergy between the government, parents and teachers for the state to achieve its desired goals of making education the bedrock of development. “Education is the plank upon which the success and future of our state rests, let us give it our optimum so that Osun can take its place in the comity of states and contribute its quota to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. “The projects are an investment in the lives of our children who are our leaders of tomorrow. “It is also a fulfilment of our agenda to provide quality, affordable and equitable education to our people’” Oyetola said. In his remarks, Dr Olowogboyega Oyebade, the Head of Service and Chairman, State Education Steering Committee, said the projects were indication that the current administration would not abandon the good works of the previous administration. Also Speaking,  the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba AbdulRasheed Akanbi and Olowu of Telemu, Oba Madojutola Ajiboye, expressed gratitude to the government for priorising education in the state. NAN 