All is set for the deployment of a police special squad in the six Southwest states to rid the region of killings, kidnapping and armed banditry, it was learnt on Wednesday. Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) in Charge of Operations Abdulmajid Ali, who dropped the hint in Akure during a visit to Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, said the crack team would be deployed by Inspector-General Adamu Muhammed. Akeredolu was represented by Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi. DIG Ali, accompanied by the Assistant Inspector-General (AIG) in charge of Zone 11, Leye Oyebade and the State Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, said members of the proposed squad had been training in Abuja. They will soon be dispatched to the Southwest states of Ondo, Ekiti, Osun, Ogun, Oyo and Ekiti to curb crimes. The DIG commiserated with the state government over the killing of Mrs. Funke Olakunri, daughter of elder statesman Reuben Fasoranti. He restated the police commitment to making the country safe for every Nigerian. DIG Ali said: “I am sent by the Inspector-General of Police not only to Ondo but to other Southwest states to see the security architecture on ground and as well as to see how to redesign the security apparatus. “I decided to start with Ondo before I go to Ekiti and Osun because Ondo, being one of the focus states of recent, I believe we need to sit down with my officers here and see how we can forge ahead. “I want to let you know that the Inspector General of Police is mindful of what has been happening, particularly along the road as well as some of these miscreants disturbing the peace of the people. “I also want you know that security is one of the first pillars of any government in doing any service to the people. If security is not provided, there won’t be peace in that area and the governor too will find it difficult to operate. “We are aware of our responsibility. The IG has put in place a very strong team that are on training now and, in the next two weeks, they will be out and Ondo and other Southwest states have been the place of focus. “We are deploying them here to take charge of security and to work with our men on ground. I can assure you that the place will definitely have a change because when the members of the special squad are around. I want to assure you that peace will reign again in Ondo State and other Southwest states. Responding on behalf of the governor, Ajayi described the rising wave of insecurity in the Southwest as worrisome, saying that Ondo was not known to be a dumping ground for crime. He particularly charged the police to arrest Mrs. Olakunri’s killers, saying that “is a debt that must be paid by the Nigerian Police”. Ajayi noted that it was high time the police embraced digital policing to curb kidnapping and other violent crimes. The deputy governor said: “The police must also engage the community. This is very important. Even if you have 200,000 policemen in a community, you need the co-operation of the people in that community for you to be able to carry out your job effectively.” He said the police must map out strategy to secure the boundaries and other flashpoints in the Southwest. Ajayi promised that the state government would support the security men to chase criminals out of the state.