ACTING Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, on Tuesday said that the collaboration between the Commission and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has led to the recovery of $314,000 and about N373 million from the perpetrators of computer-related fraud. Besides the recovered $314,000, Magu said the Lagos Zonal office of the commission has traced N373 million to some commercial banks. The acting EFCC chair also informed that the recent joint operations coordinated by the Commission yielded 28 arrests with 14 suspects charged and convicted. Magu said: “Nine of the suspects are currently undergoing trial, while five are still under investigations. Over 80 cases are still under investigation from the EFCC-FBI joint operations.” He spoke through the Lagos Zonal Head of the commission, Mohammed Rabo at a news conference in Lagos. He said the Lagos office of the anti-graft agency, prior to the collaborative efforts with the FBI, had independently launched a sustained operation on perpetrators of various computer-related frauds. Magu said: “From 2018 to date, the EFCC had launched a sustained operation on perpetrators of various computer-related frauds, which resulted in over 200 arrests, 130 convictions and recovery of a large number of exotic cars and properties suspected to have been acquired through the proceeds of crime. “We had independently launched intensive investigative actions against the infamous Yahoo boys culminating in various strategic raids and onslaught on their hideouts. “Our efforts in this regard have recorded tremendous successes leading to a number of arrests, prosecutions and convictions.” Magu called on the media to continue to support the fight against corruption and economic and financial crimes, adding: “No one has the monopoly of knowledge of how the fight should be fought and won. “All the critical stakeholders, particularly the media, must continue to collaborate and cooperate with us to make the fight a success. “I urge you to continue to help us sensitize, mobilise and educate all the critical stakeholders to continue to support the fight against economic and financial crimes. We must collectively strive to achieve the Nigeria of our dream. “It is very critical for you to understand that you owe the youth that social responsibility of awakening their consciousness to the importance of a noble life devoid of crimes.” He also reiterated that the agency would leave no stone unturned “towards stamping out corruption and economic and financial crimes from our society.”