The All Progressives Congress (APC), in Ondo State, has commended Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for taking steps to reduce wastage in governance. The party applauded, recently, Akeredolu’s refurbishment of government vehicles that had been abandoned by previous administrations. By the initiative, the government has been able to save the state money that would have been expended on the purchase of new vehicles. Such money could be expended on other sectors in need of funding, according to the party. A statement by the party’s state Publicity Secretary, Alex Kalejaye, said, “The array of cars, refurbished with warranty, and being commissioned today are products of ingenuity. ”The current administration inherited a state that was hugely indebted. The usual practice of placing orders for new vehicles would have further plunged the State deeper into debt.” The party urged drivers and others users of the vehicles to adopt good maintenance attitude and thus preserve the vehicles in good condition. Kalejaye said the economic reality in the country “compels the necessity for governments at all levels to look inwardly and make the best of what is available”. Ogun to rehabilitate three federal roads Abeokuta- The Ogun State government yesterday announced its plan s to rehabilitate three major federal roads linking the state and Lagos in view of the economic importance of the roads. Earmarked for rehabilitation,according to Governor Dapo Abiodun, are the Ikorodu – Ogijo – Shagamu; the Epe – Ijebu/Ode and the Lagos – Ota – Abeokuta roads. The state government,he said, was already seeking permission and support of the Federal Government and the World Bank over the matter. Abiodun  noted that the Lagos – Ota – Abeokuta road has  remained a gory sight particularly whenever it rains resulting in hardship for Ogun residents who need to commute to and from Lagos State. ”People who shuttle through Iyana / Ilogbo axis of the road often talk about the nightmare they encounter everyday because of potholes and endless gridlock,” the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Kunle Somorin,said in a statement. ”This is a road under the fourth addendum and requires about N26 billion for complete rehabilitation. ”As a responsible government, we cannot fold our arms while our people suffer,” the statement quoted Abiodun as saying. The governor explained further that the Epe – Ijebu/ Ode and the Ikorodu – Ogijo roads required similar intervention. He noted that Lagos State had completed its own end of the Epe- – Ijebu/Ode road. ”What we need to make it a total package is about 14.4km stretch. ”So, we are taking it over because the welfare of our people is paramount to us. ”When completed, it will become an alternative route to motorists going to the Eastern part of the country,” he said.