Barely a month after announcing a new resolve to shut out milk importers from accessing foreign exchange, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has taken a major step to tackle the problem at the roots. Now it says it will be extending low-interest credit to assist milk producers boost output locally instead of their reliance on endless imports. That way, the apex bank not only hopes that the annual $1 – $1.5 billion spent on milk imports would be curbed, but would raise the spectre of backward integration which the local milk producers have hitherto shunned, to grow the economy. Again, we understand where the CBN is coming from. In a clime where access to cheap, long term finance continue to constitute impregnable hurdles to business; such gesture would ordinarily be the tonic that the sector would need to get by. Call it an inescapable paradox that this measure is only now being thought out for an industry which manufactures something as basic as milk – the ubiquitous companion on most family tables. We see nothing of rocket science in milk production that the country of our size and sophistication couldn’t be tasked with aspiring to self-sufficiency at the shortest possible time. And to imagine that all manner of so-called imported milk are dumped into our markets, often times without the strictures of regulation or quality assurance, makes the situation untenable. The measure, coming some three years after major dealers of milk product allegedly failed to live up to their commitments to ensure that they produce locally, would appear a necessary step to address a major flaw in policy. Seen within the prism of the valiant efforts that the Godwin Emefiele-led CBN has had to undertake in recent time to alter the terrible narrative of a country that continues to import what it enjoys comparative advantage in its production, would in fact make it extremely deserving of support. Most certainly, it ought to be troubling that the country continues to shell out scarce foreign exchange to the tune of billions on milk products at a time like this. We see the CBN intervention as therefore necessary – even as it does appear sometimes – that these are not what the apex banks all over the world are traditionally called out to do. In our case, the challenge is how far such specific measure like access to cheap, long term credit can go in an environment where the challenges of infrastructure remain impregnable, where government’s relationship with the local manufacturing sector is known to range from outright indifference to  adversarial, and where smuggling can make nonsense of well-conceived policies. Beyond the offer of cash, the expectation is that the Federal Government will engage the local producers. Much as credit would help cure a part of their problem, the Federal Government will certainly have to do more to assist them. One possible area would be in terms of logistics, which, no thanks to the parlous infrastructure situation, remains a nightmare. We also have the issue of smuggling, which, as we have seen of rice where the apex bank has also made significant intervention, has also remained insoluble.  Of course, at the heart of the quest is what does the country truly want and how do we get there? For a country whose border controls are as good as ineffectual, how do we ensure that measured progress – when they come by – are sustained? What the narrative tells us: without complementary policies on the part of the Federal Government to match efforts of the apex bank, not even the most valiant efforts being undertaken by the bank can be guaranteed to deliver expected outcomes.