The National Pension Commission has conducted the maiden inspection of the pension arrangements in Edo State and its agencies. The inspection, according to the commission, was aimed at ascertaining the level of implementation of the CPS as well as the administration of the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS) in the state. The commission in its First Quarter 2019 Summary Report, stated that they also conducted an inspection of the Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) branches operating in Edo State. The report read: “The inspection was to determine the extent to which staff of the PFAs were conversant with the provisions of the Edo State Contributory Pension Law and extant regulations and guidelines issued by the Commission, the level of compliance of the PFAs with the Commission’s circular on minimum requirement for opening of branches and service centers as well as the quality of services rendered to stakeholders. “The Commission further conducted routine inspections of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Pension Board and the FCT Area Council Staff Pension Board. The purpose of the inspections was to ascertain the level of implementation of the CPS as well as the administration of the DBS in the FCT and Area Councils.” Giving update on engagements with the state governments on the implementation of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), the commission said it continued its engagement with state governments on the implementation of the CPS. “The Commission held series of meetings with the management and staff of Ondo State Pension Commission (OSPEC), the Committee on the Implementation of the CPS in Ondo State, the Management and Staff of the Ondo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (OSOPADEC) as well as officials of the Ondo State Local Government Service Commission. “The meeting was convened to discuss some of the challenges in the implementation of the CPS in the state. The issues discussed include, provision of Information and Communications Technology infrastructure especially the deployment of appropriate applications by OSPEC, provision of Group Life Insurance Policy, capacity building for staff, non-conduct of a actuarial valuation to determine the past service liabilities of the employees, non-creation and funding of the Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund (RBBRF) Account, irregular deduction and remittance of pension contributions for employees of the state. “The commission also held a meeting with the Technical Committee on Pension, Kano State. The meeting was convened to address the issue of non-remittance of pension contributions and inability of Kano State Pension Fund Trustees to pay retirement benefits as at when due. “In the same vein, the commission conducted the First Quarter 2019 Consultative Forum for states and the FCT.  The event was attended by representatives of all states and the FCT, States and Local Governments Pension Bureau, Compliance Officers of Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and Pension Fund Custodian, (PFCs).” The Acting Director-General, PenCom, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, explained that the commission’s principal aim is to monitor the status of implementation of the CPS in the states and local governments. She said that by so doing, they will be able to help the states in areas that they consider as challenging. She stressed that some states have issues and challenges that they are trying to overcome to be able to join the scheme but they are working to help hasten the implementation of the CPS in the various states.