Victims of flooding in Cross River State have appealed to the Federal Government to come to their aid to ease the hardship they experience at the moment. The victims from various local government areas of the state, who spoke with reporters during an assessment tour carried out by the Acting Director-General of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) Mr. Princewill Ayim, lamented that they have lost so much. A rice farmer in Ogoja Local Government Area, Mr. Jude Odey, said he lost all his property in early August due to downpour that caused the flooding. According to Odey, his rice farm of about two hectares was also swept away by the flood. “Following the downpour in August, I lost my house and my rice farmland. Sadly also, I and my family have been squatting in my grandfather’s house because no assistance has come my way,’’ he said. Mr. Benjamin Obi in Boki Local Government Area said the flood destroyed his cocoa farmland. He begged the Federal Government, through the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to help him purchase new cocoa nursery for another planting season. In Abi, Obubra and Ikom local government areas, victims affected by the flood disaster also made similar appeals, urging that they also be assisted with relief materials to ameliorate their sufferings. Mr. Patrick Asikpo-Okon, a victim at Ibom Close in Calabar Municipality, where over 10 houses were destroyed, said he lost his credentials and other valuables to the flood. “The heavy rain of July wreaked havoc on the street. I lost my valuables because I was trying to rescue my little children from being swept away by the flood,” he said. Another victim, Mr Alfred Odey, resident at the Cross River University of Technology quarters in Calabar South, said the rain displaced his family, forcing them to relocate from the campus. The Acting Director-General Ayim, said flood has destroyed over 70 houses and rendered over 510 people homeless in 11 local government areas between May and now. Ayim, who said that no life was lost, called on NEMA to respond timely to alleviate the sufferings of the victims. “The Disaster Risk Management seasonal rainfall predictions done by Nigerian Meteorological Agency and the National Hydrological Services Agency on the annual flood outlook of 2019 predicts some states to be probable flood zones, of which Cross River is among. “Areas expected to have high rainfall will have effect on some zones such as Cross River and we are praying for prevention rather than response. “The state governor is doing a lot to respond to the plight of these victims across the state, but the load on us is much. We are appealing to the Federal Government to come to our aid,’’ he said.