An aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi state, Major General Patrick Akpa (Rtd), has completed the meet-the-delegates tour of all 21 councils in the state. The former commandant of Nigeria Defence Academy, Kaduna and a one-time Military Secretary, said the exercise was to solidify his support base across the councils. The tour started in Koton karfe, Kogi Local Government with a visit to the Traditional Ruler and Chairman Koton Karfe Emirate Council, The Ohimege of Koton Karfe, HRH Alh Abdulrazaq Isa Koto. The royal father warmly received the team and prayed for the success of the aspiration. In Lokoja Local Government, the campaign team visited the Maigari of Lokoja, HRH Muhammadu Kabiru III to seek for his royal blessings before meeting party executives and wards coordinators in a town hall meeting in Lokoja. The traditional ruler admonished Akpa to keep to his words having made a bond with the people through his profile, while wishing his well in his ambition. The delegates and coordinators in Central and Western Senatorial Districts eulogised Gen. Akpa, saying he has assisted them in diverse ways as the then NDA commandant. They said his hope agenda will bring development to the area, having been supportive of the party. They expressed confidence he will do more if he emerges governor. In Idah LGA, the campaign team paid courtesy visit to the Attah of Igala, HRH Dr Micheal Idakwo Ameh Oboni. The royal father called the aspirant his son, urging him to put Kogi first in his aspiration. He said Akpa impacted the people positively while in the Army and he prayed that the land will fight for his ambition. At the residence of the Catholic Bishop of Idah diocese, Most Revered Anthony Adaji, the bishop described Akpa as a general you can trust. He urged the team members to support him for the realisation of the HOPE Agenda. The Director of support group, Mr. Ibrahim Idakwo, who spoke at all the meetings, said Akpa remained the best aspirant in APC. He described the aspirant as bold, fearless and a purpose-driven person. He posited Akpa would bring about the much needed transformation and unity amongst the diverse groups in Kogi State. Idakwo said with the wide acceptability of Akpa across the 21 LGAs, he is convinced he would emerge victorious as the party’s candidate. The head of the media team, Pastor John Desmond, said they have seen in Gen. Akpa the qualities required to move Kogi to enviable height as Governor. He said Akpa is man of integrity and someone with a great heart. In all the areas visited, Akpa said he is in the race for governorship to bring about immense transformation and change the fortune of the State. He said he would pursue unity and entrench good governance in the state. He promised to carry all people along irrespective of ethnic, tribal, religious and political inclinations if elected.