A mission to boost youth empowerment and eradicate poverty through entrepreneurship is being championed by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the Abuja Enterprise Agency (AEA), and the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN). The partnership will provide sufficient support in material and human resources to the AEA, which, in turn, will scale up its numerous empowerment schemes to accommodate more persons. At an exhibition in Abuja, in honour of the visiting ILO Director-General, Mr. Guy Ryder, AEA Managing Director Mr Arabi Muhammad Tukur said the agency was established in 2006 as the Federal Capital Teritory’s administration’s vehicle for entrepreneurial development, poverty reduction and wealth creation. He said the agency, in the last 10 years, has supported 73,450 persons and businesses (90 per cent of whom were youths), in critical entrepreneurial areas like business clinics, access to finance, counselling, sensitisation, workspace and market linkage among others. He added that AEA had supported 31,100 rural entrepreneurs in 160 communities of the FCT with capacity-building training, access to finance, equipment and other critical areas. These are just some of the few achievements the Agency has attained over the years. He said: “The agency has designed to expand its grants programme to support the provision of work tools which will eliminate drudgery, share new technology to rural entrepreneurs and finance Start-ups, who are confronted with inadequate access to finance. “We are also focused on youth and women development. We have in the past three years trained over 800 youths and women on ICT, skills acquisition programmes covering areas such as shoes production and other leather works, cosmetology, confectionary and entrepreneurial training. “Plans are under way to undertake a financial literacy sensitisation programme to increase the number of entrepreneurs who have access to financial services to understand how to properly use the funds they received for their business.” Earlier in his remarks, Ryder assured that the body will assist AEA scale up its entrepreneurship drive. He said: “It was good listening to the beneficiaries of the training. All suggestions have been taken. The idea of working with the NLC, other bodies in the future is noted. The energy, vibrancy of Nigerians is excellent”  he said. The representative of the Director-General of SMEDAN, Mr Monday Ewang described AEA as its baby.  “We’ve partnered them ever since they took off. We’re ensuring they deliver their mandate and on ours too. “We’re happy to welcome the DG of ILO. SMEDAN will ensure it works closely with ILO”, he noted.