The Federal Government has set up a committee to review the revenue sharing formula. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN examines the politics of revenue allocation and the implication of the current arrangement on true federalism. The setting up of a committee by the Federal Government to review the revenue sharing formula is in response to Nigerians demands for new formula. Since the return of civil rule in 1999, Nigerians have continued to agitate for an equitable  formula. It has been on the front burner of national discourse. The Chairman of the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Allocation Commission (RMAFC), Mr Elias Mbam, said the committee would among other things review the sharing formula for federal, states and local governments in line with the current economic realities. According to the current formula, the Federal Government gets 52.68 per cent, State government26.72 per cent and Local Government 20.60 per cent. Also 13 per cent of oil and gas federally collected revenue is paid to the oil producing states as derivation revenue to compensate for ecological disasters arising from oil production. The formula was designed during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration.  Demand by states: Ahead of the review, the state governors are pushing 42 per cent as against the 26.72 per cent they currently get. They are also seeking that the share of the Federal Government be slashed from the current 52.68 per cent to 37 per cent, while requesting that the share of local governments be increased from the current 20.60 per cent to 23 per cent in the new formula. The governors based their proposal on their quest to be able to pay the minimum wage, the need for more resources to fight insecurity and the decaying infrastructure in their domain which, they said, the states do not have the funds to address. According to the governors, managing states today is becoming very expensive. On security, they said even though there is a central police system, the states contribute heavily through provision of equipments and monthly allowances to boost the morale of the personnel in the discharge of their duties. A governor, who spoke in confidence, said “the cost of securing the states has become very expensive that they cannot cope with the present allocation formula. If the state police already approved by the Federal Government come on board, it means additional expenses on our part. If there is no security in the states, businesses will not grow, states can’t generate funds. “We were reluctant to accept the N30,000 minimum wage because of the cost implications. That was why we insisted that if minimum wage must be implemented with ease, there must be an adjustment on revenue allocation formula”. He said the states have been responsible for the maintenance and even reconstruction of federal roads in their domains. Besides, the federal hospitals have been abandoned to the states; it has been additional responsibilities to the state without additional allocation from the federation account.  NGF proposal: On the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) proposal, the governor said: “We have a template that will be presented to RMFAC. Our demand is that we want between 40 and 45 per cent. This demand is based on responsibilities assigned to us by the constitution, besides those forced on us by the Federal Government”. An expert in fiscal policy, Dr Tunji Ogunyemi criticised the current sharing formula. The formula, he said, had emasculated the states and local government from performing their constitutional responsibilities to the citizens.  Constitution review: Ogunyemi, who lectures at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), called for the amendment of Section 162 of the 1999 Constitution and suggested a new formula of 20 per cent for the Federal Government; 60 per cent for states and 20 per cent for the local governments. As regards derivation, he recommended 50 per cent and a tax of 10 per cent payable to the Federal Government on resources produced by the states. He argued that the bulk of national revenue should go to the states and local governments because they are the centre of development. According to him, state governments are performing the Federal Government’s functions in their respective states. “Most of the federal roads in the states are maintained and even reconstructed by state governments He cited the case of the Federal Police that rely solely on state governments for logistics such as patrol vehicles, bullet proof vests, fuelling and maintenance of patrol vehicles and special allowance paid to motivate the police men and women. The university don opined that “the centre should be less attractive. We should de-emphasise the centre. There should be devolution of powers; states should be given more powers, more responsibilities and commensurate additional funds”. Renowned economist Henry Boyo blamed the problem of revenue sharing formula on what he described as Nigeria’s fraudulent constitution. He recalled that under Republican Constitution in the First Republic Nigeria was practising true federalism, whereby each region controlled it s resources and paid tax to the Federal Government. He made reference to Sections 136 to 145 of the 1963 Constitution whereby the funds in the Distributable Pool Account divided among the regions in shares proportionate to the respective amount of goods consumed in the regions. The economist recalled that 50 per cent of proceeds from mining royalties and rents, including mineral oil were retained by the regions. He said this was the golden era of true, equitable federalism. The constitution encouraged the regions then to engage each other in healthy economic competition. There was no agitation rather there was competition on development among the regions.  More funds for states: Elder Statesman and former Federal Commissioner of Works and Housing, Alhaji Femi Okunnu has suggested that the Federal Government share from the Federation Account should go down to 25  or 20 per cent; states  35 per cent and the remainder should go into distributive pool. He said the Federal Government is cheating the states in revenue allocation; that is why revenue accruable to Federal Government should go down from 54 to 25 per cent. He said that we are not ready to face the historical truth about the basis of revenue allocation; the reasons why in the colonial era and, until 1979 why the Federal Government was assigned only 20 per cent of the revenue allocation, instead of the 54 per cent the Federal Government now takes for running the central government. According to him, “Section 134 (1) of the 1960 Constitution stipulates: (a) There shall be  paid by the Federation to each region a sum equitable to 50 per cent of the proceeds of any royalty received by the federation, in respect of any mineral extracted in that region and any mining rents derived by the federation from any region. “The federation shall credit to Distributable Pool Account a sum equal to 30 per cent of the proceeds of any royalty received by federation, in respect of the mineral extraction in any region and any mining rents derived by the federation from any region.” He explained that the remaining 20 per cent is kept by the Federal Government as its own share. Under the colonial rule, the revenue allocation was fashioned in such a way that regions derived revenue from the Federation Account according to the functions and powers which the regions carried out under the constitution.  Pre-independence formula: He said: “Before independence, the colonial government, with the consent of regional governments appointed the Fiscal Commission to look into the functions and powers of the legislative list and determine the percentage of the revenue the regional government will need to carry out their functions and the percentage that will go to the Federal Government to determine how much the Federal Government would spend to service its own functions. “That was how government at independence up to the time of Murtala/Obasanjo followed the fixed constitutional formula of 20 per cent to the Federal Government, 50 per cent to State of origin and the remaining 30 per cent to distributive pool to be shared among the regions/states”. But, the past RMAFC Chairman, Shettima Abba- Gana believes reviewing of the revenue sharing formula is not the solution to states and local governments quest for increased revenue. He agreed that that the state governments have the right to demand for a review of the sharing formula. Gana said: “Reviewing the formula is not an easy process and I am not particularly sure whether the review of the revenue sharing formula is the best solution for the states. This is because the formula itself is based on foundation and that is the constitution that has given the federal government exclusive functions and states and local governments concurrent functions. “Unless you move functions from one tier to another, it will be very difficult to just transfer funds boldly to another tier. The magnitude of what the states are requiring may not be be necessarily easy without some constitutional amendments to look at what the concurrent and exclusive functions of states, local and Federal Governments are.” Gana, however, said that what the RMAFC always advocated was getting more revenue that would be enough for the three tiers to share. He added that even the Federal Government itself required more funds, especially with the current situation in some parts of the country and the demand for infrastructure which also require funding. The former chairman said that through the review of the Product Sharing Contracts (PSCs) and enhancement of the Joint Venture Contracts (JVCs) and the state going to do some more work on their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), it would uplift revenue across board. This, he said was more important than trying to share from a cake that was presently not enough or was shrinking.  New expectations: On the review of the PSCs, Gana said it was an on-going process that had been done in the past and was last reviewed in 2008. “In 2014, we did one and former President Goodluck Jonathan did not grant us leave to present it to him as should be done constitutionally and since then we have not done another one.” The committee set up by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on restructuring has proposed the altering the current revenue sharing formula. The committee headed by Governor Nasir El-Rufai had since submitted its report. It recommends thus: “To promote the unity of the country and ensure that states are more financially empowered to deliver services  to their residents, as well as ensure no one fell disadvantaged, the committee recommends that the Federal Government should expeditiously review the current derivation formula to reflect areas of national consensus which are adoption of state control of resources and pay tax to the Federal Government; the upward review of the current formula in favour of states and the adoption of similar derivation formula in favour of solid minerals and power generation. “The committee in response to popular opinion recommends an upward review of the current derivation formula and the adoption of the said formula in favour of solid minerals  and hydro power. The recommendation will entail the amendment of Section 162 (2) of the Constitution. It has been noted that there is no clear provision in any legislation assigning the specific responsibility for initiating the review of derivation formula to any particular organ of government, even though item 32 of Part 1 of the Third Schedule to the Constitution stipulates that the formula shall remain for a period of not less than five years.” “This implies that the formula will be reviewed periodically subject to period not being less than five years. It is instructive to know that the current formula has been in place for over 17 years without review. This is probably because of failure to assign responsibility for initiating the review process on any organ of government.”. However, the committee recommended that the RMAFC and Fiscal Allocation Commission Act 2004 be amended to give the commission the power and responsibility to periodically review the derivation formula and make proposal to the President who shall then table same before the National Assembly for necessary legislation. On fiscal federalism and revenue allocation, the committee recommended that Federal Government should urgently direct the RMAFC to fashion out a new revenue allocation formula in consonance with the 1999 Constitution as amended, which envisages a periodic review of the formula. Since Section 162 (2) of the Constitution already provides for principle of derivation of not less than 13 per cent, there is room for its upward review. The agitation for an acceptable revenue sharing formula dates back to the pre- colonial era. It was the Richard Constitution of 1946 that introduced the principle of derivation, which granted autonomy to the regions based on their natural resources. It was replaced by another formula produced by a commission headed by Jerry Raisman in 1958. The Raisman Commission placed greater emphasis on population, which it regarded as an approximate index of fiscal need. Another review commission headed by Binn also emphasised the application of the principle of need which favoured the Northern Region because it was more populous than the Southern Nigeria. The military incursion into governance changed the tradition of equitable distribution of national wealth and principle of derivation. The military promulgated the Distributive Pool Account Decree 13 which granted 60 per cent share of export duties instead of 100 per cent , 50 per cent on motor fuel and 50 per cent of excise duty revenue leaving the rest to the Federal Government. 