It would appear that the “Revolution Now” people spoke too soon and probably out of turn. Five days after threatening to bring the citadel down on President Mohammadu Buhari, it was the feisty and irrepressible Omoyele Sowore himself who was quietly taken into custody in the middle of the night. Many of his supporters, including Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, insist that the chap has been abducted by state agents. The fact remains that when day broke and except for a few minor scuffles, all was remarkably quiet on the Nigerian front. The revolution has turned out a squib, if not a particularly damp one. Yet only the historically deluded can rule out revolutions from the affairs of a distressed and savagely unequal society like ours. Human societies advance through a combination of evolution and revolution, depending on the disposition of social forces. No power on earth can outlaw a revolution whose time has come or abridge its accelerating momentum. Revolutions occur when the evolutionary process for managing human contradictions has reached the limits of its political and social possibilities. It is not a question of prayers or social consultations but of an idea that has reached maturity in the fullness of time. On Thursday afternoon, a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja slammed a forty-five day detention order on Sowore to allow the embattled civil rights activist plenty of time to cool down and to engage his revolutionary demons in the solitude of state incapacitation.  Despite what many consider the unjust severity of the order, Sowore remained his defiant and implacable self, taking the battle publicly and directly to his tormentors. In the process, Sowore for now appears to have silenced many of his detractors and traducers, particularly the squalid state moles among them who believe that the former student union activist was merely grandstanding and would wilt and wither under state fire.  This was no longer an ordinary act of defiance but an extraordinary rite of passage from juvenile protester to prisoner of conscience. As it is, we urge caution on all sides so that we do not end up with a Steve Biko scenario in which the state resorts to the murder of its own citizens in order to impose its physical dominion. This is the point where the government would have benefitted from friendship with influential members of the civil and human rights community in order to stem the tide of an ugly commotion brewing. A revolution is a drastic reformatting of time and events by superior time and events. It is not to be lightly toyed with. A revolution is never proclaimed or inaugurated like a democratic assemblage. On the contrary, a revolution is a carnival of organized chaos and supervised anarchy. Nobody is in actual control of the crowd except its own unified consciousness which sweeps and spans the tumultuous tide of human emotions as people surge forward to change their destiny forever. If Sowore had hoped to galvanize his numerous supporters and growing admirers by a cult of heroic example, it has turned out to be a very poor and inept reading of the concrete situation on ground with the publisher of Sahara Reporters making out like a saloon socialist rather than a very serious student of the social and political inequities that make revolution inevitable.  For now, the Nigerian revolution remains a pale blip in the womb of time. The revolution is remanded. Yet it remains to be said that there are times in the life of a nation when a particular development is nothing but an allegorical commentary on another series of events simultaneously unfolding in the same nation-space. It may not be time for revolution in Nigeria, but it is a sign of severe system stress if a former presidential candidate in a recently concluded national election is calling for a radical disruption of the system in place so soon after the election. Whether we like to acknowledge this or not, the Fourth Republic, after twenty years in existence, is undergoing severe stress and strain which requires urgent creative repairs and not kneejerk militarism. All the signals which led to the collapse of the previous democratic experiments are quite visible. Routine and regular elections are usually not an infallible guide of the political health and stability of a society. In the First Republic, shambolic and massively rigged elections were still being held in the old Western Region around October, 1965, just about three months to the collapse of the whole Republic.  In the Second Republic, the NPN hierarchs were still celebrating the massive electoral swindle when the military struck to put an end to the chicanery. In all these instances and despite the veneer of legitimacy imposed by elections and the substantial compliance with the formal rituals of democracy, the elite consensus on which democratic consensus is anchored has taken a nosedive. As we have said, the Sowore uprising may just be the tip of the iceberg commanding the wrong attention while the real volcano is gathering strength in the background. For example, the Atiku challenge to President Buhari’s election is by far the longest running and bitterest presidential electoral dispute in the history of the nation, if the news from the tribunal is to be believed, everything is being thrown in and no room is left for reconciliation. That this battle is being fought between two favoured scions of the northern establishment without any let or hindrance is an indication of the collapse of elite consensus even within the old northern power caucus despite General Buhari’s electoral dominance. The mismanagement of post-election bitterness among significant sections of the political elite has resulted in virtual severance of elite commonalities between the South South, the South East and the hegemonic elite formation in the nation. Governor Wike rules very much as if he is the potentate of a sovereign entity with its own distinct identity. If we are now to factor in Sowore’s yellow-shirted urban brigades, something more serious may be loading. After twenty years of operation, the political architecture of governance could do with some deeply integrative make-over. Apart from the possibility of several vital elements of the political class going rogue  owing to economic evisceration, the kind of bitterness and rancour emanating from the presidential electoral tribunal that we have alluded to and now the Sowore uprising suggest severe system stress which could imperil the entire democratic structure. In sum, the emerging threats to the Fourth Republic can be grouped under five broad headings: Political, economic, cultural, regional and spiritual.  First is the subsisting and persistent Boko Haram threat which represents the most potent revolutionary challenge to the Nigerian post-colonial state ever since its inception. Committed to a theocratic order and waging an armed critique of the Nigerian state for over a decade now, the Boko Haram is more potentially destabilising than anything the organisers of “Revolution Now” could come up with. Second is the economic devastation of the northern fringes of the nation as a result of war and endemic mismanagement of resources. This has directly spawned the alternative industry of kidnapping, abductions, ritual hostage-taking and violent robberies. As this social pathology finally winged its way southward, it has occasioned a poisoning of the regional and cultural well of mutual amity with very severe backlash on extant political architecture. Third, the overall climate of social, political and spiritual insecurity is fuelling a wave of nostalgic revival of the old template of regionalism and the security architecture which was in place before the termination of the First Republic by the military. This climate of insecurity with the growing mutual loathing and ethnic profiling accompanying it has led some leading pundits to conclude that were the presidential elections to be held at this minute, it would have produced a far more interesting result. Finally, the brewing rebellion of the Shitte IMN is arguably the most potent threat to the Fourth Republic both in terms of its local potential and capacity for an international enlargement of the theatre of conflict. By its treatment of the El ZakZaky group, the federal authorities have been toying with savage reprisal from a rogue international consortium of mayhem merchants. We have said it many times in this column that Nigeria cannot afford another armed religious insurrection. In addition to allowing their leader to go for medical rehabilitation, something must be urgently done by the federal authorities to de-escalate the conflict with the group. President Mohammadu Buhari will not be in power forever and it is important for the federal authorities to resist projecting Nigeria as a Sunni State which it is not. From the above analysis, it can be seen that the Fourth Republic is hostage to misfortune on many fronts. These threats range from the residual, that is, those conflicts already in place before the advent of the present administration.  The eminent, that is those contradictions that have achieved centrality with the arrival of General Buhari on the scene, and the emergent, which are conflicts that are a direct result of the peculiar governance style of the retired infantry general. It is unfortunate that despite these multi-pronged threats to democracy and the wider implications for the corporate survival of the nation, the federal authorities have always relied on naked force and knee-jerk militarism to head off the threat. Yet the more the government relies on its authoritarian resolve to stamp on the conflict, the more there is a possibility of the conflicts assuming an incendiary cultural and regional dimension which could sunder the country along ethnic and regional fault lines. As the nation enters uncharted waters of economic, political and spiritual insecurities in the coming months, it is this possibility of an unravelling at the seams that ought to concentrate the mind of the authorities rather than the threat of revolution by Sowore and his band. They are just the harbingers of more interesting times ahead. After twenty years of operating an authoritarian Law and Order semi-military set up in civilian garb, it is now time to boost and energize the structures of civil governance in Nigeria in a way that emphasizes the virtues of conciliation, compromise and consensus imperative for peace and stability in a multi-ethnic nation wracked by tension and mutual hostilities. The alternative is a complete relapse into an authoritarian right wing despotism sustained by military might rather than extant democratic structure. If the problem of the last twenty years can be ascribed to the pains of a nation in traumatic transition to political and economic modernity, then it ought to be obvious that no nation can be a permanent toddler in the global scheme of things. No nation can continue to blackmail the international community with the permanent prospects of future greatness. It is either that greatness comes now or international irrelevance beckons.