This reminds me of the battering meted on the ministerial nominees before their confirmation. One lingering criticism of the nominees is the argument that they are mainly recycled politicians or members of the political class. If such critics ever took a look at the cabinets of other nations, especially advanced democracies like the United States and the United Kingdom, they would discover that experienced hands often get recycled. Moreover, it is a universal practice that leaders often reward those who assist them in elections with positions commensurate with their profile and quality of assistance. Now that the discussion has shifted to ministerial accountability, the most important variable to be considered is funding and how funds are applied. The critical question is: How much can a Minister achieve if his or her ministry is not adequately funded? Not much. Yet, this has been the situation in the last four years. Take the education sector, for example. Although slight noticeable increases have been applied to the federal budgetary allocation to education in the last few years, hardly had the government cross the seven percentile mark of the national budget. The result is the deteriorating state of university infrastructure and facilities and the downward trend in education quality. This explains the incessant strike by the university unions and the attendant blackmailing of the Minister of Education. This means that President Buhari must back his call for measurable performance indicators with adequate funding and its availability when required for a specific phase of any project. It is not enough to mouth accountability without providing the necessary funds for the Ministers to achieve their ministries’ objectives. That was the case last time. It should not be the case this time. Finally, I congratulate all the Ministers inaugurated today and urge them to perform to the utmost of their ability. At the same time, I should remind them that the press will be watching every step they take for the next four years or so.