The Kaduna State Police Command has paraded 79 suspected kidnappers, armed bandits and other criminals at Rijana on Kaduna-Abuja highway. Commissioner of Police Ali Aji Janga, who paraded the suspects before reporters, said 35 guns and 439 cattle were recovered from the suspects. The CP said the suspects were arrested from different locations within the state in July. Janga said: “The gallant determination of our crack operatives such as SARS, AKU, IRT and other units have again recorded some successes with the apprehension of 79 suspects for various crimes which include: “Criminal conspiracy, armed robbery, kidnapping, cattle rustling, culpable homicide, shop breaking and theft, impersonation and receiving stolen property. “Pursuant to our collective resolve, high sense of commitment and relentless determination, the command has sustained a serious manhunt on bandits and other perpetrators of crime within the state with a view to arresting and bringing them to book. “I am also glad to inform the general public that we are currently reviewing our structural deployment on Kaduna-Abuja Road, Kaduna-Zaria Road and Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road with a view to make the highways safer for commuters while the efforts to rid the command of banditry and other violent crimes continue.” The police boss also added that exhibits recovered include nine Ak47 rifles, one unserviceable LAR rifle and 11 locally made rifles and pistols. “Also, one Pump Action, three Dane guns, 954 rounds of live ammunition of different calibres and 24 live cartridges, one knife, one hacksaw, N30,000, two handsets, one face mask, two pair of canvass, four and half (41/2) Bundle of Brocade (Shadda) materials and eleven caps were recovered. “We also recovered one KIA Serato Motor Vehicle with Reg. No TT 547 AA Black in colour, one Toyota Corolla S Ash in colour with Reg. No. GWA 872 FM, one unregistered Mercedes Benz C350 Ash in colour.” The CP added that 439 cattles, 18 sheep, eight donkeys, one tricycle with Reg. No. MKA 248 WY, six motorcycles, eight Plasma Television, one HP Laptop, One Tiger Generator and four cutlasses were also recovered from the suspects. “I am calling on the good people of Kaduna State to feel free and go about their normal businesses as the command has appreciably reduced the rate of crime within the state. “I remain grateful to the media for being our window and supportive in the fight against criminality in State,” he said. The CP also hailed the gallant efforts of officers and men of the command for their selfless determination and professional manner in the handling of the violent protests by members of the proscribed Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN).