It is about a month to the September 3 primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State. The general concern, however, is: who is the preferred or anointed aspirant of the state Governor, Seriake Dickson? While insisting that his support would only be for a member of his team, the governor said only three people from his caucus have indicated interests to participate in the election. The caucus went further to release the names of the people as the Chief of Staff, Government House, Talford Ongolo; the Secretary to State Government (SSG), Kemela Okara and a Senator representing Bayelsa Central, Douyi Diri. Subsequent to the barrage of criticisms against the three people, more members of the restoration caucus jumped into the foray and indicated interests to run for the polls. Over eight members of the restoration caucus joined the race for the PDP ticket. Apart from the three earlier mentioned, others are the Chairman of the Revenue Board, Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei; the immediate past Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Kombowei Benson; a member of the House of Representatives, Fred Agbedi; Deputy Governor, Rear Admiral John Jonah (rtd) and Robinson Etolor. Among members of the caucus that joined the race, the trio suffered unprecedented criticisms from members of the public. Others such as Benson, Jonah and Agbedi, have enjoyed some degrees of acceptance by the PDP members. However, Ayawei appears to stand out among all of them. He is gaining momentum, especially on the social media. Ayawei was one of the last people to pick the PDP forms. Hitherto, he was speculated to be the choice of Dickson. Ayawei’s late entry to the race seems to have confirmed the speculation. His character may have endeared him to thousands of youths, women, elders and other stakeholders, who urged him to join the governorship race. Ayawei, who served as the Chairman of the Bayelsa State Revenue Board, is known for his loyalty and dedication. Though he lost everything at last as he was forced into political oblivion, his loyalty was remembered by Dickson, who brought him to serve in his government. The 48-year-old politician has become one of the most popular people among the 21 aspirants that picked the forms of the PDP. Undoubtedly, Ayawei, who is a native of Koluama II in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, has also presented himself as popular among the masses. His speech after collecting his forms gave an insight into his personality. He said: “I was born about 48 years ago and grew up here in our dear state and witnessed all the difficulties we face growing up as children. We live and come from an environment where our natural endowment cements and keeps our country prosperous. Unfortunately, in the midst of these abundant natural resources, we suffer great penury and diverse environmental challenges. “This cause presents the greatest challenge we all face in the 21st Century. My task in this venture is to deal with this very essential element and provide the necessary platform to increase our development on all sectors”. On his experience in governance, he said: “At the advent of democracy in 1999, and the eventual creation of the small development areas by His Excellency, Chief DSP Alamieyeseigha, I had the rare privilege to serve as Chairman of Bassan-Koluama Rural Development Area, a position from which I was promoted to serve and represent the people of Southern Ijaw Constituency IV in the Bayelsa State House of Assembly. “At the inception of the restoration government in 2012, it found me worthy and tasked me with managing essential agencies of government, an opportunity I embraced very seriously. “At the moment, it seems good, but we are still in the process of creating a better model to further expand our revenue base until this patriotic call to service. “I am aware that the task of governance for a state such as ours is indeed a herculean one. However, given my passion, commitment and your expected support and solidarity, it is my firm belief that together we can steer the ship of this state to a good end and deepen the already established protocols of aggressive developments as currently being done by our leader and Governor, His Excellency H.S. Dickson. “In the next couple of days we will begin series of interrogations, debates and critical engagements. “This blueprint, above all, will bear the ideals and mandate of all in achieving a people-driven policy document that will be our creed as we begin the task of purposeful home leadership when given the mandate. “Today, by this singular act of collecting the intent and nomination form for the Peoples Democratic Party governorship election primaries, we have obeyed the massive clarion call with our spirit, soul and body. I thank you all who have contributed in this decision and those of you who are ready to face the crucibles of this decision and work with our team to achieve glory for the land and its people.” But Dickson has insisted that he had no preferred candidate for the primaries of the PDP. Dickson, in a statement by the Special Adviser, Media Relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, called on Bayelsans to discountenance aspirants claiming to have his endorsement. The governor said he would commence intensified consultations with aspirants and critical stakeholders at the national and state levels of the PDP following the conclusion of the sale of the gubernatorial nomination forms for the next election. Dickson also promised to work closely with the party leadership to ensure the conduct of credible, free and fair primaries in Bayelsa. He said while the aspirants, who picked the party’s nomination forms reserved the right to pursue their ambition, the leadership of the party would watch and monitor the buildup to the primaries. He said he remained committed to his earlier stance that there was no anointed aspirant in the forthcoming gubernatorial election. He said: “Now that the collection of gubernatorial forms have ended, the leadership of the party in the state wishes to say that there is no anointed aspirant against the practice in those states where outgoing governors endorse one single aspirant. “I decided to open the state for people in my government, my team and other members of the party who are willing to indicate their interest. “The aspirants who have bought firms have the right to express their ambition but the state leadership of the party should watch keenly. “Now that the end of purchase of forms has come, I will intensify consultations both with aspirants, party leaders and other stakeholders. “And at the end of the day, I intend to work with the party at the national and state levels to ensure that there is a free and fair election. Those using my name should be disregarded; it is not true, I have not endorsed anybody yet”.