A group under the auspices of City Club Abuja has donated gift items to two orphanages namely: Arija Center for Widow and Orphan, and Facado Foundation Orphanage. President of City Club Abuja, Mr. Ariyo Maiye who did not mention any amount used to purchase the items told Abuja Review well-meaning Nigerians should reach out to the poor for a better society. Maiye said the club will continue to reach out to the poor and the less privilege no matter the situation adding that: “we decided to go for our Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Keffi. We usually have outreach to give the less privilege in the society hope. “We do not want to say the actual amount. We are just reaching out to the poor. The club was formed last year and this is our first AGM so we decided that we must reach out to a least two orphanage homes. The objective of the club is to build a social support system for our members and by extension the under privilege within our reach. We were 45 and we have just inducted 10 new members and we are now 56 in number. As time goes on we will induct more new members. The benefit of that is to be able to reach out to more people that are in need.” To members, he said: “My advice for members is to always conduct themselves in a gentle manner that will make the club proud. Before accepting anyone into the club we look at character, and if you will be able to contribute to the values of the club that is reaching out to the poor.” Zakari Yaro, who is the head of Arija Center for Widows and Orphans said: “We appreciate the club for the donations and pray for more success for the club.  We have 55 children here.” Ngozi George is the founder and director of Facado foundation orphanage located in new Karo, the second orphanage where the group visited: “I appreciate the Abuja City Club. We are so happy that God has brought you to our place today and we pray that God will bless you. “We have 31 children here and the youngest is about 11 months and the oldest is about 14. The orphanage was established in 2006 and we are going to be 13 years this year. We have several challenges but the most pressing one is fund to continue to take good care of the children. We are also building to accommodate more children.” Mr. Kefas Ropshik who is the Welfare officer of the club said: “The motivation for helping the needy is we know that government cannot do everything for everybody so we need different individuals and different social clubs that will also assist humanity. If you are able to touch one life, then you have saved. A lot for this generation. So giving back is what everybody should embark on. We should just keep encouraging ourselves that anytime we are called upon we should respond. No matter the amount of money you have, if you cannot touch lives then you are a poor man.” The chairman, board of trustees of the City Club Abuja also said: “We are a group of like-minds. Fortunately, God has blessed a lot of us and we seek to give back to the society. We seek to help the less privilege people. Orphan, widows and others. Right now, the situation in the country is really tough. A lot of people are going through a lot of stress. Financial difficulty. If you are privileged, give back to the society. Let everyone has his own little Nigeria that he or she is supporting.”