The National Sugar Master Plan (NSMP) targets domestic production of 1.7 million metric tonnes by 2020. This will cut down sugar importation, which gulps N350 billion yearly, and also create jobs. But, few months to the deadline, Nigeria is not likely to meet the targets. She continues to consume between 1.5 million and 1.7 million tonnes of sugar yearly, making her Africa’s largest sugar importer. Operators blame this on conflicts with landowners/communities, insecurity and lack of infrastructure. They recommend, among others, closing the infrastructure gap and creating sugar hubs and intervention fund to stimulate the industry, Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. As a committed investor in the sugar industry, the Group Executive Director, BUA Group, Alhaji Kabiru Rabiu, is in a vantage position to know what ails the industry. And, by extension, he also knows what is required to turn it around in order to achieve Nigeria’s target to become self-sufficient in sugar production and consumption and also guarantee a bountiful Return on Investment (RoI) for investors. To make these happen, Rabiu said, for instance, that the Federal Government should double its efforts in addressing some of the observed deficiencies holding the sugar industry down. He listed some of the issues to include huge capital cost for investors,unending conflicts with landowners/communities over land acquisition, insecurity, infrastructure deficit, water and environmental issues, as well as lack of synergy among regulatory agencies. The BUA Group executive director spoke penultimate week on the “Challenges of emerging sugar companies in meeting the sugar demand of Nigeria” at the maiden conference of the Sugarcane Technologies Society of Nigeria (STSN) in Abuja. He said other factors contributing to the slow implementation of the Federal Government’s Backward Integration Programme (BIP) for sugar include skill deficit and lack of synergy among various stakeholders. The BIP for sugar was aimed at boosting the implementation of the National Sugar Master Plan (NSMP), which began in January 2013. The NSMP was aimed at encouraging local production of sugar and halting the importation of the product, which was costing the nation a whopping N350 billion annually. Specifically, Nigeria, under the plan, targeted domestic production of 1.7 million metric tonnes of sugar by 2020. The plan also sought to create jobs, contribute to the production of ethanol and generate electricity. While 37,378 and 79,803 direct and indirect/seasonal jobs were expected to be churned out from the sector, respectively, the plan targeted the production of 161.2 million litres of ethanol annually. It was also envisaged that Nigeria will ride on the back of the sugar master plan to generate 411.7 megawatts (mw) of electricity yearly. To meet these ambitious targets, the NSMP said there was the need to establish about 28 sugar factories of varying capacities, and bring about 250,000 hectares of land into sugarcane cultivation. The National Sugar Development Council (NSDC), a parastatal of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, which developed the sugar master plan, made it clear that the bulk of the investment capital required to meet the targets would come from private investors. This was why the Federal Government entered into a tripartite arrangement with the three major investors in the sugar value chain namely, Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc, BUA Sugar Refinery Limited and Golden Sugar Company to drive the implementation of the roadmap. But six years down the line, and with only few months to the 2020 target, there are no visible signs on the horizon that Nigeria will be self-sufficiency in sugar.  Unending conflicts with landowners For BUA Group and indeed, other investors in the BIP for the sugar industry, reining in host communities whose disposition to investors has been everything but friendly has become imperative. The Nation learnt, for instance, that many of the projects in some communities, which would have raised the NSMP’s implementation profile, have been stalled by government and host community’s unwillingness to give out land. For instance, BUA Group’s investment of $300 million in its integrated LASUCO Sugar Company in Lafiagi, Kwara State, is expected to produce 35 megawatts (MW) of electricity to be used for the factory, while the excess supply will be added to the national grid. Also, the plant, when completed in 2020, will produce 20 million litres of ethanol per annum and 200,000 metric tonnes of refined sugar annually. Despite these mouth-watering deliverables, BUA Group was said to have reported community hostilities against operations at its project site in Lafiagi Sugar Estate. It also recorded incidents of physical attacks against contractors working on estate roads and irrigation canals. Flood protection dykes constructed at very huge costs were breached and cane fields washed away. Farm infrastructures – irrigation systems were damaged. The Nation learnt that the story is the same for Dangote Sugar Refinery, which acquired 6,500 hectares of land in Guyuk for the expansion of its Savannah Sugar Company Limited, Numan, in Adamawa State. The project was reportedly stalled at some point by unrealistic demands by local community leaders. The company’s project site in Lau/Tau in Taraba State, also suffered the same fate. After the company was said to have gotten a Certificate of Occupancy (CoO), and had paid compensation following which 20 hectares of nursery was established for further development, the Taraba State administration allegedly frustrated the projects with its “untenable demands.” Golden Sugar Company Limited, another investor, also suffered similar fate when its Golden Sugar Estate in Sunti witnessed many disruptions during its development, requiring, at some point, interventions by police and local chiefs. The company’s intention to expand its cane fields was also stalled due to hostile and anti­-investment sentiments.  Reeling under high production cost Although Rabiu praised the NSDC for stimulating investment in local sugar production for self-sufficiency, he lamented the high cost of sugar production and heavy capital investment. He noted that Nigeria is Africa’s largest sugar importer, with consumption ranging from 1.5 million to 1.7 million tonnes per annum. This, according to him, translates to about 8kg per head, which is low compared to the Africa average of 17kg. He said Nigeria’s low consumption capacity was due to lack of infrastructure, which drives up project cost, as well as heavy capital investment in plantation development, irrigation facilities, mills construction, and direct land acquisition by investors etc. Synergy among stakeholders, regulators imperative Although Rabiu said his company has made significant progress and that BUA’s LASUCO Company will be the biggest integrated sugar plantation in Nigeria upon completion in 2020, the need for synergy among various stakeholders and building capacity among the industry regulators is not lost on him. For one, such synergy will ensure optimal and sustainable development of the value chain for sugar as a commodity right from production to the market. And the value chain, according to experts, begins with farmers, who must be provided with all the necessary inputs including the variety of sugarcane to plant to be able to deliver the quality of sugar required, and the right quantity per hectare. It will also encourage not just large scale sugar cane plantation, but also Small and Medium Enterprises (SME’s) to provide their own support to the sugar master plan. There will also be full involvement of members of host communities as farmers who will be involved in the sugar value chain instead of allowing them become a spanner in the works for investors. Synergy and collaboration will also ensure that sugarcane out grower farmers are encouraged and supported through the provision of credit facilities, procurement of necessary inputs and development of basic infrastructure. On the other hand, building the capacity of industry regulators will ensure that NSDC, working with relevant government agencies, walk the talk on halting the smuggling of sugar into the country. NSDC Executive Secretary Dr. Latif Busari stated earlier that smuggling was threatening the businesses of local cubing and packaging companies. Although Busari said then that the Council had evolved new strategies for effective implementation of the NSMP going forward, including increased inter-agency cooperation and sanctions for defaulters, such inter-agency cooperation has yet to halt the smuggling of sugar through the nation’s numerous porous borders. Sadly, the Federal Government has also not been able to enforce the ban on the importation of sugar to encourage operators in the sugar value chain. Push for sugar hubs, intervention fund At the STSN conference in Abuja, Busari told participants that the Council was committed to achieving self-reliance in sugar development as contained in the NSMP. However, Rabiu said the Federal Government, through the Council, can help by creating sugar hubs and sugar sector intervention fund to stimulate the sector.