THE Head of Funsengbuwa Ruling House, Otunba Olasubomi Balogun, has denied that his son, Ladi, is making moves to occupy the throne of Awujale of Ijebuland. He said his son is much busier at the First City Monument Bank (FCMB) than making moves to become the next Awujale. Otunba Balogun is also the Olori Omoba of Ijebuland and the head of the Fusengbuwa Ruling House, one of the largest ruling houses in Ijebuland. The Awujale and Paramount Ruler of Ijebuland, Oba (Dr.) Sikiru  Adetona, had warned the kingmakers at the 2019 Ojude- Oba Festival not to politicise the selection of his successor by allowing the moneybags to scatter the selection process after he might have quit the stage. Since Ojude Oba day, the statement made by Oba Adetona had been at the centre of discussion among the sons and daughters of Ijebuland on who becomes the next Awujale. This prompted various handlers of news platforms on social media to come up with different news items, claiming that the founder of First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has begun positioning his son, Ladi, who is Group Chief Executive Officer of FCMB to replace the Awujale. Balogun expressed dissatisfaction over what he described as “mischief” being orchestrated by those he believes are enemies of Awujale. He said: “It is callous, inhuman and ungodly to wish your fellow human dead as being demonstrated by those behind the mischief.” He said it is a taboo in Yorubaland to be scheming for Oba’s successor when a reigning monarch is still hale and hearty. Otunba Balogun said:. “We all know that Awujale Oba Adetona and I are friends, both of us are still alive. If Awujale could make a pronouncement, does that mean that they should drag my name to sell their stories? “I happen to be the Olori Omoba, and providence has placed me in a situation in which everybody will expect me to be close to the Awujale and be supportive of whatever he is doing by way of our culture and tradition. “Secondly, people know me as a very senior member of royalty in Ijebuland, apart from being the Olori Omoba, I am the Olori Ebi of one of the largest ruling houses in Ijebuland.”