The lawmaker representing Wurno/Rabah Constituency in the House of Representatives, Al-Mustapha Ibrahim, has called for the overhauling of the security apparatus to halt insecurity. Ibrahim, who was elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said Nigerians must embrace the spirit of nationalism and patriotism in the fight against insecurity. He said corruption is also a major factor responsible for the ills in the country. The lawmaker said the current security operational system was below standard and not proportional to the growing population. He said: “They are overstretched and faced with training and capacity issues to tame security challenges. The  recruitment process is faulty, as occasioned by gross incompetence with criminals finding their ways into the police force.” Ibrahim, who spoke with reporters in Sokoto, pointed out that governmental failure at all levels,   population explosion, deficit in schools facilities and social amenities were catalyst to insecurity. He said: “Government has to redefine its population management capacity and provide basic infrastructure. These are things we could not get right at the beginning. We have taken a bold step and approach through motions to ensure the needful is done to bring an end to it. When we resume session, these would be tackled.” Ibrahim, who is also the deputy House Committee Chairman on Urban Development and Rural Planning, stressed that “ government has to take responsibility”. He said though the country is not ripe for a state police, “there is a need for responsive community policing approach”, to check the activities of bandits in Rabah, Goronyo, Isah , Sabon  Birni, among other areas in Sokoto. Ibrahim added: “If it becomes necessary, the Sokoto State Government should negotiate with the bandits, as being done in Zamfara State, to bring lasting peace and end to the attacks. Everyone has to take responsibility from the community level to the top and Nigerians should know that no leader will want to be associated with failure.”   