Catholic bishops joined on Tuesday the popular call for the Federal Government to tackle the insecurity that has taken many lives and property. The clerics believe the government is not doing enough to stop kidnapping, killings and other crimes afflicting the country. According to them, it is sad that the government has not designed ways to tame those perpetrating heinous crimes. To the clerics, what they described as the government’s laxity, is not solving the hydra-headed problems but creating panic among Nigerians. The bishops issued a communique signed by the Archbishop of Ibadan and the President of the Nigeria Catholic Conference, Ibadan Ecclesiastical Province, Gabriel Abegunrin. They met on Tuesday at the Pope John Paul II Pastoral Centre in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, where, besides insecurity, other matters, such as the suggestion that churches be licensed, were discussed. The clerics called on governments in West Africa to invest more in youth development to reduce illegal immigration, prostitution, kidnapping and other social problems. The communique reads: “When this insecurity started, it was one corner of the country, but now it has gone round the geopolitical zones, what is government doing? If there is no security, there is no reason for government to exist. “It is unfortunate that Nigerians wake up each day to lament woeful news of killings, lynching, kidnapping and brigandage. Many people, including priests, have fallen victims to this tragically insecure environment. “The lack of clear pattern of punishing crimes and lip service commitment to the protection of lives and property on the part of the Federal Government and security agencies have made many Nigerians to be living in fear day to day. “There seems to be no end in sight, especially with allegations of killings by herdsmen being left unattended to. Time is running out for Nigeria if the security is not improved. We call on governments, traditional and other civiI authorities, to please save our country.” On alleged self-abduction and jailing of priests for rape, the bishops described the developments as   manifestations of societal rot  and loss of family values, saying all the citizens must share the blame. They said: “It is sad that we are losing our core family values. We must take care of our children and imbibe the culture of being our brother’s keepers like we had before, because what is happening today has to do with our background. “We know the economic situation calls for us to overwork ourselves, but parents must look for time to take care of their children. This is the only way we can rid our society of evils and have a brighter future.” The bishops commended governments on their improved commitments to the payment of workers’ salaries and pensions. On government’s directive through the Ministry of Interior to license places of worship for celebration of marriages and issuing of marriage certificates, the bishops said such a proposal needed to be approached with caution and should be given a second thought, especially as it concerns imposition of annual levies on these institutions. The communique reads: “Contemporary circumstances in Nigeria demand that government must approach religious matters with utmost caution so as not to be considered partisan and partial on national issues.” The bishops warned the Federal Government against taking steps that could tinker with the freedom of the press, saying media should not be gagged under any guise. “Only courageous pressmen can now come out boldly to talk. But must all work hard and remove whatever that is working against the freedom of the press. The government must give the press that full freedom for them to be able to speak truth to power.” 