One of the common ways job seekers uncover opportunities is by using sources from the internet. There are thousands of job boards but these website would be of help during your job search: LINKEDIN.COM
LinkedIn is an American business and employment oriented service that operates via websites and mobile app. It is mainly used for professional networking, including employers posting jobs and job seekers posting their CVs. It is the world’s largest professional network on the internet. LinkedIn allows members (both workers and employers) to create profiles and connections in an online social network, which may represent real world professional relationship. INDEED
Indeed is a leading job site with millions of job listings from thousands of websites including, newspapers, company career sites, job boards and online source of job posting. In Indeed 9 thousand jobs are added to its site every seconds globally. You can also apply for jobs, check out job trends, and use Indeed as a search app for mobile job hunting this make jobs easily accessible. JOB HUNT
Job hunt is an HR consulting firm providing Executive Search and Selection , Permanent Placements, Contract Outsourcing, Recruitment Process Outsourcing(PRO) ,Payroll Administration, Career Day, Behavioral Assessment Techniques, HR and Corporate Events and Contract Centre Outsourcing to job seekers. CAREERBUILDER.COM
Career builder is one of the largest job boards providing job listing, resume posting and career advice to job seekers. They secure job listing directly from employers and also provide resources to job seekers. JOBBERMAN
It is a Nigerian based job portal and career platform that lists candidates’ job applications for employers and helps connect job seekers with hiring companies. It is the single largest job placement website in sub-Saharan Africa. Jobberman receives 5000 job applications every day. DICE.COM
Dice is one of the largest and best known technology job boards. You can search by company, job title, keywords, employment type, and location. Registered users can upload their resume, get salary information, and can also track jobs. Job seekers also have access to career advice and tech news. The site also provides a range of content for job seekers. GLASSDOOR.COM
Glassdoor is a career community that helps people find jobs and helps companies recruit top talent. Glassdoor members can see the latest job listings and get access to user generated content, including company specific salary reports, rating and reviews, interview questions and more. Glassdoor also allows employers to identify job candidates and market their companies to job seekers. GOOGLE FOR JOBS
Google for jobs is a product from google with aim that helps job seekers find job listings that are right for them. Google for jobs is a job search engine that compiles listings from many different sources, including other job search engines instead by using a specific job search site user can simply type a job into their Google search bar. One key benefits of using Google for jobs is that it eliminates redundant results and displays only listings for an open position. IDEALIST.COM
Idealist is the premier clearing house for information on full time internship, and volunteer positions within the nonprofit organization and nonprofit sector. Registered users can identify groups of interest and communicate with members for networking purposes.