Sir: I appeal to all Nigerians to put aside all sectional interests and let us all work together for the overall interest of this great nation. We should put an end to the imbroglio being generated as a result of the federal government’s policy on cattle husbandry it called Rural Grazing Area, “RUGA”. I say “Yes” RUGA for the states, especially for northern states willing to embrace the policy. On the other hand, I say “No” to those states that abhor it. Since animal husbandry is not the exclusive preserve or right of any tribe or group of people, I would advise the federal government to rescind its decision that every state of the federation embrace and implement the policy; rather, it should be thrown open to anyone, group of people, community or state that wishes to rear cattle for commercial purposes to do so. In this case, there would be no more open grazing in states but ranches to be manned and managed by the indigenes of that state, local government, or community. Federal government may make agricultural loan available for such. It should also be clearly understood that whosoever established ranches for cattle husbandry should find means of providing staple foods for the animals, just like in all other cases of animal husbandry, e.g. piggery, fishery, poultry etc. and should not be at the expense of the poor innocent farmers’ painfully-nurtured farm produce. The owners of such projects are also at liberty to give them whatever local names they think appropriate. It is pertinent to point out here that the young boys who rear the cows on foot day and night, in the rain, sun and harmattan, for hundreds and thousands of kilometers across the country are not the owners of the cattle but rather they are labourers engaged for paltry compensation along the line. The real owners are in their ‘mansions’ in urban centres cooling down with their own families as they like. This, no doubt, is a form of slavery or culture of slavery. It is barbaric and wicked. This capitalist-oriented culture must abolished in Nigeria. The herculean task of humans and animals trekking from the northern part of Nigeria down south, the suspicion of the southerners that each trailer load of cattle from the north is always clandestinely loaded with guns for use by the herdsmen for killings and kidnapping in the south, would thereby be eliminated. I believe solution to the perennial forms of criminality in Nigeria, especially in the south, would be achieved through this. Surulere, Lagos.