A table tennis star, Aruna Quadri, has taken his kind gesture to a Lagos-based children’s hospice. Just like he did last year, Quadri yesterday lifted the less-privileged. The table tennis champion, accompanied by his wife, Ganiyat, donated food items and other materials to support the Hearts of Gold Children’s Hospice. An official of the home based in Surulere, Lagos, Mr. Samuel Ilori, described Quadri’s gesture as commendable, saying the 2019 ITTF Challenge Plus Nigeria Open champion would be the second athlete to have visited the home this year. He said Super Eagles player Henry Onyekuru visited early this year. “We are very grateful to the Aruna family for remembering this home. This is a private hospice that relies on individual and group donations to sustain itself. With this gesture of Quadri, he has given lives to others in need,” the social worker said. During the visit, Quadri met some of the children who are chronically ill. He said the gesture was part of his appreciation to God for His mercy and goodness. “I’m very happy to have continued what we started last year. I give thanks to God for giving me the opportunity and touching my heart to show love to the less-privileged. I’m also very happy for what God has done for me so far this year. This is a way of showing appreciation to God for His blessings on me and my family. By His grace, I will continue to do this and I pray to God to give me strength and everything that will be needed to keep doing this year after year,” Quadri said. He added: “I love making people happy and giving back as a sacrifice because I believe so much in God. Whatever He has blessed us with, it is very important that we give part of it back to the society so that He can bless us more. This is one of the reasons I’m doing this.” The Hearts of Gold Children’s Hospice was established on October 2, 2003 in response to a steadily increasing number of abandoned, orphaned and sick children suffering from a vast range of congenital abnormalities.