The Speaker of Abia State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. (Engr) Chinedum Orji, has charged members of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) in the state to check against quackery in their midst. This is even as he has further urged them to punish appropriately hospitals in the state that use the services of quacks in their establishment. Orji spoke at the 2019 Annual General Meeting and Scientific Conference of the NMA, Abia State branch at the Villa Roy Hotels with the theme “State’s Health Legislation: Role in Effective Healthcare Delivery.” He wondered why the Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria (PCN) could be sanctioning its members by closing up unqualified pharmacies whereas the NMA would not do so. The Speaker who was represented at the occasion by the Member representing Umuahia South State Constituency at the Abia State House of Assembly, Hon. (Barr.) Jerry Uzosike encouraged Abians to take their health very seriously. Orji who stated that the Abia State House of Assembly is not witch hunting anybody or institution as it is only carrying out its oversight functions, added that posterity would not be kind to the House members if they fail to exercise their oversight functions. He further disclosed that just this year, the Abia State House of Assembly has passed into Law “The Abia State Primary Healthcare Law no 2 of 2019” and that the 7th House is not resting on its oars as it has continued to make laws for the betterment of the people. The speaker said the 7th Abia State House of Assembly as part of its oversight functions wants to know exactly what is happening at the Abia State primary health centres, hence, the recent setting up of three ad hoc committees on health alone. The Speaker, who was the Guest of Honour at the occasion, promised to provide the legislative environment that would boost efficient delivery of members of the Nigerian Medical Association and congratulated the body for organising the event with such a carefully chosen theme. In her Address, the Chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association, Abia State Chapter, Dr (Mrs.) Iwuoha E.C, called on each Honourable Member of the Abia State House of Assembly to prioritize healthcare in their respective constituencies and go further by taking responsibility for at least one Primary Healthcare Centre within their localities with a view to making them model centres. Various speakers at the conference sought for mandatory legislation on Compulsory Health Insurance Scheme in Abia State and other related issues. The Chairman of the Abia State House of Assembly Committee on Health, Hon Stanley Nwabuisi, was part of the Speaker’s entourage to the occasion.