Honey has been known throughout history as “Liquid Gold,” a natural sweetener that is not just delicious but provides many therapeutic benefits. Although it is a versatile cooking ingredient, honey could also offer some health benefits. If you’ve not been taking full advantage of the nutritional and medicinal properties of honey, you need to do so!.
You are, therefore, advised to get a bottle of honey stored up in your room somewhere, today because it has lots of amazing benefits you never knew! Honey may prove to be a lifesaver during this cold season. According to a study in the Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine, researchers tested a single nighttime dose of buckwheat honey against a common cough suppressant and no treatment at all in more than 100 children with colds. Overall, parents found that the honey was better than the other two approaches for relieving cough symptoms and improving sleep. No wonder the World Health Organization lists honey as a potential demulcent, a sugary liquid that coats the throat and soothes irritation. A 2007 study by Penn State College of Medicine suggested that it reduced nighttime coughing and improved sleep quality in children with upper respiratory infection better than the cough medicine dextromethorphan or no treatment. 2. Honey heals wounds! Shocking, isn’t it? Applying honey to the skin has been used to heal wounds and burns since ancient Egypt, and is still being used today. In-depth research studies on honey and wound care were evaluated and the review found that it is most effective at healing partial thickness burns and wounds that have become infected after surgery. It is also an effective treatment for diabetic foot ulcers, which are very serious complications and can lead to amputation. One study reported a 43.3% success rate with honey as a wound treatment. In another study, topical honey healed a whopping 97% of patients being treated for their diabetic ulcers. Similarly, researchers believe that its healing powers come from its antibacterial and anti-inflammatory effects, as well as its ability to nourish the surrounding tissue. 3. Honey Boosts Memory! We are what we eat and hence it is very important to consume foods that help make our mental health strong to sustain in old age. One of its numerous health benefits includes its ability in boosting memory and concentration. Honey not only increases brain power and memory but also makes you a healthier person altogether. Consumption of honey prevents metabolic stress and helps calm and soothes the brain, which helps in augmenting memory in the long run. The natural antioxidants and therapeutic properties in honey help in boosting brains’ cholinergic system and circulation and receding cells that cause memory loss. 4. Honey helps digestion! Honey helps reduce constipation, bloating and gas, thanks to it being a mild laxative. Honey is also rich in probiotic or “friendly” bacteria such as bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, which aid in digestion, promote the health of the immune system, and reduce allergies. Using it in place of table sugar has been found to reduce the toxic effects in the gut of mycotoxins produced by fungi. 5.   Honey Cures Acne! Honey is a popular home remedy for acne. It’s often combined with other natural ingredients such as cinnamon,
nutmeg, lemon, and avocado to make acne face masks. There are a lot of anecdotal reports from people who have successfully used honey in the treatment of acne, but actual scientific studies that examine its effectiveness when used on acne patients are currently lacking. However, we do know that this natural ingredient has antibacterial activity, and studies have shown that it can kill a wide range of bacteria. This is currently thought to be a result of the hydrogen peroxide that is present in the honey and a protein called bee-defensin-1 which is added to the nectar when it’s in the bee’s stomach. Studies have shown that it is capable of killing the acne-causing bacteria. Due to its high level of antibacterial activity, using honey for acne treatment has become popular in the natural skin care community. Honey also has anti-inflammatory properties which could be useful in the treatment of an inflammatory condition like acne. The health benefits of Honey are endless and amazing, new research and studies keep coming up with more benefits of Honey! Do well to get yourself a bottle of honey today.