THE security situation in the country was again on the front burner on Thursday as the Police commenced deployment of surveillance helicopters in the Southwest and the Northwest. Katsina State Governor Aminu Masari, whose state has been under relentless attacks by bandits, on Thursday opened dialogue with them. In Abuja, four people were arrested for possession of explosives. Police spokesman Frank Mba, in a statement, said Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu ordered the deployment of aerial surveillance helicopters in major cities in the South-West and North-West as part of efforts by the police to effectively curtail crimes in the country. He said the Police Air-Wing Operational Base in Abuja would cater for Abuja–Kaduna highways and the adjoining states in the North-West and North-Central. The new base in Ondo State would cater for the adjoining states and highways straddling the South-West. He enjoined Nigerians not to panic and go about their lawful businesses, adding that the aerial surveillance was to improve the security of lives and property in the affected areas. Confirming the recovery of explosives, Federal capital Territory (FCT) Police Command said the four suspects arrested were caught with unauthorized movement of explosive materials. The suspects were arrested by a joint team of police operatives from the Command Explosive Ordinance Disposal unit and Nyanya Police Division at the Baba Nagode Motor Park in Nyanya area of Abuja. The suspects are Hamisu Abah, Suleiman Hammeed, Onuh Sunday and Agwan Bulus. Command Spokesman Anjuguri Manzah, a DSP, said the suspects had been transferred to the Command Criminal Investigation Department for further investigation. Katsina State Governor Aminu Bello Masari  on Thursday engaged representatives of the bandits terrorizing the state in a dialogue to find a permanent solution to incessant attacks and kidnappings in the state The meeting, which was held at the State Secretariat, was attended by Deputy Governor Manir Yakubu, heads of security agencies , traditional rulers and districts heads led by the Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumin kabir Usman, Secretary to the State Government Alhaji Mustapha Inuwa, Transition Committee Chairmen of the affected eight local Government areas, representatives of Myyeti Allah and the Fulani herdsmen It was gathered that the attendance of the representatives of the bandits was made possible by the recent amnesty declared for the bandits by the Northwest governors at a recent meeting Masari, who spoke in Hausa, warned that the insecurity rocking the affected areas in the state had become embarrassing to both the state government and President Buhari who hails from the state. He further restated the commitment of his government to deploy whatever is necessary to deal decisively with banditry and Kidnapping in the state. He said: ’’We are ready to dialogue with the bandits and are ready to go anywhere they invited us, because we are not afraid to meet anybody to end this problem ‘’As a leader, I must find the solution to the problem so that if today I die, I  know how to defend myself before God I will not allow this to continue, enough is enough’’ ‘’ I have directed the security operatives to take all necessary measures to change the narrative on insecurity in the state, by any means necessary’’