The elder brother of Alhaja Mulikat Folasade Lawal, a Lagos pilgrim, who died on Sunday, Alhaji Abdul Razak Olakangudu, has described the death of his sister as a big loss. Olakangudu, who is also in Saudi Arabia for the Hajj, spoke with The Nation at the Mina tent of Lagos State pilgrims. He came to thank the Amirul Hajj-led officials for locating him at the Kwara State camp to inform him of his sister’s death and enquire about the funeral procedure. Mrs. Lawal died barely two days to completion of the Hajj rites. She was on her way to the Jamrat, where the stoning of Shaytan (the devil) took place, when she slumped. The Nation learnt she was rushed to hospital in Mina, where she died 10 minutes after. Olakangudu said the 56-year-old deceased was survived by an 85-year-old mother, husband and two children. An eyewitness said the deceased, who was said to be suffering from high blood pressure, sat down on the road. She stood up to continue the trekking and slumped. She was confirmed dead in hospital. Her remains have been taking over by the Muazazah (the person in charge of Lagos State pilgrims operation in Saudi Arabia). The body, it was gathered, would be taken from Mina to Makkah where prayers would be offered for her in Masjid Haram before burial. Olakangudu said the deceased’s widower, who is based abroad, was in Nigeria for the Eid-el-Kabir. “He has been informed of the incident. My sister’s death is a big loss to the family. She liked being in the midst of her family… Many of our family members are always at her place. We are going to miss her a lot. Her death is an irreplaceable loss,” Olakangudu said. He said he spoke with his sister last on Thursday when she brought his clothes. “She came to my place at the Kwara camp, Makkah and saw that I have whitlow (Tinea Cellulitis), a thumb inflammation. She advised that I go for treatment in hospital and took my clothes away for washing. She returned the clothes on Thursday, but I was not around. She dropped them for my roommates and we spoke briefly on movement to Mina. “It was shocking to receive the news of her death from our Kwara State Amirul Hajj, who was briefed by the Lagos team, led by Alhaji Soliu Olohungbebe. Although her death was painful, we can’t query Allah. We have accepted that as our fate,” he said. Olakangudu said his mother asked about Mrs. Lawal 24 hours after her death. “My mum has always been in touch with us on the phone. She called me earlier today (yesterday) that she hasn’t heard from me since Sunday. I told her all is well, before my younger siblings went to inform her,” he said. Lagos State Amirul Hajj Dr. AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, who received the deceased’s brother with some pilgrims from Kwara State, described her death as “painful.” He commiserated with the bereaved family, her local government and the people she was with in Muna. AbdulLateef said the woman showed no sign of illness all through the journey to Mina, Arafat, Musdalifah and back to Muna before embarking on the stoning of the devil. Said he: “It is unfortunate that she died, but we take solace in the fact that she died a good death. Her place in paradise is not in doubt, considering the situation she was before the angel of death took her soul. “We all know that one of the best things to happen to any human being is to die in the Holy Land because such a person’s sins and shortcomings will be erased. He or she will be under the mercy of Allah. “Although we as human beings don’t like it, it is best for us if we know.” Chairman of state Ad Hoc Committee on Hajj Alhaji Ahmad Jebe-Abdullahi commiserated with the deceased’s brother. He said death was inevitable. Every soul, Jebe-Abdullahi said, would taste death at the appointed time. “The time of our sister has come; we can’t stop it. We can only feel sad that our loved one is gone. I pray to Allah to grant the bereaved family the strength to bear the loss and Al-Jannah Firdaus to our late sister, ” he said.