Four hundred vehicles and 60 motorcycles have been impounded by the Oyo State Government in the last eight months for traffic laws violation. The Director of Administration and Supply, Oyo State Road Traffic Management Authority (OYRTMA), Mr. Tunde Aiki, who spoke on Wednesday in Ibadan, said it was worrisome that some commercial vehicle drivers did not follow laid-down traffic laws. He added that the agency would not tolerate such unwholesome practice of picking and dropping passengers indiscriminately on the roads, mostly by commercial drivers. The operation, which took place around Agodi-Gate area, Ibadan, saw the agency’s officials arresting traffic law offenders even when it rained. Aiki noted that the agency was not established to generate revenue for the government through collection of fines from traffic law offenders as most people believed, but to increase the compliance level of road users to traffic laws. He said: “We have discovered that more commercial road users violate basic traffic laws, especially those who do not make use of the designated bus stops as their pick up or drop off points for passengers, and offences committed by private motorists are more grievous, which include leaving one’s lane to face an oncoming vehicle and parking inappropriately on the road. “We appeal to pedestrians and motorists to always consider the safety of other road users as well as acquaint themselves with the traffic laws of the state.” Some road users, who spoke with our correspondent, hailed the agency for its efforts in ensuring a traffic friendly environment. They, however, called on the government to create more motor parks for commercial and private users. A private motorist, Mr. Obinna Chukwu, said: “We know that what OYRTMA is doing is for the good and safety of everyone, but most times the unavailability of motor parks, especially for private motorists, causes a lot of issues. So if the government can build motor parks at designated and busy places in the state, it will reduce the clumsiness on our roads.”