The huge losses from tax incentives the country has recorded over the years have made stakeholders in the maritime sector to question the propriety of continuous tax waivers granted operators in the blue economy. Besides, they are concerned about how some operators influence Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), MUYIWA LUCAS writes. THE damning verdict from Oxfam, an international non-governmental organisation (NGO), that 30 per cent of companies in the country evade tax, initially did not sink into the audience which gathered at the launch of two reports – Fair Tax Monitor Index and the Commitment to Reducing Inequality Index in Abuja. However, when the Oxfam in Nigeria Country Director, Constant Tchona, added that Nigeria loses about $2.9 billion (about N580 billion) yearly to tax waivers granted multinational firms, the audience attention was caught. “The fiscal incentives granted with the hope of stimulating investments into the country’s economy are eroded with poor governance and lack of transparency, especially when the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has confirmed that there is no cost-benefit analysis to justify the exemptions,” Tchona said in his presentation. In their AfriHeritage Research paper of 2017, titled: “Tax Waivers for Multi-Nationals in Nigeria (MNC): Are These Based on Economic or Political Reasoning?’’ Dr. Hakeem Onapajo, of the Department of Political Science and International Relations, Nile University of Nigeria, Abuja, submitted that the system of tax waivers had been a conduit for MNCs to evade taxes and perpetuate corruption. The duo observed that tax incentives, especially to multinational firms, were offered on the notion that they would encourage foreign investments and promote growth. The researchers further said statistics from the Ministry of Finance and international development agencies provoke some pertinent questions. For example, former Minister of Finance Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said the country lost N170.74 billion to various tax waivers between 2011 and 2013 alone. In the sector, foreign vessels have continued to enjoy several waivers put in place for their operations. This is as a result of the failure of local ship owners to compete favourably with them. Worried by this development, and after years of loss of jobs and businesses by indigenous vessel owners to their foreign counterparts, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA)  rolled out plans to enable it end the granting of waivers to foreign vessels participating in Cabotage trade, reserved for Nigerians. NIMASA’s action is in line with the provisions of the Act, which reserved coastal trade for Nigerians to fly Nigerian flag. The industry regulator determined to reduce waivers, said it would grow capacity in ship building by encouraging the establishment of shipyards; creating affordable credit facilities to enable Nigerians acquire vessels; tax incentives for importing built vessels and building qualified Nigerian seafarers. “The tax regime makes it impossible for Nigerian ship owners to compete with their foreign counterparts. For instance, foreigners bring in vessels for a short period and they have a special tax regime that enable them pay little to nothing for their vessels to work and live in Nigeria. Whereas, a Nigerian is charged a full range of tax applicable (14 percent), making it near impossible for their Nigerian vessels to compete,” the Director-General of NIMASA, Dakuku Peterside, explained at a stakeholders conference in Lagos sometime ago. Tax holiday vs statutory levies Another grey area NIMASA is aiming to cancel waivers is in its financial dealings with the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG). It is imperative to draw the line between NLNG’s tax holiday and  NIMASA’s levies. NIMASA levies have nothing to do with the NLNG tax holiday. The 10-year tax holiday was a pioneer period incentive in the manner of similar relief to pioneer companies under the Industrial Development (Income Tax Relief) Act and pertains specifically to income tax. NLNG pays Companies Income Tax and Tertiary Education Tax, which are the heads of corporate income taxes recognised under Nigeria’s laws since the end of the tax relief period. However, NIMASA is empowered to collect statutory levies accruable to the agency, including the three percent levy on gross freight on inbound and outbound international cargo; two percent Cabotage levy and Sea Protection levy. Section 15(a) of the NIMASA Act 2007 stipulates: “The agency shall be funded by monies accruing to the agency from the following sources: three per cent of gross freight on all international inbound and outbound cargo from ships or shipping companies operating in Nigeria to be collected and paid over to the agency to meet its operational cost.” Section 2(2) of the Act states that exemptions are only granted to “war ships and military patrol ships”. NIMASA argues that NLNG vessels do not fall within those exempted from the levies and that the tax holiday granted it was time-bound. Therefore, according to NIMASA, the NLNG was not exempted from payments of statutory levies after its tax holiday ended. “NIMASA has portfolios of statutory revenues that it collects from shipping companies/ship operators, manning agents and seafarers. This, the agency pays into the coffers of the government,” said the agency. Conflicting Acts The NLNG/NIMASA saga began in 2007, when the maritime regulator expected NLNG to start paying levies. By NIMASA’s calculation, NLNG’s tax holiday lapsed in 2007. NLNG saw no sense in NIMASA’s claim. As far as it is concerned, the Act setting it up exempts it from NIMASA’s levies. The NLNG Act 2004 predates the NIMASA Act 2007. Section 7(7) of the NLNG Act 2004 states: “No export duties, taxes, or other duties, levies, charges, or imposts of a similar nature shall be payable or imposed on the exports of liquefied natural gas or other hydrocarbons produced by the company.” In furtherance of the conflict in the both Acts, paragraph 3, Schedule 2 of the NLNG Act states: “Neither the company nor its stakeholders shall in any way be subject to new laws, regulations, taxes, duties, imposts or charges of whatever nature which are not applicable generally to companies incorporated in Nigeria.” Yet, according to NIMASA Act 2007, it has the right to collect levies from ships and small ships “registered in Nigeria and also from ships, small ships and crafts flying a foreign flag in the exclusive economic zone, territorial and inland seas, inland waterways and in the ports of the Federal Republic of Nigeria”. This, to stakeholders, is where the bone of contention lies. NLNG vs NIMASA NIMASA has continued to argue that the incentives granted NLNG, are not meant to be in perpetuity. The agency points at Section 2 of the NLNG Act, which limits the tax holiday of the company to 10 years or when the cumulative average sales price of the liquefied natural gas reaches $3 in million metric British Thermal Units (MMBTU). NIMASA said its market intelligence shows that as at January 2004, which was the fifth anniversary of the production of the NLNG, the milestone for the expiration of the exemption period had been surpassed by 200 per cent. Now, with the ruling of a Lagos Court of Appeal on March 29, 2019, in favour of NIMASA, a fresh round of legal tussle may be on the horizon. What next? Peterside, in commending the ruling of the appellate court, said it has reaffirmed confidence in the judiciary. “This judgment has further shown that the judiciary is unbiased and remains a beacon of hope for Nigerians. On our part as a responsible government agency, we will continue to work closely with the judiciary and other stakeholders to ensure that we realise our mandate of creating a robust maritime sector in line with best global practices,” Peterside said. For over 30 days, the NLNG did not respond to The Nation’s enquiries on the matter. After an unanswered phone call and text message to Elkanah Chawai, Senior Media Relations Officer, External Relations Division, NLNG, an electronic mail was sent to him on July 26, which he acknowledged receiving three days later. On August 4, a reminder sent to  Chawai was responded to on August 9. He appealed to be given more time to reply. He has not done so as at the time of going to press.