A professor of Oral and Comparative Literature, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai (IBBUL), Niger State, Ker Apegba, has argued that oral literature has the capacity not only to entertain and educate, but also to uphold morals, preserve traditional knowledge and keep history alive. Apegba delivered the 14th inaugural lecture of the university with the theme: The dynamic of change: The oral artist and the survival/preservation of the oral form. “Most pieces of oral literature convey, in a beautiful and lively manner, what they encourage as good and decent behaviour, what they discourage as bad and improper behaviour and what they would like members of such a society to do. Thus, performances of oral literature have the potentials of making us responsible members of the society by instilling in us beliefs, morals, concerns and aspirations of our societies,” noted Apegba during the lecture held at the main auditorium of the school campus. Apegba added that oral literature genres collectively enhance the didactic role of arts in an appealing and effective manner. “It is necessary for us to bear  in mind that by its very nature, oral literature tries to promote the progress of humanity by the way it champions values that promote peace, prosperity and dignity of all human groupings. Through oral histories, narratives, songs, riddles and proverbs, people appreciate the functioning of vibrant communities with values anchored on understanding, collaboration and interdependence. Oral literature makes us aware of ourselves, other human beings, our environment and our history. Oral literature also mirrors closely the historical and political development of a nation,’ he added. Apegba explained that the oral artist’s task is majorly to reflect, highlight and sometimes seek solutions to some of the problems that face the society. “Through this process, human beings’ consciousness within and around their environment is aroused, and they are better prepared to accommodate or react to the social changes taking place in their ever-changing society,’’he added. He emphasised the need to carry out oral literary research with the aim of collecting, transcribing, translating and documenting for posterity, while also enhancing the much-needed unity in diversity among Nigerians. Apegba added: “There is an aspect of reviving our various cultures that we as individuals can implement/do without looking up to government or external support. This is in the area of teaching our children, wards and young ones about our cultures, and this begins with using our indigenous languages as media of communication. “It is very sad but true that, many ‘educated’ parents shy away from speaking to their children in their indigenous languages. Consequently, many of such languages are endangered, while some are already at the brink of extinction,”