A former State Security Adviser in Bayelsa State and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Richard Kpodoh, has appealed to the national leadership of the party to consider adopting indirect governorship primaries in the state. Kpodoh said indirect system of conducting primaries was the best in view of prevailing circumstances especially as the party had reportedly adopted same in Kogi State. Kpodoh also hailed President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, for their efforts in stabilising the party. He particularly praised Oshiomhole for his role in the choice of ministers saying the next level federal cabinet was made of quality men and women. Kpodoh said the party was at a vantage position to take over the state from the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) if it could yield to the yearning most party members clamouring for indirect primaries. He said: “What is good for our party in Kogi should also be good for our party in Bayelsa State. The issue of mode of primary should not be an issue for our party. “Already, the party in its wisdom decided that the indirect primary method should be used in Kogi State. So, I do not understand why we should be debating about this as it applies to Bayelsa State. “I am appealing to our national chairman to put his feet down and ensure that the right things are done in Bayelsa State. We have an array of credible aspirants who have already indicated their interest in the party’s ticket. “At this point in our political life, it is expedient therefore, that we do what is right and is also seen to be right. Our party does not need anything that will divide us, to give any form of advantage to the PDP. We must get it right from this point. That way, we can be sure of a clean sweep at the general election.” Kpodoh said the APC was well-positioned to make a difference in the next election and urged the party to give maximum support to the state chapter to win the gubernatorial election. He insisted that the party could not afford to lose Bayelsa boasting that with the right strategies APC would be victorious. “Bayelsa is the only hope for our party in the south-south at this time. Four states are already in the hands of the opposition party. With the right strategy, our party can win the state”, he said. He added: “I am happy for Mr President for gradually taking us to the next level. I must also thank the national chairman for standing by Mr President on this. That is why I am confident that if the duo continue to work together, they will be able to take over Bayelsa from the hands of an oppressive and retrogressive political party. “Our people deserve the best. Bayelsa must therefore be part of what is happening at the centre. But the journey begins from the choice of a candidate for the election. Let our party leaders get it right from this point and we are good to go.”