The Micro Pension Plan (MPP) driven by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) has grown pension assets and boosted the Central Bank of Nigeria’s plan to take financial services to the grassroots. Pension assets rose from N9.12 trillion in April to N9.33 trillion in June, indicating a N21 billion increase. The CBN’s financial inclusion plan is receiving a boost from the pension industry where contributors have to open bank accounts to be enrolled into the scheme. The ongoing public enlightenment on the MPP benefits to contributors and the economy is building confidence in the financial system and securing contributors’ future, writes COLLINS NWEZE. Adult population that has embraced financial services is expected to hit 80 per cent by 2020, from about 65 per cent, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) statistics has shown. But achieving this mandate requires the collaboration of key stakeholders. The Micro Pension Plan (MPP) driven by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) is one avenue of bringing more people into the financial system. PenCom has taken up the challenge of providing financial products and services to the low-income population, which represents a large business opportunity for the private sector with the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). The scheme uses MPP to reach farmers, teachers, hair dressing saloon owners, petty traders, musician, actors/actresses, shoe shiners, bricklayers, among others. This is because for many people, the future remains uncertain. But for those who have planned for it through the right investment and savings, it is bright. And securing one’s future requires taking advantage of the opportunities that abound in the pension industry, which many people have seen as the last hope for retirees. The pension industry, tipped as one of the largest investment sectors, is gaining the attention the self-employed. At the end of last year, the global pension industry reportedly had an estimated asset under management (AuM) of $41.4 trillion, which represents 53.9 per cent of global assets under management. This significant asset size reflects the growing institutionalisation of retirement planning across the world. For Nigeria, the pension industry has in the past few years been dominated by high- investment returns, a departure from previous trends where net inflows accounted for the majority of the industry’s growth. PenCom exists for the effective regulation and supervision of the pension industry to ensure that retirement benefits are paid promptly. How much have pension assets grown? In the first quarter of the year, the growth of Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) holders under the CPS led to a N29 billion increase in pension assets. This has been attributed to salient policies being implemented by the Acting Director-General of PenCom, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar. For instance, data obtained from the Commission shows that AuM in the second quarter of the year increased by N21 billion. According to the monthly report on summary of pension fund assets and RSA registration published on its website, pension fund assets rose from N9.12 trillion in April, this year to N9.33 trillion in June, indicating a N21 billion inflow. A breakdown showed a rise of N18 billion in total RSA fund as it moved from N6.94 in April to N7.12 in June, while investment in Federal Government securities fell by N6 billion, from N6.55 trillion in April to N6.49 in June while RSA Fund 11, which has continued to attract more investments moved from N4.02 trillion to N4.10 trillion, an increase of N8 billion. PenCom regulates and supervises the licensed pension fund operators and Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) manage and invest the fund for contributors and retirees under the CPS. Thus, the fund had grown to N8.74 trillion in January; N8.91 trillion in February; N9.03 trillion in March; N9.12 trillion in April, N9.22 trillion in May and N9.33 trillion in June, which translates to N686 billion growth in six months.The report further showed that a major chunk of N7.21 trillion out of the N9.33 trillion recorded in June is from RSA holders. A further breakdown of the June report under review showed that out of the RSAs’ fund of N7.21 trillion, retirees fund, categorised under Fund IV is N751.73 billion while contributors, categorised under Fund I, Fund II and Fund III, own N6.51 trillion. Other contributions to the fund include N958.2 billion from schemes and N1.24 trillion from Closed Pension Fund Administrators (CPFAs). The PFAs, the report added, invested a major chunk of the fund, totalling N6.48 trillion into Federal Government Securities out of the N9.33 trillion in the period under review. Of the N6.48 trillion invested by the PFAs, N4.43 trillion was invested in Federal Government Bonds; N1.93 trillion in Treasury Bills; N11 billion in Agency Bonds (NMRC and FMBN); N86 billion in Sukuk Bonds; N12 billion in Green Bonds and N129 billion in state government Securities. The PFAs, however, invested N505.82 billion in corporate debt; N1.04 trillion was invested in local money market securities and N23 billion in mutual funds. Mrs. Dahir-Umar attributed the accumulation successes achieved since the inception of implementation of the CPS to the Commission’s esteemed contributors. “The achievements recorded by the Commission in the last 15 years would not have been possible without the support and understanding of all stakeholders, especially you, our esteemed contributors, who are about to retiree. I, therefore, urge you to contribute positively towards the success of the Pension Reform Programme,” she said. Financial analysts expect the industry’s growth to exceed 14 per cent in the year supported by an improved macroeconomic environment that would drive increased contribution. Also, investment returns are likely to improve in the year, largely driven by higher interest rates, which we expect to spike in the second half of the year. Analysts also view positively the commencement of the MPS, expected to increase the industry coverage ratio and help ramp up AuM. PenCom sustains campaigns PenCom is carrying out massive campaigns to enlighten the people, even at the grassroots, to embrace CPS at all stages of their business growth. The campaigns are going on televisions, radio, social media, online publications and other media platforms to get more people into the pension scheme and bring them to the financial services net. The campaigns are ongoing in the markets, shopping malls, private and public sectors, motor parks to ensure that all Nigerians within pensionable age embrace the CPS and secure their future, financially. PenCom said once a person reaches 18, such person qualifies and can contribute based on his income. The contributions can be daily, weekly, monthly, and contributions can be made through the mobile phones. Besides, should anything happen to a contributor’s business, such a person can get 40 per cent of the total contributions back to begin a new life. Also, in case of death, the contributor’s next-of-kin will be paid the balance in the account of the contributor. The Commission also said Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) are registering people that want to join the scheme at zero cost. CPS gains private-public sectors’ acceptance PenCom says it has enrolled more than 8.5 million people into the CPS since its inception 15 years ago. Head of Communication Department of PenCom, Peter Aghahowa, said the scheme introduced in 2004 by the Federal Government was a process where certain percentage of enrollees’ salaries was saved monthly in a pool with the employers also contributing. The scheme had PenCom as the regulatory body, with PFAs working at its behest. Aghahowa said the scheme had made the life of retirees much easier, unlike the defined benefits scheme, which it replaced. He said the commission will continue to protect contributors’ funds and drive compliance by private sector employers through public awareness campaigns and engagement. This initiative, he added, is aimed at educating employees/employers and expanding the coverage of the CPS. According to him, the commission also monitors compliance through onsite inspections to ensure that employees of private sector organisations open RSAs and pension contributions are remitted promptly. Drivers of pension assets growth PenCom led by Mrs. Dahir-Umar  has achieved  milestones in pension contribu-tions, which is projected to hit N10 trillion by year-end and N15.1 trillion by 2023. PenCom introduced an Enhanced Contributor Registration System (ECRS) to tackle the challenges faced with the Contributor Registration System (CRS). Aside helping to lift contributors confidence and bring in more people into the financial system, the enhanced application is expected to open up transfer window for RSA holders to switch PFAs. ”Electronic submission of employer code requests by Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) on employers and the full automation of the process of issuing employer codes. Updates and edits of contributors’ information on the National Databank maintained by the National Pension Commission by the PFAs. The deployment of the ECRS is a major step towards the introduction of the transfer widow, which will enable contributors change to the PFAs of their choice, in line with Section 13 of the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014,” it said. Aside the ECRS, PenCom under Mrs. Dahir-Umar unveiled the Micro Pension Plan (MPP) that allows the informal sector contributors under the CPS to withdraw at least 40 per cent of the contributions in their RSA. The extension of the CPS to the informal sector and the flexibility of its operation is one of the incentives expected to encourage participation and growth of the   pension industry. According to her, Section 2(3) of the Pension Reform Act, 2014 (PRA 2014) provides that employees of organisations with less than three employees as well as the self-employed persons shall be entitled to participate in the CPS in accordance with guidelines issued by the Commission. Majority of these categories of persons are found in the informal sector and have generally low and irregular incomes. The MPP has enabled artisans, such as photographers, caterers, hairdressers, motorcycle service operators, tailors, fashion designers, carpenters, and painters to embrace CPS and protect their future and businesses. ”As you are aware, the informal sector workers constitute the larger percentage of the working population in the country, there is, therefore, no doubt that robust participation would result to exponential growth of the pension funds which would consequently, provide funding for allowable and relevant investments that would impact positively on the economy. The MPP would contribute immensely to achieving the Pension Industry’s strategic objective of covering 30 per cent of the working population in Nigeria under the CPS by the end of 2024,” the PenCom chief said.