A GROUP within the Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC), Oyo Progressive Front (OPF), has advised aggrieved party members not to further jeopardise the peace initiative by former Governor Abiola Ajimobi through their utterances. According to the group, such utterances were capable of further sowing seeds of discord in the party. A statement signed by OPF Coordinator, Tunde Oladimeji, advised a former Commissioner for Environment, Jide Adewale and Dipo Fawole to explore other options of resolving their differences instead of attacking the party’s leadership. The added: “We are all members of APC in the state; we should not continue this wrangling that will help nobody but further divide our party. As good party members, Adewale and Fawole should kindly desist from this path they have embarked upon. Today, the only rallying point we have in the state is Senator Ajimobi. We should all come together to work with him to rescue our party. Our statements should engender peace and unity in Oyo APC. We cannot continue to blame Senator Ajimobi for the loss of the governorship election at the poll; we also inadvertently contributed to the loss through our actions and inactions.” Saying it understood the grouse of the duo and why they are angry with the party leadership, OPF, however, advised them to toe the path of reconciliation. ”Being a former Commissioner of Environment, Adewale, who aspired to contest a Reps seat, obviously would be angry since he did not get the ticket, but he has the whole of the future before him. As for Fawole with a pedigree of progressives running in the family through our late leader, Baba Fawole in Elekuro, we appeal to him to toe the path of peace too. ‘That he took the expression of interest form for the House of Representatives in 2015 and could not follow through due to the situation at the time, he understandably would be aggrieved, we appeal to him too to allow peace reign and join other like minds in the repositioning our party for future challenges. We recall that it was under the progressive administration of Senator Ajimobi that his brother was appointed as the Rector of the Ibadan Polytechnic. These are factors that should be considered. We should not now demolish the house that we have all collectively built due to personal and perceived injury,” the group said.