A 48-year -old man was on Tuesday evening shot dead by a gang of unknown gunmen in Edjophe community, Ughelli South council area of Delta state. The deceased, identified as Johnson Taiga, was reportedly killed while visiting one of his friends simply identified as Asatweh when the eight-man gang stormed the area, shooting into the air to scare resident and eventually descended on their victim. The deceased, who was said to be the older brother of the chairman of the Delta state chapter of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Prince Kehinde Taiga, was said to have been shot and hacked with machetes to death. According to eye-witnesses, the killer gang stormed the area on motorbikes, caused panic in the community and headed to where their target was sitting with his friend. Speaking on the brutal murder of his older brother, the chairman of CDHR Taiga, lamented the uncontrollable activities of cultists and other criminal elements within the Udu and Ughelli South axis of the state, calling on security agencies in the state, especially the police, to step up their games and safe lives of the innocent. Taiga, who spoke in a telephone chat, lamented the pain the murder of his brother had inflicted on him, saying “they killed my elder brother. His death is so painful and I cannot talk much now”. He tasked the Delta Commissioner of Police, Mr Adeyinka Adeleke, to ensure that the killers of his are arrested and prosecuted. He specifically demanded for redeployment of two senior police officers to the two troubled council areas, saying they had what it takes to restore peace and safety to the area. “We need CSP Anieteh Eyoh, an operational DPO in Ovwian/Aladja and CSP Doyen in Otu-Jeremi. We don’t want an administrative DPO here. Ovwian/Aladja and Otu-Jeremi are now the hideout of cultists and it is giving us serious concerns”, Taiga stated. When contacted, the Delta state Commissioner of Police, Adeleke, confirmed the report, saying “I heard somebody was shot dead. The area is calm now. “These cult boys, they didn’t take anything from the person. It is a cult related matter.”