Days are gone when cooking with Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) was the exclusive preserve of the rich and mighty. Those were the days when irregular supply, accessibility, safety, cost and lack of awareness discouraged many consumers from cooking with the LPG. Now with more awareness, and the cost of kerosene going up every day, many consumers have come to realise that cooking with gas may be making more sense. Gas is more environmentally friendly than kerosene, coal and firewood. It burns completely without forming any soot neither does it blacken cooking utensils. Also, it emits less carbon dioxide when compared to firewood, kerosene, and coal, and is therefore less harmful to the atmosphere than many other hydrocarbon energy sources. Also, the exodus to cooking gas could have been occasioned by the proactive step of government last year to reduce and stabilise the price of cooking gas by removing VAT from locally produced LPG. Before then, 12.5kg of cooking gas rose to N4,000 but later started dropping down to its current price of N3,400. The vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, had even said that the present administration is hoping that more consumers will start using cooking gas. He explained that for household cooking, that the current administration is “targeting a 40 per cent adoption rate that is 13.8m households in five years and 73 per cent adoption in 10 years that is 33.3m households.” He said this at the formal inauguration of Techno Oil LPG cylinder manufacturing plant. He noted that Nigeria’s domestic LPG production is 3million metric tonnes [MT] per annum but regretted that there is only a 9 per cent penetration of LPG nationwide.. One cannot ignore the determined efforts of SON’s enforcements and certification programmes, which have, no doubt, also led to an upsurge in the usage of cooking gas. This is because users of gas cylinders, other starter kits and accessories in the market place now operate with stronger confidence in the quality of products available in the nation’s markets. The SON Director General (DG), Mr. Osita Aboloma, disclosed at a recent operation in Lagos that efforts have been intensified by the organisation to subject LPG cylinders to laboratory tests and analysis in order to confirm their conformity to required standards and specifications. The SON boss stressed that if these cylinders fail critical safety parameters on construction, performance and markings, the same will be seized and destroyed. Prior to now, proposed users of cooking gas had entertained great fears on the quality of gas cylinders and other starter kits and accessories in the market whose safety were not guaranteed. This was made evidently manifest in the lamentations of the DG over many avoidable LPG cylinder explosions across the country in the past which had led to excessive loss of lives and properties. Messrs. Tina Ochiagha is a rational thinker who said “I use my 12.5 kg gas cylinder which cost N3,500 to fill and it lasts for two months plus for me. A 25litre of kerosene costs higher and you will hardly get it to buy at official price, yet you will use it up in less than a month given the same conditions, not to talk of the fact that it burns faster and also makes the kitchen smell awful with black smoke on the kitchen utensils and everywhere. Even on the walls and ceiling. Gas cooker is better for me. Just fill N1,500 in a 6 kg gas bottle and you are good to go for the month at least.” In areas where there is power supply for at least 4-6 hours daily, a N3,500 gas (12.5 kg cylinder) will last for more than four months or thereabouts if the user has access to electric burner, so said this respondent who simply wants to be called mama Bose. While a N3,000 worth of kerosene may not last for one good month, equal amount of cooking gas and kerosene or both options of same worth does not last for same period of time. The difference cannot be argued, she said. Mrs. Udoh, popularly called mama Etim, is a commercial food vendor who fries the local akara. She sounds interesting. “Oga ‘Journlis’, the difference is very clear. I have suffered a lot using charcoal and firewood. The smoke has even affected my eyes. How I wish I knew it in time. Cooking gas is better because it is cheaper, cleaner, smarter, faster, more economical, stress free, healthier and less burdensome. Since I switched to cooking gas, my turnover has increased because I now meet up my customers’ demands especially on Saturdays when many of them are at home. The advantages of gas over kerosene are many. The only thing we need to be sure of is that the bottle (cylinder) and other accessories are original to avoid explosion and leakages that can cause fire explosion. “Cooking gas may look costlier at the onset, the reason is the cost of acquiring the cylinder and the starter kits for the first timers. But looking at the long run cost effect, it is cheaper and more economical. When once you have started, subsequent refills will not be stressful in terms of cost. These were the submission of Mrs. Charity Chidalu, another home maker whose husband stays abroad. My husband is outside and he placed my children and me on monthly allowance. With my switch from kerosene to gas I am more effective in my management of my home. Gas is by far better but people don’t know. If you compare how much you pay for gas and how much you pay for kerosene in one month, there is a huge difference,” she noted. Her neighbour at Ikotun market said: “I used to buy two litres of kerosene every two days @ the rate of N200 per litre. I’ll switch to gas immediately, I heard that 12.5kg gas which costs N3,500 to fill can last for up to two months if well managed.” Although most of the respondents are aware of the innate danger of gas when the explosion happens, they are still immovable on their choice of gas maintaining that the gains far outweigh the ills. “With carefulness, one can always overcome the dangers. The task lies in providing basic education to the masses on the use of cooking gas, the does and don’ts, and that will minimise, if not eradicate explosion out rightly.” There is need for a major government penetration intervention programme that would bring about a massive national awareness on cooking gas. The government, apart from helping her citizens make good economical choice, would also be saving some cost that would have been channelled wrongly trying to right wrongs that would have been righted abinitio. However, this is not only a government project. All stakeholders in the oil and gas industry should as a matter of urgency pull resources together to initiate flexible conversion programme from DPK (kerosene) to LPG (cooking gas). Nigeria can learn from other countries’ success story, like Indonesia, and this will take a deliberate effort to achieve. Twelve years past, the Indonesian government undertook a drastic energy programme aimed at converting her primary cooking fuel from kerosene to LPG targeting some 50 million households in a period of five years. For Nigeria that is four times our population, she can approach her own in batches until the entire populace is covered. 