Hon. Eze Chikamnayo, father to Abia first teenage female Governor Joy Eze Chikamnayo has reportedly escaped death by the whiskers after suspected herdsmen attacked his car. Joy, a Law student at the Abia State University Uturu, on Monday, December 11, 2017 presided over the affairs of Abia State for 24 hours at 14 after emerging top in a weeklong rigorous essay competition. The incident, our reporter gathered, happened along the Enugu axis of the Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway.  While no injury was sustained in the attack, the fender and the radiator of the car the popular Abia politician was traveling alongside one of his staff, identified as Prince, was however riddled with bullets. Narrating his ordeal to our reporter when contacted on phone, Eze Chikamnayo, who was the Abia House of Assembly candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) for Umunneochi State Constituency in the 2019 general elections, said it was by the grace of God he escaped being killed by the gunmen dressed like herdsmen. The former Commissioner of Information stated the incident occured after Awgu junction as he was driving to Enugu from his hometown, Isuochi, Umunneochi LGA of Abia State. He said: “It is the most horrible thing that I have ever seen. I won’t even wish my enemy what happened on that day. “The incident happened less than one kilometer to a military checkpoint. After I survived that terrible scenario, I ran straight to the military officers and alerted them and they told me that they are mobilised to go there; they were very nonchalant and lackadaisical about it. “My major concern was about the other road users that weren’t as lucky as I was to have escaped from the gunmen. “All the gunshots were mostly at the fender of the car and the radiator had several wound including the AC (Air Condition) Compressor which God used to save the engine. The fender alone had over fifteen bullet holes.  “They shot from behind, apparently targeting the person at the car owner’s seat, not knowing that I had no one at the back because I was the one driving. “When I escaped, I understand that some people following behind me turned and some people who were coming in opposite direction equally turned since cars using that section of the road are plying on one lane because of the ongoing rehabilitation work on the other lane. It was a very chaotic situation.”  Recalling how the gunmen operated, he said: “They didn’t stop us. They just entered the road and started shooting at us. “They didn’t try to halt us, let it be that we refused to stop. The first person opened fire, less than a pole, another group appeared. “They positioned themselves about a pole apart, so that if one is escaping the first one, you may not escape the second one.” 