a 39-year-old Warri-based taxi driver, Mr. Governor Samuel Elohor, who is in need of N12 million for kidney transplant, has pleaded with public-spirited individuals, corporate organisations, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the government to assist him in raising N12 million to enable him to undergo kidney transplant as soon as possible. Governor, who has been receiving medical treatment, including regular three-times a week dialysis, said his health crisis began in November last year, when he was diagnosed of kidney failure which had resulted in diabetes and high blood pressure. In a chat with Niger Delta Report at the Mount Horeb Hospital, off Airport Road, Warri, where he was about to go through the third dialysis of the week, Governor lamented that the expensive medical treatment he has been receiving has cost him all his property, including his taxicab. The father of three, who pleaded for an urgent help from members of the public, including government and private organisations, also expressed appreciation to members and leaders of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Mount Zion Parish of the Delta Province 6, for sustaining him so far. Governor, who said he had not seen his young children for more than two months, as he has been moved close to the hospital for regular dialysis, however, asked that whoever wishes to help him financially can send money into his Fidelity Bank account number 6015167535. He can also be reached on telephone number: 07033280078. Narrating his ordeal, Governor said. “It is kidney problem that led to diabetes and high blood pressure, which cannot be regulated. They said the only way the high blood pressure can be regulated is when they do dialysis. We initially thought it was a simple thing when we started it last year, but as the dialysis progressed, the high blood pressure refused to go down. “The more dialysis we did, the more the high blood pressure worsens. As you can see, it has led to the swelling of my legs, I can’t walk, I need to be on wheelchair. The hands are swollen, the face is swollen, I can’t even see well. “We began from Central Hospital from where we were referred to the Teaching Hospital in Oghara. When the treatment was getting more expensive, we had to sell some of our properties, we even sold the vehicle we had. When it was getting more serious, they had to refer me to this hospital. “They finally said it is kidney transplant that will be the solution. We have spent more than a million on dialysis so far. For each dialysis, we spend N45, 000, including cost of two pints of blood which they administer on me three times a week. The Medical Director of the hospital, who is conversant with the transplant, said it will cost me N12 million. I think the transplant will be carried out here. “I really appreciate the church. It has helped me tremendously. I am just a common taxi driver when this problem started; it was my wife who had a job. I appreciate them because if not for the assistance of Mount Zion Parish, Delta Province 6, I don’t think I would still be alive by now. “For more than two months now, I have not gone home to see my children because I have to stay close to the hospital so that I can easily come in if there is a crisis and then get dialysis. This week alone, I have had two dialyses. This is the third one this week and the more frequent the dialysis, the more it will be affecting the body,” he said. Joining her husband in the appeal, Governor’s wife, Mrs. Esther Governor, said the pressure had already started taking its toll on her and the children, pleading that all who have what it takes to save her husband should come to their aid. “My appeal is to the public to help my husband. They should please help in saving his life by assisting us financially in order to carry out the kidney transplant. He’s a young man and I don’t want anything to happen to him. We have three children. People should help us if not for anything but for the sake of the children. They always cry that they want to see their daddy. “Please I am begging the public to please save my husband. He’s just 39 years. Now, we are the ones bathing him and washing his teeth, we even feed him. He can’t do anything by himself. People should please help us. It is not easy on us”, she said.