Two employees of Primero Transport Services Ltd and a female passenger were killed on Tuesday after a truck rammed into a Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) vehicle at Majidun in Ikorodu. Over 55 other passengers sustained injuries. The BRT driver was said to be unconscious. He lost his leg. It was gathered that the cement-laden truck had a brake failure and suddenly skidded into the BRT lane, crushing an oncoming mass transit bus with number plate LSR228XS. The BRT, it was learnt, had 60 passengers on board, with 20 of them standing. Primero boss Fola Tinubu said there was nothing the BRT driver could do, as the truck jumped from its lane and hit the bus head-on. He said: “A truck jumped from the regular lane on to the BRT lane and hit our bus head-on. There was nothing our driver could do to prevent the accident. “Unfortunately, we lost two of our workers and one passenger in the accident. We are working with the authorities to apprehend the truck driver. “Right now our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the deceased and we are praying for full recovery for the injured. “Our vehicles are fully insured and our passengers are also insured, but this will not bring back the dead. I pray that God should grant the deceased’s souls eternal rest. We will continue to investigate the accident.”  The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, said one death was recorded in the crash. He said the bus was carrying 40 seated and 20 standing passengers, adding that all the passengers on board suffered injuries. “All passengers on board suffered various degrees of injuries, with one female passenger dying. The driver suffered severe life threatening injuries, with his leg cut off. “The combined efforts of the agency’s assets (Medical unit, Tiger unit, Papa Eagle and Cobra units) were on ground working alongside Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC), Police, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and Lagos State Transport Management Authority (LASTMA) to ease traffic and ensure a swift recovery of the truck. Recovery operation is ongoing,” Oke-Osanyintolu added.