A four-man armed robbery gang operating along Ojuelegba to Ketu in Lagos has been smashed by the operatives of Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS), Lagos state police command. The two suspects arrested are the commercial bus driver Ndidi Melenu 30 from Kwale, Delta state and his motor boy Emmanuel Shoko 31 while the other two are still at large. According to a source, the hoodlums had been operating in a commercial bus along Ojuelegba to Ketu almost on a daily bases disposing innocent people of their hard-earned money, phones, laptops and other valuables for a very long time. Their consistent robbery operation in the area made residents of the area alert the operatives of the DSS who in turn informed the operatives of SARS of Lagos police command. The command after days of intensive surveillance arrested the duo: Ndidi and Shoko, the driver and the conductor. The third and fourth members of the gang simply identified as Sodiq also know as ‘Elere one of Lagos’ and Idowu popularly called ‘Owo master’ is still at large. In his confession, the first suspect Ndidi said, ” I dropped out of school at SS1 due to financial problems and decided to become a commercial driver. My father had eight children from two wives but I married only one and was unable to take care of her. “In my state of hopelessness and financial frustration, I met a bad friend simply known as Eche who introduced me to this one chance work though he is late now. “I used to deliver #5,000 to bus owner daily and I share #10,000 with my conductor every day. “When this guy, Eche introduced me to this one chance work I started making big money until I was arrested. The second suspect Shoko said, “I have been managing the small coins I used to get as a bus conductor until this Idowu came to introduce this one chance work to me. “He told us that it was not one chance armed robbery but pickpocketing as they only collect victims phone or money without applying force or gun. “It was when I was arrested that police told me that it was one chance armed robbery.