The Edo State Government has celebrated the 80th birthday of the state’s first Executive Governor, Chief John Odigie Oyegun with pomp and ceremony. The elaborate ceremony held in Benin-City. The streets of Bénin-City and the city centre, the Oba Ovoranmen Square were adorned with birthday poster of Chief Oyegun, who is the oldest serving former governor in the state. His administration was truncated by General Sani Abacha and he fled into exile to join the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) movement. As part of activities to celebrate the birthday, a golf tournament was organised and the tee-off was attended by prominent citizens such as the state Deputy Governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu, Minister designate, Dr. Osagie Ehanire and Senator Domingo Obende, among others. Prizes were given to winners at a colourful ceremony held at the Bénin Golf Club. Addressing reporters in Benin-City, Chief Oyegun thanked God for his life, expressing delight that God has kept him alive to celebrate 80 years of age. He described the golf tournament as a great honour to him and one he will remember for long. He said: “Most of my friends are golfers and they chose to celebrate with me this way. I thank them all; Benin Club and the Edo State Government for backing and funding this competition. This is a great honour to me at 80 years.” Shaibu explained that the golf tournament for the state’s first civilian governor was to honour his contributions to national development. “We chose to celebrate Oyegun with this golf tournament because golf is a game of life and friendship. We thank God for his life. As a government, we will continue to tap from his experience,” he said. On Monday, the Saint Paul Catholic Church was filled to its capacity as traditional rulers, politicians from different political parties, ordinary citizens and professionals from various walks of life converged to celebrate Chief Oyegun. It was an event that was beamed live to the world. Traffic officers had a hectic time controlling cars that were arriving at the venue. In his homily, Bishop of the Benin Diocese of the Catholic Church, Archbishop Obiora Akubeze, said Oyegun was a rare bred politician that joins politics not to confuse the people but to convince the electorates. Bishop Akubeze described Oyegun as the best politician Nigeria has produced and man that is living out his faith. He said: “I salute the courage, audacity and goodwill of Chief Oyegun. He is one of the few former governors I know that are living out their faith. He is a member of St Vincent Society of St Paul Parish. He sits with members to screen people who have come to ask for assistance. His position has never made him inaccessible to anyone. He is one of the most easily accessed highly placed politicians. He does not ignore a person. He respects both the poor and the rich. “Oyegun has shown that we must thank God always. We must learn to thank God for His benevolence towards us. Whenever we received what we want, we never go back to thank God. “Peace comes from justice. Our political leaders must know that anyone who wants peace must work for justice. Our political leaders must work for justice for every Nigerians irrespective of political parties, ethnicity and religious backgrounds. Justice brings peace. Nations only develop when there is peace. If we want Nigeria to develop, we must work for justice so that we can have peace.” Governor Godwin Obaseki said the state government sponsored the birthday celebration in line with the spirit of Nigeria’s national anthem that “the labour of past heroes shall never be in vain. ”At present, we are here to celebrate our own Chief Odigie-Oyegun. On behalf of the people and Government of Edo State, I want to congratulate you on your 80th birthday. “For your contributions and what you have done for our dear state, I have decided to name the public service academy, which is under construction, after you. We know your passion for public service; we know and acknowledge the contributions you made to public service in Nigeria. “Therefore, we have decided to name the edifice which will be completed within the next 60 days, by the grace of God, after you. President Muhammadu Buhari will come to inaugurate the academy, with you standing beside him. It will be known as the John Odigie-Oyegun Institute for Public Administration.” The institute, according to the governor, is on “three floors and is made up of large training rooms that will host 220 people. Two halls hold 118 people each. There are seven training halls that will host 58 people each.  There is a library, a sick bay, a cafeteria and 12 offices. This facility at any point in time can hold and train a minimum of 900 people. It will be the largest facility for training public servants in Nigeria.” National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Uche Secondus, described Oyegun as a national leader that must be celebrated. Secondus said the birthday was attended by leaders of various political parties because of what Oyegun represented and believed in. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, whose speech was read by Gideon Ikhine, an Engineer, said Chief Oyegun earned his confidence as military President between 1976 and 1979 through dint of hard work and resourcefulness. Chief Obasanjo said Oyegun demonstrated rare qualities of commitment and courage by always upholding the cherished tradition of the public service and his performance as Permanent Secretary on Economic Matters was outstanding. He said Oyegun deployed sound knowledge and wealth of experience in economic development matters such that the administration’s policies were appreciated and understood by the populace. Former Minister of State for Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said Oyegun distinguished himself as a career civil servant and the celebration was to give honour to who honour is due. Other dignitaries that attended the event were wife of Edo State Governor Mrs. Betsy Obaseki; Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu and his wife, Betty Akeredolu; Edo State Deputy Governor, Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu; the Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly, Hon. Frank Okiye; the Chief Judge of Edo State, Justice Esohe Ikponmwen, Minister Designate, Dr. Osagie Ehanire; Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie Esq; National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus; representatives of Benin monarch, Omo N’Oba N’Edo, Uku Akpolokpolo, Ewuare II; former Edo State Governor, Chief Lucky Igbinedion; Chief Gabriel Osawaru Igbinedion, Esama of Benin Kingdom, Commissioners and members of Edo State House of Assembly, among others.