Nigeria’s leading motorbike service, Gokada has announced that it has relaunched its operations in Lagos with new motorcycles and better-equipped riders. The riders, Gokada said, have been trained in safe driving standards, GPS navigation, and customer service. It would be recalled that Gokada halted its operation on August 14, citing the need to improve its safety standards and skills of the riders. Founder and Co-Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Gokada, Fahim Saleh, at a briefing in Ilupeju, Lagos said: “Gokada has always prided itself on setting the standard in the market for safety and service. Hairnets, DOT certified helmets, extensive training – these are all reasons safety on our bikes have been so consistent and how we were able to convince so many to give this new age bike taxi a shot. As we scale, what we have now would be the template for what all our future riders will follow. We took the risk to pause for a moment and improve on that template to provide our customers with exceptional service at scale.” Gokada, Saleh said, has upskilled existing and newly engaged GRiders in advanced knowledge of defensive driving behaviours for enhanced safety, GPS navigation, and optimized customer service delivery. “In addition to this, the brand has also overhauled its entire motorbike fleet and acquired first-of-its-kind, super-efficient TVS motorbikes and fitted their pilots with Bluetooth enabled helmets allowing for more seamless communication and navigation experience,” he said. Gokada Co-CEO Ayodeji Adewumni said: “Gokada 2.0 is all about our unflinching commitment to our customers. We believe that it is better to suspend our operations for two weeks so we can retool and revamp for unmatched service delivery and exceptional experience with the Gokada brand for a long time to come.  It will be an incredible time to use the Gokada services as we journey to transform transportation in Nigeria and the rest of Africa. As part of this relaunch we have also made several upgrades to the management team, and I am truly excited about Gokada 2.0” Director of Government Relations Kayode Adegbola added: “We are excited to continue setting the standard in our industry by exceeding all of the regulatory requirements in Nigeria and partnering with government organisations like the Lagos State Government to help move residents through quicker, more comfortable, safer and responsible means.”