Nigerian Canada-based gospel singer, Rachael Owojori is one of the most sought-after gospel minister in the music sector. Owojori, a trained nurse, in this interview with OLAITAN GANIU, speaks on how she ventured into gospel music, humanitarian services in winning souls and evangelism, among other issues. HOW and when did you start singing? I started singing from the tender age of eight in the children choir and later joined student choir in a group called, ‘Gospel Student Fellowship’. The fact that I was not a good singer before when I was in Student fellowship, I prayed to God for a beautiful voice. I promised God I will give it back to him and He did.  I continued to develop myself in church choir and personal voice training. I’ve been singing God’s praise ever since. How do you get inspiration? I get inspiration from God through personal experience, the word of God, dream, nature, situation and what is going on around, listening to messages and Christian music. It is believed that gospel songs are meant to evangelize but most of today’s singers have commercialized it. What do you say about this? I won’t say “most singers” because I believe there are true gospel ministers out there. Some Gospel artistes prioritise money over the message of Christ. It is not right to favour money or fame over God’s calling. It is important for everyone that is truly called by God to follow God’s direction and pass the message of God to the people without looking back. Luke 9:52 states No one who puts a hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God. What do you do to be different from other gospel singers? I try to be myself and follow the leadings of the Holy Spirit in my ministry. If I am seen to be different or the same with another gospel minister, that for me doesn’t matter. I believe in fulfilling Gods purpose for my life. How many songs or albums are to your credit? By God’s grace I released my debut single titled, Oduntuntun (New Year) in December 2016 and album Let’s Praise Him, containing eight songs in August 2017, which both are on Youtube. I also released a video in February 2019 titled, “The Name of Jesus” It is also on Youtube. I am currently working on three singles and hopefully it will be out next year. Any challenges? What are they and how do you surmount them? Yes, there are challenges, but God has been faithful. In this kind of ministry, as the Bible said, money is the vehicle of evangelism. To produce an album and to promote or market it cost a lot of money of course. We are praying for financial breakthrough to propagate the Gospel. We are also trusting God for volunteers and sponsors to help spread the gospel of Christ. Another Challenge that we are facing is getting Gospel songs to the public forum in Canada but thanks to God for open doors in this area. God is helping us to extend the gospel of Jesus beyond the four walls of the Church. Where do you see your music ministry in 5 – 10 years? Other anticipation for the future also includes how to work more on helping the orphans and the needy in Africa. We also plan to tour other African Countries, Europe, and U.S next year while we are trusting God for an open door in Asia and Middle East. Aside singing, what other things do you do? I am a registered Nurse by profession. I also volunteer for humanitarian services here in Nigeria and Canada. I’m a volunteer in children church and I am also the unit leader of the drama team of RCCG Jesus House for all Nations Saskatoon Canada. Some of our movies are on Youtube (RCCG Jesus House Saskatoon). I also love gardening Who are your role models? Role model: Jesus Christ is my role model, the bible says in Phil 2:5, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. My parents, Elder and deaconess Akintola are great inspiration to me. I do appreciate the gift of God in the lives of ministers like Pastor E.A Adeboye, Bishop David Oyedepo, Pastor Lekan Ayodele, Evangelist Dupe Olulana, Pastor Nathaniel Bassey, Evangelist Bola Are, Evangelist Bukola Bekes, Lara George, Evangelist Tope Alabi, Sinach, Evang. Gloria Bamiloye to mention just a few.