National Union of Campus Journalist, Nigeria (NUCJ), has extended its arm to Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. The inauguration and three-day workshop with the theme: “Campus journalism in the era of fake news” held at the Faculty of Art’s Theatre Hall and UNIZIK FM Hall respectively. The event had over 100 students in attendance. The training featured resource persons in the media industry. They include: Director, UNIZIK 94.1 FM, Prof Stella Okunna; Managing Director, Anambra State Broadcasting Service, Stella Igboka; and Chairperson, National Association of Women Journalist, Awka, Uche Nworah among other media personalities. Participants were trained in basic elements and ethics of journalism, data journalism, conducting successful interview, how to write good stories, as well as the basics of fact-checking, among others. Chidi Onumah, author of ‘We are all Biafrans’ and Nigerian/Canadian journalist, who trained the students on ‘Introduction to campus journalism’, narrated his experience as a campus journalist at the University of Calabar. He urged participants to be professional in their writing. “People who practice campus journalism pay attention to details like climax, syntax and so on. They do their home work very well.  As campus journalists, our responsibility is to ask. “At the ivory tower, where integrity is being ditched, journalism becomes the cornerstone to demand accountability, especially when it’s about the welfare of students” Anambra State Broadcasting Service Managing Director, Mr Uche Nworah, while training campus journalist on Introduction to Journalism, emphasised on the importance of ICT skills to boost campus journalism work and urged them to be smart and savvy with ICT. He also urged them to be active in writing well detailed story that will promote the welfare of students on campus. The National Union of Campus Journalist, Nigeria( NUCJ), Publicity Secretary, Samuel Ajala  narrated his foray into journalism and urged them to be good ambassadors of the union.  NUCJ South-East Zonal Secretary, who doubles as the UCJ UNIZIK Editor-in-Chief, Chiamaka Okafor, emphasised on the need for active union on campus and narrated what the significance of the union will be in the institution. At the end of the workshop, some students shared their thoughts on the event with Premium Times. One of the trainees, identified as Moses Mary from Mass Communication Department said: “I learnt a lot about how best i can be a journalist, to do the work with passion and skills.” Another trainee, Okafor Chidera Christian of Mass Communication Department said: “The programme is motivating. So far, we have been here to learn a lot and connect with each other. I can write news now and I can interview any student on campus based on what I have learnt.” The event was organised in partnership with Premium Times, Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ), African Centre for Media & Information Literacy (AFRICMIL) and other organisations. NUCJ, is an umbrella that unites all campus journalist in Nigeria. The organisation is committed to promoting welfarism of campus journalist in Nigeria.