The federal government has alleged leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), Ibrahim El-Zakzaky planned to seek asylum while on medical treatment in India. El-Zakzaky’s other plan, according to the government, was to get an India Court grant him leave to relocate to another country. To achieve this plan, he was said to have engaged lawyers and some human right groups to help execute his agenda. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Culture, Mrs. Grace Isu Gekpe, said El-Zakzaky’s actions in India demonstrated malicious intents capable of embarrassing the Governments of Nigeria and India. Gekpe explained the IMN leader also tried violating order of the Nigerian Court by approaching an Indian court to seek asylum or leave to travel to another country. The statement reads: “The Federal Government wishes to inform the public about the latest development in the Ibraheem El-zakzaky medical trip controversies to India. “The Government notes with dismay the acts of misconduct exhibited by El-zakzaky that necessitated his repatriation. “While in India, he initiated contacts with a team of lawyers led by Ali Zia Kabir Chaudary and Gunjan Singh in that country. “He also contacted some Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), such as the Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC) and other Shiite groups. “His aim was to seek asylum and eventually relocate to another country. “The earlier statement of 14th August 2019 by the Government addressed the issues that would have raised some questions with the latest occurrences and particularly the uncelebrated return of El-zakzaky from India. “The public may note that El-Zakzaky’s actions in India demonstrated malicious intents that were capable of embarrassing the Governments of Nigeria and India. “With total disrespect and complete loss of decorum for international procedures while in India, he initiated contacts with a team of lawyers led by Ali Zia Kabir Chaudary and Gunjan Singh in that country. “He also contacted some Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), such as the Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC) and other Shiite groups. His aim was to seek asylum and eventually relocate to another country. “It is important to note that if an Indian court had granted El-zakzaky asylum or leave to travel to another country, it would have violated the Nigerian court order that granted him permission to travel for medical treatment. “However, he used the opportunity of being in India to attempt to internationalise his cause by mobilising the Rights groups. “Even most unfortunate and rather embarrassing as earlier stated, was his quest to be relocated to a 5-Star hotel to receive visitors instead of being admitted in the hospital as a sick person he claimed to be. “In spite of his misconduct, El-zakzaky’s spouse went further to antagonise the Indian and Nigerian security agents and accused the latter of killing her children. “These acts were aimed at winning international sympathy as well as disparaging the Nigerian Government. “Having subordinated the quest for medical treatment to other ulterior motives, it became obvious that El-zakzaky was focused on realising some sinister motives thus the decision to return him to Nigeria”. In a related development, the United States (U.S) Embassy in Abuja has described as baseless the allegation raised by the IMN group that US colluded with Nigeria government to disrupt the treatment of their leader in India.