MRS OKOROAFOR: Good day. My name is Mrs Okoroafor. My late husband Mr Okoroafor, whose PFA is Stanbic IBTC Pension, passed away on June 22, 2013. We have done everything, but have not received any payment since his death. The details are as follows: His last place of work: Nigeria Immigration Service headquarters, Abuja. I am his next of kin. Kindly help me. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PenCom and Stanbic IBTC Pension. Do watch out for the newspaper next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently weekly for pension news. DANIEL: My name is Daniel, a staff member of Lagos State Ministry of Education. l registered with ARM Pension, but recently my PFA was not stated on my pay slip. Please help me. THE NATION: The Nation will ‘see’ PenCom and ARM. Their response will be published in due course. OYEWUNMI: My name is Oyewunmi. I registered with Stanbic IBTC Pension, but my money is being paid to a different firm – ARM Pension. I have written letters to ARM to correct this, but it has not done anything. My request is that they should transfer my money with interest to Stanbic IBTC. Thanks. THE NATION: The Nation will send your complaint to PenCom, Stanbic and ARM. Please, read this newspaper weekly for information. BRIDGET: God bless The Nation for standing for the voiceless. My name is Mrs Bridget, the wife and next of kin to the late Ogene, who died on September 15, 2011. Until his death he served at the Federal Ministry of Lands, Housing & Urban Development, Mabushi, Abuja for 28 years. Till date, the group life insurance has not been paid. I was directed to the Head of Service for payment and all required documents were submitted. Whenever I called, I was told that the government had not released money for payment. Pease, help me, because  many files had been approved for payment by PFAs. Yet, my name was not among them. THE NATION: The Nation will  despatch your complaint to PenCom. Be patient. Ensure you read The Nation weekly for an update on your case. ANYIN: My name is Anyin. My date of first appointment is March 1, 1959, while date of retirement is October, 1985 on Grade level 16. My complaint is that I was not available during verification in Calabar because I was sick. Please, treat my case with passion. Thanks. THE NATION: Your matter will be taken up with the PTAD.  Soon, you will hear about it from this page. JOSEPHINE:  My name is Josephine. My complaint is that other retirees have received their monthly payment. But I have not got any. Please, help me. THE NATION: The Nation will send your matter to the PTAD. Please be on the look out for an update.