The political atmosphere in the oil-rich Bayelsa State is already charged ahead of the November 16 governorship election. Since 1999, Bayelsa has remained the stronghold of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The All Progressives Congress (APC) has been dazed, following its failed attempt at installing a democratic government in the Southsouth state.  The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State appears  nervous and fidgety about the state of affairs as at today. In fact, Southsouth has remained a no-go area for other political parties. Even APC’s fragile hold on Edo State may not continue in the near future, if the supremacy battle going on among the APC gladiators in the state is anything to count on. Oil states are regarded as trump cards, paying the piper and dictating the tune, a big question for the ruling party at the centre. But, at the same time, since the governorship race began in the state this season, “many lions” have been appearing on the stage. They appear and disappear suddenly, still leaving the stage in want of the most fit. A closer look at the list simply reveals that those were imaginary lions. Recent developments point to the truth that the real Lion may have emerged in the person of David Lyon. Is this lion from the tribe of Judah? Is he of the root of Jesse of Bethlehem? Yes! Apart from a Ly(i)-on, he bears David also. He is the eventual right aspirant, enjoying the blessings of party elders. There were mixed reactions in some parts of Bayelsa, following the decision by the renowned philanthropist and politician, Chief David Lyon, to join the governorship race on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 16 poll. While many indigenes of the state from the largest local government area, Southern Ijaw, were thrown into wild jubilations, with friendly gun shots along the creeks and waterways, most of the aspirants on the platforms of the APC and the PDP were reported to have expressed optimism over the possibility of Lyon emerging his party’s flag bearer and winning the governorship election. Even one of the PDP aspirants was said to have confessed that Lyon’s emergence and the rising squabbles within the PDP may secure victory for the opposition. For astute and very critical minds, it is interesting to note that there is something in the offing. The making of King David, the man after God’s heart, took a quiet, unnoticed process by kingmakers. While Saul was being celebrated, the preferred was up-coming, a decision of those that really matter. Even Prophet Samuel would have wasted the vial of oil on the likes of Eliab, Abinadab, Shammah etc, the sons of Jesse, following human judgment. But, God would not let that happen. APC sons, the likes of Frankland Briyai, Preye Aganaba, Deseye Poweigha, Chief CK Amgbare and former Minister of State for Agriculture Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, have appeared on stage. But, the pendulum is now swinging in the direction of Lyon himself, the real Lion, from the chosen tribe, a man after God’s heart as well as after the people’s heart, the man after Sylva’s heart, the man David Lyon a key player in the oil and gas industry and major financier of the party in the state. APC’s interest in the Bayelsa governorship poll, presents a titanic brawl between PDP and APC, a fight to finish for the soul of the state on November 16. It means that the APC needs to field a master strategist for the battle, knowing that the PDP, which is already an entrenched colossus in the state, is ready to resist it. An interesting angle to it is the presence of former President Goodluck Jonathan, who coincidentally hails from Bayelsa and Governor Seriake Dickson, another Goliath who has continued to boast and claim that Bayelsa remains a no holds-barred for the APC. But, there is nothing to fear in this fight. For every Goliath, there is a David, then, it was a David Jesse, today it is David Ly(i) – on. The battle must be won internally first, then out there. So, the political coast is clear for Lyon to clinch the party’s ticket. Analysts, political watchers and insiders maintain that the odds favour this “Man after God’s heart”, the man after the heart of king makers. A clear indication that everything is going well for David was the recent appointment of Chief Timipre Sylva, a former governor of the state, as Minister of State, Petroleum by President Buhari. Sylva would have posed the greatest rival to David, if not for the appointment. But, what would have worked against David the Lion, obviously now exists for his favour. Sylva’s loyalists, supporters, foot-soldiers and followers who worked for Lokpobiri to deliver Bayelsa to APC have naturally switched over to the Lyon side. The latest decision of Sylva was a turning point that altered political permutations. Other APC aspirants and the leadership of the PDP were said to be reviewing their earlier strategies. This is a clear sign that a lion, indeed, has emerged in the jungle to be the king and that even the grasses have begun to feel the presence. The APC knows that this is not a time for trial and error. It needs an expert to shoot right at the target. So, the choice of Lyon must have been borne out of the strong desire to win the forthcoming election. “Lyon has the popularity. His descent is Southern Ijaw and he is liked not only by people from Southern Ijaw but also by people in other local government areas where he had built bridges through his philanthropy”, said the popular Bayelsa grassroots politician, Adolphus Owoupele. Besides, the APC must present a popular and acceptable candidate to withstand the PDP stronghold in the state. Lyon is the candidate and I know he will win the ticket soon, concluded Owoupele. Lyon became Sylva’s choice after wide consultations and marathon meetings with his political group, party executives and followers. So, his fronting Lyon is actually a consensus, with the structures and followers of  Sylva being directed to queue behind Lyon ahead of the governorship primaries of the party. One thing is very sure: for every Goliath that may rear its head, there is a David. And one thing too is  clear, that the Davidic strategy has always worked through the ages, neither will it fail in this.