Prof Sherifdeen Tella, a Senior Economist at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State, in this interview with Daniel Adeleye attempts a prognosis of the unemployment crisis as well as proffers useful suggestions on the way forward. Excerpts: Why are we having increasing rate of unemployment in Nigeria in the last few years? The reason is because many that are under employment age before are moving to employment age. And again the economy is not expanding as it should be and therefore it’s not accommodating them. So that’s why we have the problem. Nigeria at large is not talking about youths and they are growing and moving to employment age. So if the economy is not expanding and it cannot accommodate them so they become unemployed as we have. So that’s the problem we are having at hand now. Though we say we are coming out of recession but it’s very slow pace and because the coming out is very slow the unemployment rate will continue to increase. Do you think the government is making the right policies to address this challenge? Nigeria has good policies; the problem has to do with implementation. The assessment is whether those things are properly implemented or not. And who is to do that? It’s not the same government that suppose to do the assessment; the media can do the assessment and report that government is going the right direction in implementing those policies. If the people know that the assessment is going on definitely the people that are suppose to implement will sit up. Some experts have argued that the unemployment crisis is not actually peculiar to Nigeria alone as virtually every country of the world has one form of unemployment or the other. However, some countries have managed to address the unemployment challenge. Which country in the world do you think that Nigeria can learn from in terms of best practices? Most Asian countries were like us and they have come out from the poverty trap even India is coming out from poverty because they have focus. They have focus in the sense that they have national plans and they execute those plans properly and they focus on education, agriculture as well as industrialisation. In India for example, they focus more on ICT particularly the development of software and so they are making their money from that all over the world. China on her own focuses on industrialisation, education and agriculture, they are everywhere making it. We have Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong and a host of others from Asian countries. If you Google the level of education in those countries you’ll discover that it’s above 90 percent. Because when you have an enlightened society they become creative and innovative and a lot of things would be done very fast. We are now in era of knowledge-base economy but own level of literacy is less than 70 percent, so what are we talking about? So the government has to focus on education, agriculture and industrialisation. But more importantly, educate your people because even if you ask people to come and develop your infrastructure, are they also going to stay to maintain it? So it’s a big problem but if we start today in the next 20 years, we’ll be saying something different. But if we don’t start today, in another 20 years of course, we’ll still be talking about the same poverty. These days government believes in issuing Executive Orders to tackle one problem or the other. Do you think an Executive Order can help to address the alarming rate of unemployment in the country? It’s all excuses. They wouldn’t issue Executive Order to cart our money abroad. No, it’s not necessary. If the states government are doing what is right, the federal government is doing what’s right as well as the private sector, Nigeria will move forward. We don’t need Executive Orders in such things. Executive Order should be on the issue of security so that if the environment is conducive everybody will have peace. So our government always find excuses for not performing. What do you think should be done by the government and private sector to arrest the ugly trend? The government should continue spending on infrastructure development. Government always think of imposing taxes on businesses which is not right. What China did recently was to reduce tax on production and what that means is that is to encourage supply. When you reduce taxes on manufacturing sector it serves as incentive for them to produce more. Eventually you get the amount you’re looking for you will employ people who are going to pay tax anyway. And again when you have a kind of poor condition that we have and you concentrate your imports on only one port and there is congestion, most of the raw materials are rotten away under that congestion; how do you expand economy under that scenario? There are problems of congestion at the port, we must reduce overheads on the manufacturing sector by reducing the tax as it were so that those one can expand and they can increase the number of people they are going to employ because when they are producing more they will employ more. So they can use fiscal policy of reduce taxes to even expand the economy itself. Now apart from that, what sector of the economy should government focus on in order to arrest the menace of unemployment in the country? Yes like I said, if the private sector is helped especially in the manufacturing sector it will generate employment. They should also concentrate on agriculture because raw materials would be required in the manufacturing sector. It’s just like also buying food from farmer which would also engineer agricultural sector. But you can imagine that even in the 21st century we are still using cutlasses and hoes to produce food. That’s not right. So government has to find a way of mechanising agriculture so that Nigeria can also grow fast in that sector. And that sector can as well feed the industries. If the industries are getting the required raw materials it will also reduce the cost of importation. If the industries are able to get adequate supply as and when due, it will also reduce the cost of production. And when those things are happening, it will expand their production level which will make them to increase the number of people that will work with them and therefore prune down the unemployment rate that we are talking about.