Lagos State Government has vowed to explore legal means in protecting the interests of the people from real estate swindlers, Housing Commissioner Moruf Akinderu-Fatai has said. The commissioner, who spoke yesterday in Alausa, Ikeja when some defrauded accommodation seekers from Alapere Ketu visited him to complain, added that the government would also help citizens to seek redress in cases of fraudulent transactions. He said: “The government has declared a war against fraudulent practitioners in the real estate sector. We are determined to make Lagos a no-go area for unscrupulous individuals who prey on Lagosians under the guise of real estate business.” Speaking earlier on behalf of the victims allegedly defrauded by an estate agent, who collected rents from over 260 prospective tenants for only 15 units of accommodation, Aliyu Toyin feared that the accused might not be brought to book. Akinderu-Fatai assured them that “justice will definitely be served to the fraudulent property developer, who swindled them out of their hard earned money.” The commissioner said the government was aware of the issue and had instituted legal actions against the developer on behalf of the victims. He urged the public to report dubious estate agents and developers to the office of Lagos State Real Estate Transaction Department (LASRETRAD), Block 7, Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja. “I assure you that the government under the leadership of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is very responsive and will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that the culprits are brought to book,” Akinderu-Fatai said. He advised the victims to remain calm and be law-abiding “since the matter is already in court.” Permanent Secretary Mr. Wasiu Akewusola enjoined Lagosians seeking accommodation to transact business with estate agents and developers who are registered with LASRETRAD, a directorate under the ministry. He said the directorate is saddled with the responsibility of registering, regulating and monitoring real estate operators across the state and appealed to the victims to maintain peace and order, while the government takes action on the matter.