A 14-year-old girl yesterday narrated how a man raped her in Ikorodu, Lagos, on Monday at knifepoint. She said the incident took place on Monday,  in a house at Fajemisi Kokoro Abu Street, Sabo, Ikorodu. The girl, a trainee-hairdresser, said she was returning from where she went to buy food for her boss. The suspect, it was gathered, works at a gas shop in Ikorodu. He was living with his parents before they relocated. He now lives with another man in a room where he committed the act . The victim told our reporter that the suspect wore a yellow top and shorts on the fateful day. She said: “I was returning from where I had gone to buy rice for my boss when the incident happened. I was heading for the salon when the rapist called me, but I did not answer him because I don’t know him. He then accosted me near a house at a corner at Fajemisi Kokoro Abu Street in Sabo, Ikorodu. He pushed me, lifted up his yellow top, brought out a knife and tied my mouth with a cloth. He pushed me to the floor, dragged me to a room and said if I moved, he would kill me and run away. “He dragged me to a bed, removed my clothes and deflowered me. After raping me, he removed his yellow top and used it to clean my blood. He opened the door and ran out with the clothing. I later went out of the room and shouted. People came around; some chased him, but did not find him. A woman took me to my boss’ shop. I was given some drugs. My mother later joined us and we went to report the incident at Igbogbo Police Station. Later I went to hospital.” The girl said she needed proper care, adding that she will be happy if the suspect is brought to book. Her mother, who simply identified herself as Monsura, said her daughter had three cuts in her private parts. “My daughter is not well, she is not feeling fine, she is not comfortable. She has since Monday been bathing with hot water. She cannot do anything by herself. If you see her, you will pity her. She has been wearing cardigan since Monday and covering up herself with a bedsheet. “We took her to the General Hospital at Ita-Elewa in Ikorodu. She was given medicines and she did several tests, including HIV test. The doctors said the rapist has injured her and that she has three cuts in her private parts. “I want the police to arrest the man the rapist lives with, his parents and the owner of the gas shop where he works.  If these people are arrested, the rapist will come out from hiding. “I’m worried because the rapist used his clothes to clean my daughter’s blood after deflowering her. I’m concerned about that clothe because of what is going on now in the country. Some people said such clothes are used for money rituals.” The victim’s boss, who identified herself as Aisha, said Monday was not the first time she would send the girl to buy her food. “I don’t know the rapist, but we have been searching for him. Someone gave us his number. I have called his line several times, but the phone has been switched off,” she said. Our reporter yesterday called the rapist’s line, but the phone was switched off. Command spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendant (DSP), said the police were investigating the matter, adding that the suspect will be arrested and arraigned.