A mysterious “loan box” was sighted across locations in Lagos over the last couple of weeks. It has turned out that the creative and striking teaser is an initiative of Page Financials, a leading retail financial services provider in Nigeria with a bold move to create awareness and promote access to financial services including loans. As a retail financial institution focused on digital finance services, Page offers unsecured, easy and fast lending to Nigerians who can show a verifiable and stable means of repayment. The Loan Box is a reminder that loans are easily accessible at Page Financials and aims to demystify the concept of consumer lending; Nigerians should have easy access to credit to manage emergencies and sort out financial obligations without any hassles. According to the Head of Marketing, Chinelo Ngene, “the initiative is part of Page’s agenda to assure Nigerians that the organisation is committed to support consumers in achieving short- and long-term financial goals through easy access to loans as well as aid their journey to wealth creation.’’ Page Financials’ loans are easily accessible through physical and digital channels, offering loans up to N5million with structured tenures between 3-12 months to suit customer needs. While Lagosians continue to relish the sight of the loan box on the streets, expectations are high that many will be taking advantage of the opportunity to achieve their financial goals with Page Financials. Page International Financial Services Limited also known as Page Financials, opened its doors for business in 2013 and has provided credit facilities to over 150,000 Nigerians, helping them achieve their goals and aspirations. As one of the leading retail financial institutions in Nigeria over the past six years, Page has created a dynamic avenue to deliver unique and customer-focused services through investment and loan products accessible via physical and digital channels. The organisation’s exceptional use of innovative concepts continue to place them at the forefront of the sector, and they show no signs of slowing down as they keep working to ensure Nigerians get the best, most convenient and accessible financial services.