Digitest, an annual Information Communication Technology (ICT) Creative Camp and Competition for young techs between ages  eight and 18, has held its 18th edition. The event, with the theme: “e-Governance:Accountability, Creativity and Transparency (ACT)”, which held during the week  in Lagos, provided an opportunity for youths to articulate digital solutions to environmental and governance problems facing the nation. Digitest National Coordinator,   and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Environment, Mrs. Ibukun Odusote, who spoke at the closing  ceremony,  said the event was hinged on nation building, as youths reviewed  issues bordering on e-governance and deployed various ICT tools in tackling issues, thus proffering solutions to electronic governance. According to Odusote, lack of openness, transparency and accountability in governance is a major barrier to development, adding that an improved stakeholders’ involvement  would mean trumpeting the issues in governance and having everyone participating in the drive to find solutions to these issues. Calling on the government to reengineer solutions to the challenges facing the country, she called for effective policy, effective budgeting and effective implementation, and the need for technologies in achieving this stride. Also, Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of the Environment, Dr Segun Adeniji, said to bridge the digital gap between African youths and their peers globally, digitilisation must be embraced in all facets of governance  and environmental management. He said the current administration in the state was geared towards enhancing capacity to drive social and economic emancipation. “We are geared towards positioning Lagos to partner sustainable and forward-looking private sector operators. We have trained over 1,000 youths in coding, developed capacity of teachers in public schools, equipped public schools and developed infrastructure,’’he said. Digitest Board of Trustees Chairman Prof. Kassie Njoku said Digitest gives opportunity to the youth to turn the fortunes of the nation in all facets of the economy. He predicted that in the next 10 to 20 years digitalisation will overtake manual operations in governance and educational sector. To him, what has been impacted on the young people will position them to compete globally. He encouraged them to study and imbibe modern technologies to be competitive  in order to position them for higher responsibities. Other experts advised youths to develop technological competence to counter lack of transparency and accountability in governance.