Lagos State Government, under the Primary Health Care Board (PHCB), at the weekend launched meningitis vaccination. The aim is to get rid of ‘Men A meningitis’ and protect children against same. Permanent Secretary Dr. Tayo Lawal launched the exercise at the Primary Health Centre, (PHC), Mushin, Lagos. He said meningitis was a devastating disease and remained a major public health challenge, adding that “the well-being of our children is paramount to the future of Lagos State and Nigeria.” Lawal said meningitis is an infectious disease affecting the lining of the brain and capable of causing serious fatalities, “this is especially so for states in the meningitis belt in Nigeria.” He added that many organisms caused meningitis, including viruses, fungi and bacterial. “For bacterial meningitis, the most common cause is Neisseria meningitis. Meningitis is known to begin at the peak of the dry season and stop abruptly in the rainy season. People of all ages can be affected by the bacteria. Children between the ages of five and 14 being the most vulnerable,” Lawal said. He said the sero-type A is responsible for most of the epidemic in the meningitis belt, but with the introduction of Men A vaccine in West African countries within the belt, there has been a remarkable decline in the incidence of the disease and that with the introduction of the vaccine into the national immunisation schedule, the incidence of the epidemics will further decline greatly. The permanent secretary said the symptoms of meningitis included severe headache of sudden onset, high grade fever, nausea, vomiting, irritability, neck stiffness, convulsion and loss of consciousness. He said the complications include arthritis, hearing impairment, seizures, mental retardation, paralysis and death. Lawal said a diagnosis is made after a sample of cerebrospinal fluid is taken by a doctor from a suspected patient and is tested and bacterial organism is isolated. “It can also be made from a test called polymerase chain reaction. “Treatment is always with antibiotics, using national guideline, while prevention of bacterial meningitis is by vaccination with meningococcal vaccine and by avoiding overcrowding, observing good personal hygiene and exclusive breastfeeding.” Lawal said Lagos has never had any epidemic of meningitis, but due to the daily influx of people into the state from parts of the country, Lagos is on the high alert “and in line with the national programmes, we are introducing meningitis A conjugate vaccine into the national routine immunisation schedule. This means that from now onwards, Men A conjugate vaccine will be available in all primary care health facilities in the state.” He said the vaccine would be administered as injection into the left upper outer thigh at nine months, adding that it would be administered alongside measles and yellow fever vaccines, which were all injectable. Lawal appealed to mothers not to be apprehensive and to allow their children to be given three injections at the same time. “The vaccines are safe and do not cause any disease. They are life time protection vaccines that far outweigh little discomfort the children may feel. “The vaccines are free in all government owned hospital,” said the permanent secretary. He said the Lagos State Primary Health Care Board is positioned and ready to deliver quality basic health care services to Lagosians. Lawal said the delivery of quality routine and supplemental immunisation to the children remained the priority of the board, adding that the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration was determined to implement government policies towards achieving an improved and sustainable health care agenda of the government. He encouraged parents and guardians to embrace immunisation services in the PHC, especially the newly introduced vaccine Men A that is available in the PHCs.