Kogi State indigenes resident in Ekiti State have declared support for Governor Yahaya Bello’s reelection ahead of the November election. The Kogi indigenes Youths in Ekiti said they took the action to save the state from sliding into recession caused by political instability and policy somersault that had held the Confluence State down since its creation in 1991. The group comprising the three major ethnic groups;  Ebira, Igala and Okun, noted that the governor’s second term bid will enable him to complete his legacy projects across the state. Bello has been facing stiff opposition from Mohammed, the son of  the late Governor Abubakar Audu and some powerful political gladiators in the state. In a statement in Ado Ekiti by the group’s President, Mr.  Nasir Suleiman, the youths describe Bello as the face of the Nigerian youth in governance, saying “one good term of Yahaya Bello deserves another”. Suleiman said the governor had shown exemplary leadership, in spite of the paucity of funds and tension in the land, adding that he had made tremendous impact in his  first term in the areas of  road construction, quality  healthcare system, youth and women empowerment. He said: “We are planning to hold a massive rally to openly show our commitment to the second term project of the governor, because we need stability, growth and development in Kogi. “Kogi has often been battling  with ethnic diversity which was rode upon by past leaders to achieve their selfish interests but Yahaya Bello has brought all tribes together through equitable distribution of available resources , what matters to him is Kogi and not  ethnicity”, he said. Suleiman noted that the governor’s developmental strides have  touched the local governments, stressing that he has constructed abandoned roads linking the three senatorial districts. “Another achievement that caught our attention was the establishment of the largest rice mill in the Northern Zone known as Omi rice factory in Kogi west which had created jobs for thousands of youth and enhanced local production of rice for food supply  and economic development. He added: “Another landmark achivement of Bello’s government was the renovation of schools and provision of pipe borne water, which had distinguished him from his predecessors. “When we visited Kogi on an  assessment  tour  of some of these projects because of the rumour  flying  around  that Governor  Bello had performed poorly, we were spellbounded by the quantum of works he had completed  and these reinforced our determination to canvass support for the governor at this crucial and appropriate time of our political history”. Suleiman urged voters to be wary  of  those perpetrating corruption. “Some of those contesting  against the governor were not sincere but only coming to government to steal the meagre resources which the governor had utilized prudently over the years”. The group however, called on all Kogi citizens, both at home and in the diaspora to support Bello in the interest of continuity and sustainable peace and development of the state.