Tunde Irukera, a governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State, was disqualified by the Screening Committee. In this interview, the Director-General, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, speaks on his ordeal, his mission in politics and the agitation for power shift in the Northcentral State. EMMANUEL OLADESU reports. What is your reaction to your disqualification from the Kogi APC governorship primary? We were ambushed. It is in bad faith. Suddenly, we were asked to come to Abuja. We were directed to the Appeal Committee. The disqualification is without justification. We are going to resist it. Why do you want to be governor of Kogi? There is a short and long answer to that question. The first answer to that question is that there is a need in Kogi and we must answer to that call. The long answer is that Kogi is lagging behind in most indices of governance and development; in governance, health, lifestyle, and standard of living, our state is ranked at the lower rung of the ladder. When you compare the resources and the possibility in the potential of the state with the declared results, then it will not be difficult to concede that Kogi State is performing the worst in the country from the comparative standpoint. It then behooves on the citizen of Kogi to make sure that whatever they can do to change that narrative to the path of prosperity, they should do it. This is not just ambition but a call, a responsibility and an obligation that has been placed on some of us to consider whether we have the courage to confront or not. I am in the race in part because of the pressure and ultimately because I truly have a clear vision for the development of the state. My vision for the state is encapsulated under the acronym, “HELP”, which entails Healthcare and human security; Employments, Learning opportunities and Prosperity for all. Kogi is a state where you can find in large quantity any mineral resources that could be found elsewhere in Nigeria. Not to mention the closeness to Abuja; Kogi is also significantly endowed with arable farmland and good irrigation; the confluence itself is a tourist attraction if truly and fully maximised. Mount Patti is one of the highest points where you have a significant flat top that can be truly exploited for tourism. Don’t you think that call may likely ruffle feathers since you are heeding it on the platform of the APC which also has a sitting governor looking to answer the same call for a second term? I think the way the democratic and electoral system work already defined what is expressible and what is not expressible. In reality, this whole thing is about service to the people. The election system as stipulated in the constitution says there is a potential to change every four years. The parties have also adopted that constitutional principle of saying that though a governor has a right to two-terms, they created a system of primaries to ensure that space is open every four years and return to the delegates of the parties for assessment. You contested the 2015 APC governorship primary in Kogi State, but eventually step down for the late Abubakar Audu. What actually informed the withdrawal and how confident are you that delegates will vote for you? I think what I did then was a demonstration of what my real intentions were and still are. I offered myself to serve and not pursue personal ambition. If it was a personal ambition to rule Kogi State, the discussion about moving away from the race is not going to happen in that manner. My ambition has always been to a successful lawyer not to be governor in Kogi but getting into that race means a complete commitment and sacrifice to serve the people and change the narrative of the state. With that message, the delegates will connect. Delegates, over the past four years, they will look up and see what I have done with the very limited resources that have been entrusted to me. I started about two years as the Director-General of the Consumer Protection Council, a rather small agency that is relatively unknown in this country with a relatively small budget. I have spent over two and half years now without a significant increase in that budget, the Consumer Protection Council is now a well-known location where people can go when they believe that they have been poorly treated by companies. Not only that, in that same period of time, I fought hard to ensure that Nigeria now has legislation that promotes the rights of consumers and also prohibits exploitative means. If the delegates look at my record, then they can know whether they can entrust their joint destiny and faith of their people in me. Delegates by their very nature are delegates of the people. The single vote they have doesn’t belong to them but those they are representing unlike in the general election. In the general election, people have their votes and they cast it at will. But delegates’ election means that delegates are trustees and what they should be doing is to vote the aggregated aspiration of the people that they represent from the communities. I believe that the valid proposition that I present is something that the communities are interested in. That is why I am confident that the APC delegates will come out and vote for me at the primaries. I firmly believe that I understand exactly how to accomplish that vision and lead the right team to accomplish those objectives and finally because Kogi, as it is today, is not optimising its potential. I believe that given the opportunity to lead a strong team of very committed and bright people, we can truly transform the state and put it on the map of very progressive locations not just in Nigeria, but on the continent. Kogi has all it takes. So, I think there is an intersection between what I desire for the state and what the people of the state desire for themselves. If you become the flagbearer of the APC, can you beat the PDP candidate? I am very confident of winning the election if I emerge as the candidate of our party because we present better value for that position. What the APC has to offer Kogi State is far better than what any other party, including the PDP, has. For the first time in the existence of Nigeria, we have this massive Social Protection Programs which were fundamental issues APC committed itself to in its roadmap. This social program of the federal government has now become world acclaimed in many countries and organisations. So, the two things that are important to leadership selection are character and record. Our party has the record already of intervening socially to promote and bringing people out of poverty through the provision of jobs. And I have the character and the records also of intervening in corporate issues that concern citizens. I’m fully certain that for a state like Kogi that required a fresh emergence, that state is safe in the hands of the APC. I believe that if I emerge as the representative of the APC and with my background as a commercial lawyer and litigator with vast experience around the world, I believe I have the network to harness the potential of the state for common growth and development. What is your take on calls for power shift to Kogi West, which has not produced a governor in the history of the state? There are two things I am going to say to that. The shift that citizens are looking up to in Kogi State is a shift to good governance. But this doesn’t mean that those individuals and regional proclivities don’t exist anymore, they do. But they are far more diminished in gain now than then. Secondly, Kogi is a mini-Nigeria; very complex, multi-cultural and multiple languages. There are even minorities who live in the minority. The interesting thing in Kogi is that in all the three senatorial districts there are at least two local governments that have minorities in them. So, that is exactly the way Nigeria is. If the numbers are the only way to emerge, the leadership of the country would have come from one part of the country. But in the quest for justice, fairness, and equity, Nigeria formulated a system of rotating power. Kogi State is at that crossroad now. Would you consider offers from other political parties? Absolutely not. Its not an option.