The Department of the Satellite Towns Development (STDD) has flagged off its 2019 annual tree planting campaign at the LEA Model Primary School Kubwa. The flag-off is carried out by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Permanent Secretary, Christian Ohaa who was represented by the Director Office of the permanent Secretary Mr Samuel Udor Atang. Ohaa advised everyone in the FCT to cultivate the habit of tree planting stressing that the tree planting Campaign is an annual deforestation/ reforestation sensitisation programme meant to create awareness in the FCT and the 36 states of the Federation. He said, “I rate this occasion very high because it is a proactive measure geared towards preventing imminent ecological disaster while other efforts are directed at managing already existing challenges, as the common saying goes that prevention is better than cure.” The permanent secretary further stressed the need for constant tree planting hence it provides oxygen which is very important to human life saving respiration. He said with the present climate change challenge, tree planting will help to reduce erosion, flood, drought, desertification, ozone layer depletion, and global warming. Ohaa emphasised and encouraged everyone to plant a tree and here by direct the satellite Towns Development to raise million seedlings for all the vegetation of the Hill tops and Hill slopes, reclamation of borrow pits and as well as flood plains to forestall annual flood disaster in the FCT. He urged individuals and corporate organisations to join in tree planting. In the same line the Director STDD Mr. Felix Nwankwo Obiora, an engineer, in his speech advised everyone to join the department in continues tree planting and campaign for better tomorrow. Obiora also called on all FCT residents to replace all the trees that have been cut down by planting more. He encouraged everyone to cultivate the habit of planting a tree for clean and green environment, adding that dumping garbage in the drainage should also stop to enable free flow of floodwaters in all areas. He called on all Nigerian especially FCT resistance to stop cutting down trees because of the huge danger of it without commensurate replanting effort, in the wake of climate change. “If you love your environment, plant a tree,” he said. Also speaking at the occasion, the Director, Environment STDD Mr Olusegun Olusa said Ethiopia has a population of about 112.08 million people and they have succeeded in planting 2.6 billion indigenous trees between May and July 2019 in their bid to attain the 4 billion planting target by October 2019. He said Nigeria with the population of about 200 million can double that number and even do more. He called on both individuals, and organisations to come to STDD to collect trees for free  to plant. He said the department has raised and nurtured over 100,000 trees for planting. Mr Olusa said the department is given out all the trees for free to individual NGOs and organisations for planting just to encourage everyone to plant a tree. He said the following trees are available for free; Khaya senegalensis (Mahogany tree), Terminalia mentalist (Satellite tree), Delonise regia (Flame of forest/Flamboyant tree) & Zyzgium sp(Black currant  tree) and Terminalia mentalise. He therefore called on all the FCT Resistance to join in tree planting campaign.