A former CAMPUSLIFE correspondent and graduate of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), Mr Ibrahim Jatto, has announced the fifth edition of his annual writing contest tagged: “El-critical writing spree” for students of tertiary institutions. Announcing the contest, Pen Press UDUS, a press board which is organising the contest in honour of Ibrahim, a former Editor-in-Chief of the club, is calling for entries on the theme: The making of a 21st Century university. Unlike previous editions, the organiser said the contest is opened to students of tertiary institutions across Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara states. Entries will be accepted from student-writers whose work nail the theme of the contest across the three states, the organiser further added. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE in his office, Mr Ibrahim, who currently heads the Media and Communications unit of the Kwara Football Academy, Ilorin, said he was motivated to give back to the society that made him. He stressed that the theme was to x-ray the varying challenges plaguing the Nigerian education system by involving students who bear the brunt. Ibrahim noted that increase in the number of participants would help gather ideas on how to tackle the challenges and reform the university system. He said: “I was made in UDUS. Thus, I want to grow UDUS, to be a social engineer even when I am no more a student of the school. This year’s theme: The making of a 21st century university, is informed by the challenges facing education in the country amidst the low ranking of Nigerian universities across the globe. I believe the problems in our system here is not herculean; it is a result of not attending to slight but weighty details. We hope that when we give students who are intimate with the challenges the platform to voice out the gaps in our tertiary institutions, we would be able to brace up the system to the required standard.” Aside the yet-to-be-decided cash prizes for the top three entries, there will also be an award presentation for the best entry, including books and other consolidated gifts for all participants. “There is no runner up as far as I am concerned. Participants would also be rewarded with books because the idea behind ‘El-critical’ is to encourage people to read. In fact, the second winner of the contest, Miss Sarat Alabidun, has promised to give books to the top winners” While urging students to embrace reading culture, he also appealed to stakeholders in the society to support and sustain the culture by motivating students with contests. He said lack of motivations aided gravely the falling standard of education in the country. A past winner and now editor-in-chief of Pen press UDUS Yahaya Nurudeen Akewushola, is upbeat the contest would provide an avenue for student-writers to carve a niche for their flair. Being a past winner, Akewushola relayed that winning the contest fuelled his passion for writing and encouraged him to see journalism beyond UDUS campus. “El-critical writing contest is the first ‘writing contest initiative’ in UDUS that gives writers the avenue to showcase their talent. I would like to commend the facilitator for motivating and encouraging young writers to do better. I believe the way it has been helpful in the past, this year’s edition is going to be more helpful as well. When someone bags an award, it is either one relents or it serves as a ladder to do more. The fact that I emerged the winner made me realise that I have a long way to go and that motivation since then has increased my passion for writing” He continued: “Last year was competitive because it was opened to all campus journalists in UDUS, I knew that I was competing with many proficient writers on campus but that didn’t discourage me from trying my best; it only gave me the motivation that I had to give the best I could”