Ghanaian actress, Juliet Ibrahim on Wednesday advised women involved in unwholesome marriage to quit and save their lives. Ibrahim stated this on her instragram handle @julietibrahim, as she opened up her divorce issue with her ex, Kwadwo Sofa at
her book launch titled “A Toast of Life”. The beautiful movie star in her book shared her journey through life and how her family survived wars across Liberia, Lebanon and Côte d’Ivoire in the book. “A Toast of Life” tells the story of how a girl could succeed through difficult times and still emerge successful. The book was an eye opener on Juliet’s growing up years and her current reality. The Ghanaian star further appealed to women to quit their ‘unwholesome marriages’ in order to stay alive instead of killing themselves in such marriages. The film producer, thereby, admonished the public to stop judging people who want to end their marriages, stressing that, hers left her in a dark place where she was miserable. ”People have had their own perception about what led to my divorce. “I have sat down for many years and have had to deal with the pain and insults from the public who had no clue what I went through as a person during that period and how it affected me. “The depression and all that happened. All I will say is you should never judge someone who wants to come out of a marriage. “Sometimes, it is better to come out of it than to stay in it, for your own sanity and mental stability,it is always good to take a bold decision for yourself. “For your kids, if there are kids involved take a bold decision,” she said. Ibrahim had revealed that her marriage with Sofa was a mistake which should not have happened while pointing out that her ex-husband’s family was never in support of her marriage. She was married to Safo in 2010 after she got pregnant for him in the course of their friendship. They were however granted divorce in June 2014 after he allegedly cheated on her. The actress made her first acting debut in 2005 in ‘Crime to Christ’ starring Majid Michel, her first Nollywood film was Yankee Boys and had featured in more than 50 films. In 2014, she produced her first film ‘Number One Fan’, where she starred as an actress being stalked on by a fan in the film. Her second movie ‘Shattered Romance’ which paraded Nigerian and Ghanaian actors, launched amidst fanfare in Accra, Ghana 2014. Her new TV series; ‘Every Woman Has A Story’, where she debuted her directorial skills airing on Terrestrial Tv and her new Reality Show. She has also featured in Twi movies in Yoruba language films and also a Hausa Language film “Ladan Noma”. She has won the Best Actress in a Leading Role award at the 2010 Ghana Movie Awards for her role in four Play. The 33 year old is being referred to as the “Most Beautiful West African Woman” according to A-listers Magazine. (NAN)