THE Technical Committee to revitalise Basic and Secondary Education in Yobe State has submitted its interim reports to Governor Mai Mala Buni with shocking revelation on the state of education. Some of the revelations made by the committee are lack of infrastructure in the primary and secondary schools, leading to overcrowding where 180 students seat on the floor and log of woods as improvised seats in the classrooms. The committee said the gross deficit in the number of functional classrooms in primary and secondary schools represents 70 per cent. The committee chairman and former University of Maiduguri Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Mala Daura, while presenting the report to Buni at the Government House, Damaturu, yesterday, said the committee visited 1,439 primary, junior and senior secondary schools to carry out their baseline survey. He added that a few schools in difficult terrains such as Yunusari, Tarmuwa, Gujba and other places were inaccessible for the survey. Prof. Daura added that inadequacies in the quality of teachers at the basic and secondary school levels, political interference in the recruitment process, promotion, posting and rampant transfers of teachers affected the quality of education. The committee discovered an existing leadership, supervision and monitoring as well as capacity-building system for teachers. It, however, noted that the system was weak and needed to be strengthened to be more effective. The committee noted that there was a general enrolment outlook of 60 per cent of eligible pupils/students in the state. It, however, noted a high proportion of 40 per cent that is out-of-school. It added that the teaching and learning environment in the urban setting and local government headquarters were overstretched. According to Daura, the rural areas maintain poor enrolment and retention level. This, he observed, is aggravated by the decline in the involvement of traditional rulers as well as the Boko Haram insurgency. The committee also frowned at the unstructured state of the Tsangaya /Quranic Schools in the state, which has become a dumping ground for the pupils both within and from outside the state. It emphasised the need for the regulation of the sector. Daura made five recommendations. Buni praised the members of the committee for working tirelessly within the time-frame given to them to perform their task. The governor promised full implementation of the recommendations of the committee within the available resources. Buni had on May 29, 2019, in his inaugural address to the state, declared a state of emergency on education. Consequently, an education summit was convened on the July 1 to 2, to brainstorm on the way forward with the appointment of Prof. Mala Daura to head the technical committee to revitalise the state’s basic and secondary education.