I wish to appeal to all Nigerians to put aside all sectional interests and let us all work together for the overall interest of this great nation. We should put an end to the imbroglio being generated as a result of the Federal Government’s policy on cattle husbandry it call “RUGA”. “Yes” RUGA for the states, especially those Northern Stated of the country that embrace the policy, and capital “No” to those states that abhour it vehemently and do not wish to embrace or practice RUGA. However, the panacea to this impasse, in my mind, is this: since animal husbandry is not the eclusive preserve or right of any tribe or group of people, I would advise the Federal Government to rescind its decision that every state of the federation should embrace and implement its policy on RUGA. But rather, the policy should be thrown open to anyone, group of people, community or state that wishes to rear cattle for commercial purposes to do so. IN THESE CASE, THERE WOULD BE NO MORE OPEN GRAZING IN THAT STATE BUT RANCHED TO BE MANNED AND MANAGED BY THE INDIGENES OF THAT STATE, LOCAL GOVERNMENT, OR COMMUNITY. FEDERAL GOVERNMENT MAY MAKE AGRIC LOAN AVAILABLE FOR SUCH A VERITABLE VENTURE. It should also be clearly understood that whosoever established ranches for cattle husbandry should find means of providing staple foods for the animals, just like in all other cases of animal husbandry, e.g piggery, fishery, poultry etc and should not be at the expense of the poor innocent farmers painfully nurtured farm produce. The owners of such projects are also at liberty to give them whatever local names they think appropriate. It is pertinent to point out here that the young boys who rear the cows on foot day and night, in the rain, sun and harmattan, for hundreds and thousands of kilometers across the country are not the owners of the cattles but rather they are labourers engaged for paltry compensation along the line. The real owners are in their ‘mansions’ in urban centres cooling down with their own families as they like. This, no doubt, is a form form of slavery or culture of slavery. It is barbaric and wicked. This capitalist-oriented culture must be abolished in Nigeria. Thenceforth, the herculean task of humans and animals trekking from the northern part of Nigeria down south, the suscipion of the southerners that each trailer load of cattle from the north is always clandestinely loaded with guns for use by the Fulanis for killings and kidnapping in the south, would be eliminated. With my above enumerated panacea, I believe solution to the perennial forms of criminality in Nigeria, especially in the south, would be achieved thereby avoiding the country being engulfed by unquenchable conflagration. Dandy writes from Surulere, Lagos