President Muhammadu Buhari, alongside his visiting guest and President of Guinea, Alpha Conde joined other Muslim faithfuls in Daura, Katsina state, on Sunday morning thronged the Kofar Arewa praying ground, to observe the Eid-El- Kabir prayers. Buhari who was decked in Khaki colour flowing robe (Babanriga) with brown cap and a pair of brown shoes to match, arrived the praying ground in a black Mercedes Limousine about 9.35am Also at the prayer ground were prominent Nigerians including the Emir of Daura, Umar Faruq Umar, the recently freed Magajin Gari Daura, former DSS boss, Mamman Daura, and prominent officials of the Katsina state government The two Raqat prayers were immediately observed with Malam Sefiyanu Yusuf who led the prayers and read the sermons which revolved around the importance of the Salah as a demonstration of Moslems loyalty and obeisance to Almighty Allah. The Emir of Daura, Umar Faruq Umar, in his brief comments, lauded President Buhari’s administration, assuring him of the support of people of Katsina state. He said” We are proud of you; we are proud of your administration and we shall continue to pray for you. You will continue to triumph over your enemies.” Governor Aminu Masari who also attended the prayer session, praised President Buhari for his strong attachment to the people of the state. He urged him on in his efforts at repositioning the country. Masari also urged Nigerians to always put leaders in their prayers, and hold them accountable in a peaceful manner. He insisted that prayers, not confrontation, are what Nigerian leaders require to help them navigate the ship of state through the turbulence of security and social challenges besetting the nation. He said’’ although it was within the right of citizens to request a fair deal from the government, it is however, counterproductive to allow the heart to rule over the head by being confrontational in the approach’’. While calling on Muslims to imbibe the virtues of respect and obedience to the command of Allah, equality, love for one another, which the annual Pilgrimage seeks to teach, he stated that the last thing the country needed is disobedience to the Constitution, which prescribes legitimate methods of seeking the government’s attention. President Buhari and his guest, later at the praying ground, performed the traditional slaughtering of the Salah rams. A Durbar was later held in the day in Daura in honour of the visiting Guinean President. Meanwhile, the Salah celebration was generally peaceful in the state.  