Our democratic dispensation rests on the laws being observed and respected. Heck, it rests on everyone – men and women, employed and unemployed, sane and insane, law-abiding and criminal, saintly and sinful, human and rat – being respected. I went on a search today, dear reader, of that invaluable topic to write on for your benefit, you know, something meaty you can chew on. I am sorry to say, O Great Reader, that I found none worthy of your attention this week. However, I came across two news items that I found rather disturbing and a little, shall I say, disturbing. Yeah, I know, I repeated that. That just goes to show how disturbing I found them. First, I read that Mr. Sowore, the man who led the movement, #RevolutionNow, had come under the government’s deep frown and the courts had been let loose on him. In short, the court had granted the DSS leave to hold him for 45 days for leading a protest. Hmm. I immediately thought two things. Shouldn’t the man have been charged to court, rather? And then I thought, does the government know something we don’t? The second piece of news was even more disturbing, if the reports are to be believed. It said that some policemen, as well as a civilian, had been killed by some soldiers as those policemen transported a kidnap kingpin across Taraba State to police headquarters. Again, I said, hmm. What is going on? Why would anyone stand in the way of the police trying to solve this giant riddle of kidnapping in Nigeria? Of all people too, why would soldiers want to stand in the way of Nigeria trying to solve her problems? Honestly, when I read those news reports, I became worried about democracy, about Nigeria, about the future. I mean, since the Nigerian constitution recognises protest as a legitimate means of self-expression, I have used it all the time. Whenever the housekeeping money has been handed over and it has fallen short of the current market value of the dollar, I have protested very wildly. I have quoted the law. Granted, I don’t quite know the law, but I have used my protest judiciously. ‘The naira is now 364 to one dollar and I am expected to fill the pantry with this amount of money? Why, this won’t even buy shoes for the rats in my house, let alone the centipedes!’ ‘You feed the rats in the house? No wonder they have refused to leave.’ ‘Well, the rats should not have to watch us eat all the time while they get nothing…’ ‘I think we should allow adjudication on this matter. Let the courts decide whether it is right or not to feed rats that are not wanted in the house.’ And the protests have gone on long and loud until we have all agreed to that adjudication. Democracies thrive under a good judicial system. In that environment, the courts are almost sacrosanct and should be revered. However, the courts must earn that reverence by their remaining, err, sacrosanct. There’s a lot of repetition today, ain’t so? Well, the point is that, unfortunately, there have been too many reports about the courts being less than sacrosanct. I assure you, I have not just learnt the word. I did that a long time ago, when I also learnt aardvark, abalone … Oh dear, we digress. The point is that any self-respecting court should be able to adjudicate on any matter, be it whether the government should keep keeping the Shi’ite leader in detention, whether Mr. Sowore should be charged to court or whether or not I have the right to keep feeding the rats in my house pending their sentencing. Anyway, my worry is what we are teaching the younger generation with all these methods of doing official business. We will talk about that presently, but honestly, if we want to see the immediate result of Nigeria’s political lessons on the Nigerian youth, all we have to do is look at some of our young governors. They are representatives of the younger generation, and you can judge their performances so far yourself from news reports about them. I must just add that if they learnt anything at all about how to rule well, they are yet to show it. Rather, they appear to have imbibed all the lessons that were taught in the smelly alleys behind every dirty political classroom in every irregular political dispensation this country has known. They are hardly credits to anyone. So, like I said, I worry. I worry that the youth are learning everything but the right lessons. Nigerians are focused right now on the end justifying the means. This is why it is possible for a kidnapper to be so rich he can buy his way into opulence and social acceptance and out of trouble. He can literally buy anything, anyone he so desires. This is what the youth see and wish for, and first chance they get, copy. This is what has me worried. Our democratic experiment rests on the laws being observed and respected. Heck, it rests on everyone – men and women, employed and unemployed, sane and insane, law-abiding and criminal, saintly and sinful, human and rat – being respected. It rests on knowledge of the paramount foundation of the social engineering process – the rule of law. But that’s a topic for another day. Building a society certainly does not consist of the egoistical display of miniscule power and wealth that we see all around us now. It only shows ill breeding. It also does not lie in piling up possessions to the high heavens on fraudulently acquired monies. That shows a stunted, slow mental retardation in the individual. Unfortunately, the youth cannot see beyond their noses and beyond the uselessness of these pursuits to get at the real thing – being true to the country. I don’t want to tell you all the things that the youth have learnt so far in this country, but I’ll tell you how our youth are in two categories. The first category consists of the mass of youth who are genuinely looking for lessons on how to move their lives forward and are getting nothing but leaders showing nothing but egocentric and larger-than-life lifestyles. Then there are the others whose ancestors have handed them, and others willing to learn, the tool of exploitation to use against the society, including the first category. Oh, there is a third category: the group that have somehow kept their head while the rest have been losing theirs. Unfortunately, though, these are tooooo few for our comfort. Either way, my worry is that our youth seem to have absorbed those things that don’t make for a nationalistic life; they have absorbed all kinds of flotsam and jetsam of life from their leaders – how not to run a life, how not to run a government, how not to treat the citizens. This is sooooo Machiavellian. Not that I have anything against the guy, really, except this end justifies the means thing. These people have certainly not learnt anything about patriotism and how to treat the country like an egg. I worry about these things and how we’re handing them the wrong tools for living. I have mentioned my own worries; what’s yours? If you don’t want me to worry anymore about what we are teaching the young ones, then, it is time we began to teach them the real lay of the land. The young ones need to be equipped with the right tools for life, for decent living and not some mirage that gets them nowhere. As we celebrate this year’s youth day, let’s begin to teach them the real values of life so we will worry less tomorrow.