IN acknowledging his immense contribution to taekwondo coupled with his technical know-how, the World Taekwondo (WT) has appointed Nigeria’s Chika Chukwumerije into All Committee of World Taekwondo. In a letter of appointment signed by the President of WT, Dr Chungwon Choue, the Beijing 2008 bronze medallist will serve as a member of the elite committee of the world body. “It is with great pleasure that I appoint you as Member of the Taekwondo for All Committee of World Taekwondo. The term of office shall be two years until the end of the 2021 World Taekwondo Championships in Wuxi, China. Thank you for your dedication to Taekwondo.” The WT chief charged the Technical Director of the Nigeria Taekwondo Federation to use his vast experience to improve the global standing of the sport. “I trust that you will do your best to help develop Taekwondo worldwide and elevate World Taekwondo’s standing as a well-governed and socially responsible international federation of the Olympic and Paralympic movements.” Chukwumerije, who recently achieved the distinct landmark of becoming one of the continent’s only seven World Taekwondo Global Educators, will have a term of two years to make an impact with the highly revered Committee, chaired by fellow Beijing 2008 Olympic Bronze Medallist and current President of Great Britain Taekwondo, Sarah Stephenson. The 35-year old who is an icon of Taekwondo in Nigeria for millions of Nigerians, has made a significant impact on the sport as a non-athlete, just as he did when he adorned the country’s colours as an athlete. In 2008. Chukwumerije became the first from Sub-Sahara Africa to win an Olympic medal, when he won a Bronze, inspiring future generations of Olympic stars like current Olympic champion, Cheick Cisse Sallah of Cote D’Ivoire and Olympic silver medallist Abdoulrazak Alfaga of Niger Republic. Born in Lagos state, Chukwumerije also represented Nigeria at the Athens 2004 and London 2012 Olympic, captaining Team Nigeria in the latter. His foundation, the Chika Chukwumerije Sports Foundation, trains the less privileged from Government Secondary Schools in Abuja, not only in Taekwondo but in practical handicrafts like tailoring, fish farming, snail farming, event management and computer lessons. Some individuals from this project have become national champions and gone on to win international medals, pointing to the impact of the Foundation on the sport and society.