ead boy of Kole Best International School, Oshodi, Lagos, Audu Omeiza, was the cynosure of all eyes during the school’s 15th valedictory service and prize giving day last week. The Year Six pupil was presented with an inverter and battery by O.J Wale Pillars Metal and Tech LTD, for graduating as the overall best in his class. The 12v/0.850KVA Eastman Inverter and 100ah kstar battery was presented by the Manager of the company, Mr Tunde Ogunwale. Speaking on his stay in the school, Audu said: “I have mixed feelings of pride, happiness and sadness.  I am happy because this great citadel has become part of my history and as well a platform for success; I am sad because I am leaving a place that I have known as a home away from home.” A total of 40 pupils, comprising 11 Year Six and 29 Nursery Two pupils graduated at the event, which had as theme: “Beyond the limit.” Proprietor of the school, Pastor Lekan Bankole, said he was happy about the school’s performance over the years. “This is our 15th valedictory service and one thing that has characterised this event is that year in year out it has always been improving. “I feel so great, happy, excited and fulfilled that once again we are able to raise a set of people trained by us. We know that we have really prepared them well and we have no fear of their ability to adjust well and even be ahead of their peers. “Our vision is to provide affordable education, with discipline and fear of God in a most conducive environment, driven by a highly trained and motivated staff ,” he said. Guest speaker, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Life Imprints Consulting, Mr Kelechi Anyalechi, discussed eight factors that could influence  pupils’lives.They include: education; parents, friends, self-acceptance, spirituality and addiction. He advised the parents to monitor their wards. “Pay attention to your children; give them listening ear, let them know that failure is not a destination.  Try to become the greatest influence to them; become the number one role models. Speak positively to your children because words are powerful,” he said. Officiating minster Pastor John Aleoghena, spoke on the “Fear of God.” He said good quality education goes beyond academics to include discipline and the fear of God. Pastor Aleoghena also said based on the theme, only God can take a man beyond limit. The cleric, who said his daughter graduated as a pioneer pupil of the school and was given one-year scholarship for her academic performance, told the parents to “recognise their children have a destiny and their destiny is in Christ”. Highlights of the event were a presentation by the Nursery Two pupils discussing child abuse; choreography; and a parade in various career outfits.