Sir: Now that President Muhammadu Buhari has assigned the ministers their portfolios, they must note that Nigerians are tired of the blame game of pointing accusing fingers to the past administrations. By the president’s estimation, the ministers are some of the very best hands out of the over 200 million Nigerians and must prove their worth to justify their appointments.  A ministerial appointment at this crucial time is not an opportunity for accumulation of wealth as Nigerians are expecting optimum performance. The ministers must always speak on issues of public interest that will promote development instead of issues of personal interest. As ministers, they should be ambassadors of development and not competitors with state governors. The ministers should settle down and work hard to deliver the dividends of democracy to Nigerians. Again, they must hit the ground running, set a target for performance and concentrate rather than permutations for the next elections. Appointment of staff and assistants must be capable hands that can give feedback and not what they want to hear. Any minister who cannot deliver should resign to pave way for other Nigerians. Government is a continuum; the ministers must resist the temptation to abandon projects initiated by their predecessors for political interest. It is imperative for the ministers to cultivate a transparent and cordial working relationship with the permanent secretaries, directors and other staff of the ministries to promote effective governance. A study of the extant rules and the public service rules is key to understanding the workings of government. For the next level agenda to be achieved in the ministries and agencies, ministers must always consult with the directors and hold brainstorming sessions to enhance good governance. A situation where only the directors of finance, administration and procurement and a few others have access to the Minister is injurious to the progress of efficient governance. Permanent secretaries should not have policy agendas, because the civil service exists to serve the priorities of the government. As accounting officers of the ministries, the permanent secretaries must promote good governance. In setting agenda that will meet the target, the permanent secretaries must guide and set policies that will promote efficient public service. This is to ensure contingency planning to make the public service more resilient. As a government that flaunts rule of law as its mantra, proper procedures must be followed in the award of contracts. The ministers must declare their assets to ensure accountability and transparency in governance. In ministries with two ministers, there must be clear schedule of duties to avoid conflicts and overlapping of functions. Senior ministers should also know that ministers of states are colleagues and not spare tyres. Every ministry should concentrate on their area of jurisdiction and core competencies. Nigerians are expecting effective performance that will take the country to the next level. Radio Nigeria Investment Limited, Lagos.