A professor of Estate Management and Valuation at the Federal University of Technology, Minna (FUTMINNA), Niger State, Prof Muhammad Bashar Nuhu, has called on the Federal Government to speedily and comprehensively review the ‘Land Use Act’ for it to properly serve the purposes for which it was promulgated. Bashar gave the advise while delivering FUTMINNA’s 72nd inaugural lecture. The lecture with the title: “Land safety: How secured?” held at the Caverton lecture theatre, Gidan Kwano campus of the university. Nuhu appealed to authorities for downward review of the cost of certificate of occupancy (C of O), in addition to having a welfare-oriented policies on land. Said Nuhu: “In addition to providing genuine commitment for full implementation, there is the need for a review of the high cost of Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) and other administrative bottlenecks.  Hence, the need for a critical land reform in order to facilitate effective utilisation of land resources. “On the other hand, the key ingredients for securing access to land include having transparent, crystal clear and inclusive processes for land policy development, people-centred land policies, gender equity in access to land, policies reflecting diverse tenure systems, redistributive reforms as an integral policy tool, innovative and accessible systems for the recognition of land rights, and developing systems for the monitoring of land rights.” Nuhu, who explained Land Use Act of 1978 as the framework for land policy and administration in the country, added that the Act also vests proprietary rights of land on the state, grants rights in land to individuals, and also adopt the use of an administrative system in the allocation of rights in land. He added that the land acquisition and system of compensation adopted by private developers is by agreement, while that of the government is through expropriation/compulsory take-over of land for road construction, parks and other service facilities, after cash-based or replacement compensation to the actual owners. Aside the cost of buying land, Nuhu said land registration is no longer a difficulty with recent advancement in the use of satellite imagery, especially the geographical information system (GIS), as well as the geographical positioning system (GPS). While calling on the government to invest in land for developmental purposes, Nuhu, a former Commissioner of Tertiary Education in Niger State, also said some amendments should be made to the Land Use Act in order to free it from ambiguities. FUTMINNA  Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Abdullahi Bala, who is also the chairman of the occasion, congratulated Prof Nuhu for delivering his inaugural barely few months after the Governing Council approved his promotion to the rank of professor.