•Following confirmation of minister-nominees, senators should realise that they are expected to work with the executive without being subservient or hostile Another step has been taken in putting together the team that would direct Nigeria’s affairs in the next four years. The foundation was laid on May 29 when the President and the Vice President took the oath of office and started appointing those who are to work with them within the period. The appointments indicate the philosophy that would guide governance in the period. On Tuesday, the Senate that is the confirming authority for the ministers approved the list of 43 ministers forwarded to it by the presidency. While a lot of criticisms greeted the prevailing “bow and go” mode of confirmation, the Senate had to postpone its recess to undertake the constitutional responsibility. In five days, all the nominees were ushered into the hallowed chambers to face the lawmakers and 20 of them asked questions on why they should be considered fit and proper for ministerial appointments. All 43 had to introduce themselves and speak to their resumes that had been distributed among the legislators. After the exercise, all had their nomination confirmed. It is interesting that even the significant minority party representation in the Senate concurred with the majority in accepting the nominees. If this is an indication of the relationship that would exist between the executive and the legislators during the tenure, it is a good omen. But it would have been better to have the portfolios of the nominees attached to the list. This would, perhaps, have empowered the lawmakers to grill the nominees with a view to establishing their competence for the offices they are to handle. The lawmakers should also be reminded that it is not established by the constitution as a rubber stamp body. It is expected to critically examine matters of state referred to it by the President-in-Council before, on behalf of the people, giving their approval. This is a fundamental principle of the presidential system of government that indicates that there must be checks and balances in the system. It is therefore important that the senators, and indeed their counterparts in the House of Representatives, should realise that their responsibility is primarily and principally to the Nigerian state and its citizens. Where bills and policies are forwarded for scrutiny, it is proper that the relevant committees, hopefully comprising men and women with cognate experience on the matters at hand, examine them dispassionately before making their input. There is no doubt that Nigerians were disappointed with the performance of some ministers who handled strategic assignments in President Muhammadu Buhari’s first tenure, and some of such ministers are back in office now. Having cleared them, the legislature cannot afford to fail the people by failing to monitor their performance in the second term. It is a major responsibility of the lawmakers in exercising their oversight power to ask the relevant questions from the ministers and other officials of ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government. In doing so, they should leave no room for speculation that they had been induced to look the other way whenever there are infractions. A number of issues and suggestions requiring legislative review, and enactment of laws came up during the screening, they should be expeditiously considered. One of such is the cumbersome Public Procurement Act. The legislators should conduct public hearing on the matter and invite public officials, retired public servants, academics, civil society activists and knowledgeable private sector participants to suggest the way out of the logjam that would not open the way for fresh looting that informed the stringency of the law. Sequel to the constitution of the Federal Executive Council, we look forward to a new lease of life by both the elected and appointed officials of state in the days and years ahead.