The Federation of Muslim Women Association in Nigeria (FOMWAN) in Lagos State has called for action against moral decadence. It urged parents, religious bodies and governments to curb moral decadence among  youths. Speaking at the opening of the Southwest Zonal Youth Camp in Lagos, FOMWAN’s Southwest Zonal Coordinator Alhaja Nimotallah Salam said the theme: Moral decadence in the society: causes, effects and solution, was apt. She said the camp would orientate youths with Islamic orientation, reduce social vices and encourage them to take part in society building. “We have decided to give our youths the right orientation because we are getting old; we want our youths to continue our good work. That is why we decided to equip them with basic knowledge that will make them good ambassadors of Islam and Nigeria,” she said. She urged the government to prevail on agencies that bar hijab, noting that a Muslim woman was incomplete without hijab. “There is nothing wrong in the use of hijab to school… Muslim women were enjoined by Allah to dress well by covering all parts of their body… That makes it necessary for our girls to wear hijab. We are not mandating children of other religion to wear hijab…” she said. FOMWAN’s Lagos Amirah Dr Halimat Egberongbe said youths would be educated on negative effects of drug abuse and addiction to social media. “FOMWAN has made series of advocacy on moral decadence but we cannot do it alone, the society and government have to be involved…” she said. Wife of Lagos State Deputy Governor Mrs Oluremi Hamzat hailed the group’s laudable initiative. Represented by Hajia Olaide Ibrahim, Mrs Hamzat said the theme of the camp was timely coming at a time society is morally bankrupt. She urged parents to bring up their children properly. Assistant Coordinator in the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation (WAPA) Mrs Omolara Dava advised youths to desist from following fashion trends. “Instead of following fashion trends, set achievable goals for yourself. The trends you are dying to keep up with were all started by someone… And that’s their identity. We shouldn’t lose our identity whenever a new style hits the market,” Mrs Dava said.