The Head of Marketing and Business Development, Africa Region of Maersk, Anita De Werd, has said A.P. Moller-Maersk Group focuses on working through partnerships to empower entrepreneurs and small-medium enterprises (SMEs). She said the Copenhagen-headquartered shipping conglomerate was passionate about enabling trade for the benefit of the society and its customers. De Werd, who spoke as a panelist during the opening session of the fifth edition of Tony Elumelu Foundation Forum in Abuja, said 95 per cent of companies in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) are SMEs and account for two-third of formal sector jobs, despite having much less access to the benefits of trade. She said: “If we can empower small businesses in trade, we can help make economies more inclusive.” She said this informed Maersk, in 2014, to follow a shipment of avocadoes from Kenya to the Netherlands. The single shipment, she recalled, involved almost 30 different people or organisations and generated more than 200 different communication interactions resulting in unnecessary time and costs. “Maersk is the leading global integrator of container logistics. We handle about a fifth of global containerised trade. Our purpose as a company is to enable trade for the benefit of society and our customers. We know shipping and logistics like no other. “We develop e-business tools to make booking a container shipment simpler. We have a partnership with IBM where we use block-chain technology to enable logistics to be more transparent. We are enabling true information sharing and collaboration across supply chains, thereby increasing industry innovation, reducing trade friction and ultimately promoting more global trade,” she said. De Werd also advocated open trade as an enabler of economic prosperity and growth, stating that A.P. Moller-Maersk wanted to be a cornerstone of an inclusive and sustainable global trading system that can help eradicate poverty and deliver decent work for all. These she said are two of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) agreed by the United Nations in 2015. According to her, the purpose of “SheTrades”, an initiative to enable female entrepreneurs to access the benefits of trade, aims to connect three million female entrepreneurs to markets by 2021. She noted that the initiative encourages inclusion as well as benefitting business, as a research shows that closing the global economic gender gap could add 26 percent to the annual global gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025. “Together with SheTrades, A.P. Moller-Maersk will help female entrepreneurs in developing countries engaged in trade by sharing our expertise on transport and logistics with the female entrepreneurs,” De Werd said.