The immediate past Minister of Transportation and former Rivers State Governor Rotimi Amaechi has advised the elite not to heat up the polity by fanning the embers of discord among Nigerians, writes OLUKOREDE YISHAU. Minister-designate Rotimi Amaechi has cautioned the elite against fanning the embers of discord.  The ex-Rivers State governor spoke when he was hosted by the British Business Group in Lagos. He added that the myriads of social crises in the country were traceable to the failure of the elite to provide proper leadership for the people. Amaechi, who spoke about his achievements as governor, his stewardship as Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly and his four years as Minister of Transportation, said the elite must find a way to unite the people to have peace of mind. He said as governor of Rivers State, he built model schools, which saw parents withdraw their children from public schools, adding that his administration’s security architecture was able to restore peace in Rivers State. He explained that his disagreement with his former boss, ex-Governor Peter Odili was on principle. He said Odili advised him to challenge his disqualification as Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in 2007, but later advised him to withdraw the case. He rejected the advice and that, according to him, was the point at which they parted ways. On the widespread rejection and eventual suspension of the RUGA settlement programme, he said: “This has robbed the country of several benefits. RUGA would have been a successful programme if those that brought the concept had adequately enlightened Nigerians on its workability. “If you’ve been to Israel, there are farm settlements. And it is a mistake on the part of the governors who came up with the idea, because they did not explain it well. As a governor, if you know that you’re not an expert in certain areas, the first step is to get those who are experts in that area. And when you know that you have little knowledge of a concept, you sit down to be lectured. “Because the concept was not properly explained to the people by the governors who initiated the idea, Nigerians said they didn’t want RUGA. What is RUGA? It is simply farm settlements. “I build 10, 000 hectares of land. I provide water, light, roads, schools, markets, accommodation and hospitals on that land. Then I look for 1, 000 people to work on that land. I ask each person to take 10 hectares of land and farm on it. As a governor, I have two options. I may buy your produce from you and sell. Or I allow you to sell. But if I buy from you, you make more profit. “But many Nigerians said ‘no, no. it’s for cattle.’ What if it is for cattle? We have a national emergency. People are being killed daily. These men have no other jobs and they must eat.” He added that the programme was suspended because of President Muhammadu Buhari’s democratic disposition. ”If it was a madman that is in charge, he would have insisted on RUGA and people would have followed him,” he said. He went on: “If we had provided for the poor at the time we were supposed to provide for them, create an economy that is productive, give them good education and make them employable, then their security would have been guaranteed. Crime would have reduced. You could drive to your house at 2:00 a.m. and it wouldn’t be a problem. In Nigeria, we are even afraid of the taxi driver. So, we created poverty and the consequence is insecurity. “What RUGA set out to do was to create an employment opportunity for as many people as possible that can take to farming. It is unfortunate that many people regarded it as a ploy to empower the Fulani people. Some people started playing politics with RUGA, saying all sorts of things.” He warned Nigerians, especially the elite, to stop fanning the embers of ethnic and religious discord among the people, adding that such could turn different ethnic groups against one another. “If there is a war today, some of us will travel out of the country. But how many ordinary people will be able to travel out? I witnessed the civil war as a child. I would not want to witness another war as an adult. We must stop creating ethnic and religious divisions among our people,” he said. On the traffic gridlock at the Apapa Port in Lagos, he asserted that the only enduring solution to the unending challenge is the Lagos-Ibadan rail service. “That is the only solution,” he noted. “We were heading to the port. It is unfortunate that I am no longer the Minister of Transportation. But if I retain the same position as Minister of Transportation again, by September, I will be pushing everybody to get to Apapa Port. “Initially, the rail system was to stop at Ebute-Metta. But I said I have never seen a country where the rail system would end in the town; it must get to the seaport. So, we awarded a contract for the seaports–Apapa Port, Port Harcourt Port, Warri Port, Calabar Port and Onne Port,” he said. The minister-designate said the container-laden articulated vehicles that clog Lagos roads should ordinarily be put on the rail tracks for onward transportation to Ibadan, and from there to other parts of the country. He added that once such cargoes are being transported by rail, the pressure on roads would stop and the roads would be back to normal. “We’ve awarded the contract from Ibadan to Kano for 5.3 billion dollars. We are expecting a loan from the Chinese government. If we’re able to get that and we construct the rail from Ibadan to Kano, the problem in Apapa would have been significantly reduced,” Amaechi said. He said another challenge was the inability of the country to establish a National Single Window, even as he noted that Nigeria has remained the only country in West Africa without such a system in place. “National Single Window is the synchronisation of the process of clearing of goods,” he explained. “What that means is that, as soon as your goods are on the ship, before the ship gets to Nigeria, all the clearing processes would have been completed. In fact, in Benin Republic, if you don’t get your cargoes out in 24 hours, there is a park where they are kept, so that the seaport would be empty. “We fought the battle until the last meeting we had. We couldn’t agree, as each person tried to tilt the argument his own way. Eventually, that has been passed. When the new government assumes duty, depending on who the Ministers for Finance and Transportation are, they would need to sit and agree on the modalities for the establishment and operations of the National Single Window. “As soon as your goods arrive, they are cleared immediately. There are tracking systems that would monitor your goods from the port of origin to Nigeria. And there are investors that are ready to put down their money, but government must play its part,” he noted. The suspended RUGA programme was to have farm settlements and ranches built on several hectares of land acquired by the Federal Government in the states, while schools, hospitals and other critical infrastructure would be constructed in such communities. Herders and their cattle were to be restricted to those communities where they would have access to basic social amenities denied them by their nomadic lifestyles. Amaechi heaped the blame for RUGA’s rejection on the governors who came up with the initiative because they failed to explain its implementation clearly to the people. 