Kaduna state Governor, Malam Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai has set up a 10-man Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the incessant communal crises bedeviling Kajuru LGA and environs since 2017. The commission of inquiry which has three months tenure has Justice Isa Aliyu as its chairman. Governor El-Rufai, while inaugurating the Commission at Sir Kashim Ibrahim House on Wednesday tasked the Commission to identify the causes of the crises, those responsible, extent and cost of losses incurred, appropriate sanction for the perpetrators, how to avoid further crisis. “The Kaduna state government has constituted the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the incessant communal crises in Kajuru LGA and surrounding communities, with the following members: Justice Isa Aliyu, the Chairman, is a judge of the Kaduna State High Court. AVM Abdullahi Shehu (rtd) was a Deputy Defence Attaché at the Nigerian High Commission in London and was later Deputy Commandant of the Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. “Mr. B. C. Osuji served in the Kaduna state command of the SSS as an Assistant Director. AIG Umar Shehu (rtd) was a Commissioner of Police in Kaduna state. Mrs. Hannatu Ugah retired as Head of Service; Kaduna state Rear Admiral Ferguson Bobai (rtd) was a Flag Officer Commanding Western Navy Command and retired as Chief of Training and Operations at the headquarters of the Nigerian Navy. “Alhaji Auwal Aliyu Damau retired as a Permanent Secretary in the Kaduna state civil service. Muhammad Sani Isa, a trained mediator, is a Director in the Interfaith Mediation Centre. Reverend Dr. Yusuf Biniyat is a Senior Pastor of the ECWA Church and was Executive Secretary of the ECWA Kaduna South District Church Council. “Salim Musa Umar is an associate of the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue and has been active in peace building in Kaduna and Plateau states. Salim and his colleagues were responsible for drafting the Kafanchan Peace Declaration that we signed early in 2016. “Barrister Edward Andow, Director of Commercial Law in the Ministry of Justice, is the Secretary to the Commission. Barrister M.I. Aliyu, Director of Citizens Right Department, will serve as Counsel to the Commission.” The Commission was given the following mandate: “to investigate, ascertain and identify the immediate and remote causes of all instances of disturbances from 2017 to date in Kajuru, Kachia, Chikun LGAs and surrounding communities. Identify individuals, traditional and religious institutions and other associations that might have contributed to the build-up of the disturbances and recommend further action by government; “Assess and determine the extent of loss of lives and property and other forms of damage caused during the disturbances and identify the perpetrators of the dastardly acts for further action by government. Make any other recommendations to government consequential to or related to any or all these terms of reference. Recommend appropriate legal and other actions to be taken against those responsible for the disturbances; “The Commission of Inquiry is expected to make appropriate recommendations to government on steps to be taken to forestall future occurrence of such disturbances. The Commission will have no more than three months to conclude its work.” El-Rufai said that the committee members were chosen for their “in-depth knowledge of Kaduna state, or expertise in the areas of security management, conflict and peace-building as well as” their “established objectivity in assessment of situations and people. One of the problems that has driven conflict in Kaduna state is that people have taken sides in these conflicts, based on ethnic or religious lines”.