Provision of 24-hour electricity at the Edo Production Centre (EPC) has improved the productivity of owners of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) at the centre. OSAGIE OTABOR reports that the centre, is the initiative of Governor Godwin Obaseki to build cluster of businesses across the state. Before now, beneficiaries of the Edo Production Centre (EPC) never thought there would witness a new vista in their business engagements. When Governor Godwin Obaseki established the centre, owners of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) operating at the centre exuded happiness. They also smile to the banks because production has increased and no more excuses to customers. They no longer complained to their customers of job delays because of no electricity. They now have access to 24-hour electricity supply. The Edo Production Centre is an initiative of Governor Godwin Obaseki to build cluster of businesses across the state. It was established in response to demand by entrepreneurs on the need for the state government to provide support and environment conducive to doing businesses where power is steadily made available. It is to serve as a multi-purpose, one-stop-shop for small businesses, share support infrastructure such as 24-hour electricity supply, security and low-cost financing to help boost economic growth. The centre is being built in partnership with the Market Development for the Niger Delta (MADE) II programme, Benson Idahosa University (BIU) and the Des Moines Area Community College in Iowa, the United States of America. Located along Sapele Road at the premises of the Evboriaria Magistrate’s Court, the Production Centre has become a beehive of activities as entrepreneurs are buying up all available spaces either through co-operative or individually. Before the Production Centre was conceived, the buildings were derelict. It used to house the Government Printing Press but for many years the building was placed under lock and key after the machines broke down while the government opted to do its printing job with private firms. For easy access to the centre, internal roads within the premises were constructed. The SMEs that have acquired space are the printers, Association of Polythene Producers, Active Machines Fabricators and Allied Co-operative Society (AMFACS) shoe makers, metal and art works, among others. There are currently 10 polythene producers at the centre and each of them employed three members of staff. Chairman of Polythene Producers, Solomon Omofomwan, said they put up a proposal to the state government requesting for some space where artisans and entrepreneurs would have access to a special line so that they could produce effectively. He said: “We are entrepreneurs who are into polythene production in Edo State. This is a segment of polythene makers in the state. What brought us here is electricity. We now have 90 per cent increase in supply. We have not been able to make maximum use of available electricity. “Before now, we struggle through the business but now that we have the electricity, we need money to buy materials to meet up production target. We communicate to the Governor and he promised to assist through the Bank of Industry. The arrangement is on course. “Relocating to this place affected us but because our product is in high demand, we still sell. The government should take over the entire premises and relocate the Magistrate’s Court so that the place can be branded properly.” On the disposal of their waste, Omofomwan urged the state to make space for polythene recycle makers. “We have recycle makers, those that gather the waste for us to use again. The government should make them find their way here. If they come here, most of the polythene wastes you see outside will not be seen outside. The recyclers are not working maximally.” Chairman of AMFACS, Rev. Lugard Ekhosuehi, who dismissed allegations that space are made available at the centre based on political affiliation said there are 15 welders and fabricators who have work spaces. His words: “The gains of having a work station here are numerous. We can now meet the needs of customers. The provision of regular electricity at the facility has helped entrepreneurs to increase profitability. “The constant electricity at the Production Centre has reduced the cost of production, increased efficiency and improved profitability. Governor Obaseki has done well for us. “The welders are here. We fabricate ice block machines here. There, mini-cold room women can store goods such as meat and others. The environment is conducive enough to carry out serious work. “We are open to people who want to be trained. We are getting clients for now. We can fabricate many things here.” Another artisan who manufactures footwears at the centre, Osawe-Edoh Valerie, said the initiative has helped her to expand her customer base and able to build trust among her clients which has translated to more patronage. “Production is more fulfilling as electricity is constant. I am able to improve on my delivery rate from four days to 10 days,” she said. Amahwe Arho, who does metal and art work said people still see the place as a premises of the Magistrate’s Court. An elder statesman, Col. Paul Ogbebor (rtd) said the production was a step to setting the state up to become an industrial hub in the country, even as he described it as a replica of what he found in India over three decades ago. He said: “In the Magistrate’s Court area along Sapele Road, I saw exactly what I knew of when I was in India. I was Deputy Military Attache to the Embassy in India in 1984. Over there, I saw what they called a business colony, where the government put up buildings and they installed machines that people go to hire and use for production. It is not everybody that has the money to purchase heavy equipment, but people have ideas they want to work on. “All that the people in India needed to do was to go there to produce goods. These small production clusters are what aggregated and transformed into big industries. With these business colonies, India became one of the world leader’s in industrial hub that is celebrated these days. “If Obaseki follows this through, you will discover that Edo State will become an industrial hub in Nigeria and Africa.” It was gathered that plans were on to relocate the Magistrate’s Court to another area.