A group, the Nigeria Next Level Forum, has urged Nigerians to work for the survival of the country in the face of many challenges. Advocating for a candidate of Yoruba origin to succeed President Mohammadu Buhari, the group said it is already reviewing challenges facing the country ahead of 2023. The National Coordinator of the NNLF,  Oladosu Ladipo, who spoke with reporters in Osogbo, Osun State capital, disclosed that the group was developing a blueprint to support government’s effort at making the nation united and peaceful. He said the document would contain initiatives to consolidate on the achievements of the present leadership. He said after the completion of the first stage of the blue print, templates for the next phase of development would be  presented to the presidency and the National Assembly. He said the group had arrived at 16 pillars, which represents various areas the next administration after Buhari must focus on. Ladipo maintained that government must prioritize knowledge based education for innovation science and technology and artificial intelligence as engine for growth, agriculture and agro-business, energy, power, oil and gas, iron and steel, infrastructure, empowerment, among. He said: “Yoruba people deserve the Next presidency and they should be accorded. We want somebody that is talented and knowledgeable that will implement the template that we are working on. “While we appreciate the ongoing development, under the present administration, we must device ways on how to further move forward. “However, the person that will implement this template must be from Yorubaland and must have the talent, intelligence and capacity to carry out the development plan starting from 2023.” Also, the Osun State Coordinator of the group, Gafar Amere said the group was targetting 2023 presidency  but with a focus on the successful implementation of documents for the Next Level Agenda towards the country’s development. He said: “For you to move forward in the development of this country, there must be plans to achieve that goal and that is the essence of this forum. We are goong to gather the views of various stakeholders in order to guarantee Nigeria’s development starting from 2023.”