The writer of this inspirational book, Rita Udoh, has passed on to the great beyond. But, she left behind lasting legacies, one of which is the book: Overcoming the Pressures of Life. With this book, her memories are intact and indestructible. Indeed, her memories live on. The book deals with how Christians handle and respond to pressures. It says Christians ought to respond appropriately to pressures by standing on the word of God. The book is easily readable because the author writes in simple prose, connecting with the readers directing by using pronouns such as “you” and “us.” The author also uses real life situations to illustrate her points. Chapter One of the book deals with the Pressures of Trial. The author examines the purpose for which Christians face trials and the purpose God wants to achieve through them. She says the purpose of trials is to build strength in Christians, which helps them to mature. In explaining the fact that every human faces trials and pressures, she cites the example of footballers in a match situation, who are under pressure to win. The coach tells the players to up their game or get kicked out of the team! She illustrates the same point with bank officials and marketers who perpetually live under the pressure of meeting targets. From business leaders to parents, the author says there is pressure everywhere; hence in our world of today, doctors prescribe more medicine for stress management than at any other time. The writer says there are three types of people in the world: those who are just coming out of trouble or trials, those who are about to enter trials and those who have left trials. The writer says whatever the pressure people are going through, be it joblessness, job loss or financial pressure, they are mere confirmation of a spiritual injunction in John 16:33, where Jesus said Christians would have tribulations in the world. But the good news is that in the same scripture, Jesus said in Him Christians would have peace because he has overcome the world. The writer says some people erroneously think that once they give their lives to Christ, the journey of life will be smooth sailing. She reminds us Jesus did not promise us a bed of roses, but to be with us, and that in Him and His word we have peace. The question, therefore, arises: what manner of men should we be when issues of life beset us, how should Christians behave when they face trials? The author says Christians should stick with the master and count it all joy when they fall into various trials, knowing that it is a test that will produce a reward. It makes a Christian to mature and increases his or her ability to endure. The writer defines trials as difficult situations such as afflictions and nauseating problems, sickness and pressure of having to cope with difficult people. She says pressures are a test of faith. She likens the trial of faith to gold that goes through the refiner’s fire and becomes precious. She, therefore, admonishes Christians to be determined to go through every trial of faith with joy and in the strength of the Lord. The bottom line for the author is, when you face trials, get up and get a hold on the garment of Jesus and touch him with your faith and let Him handle your pressure. Confess the word, stand on the word. Unleash the word and hand your pressure over to Him. Chapter Two tells the readers that trials come to believers in shape and sizes to test them to see whether they will still have our faith intact as children of God. She says trials are evidence that God is working in the lives of believers. She talks about the People Factor, that the different people in our lives could be the sources of pressure, where the pain a loved one is going through touches you. The author also dwells on the Satan Factor in this chapter. The devil brings ugly situations to believers so that they can feel miserable and lonely. But she says God allows trials so that believers can mature and proclaim His name wherever we are. Chapter Three poses the question, “How do I Respond to Trials?” Here the author examines how some important people in the Bible handled trials that came their way. She cites the example of Job (Job 3:11). Job felt he was living right and serving God faithfully, and that he was a man of integrity and uprightness. But his circumstances so overwhelmed him that he forgot the goodness of God. The second case study is that of David who at a point in Psalm 55:6-8 offered a prayer because he was betrayed by someone. David said, “If I had wings, I would fly away.” The writer explains that there are times that the pressures of life come so hard on believers. She says instead of running from problems, believers should have faith that God can turn their situation around for good. She says things could be happening around us that would want to squeeze our lives, unpleasant situations that will make us feel bad, but for us the bible says we should respond to them with joy; knowing that God is at work in us and that we shall overcome it. Chapter Four dwells on how believers should act when they come under pressure. Here, the author urges believers to act in faith when they are going through trials. This chapter also talks about Character Building. The author says if believers value comfort more than building character, they will find life tougher than ever, saying character is not built when things are rosy. “Character is developed in the dark room of trial and it is only you and God that are in that dark room,” the author says emphatically. Chapter Five explores the object of trial, which the author says is faith. She says faith is the target of all trials. The devil targets the faith of believers so that they will lose confidence and their balance in Christ. She admonishes believers not to lose their faith because the only way they can survive, win in this life and defeat the devil is by faith. Chapter Six talks about the Purpose of trials. Here the writer says when the trials of life knock on the door of a believer and gain access, they are to test the faith of the believer so that the true colour of the faith of the believer will emerge, whether it is genuine or not. She says the pressures of life will always reveal the content of the spirit of everyone. Chapter Seven focuses on Pressure of Temptation. The author says temptations abound all around us; whether you are a pastor or a member, everyone is subject to temptation. But she says each time temptation comes, the devil makes it very colorful and appealing and it is in the appeal of the temptation that pressure comes. She adds that certain desires are inherent in man because God made man so, but believers are to put those desires in subjection to the word of God. Chapter Eight talks about Overcoming Temptation. The writer says overcoming temptation requires rugged action.  She says when believers are able to overcome the little things, it gives them the strength and muscle to face the big one and also overcome. The lesson therein, is that, the smallest acts of today are a springboard that can take believers to higher heights tomorrow. Chapter Nine deals with the Pressure of Hypocrisy. The author describes hypocrisy as deliberate deception, that is, believers creating an impression to make people think they are very spiritual and more committed than they really are. She says believers must sow seed without hypocrisy before they can be rewarded. This last chapter also talks about the pressure of covetousness, which the author says challenges the relationship of a believer with God and men. This book is a must read to every believer. In it, the author has left readers a blueprint on how to navigate the pressures of life to which none of us is insulated. Indeed, it is a fitting companion for all believers who want to start well and finish well.