Sterling Bank Plc has donated more than one thousand pieces of uniforms to the Sokoto State Government as part of an effort to boost sanitation and hygiene in the state and in furtherance of the bank’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative known as the Sterling Environmental Makeover (STEM). The uniforms, which will be passed on to the Sokoto Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) to enhance the performance of sanitation workers in the state, are intended to give the sanitation workers an identity while on duty, according to the management of Sterling Bank. While presenting the overall uniforms to the Sokoto State Commissioner for the Environment, Sagir Attahiru Bafarawa, the duo of Ibrahim Aliero and Ado Shehu, Sterling Bank’s Branch Manager, Institutional Banking and Branch Manager respectively, urged the state government to intensify efforts at keeping the state clean, adding that the bank is aware that government alone cannot realise its objective of keeping the environment clean. According to Ibrahim Aliero, “the essence of the presentation is to compliment the state government efforts towards maintaining a clean environment. “At Sterling Bank, we are concerned about our business environment. The overall sanitation kits donated to SEPA is part of our bank’s corporate social responsibility idea to sustain a clean environment, more so we believe that a clean environment is important for conducive business activities.” “These overall kits are durable and of good quality that will endure the vagaries of the weather for a long time.” In appreciation, Bafarawa applauded Sterling Bank for the significant role it is playing in ensuring a sustainable environment as part of its corporate social responsibility. The commissioner also called on all other stakeholders to emulate the good gesture of Sterling Bank towards the state government in the effort to keep Sokoto State clean. He said, “Sanitation is not the responsibility of government alone. I therefore enjoin all other stakeholders and corporate organisations to support government efforts in ensuring a clean environment.” Sani Abdullahi, a street sweeper who spoke on behalf of his colleagues during the presentation ceremony, commended Sterling Bank for the donation. 