Hero Lager Beer, from the stable of International Breweries Plc, has begun a unique campaign tagged Echefula-“Never Forget Your Identity”. The awareness  seeks to connect the brand at a deeper level with the people that have welcomed and accepted it as part of their culture while also reminding consumers to be proud of their heritage, identity, and to celebrate their culture and embrace their traditions. The campaign will explore the uniqueness and beauty of diverse ethnic groups in Nigeria. It will explore the importance of culture as the pillar of development and sustenance of communities. International Breweries Marketing Director Tolu Adedeji explained that the campaign is a call on Nigerians to identify and embrace their values and traditions. He said: “This campaign was initiated out of a strong desire to underline our identity as a people and to reawaken the spirit of who we are, our values, our history, the great exploits of our generation past and more importantly as a call to action to Never Forget our identity as HEROes irrespective of wherever in the world we may be.” As a result of western encroachment, ideas and influence, which is fast eroding the traits that define Africans and Nigerians, mostly in the minds of the younger generation, Adedeji added that  The Echefula campaign was aimed at preserving the  cultural heritage and will shed more light on some cultures, highlighting specific aspects of some traditions that make them special and worth honoring. By so doing, he said Hero will encourage consumers both home and abroad to take pride in their heritage and identity. “For several years Hero lager has thrived in the east. We have been part of celebrations, weddings, naming ceremonies, chieftaincy title ceremonies and we have grown with the people. As they have invited us into their homes to celebrate with them all these years, we believe it is well deserving to likewise honour, celebrate everything about them. “Celebrating our various traditions offer an excellent opportunity for intercultural exchange and understanding. We hope that this campaign will spark conversations around identity and pride in one’s heritage, no matter how far away from home you might be, you will be reminded of our rich heritage and roots, we must never forget our identity. This is the central message of the Echefula (Never Forget Your Identity, ‘’ he stated. There will also be a cultural festival and it will continue with in-bar activations where prizes will be won.