The Lagos State Executive Council will be inaugurated tomorrow, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said. The governor said he would not delay the swearing-in of commissioner- and special adviser-designates already cleared by the House of Assembly. Sanwo-Olu spoke at the weekend while receiving retired top civil servants under the aegis of the Association of Lagos State Retired Heads of Service and Permanent Secretaries (ALARHOSPS). The governor said the wheel of governance would be in full gear before the end of the week, in fulfilment of his campaign promise to inaugurate his exco within 90 days. Among the commissioner-designates are former Editor of The Nation Gbenga Omotoso,  Lagos State All Progressives Congress Publicity Secretary Mr. Joe Igbokwe, Arc. Kabir Ahmed, Prince Anofi Olanrewaju Elegushi, Mrs. Solape Hammond and Mr. Moruf Akinderu Fatai. Others include Assistant Legal Adviser of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka, Miss Adekemi Olanike Ajayi-Bembe, APC Secretary Dr. Wale Ahmed and former member of the Assembly, Prof. Akinola Abayomi. The governor added that newly appointed permanent secretaries would also be sworn in today to complement the activities of commissioners and special advisers. Sanwo-Olu said: “Next week, by God’s grace, we are swearing in all other complements of cabinet and also Permanent Secretaries to have the engine of governance on full swing. At that point, we believe that all the campaign promises we made can come to reality and Lagosians can benefit more from the choice they made at the last election.” The commissioner- and special adviser-designates are expected to be allocated their individual ministries during the inauguration ceremony, scheduled to start at 9a.m. The governor described the body of retired civil servants as “valuable assets” to the state, noting that their actions while in service contributed to the “enviable height” Lagos attained among states in the nation. The newly appointed permanent secretaries with their present deployment are: Mrs. Sanyaolu Kikelomo Morenike (Director, Service Matters, Public Service Office); Sodeinde Olalekan Nurudeen, an engineer, (General Manager, Office of Drainage Services); Mrs. Shitta-Bey Titilayo Khadijat (Director, Public Prosecution, Ministry of Justice); Mr. Musa Mooruf Olawale (General Manager, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority) and Mrs. Durosimi-Etti Olorunkemi (Director, Administration and HR, Ministry of Water Front Infrastructure Development). Others are Mrs. Kalesanwo Olayemi Yewande (Director, Establishments, Local Governments, and Establishment Training Office); Agoro Moruf Olawale (Director, Civil Engineering, LASURA); Mrs. Odeneye Belinda (Director, Environmental Service, Ministry of Environment) and Mr. Olawale Mesewaku Babatunde (Director, administration and HR, Audit Service Commission). The appointments were announced in a circular signed by the Head of Service, HOS, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, dated August 16, 2019.