The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has said a commercial bank, Stanbic IBTC has concluded arrangements to award scholarship to thirty candidates who emerged top in the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). The board said the bank also rewarded the candidates with N15 million to pursue their ambition for a higher education in any tertiary institution in the country. The thirty candidates are expected to receive N500, 000 thousand each. JAMB’s Head of Information, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, disclosed this in the board’s weekly bulletin in Abuja. According to the bulletin, the bank’s Corporate and Investment Banking and Marketing Manager, Mrs. Bridget Oyefeso Odusami, stated this when she led a delegation from the bank to JAMB Headquarters in Bwari, Abuja. Odusami explained that the scholarship for the thirty top candidates were part of activities lined up to mark the bank’s 30th anniversary which is scheduled to hold later this year. She said the bank would select the best male and female as well as the best visually impaired candidates from the 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja for the scholarship. She said: “The essence of the scholarship is to enable candidates desirous of tertiary education to pursue their dreams under a most comfortable atmosphere. “There are criteria to select the top 30 UTME candidates. The candidates must have scored a minimum of 250 and above in the 2019 UTME, possess five credit passes in their O’level results as well as meeting other specified criteria necessary for admission. “The scholarship is going to be inclusive. It would take into cognizance the best male and female as well as the best visually impaired candidates from the 36 states and, including the FCT, Abuja.” Oloyede hailed the bank for the initiative, adding that it would go a long way in promoting the educational careers of the beneficiaries. He said the move was a way of ploughing back to the society through investment in human development. The registrar called on other corporate organisations to emulate Stanbic IBTC so as to bring succour to hardworking candidates wishing to advance their educational career.