Life Lager, the beer brand renowned for celebrating the culture of the South East people has added another landmark achievement to its growing list of successful consumer engagements. The 2019 edition of Hi-Life Fest, which is proudly sponsored by Life Lager, was concluded last week. The competition, which is in its third year, has been a huge success with various regional knockouts across the south-eastern parts of the country. The search for the next Hi-Life king saw Life Lager head  to cities such as Awka, Asaba, Onitsha, Enugu, and Port-Harcourt. After two months of exciting musical events across these cites, four finalists emerged and competed at the grand finale in Onitsha. The judges included actor/singer – David Jones David, renowned dance instructor – Dr. Jude Akaz, highlife legend – Bright Chimezie, and Nigerian music icon – Onyeka Onwenu. After a keenly contested showpiece, Chijioke Charles emerged as the winner of the singing category and Ofu Obi Dance Troupe won in the dance category. They were given cheques. Expressing his excitement Chijioke Charles  said  “I dedicate this win to God, my family and everyone who supported me, I am lost for words. This is definitely the happiest day of my life and I am so grateful to Life Lager” The  Portfolio Manager – Mainstream Brands Nigerian Breweries Plc., Omotunde Adenusi, pontificated on the success of the competition. – “Life Lager is all about progress. Giving these talented acts a platform to showcase their talents has been a thing of joy for us. We believe everyone who has been on this show is a winner and we look forward to seeing how they progress in their careers. We also thank our loyal consumers for constantly coming out to support our contestants, we have thoroughly enjoyed sharing these nights with our consumers and they can expect more of these in the coming years.” This finale capped off 12 weeks of sensational music shows across south-east Nigeria. Some of the finest entertainers in Nigeria, such as KCEE, Onyeka Onwenu and Phyno graced the stage with electrifying  performances.