Last week, we dealt with anxiety disorders. In this week, we shall take a look at depressive illness. Depressions along with anxiety are very common mental health disorders. At various points in our lives, we will somehow get unhappy. Unhappiness as a result of events occurring around us is inevitable. We will suffer from loss of loved ones, such as parents and friends. The majority of people concerned will grief for a brief period and then face the inevitability of life’s daily struggle. In a minority of persons, such grief may be prolonged beyond a reasonable period. Therefore, when what could have been a transient period of unhappiness goes into a longer period, then depression may be said to be featuring in such a person. Depression can develop from a various situations.  As mentioned, depression may occur from loss of loved ones, something of value –  job, money or business. When an expectation or desire is unfulfilled, such as failed marriage, miscarried pregnancy, failure in an examination, depression may follow. In other words, a defeated desire or an ambition that falls short could cause depression in some people. When such state of sadness goes beyond two weeks’ mark, the person is said to be depressed. Similarly, substances, such as alcoholic abuse, while in the initial time of consumption, may  cause elation, will in the long run, lead to depression. Some medical disorders, such as under-acting thyroid, under acting adrenal gland and long-standing physical illness, such as cancer, may lead to depressive illness. Depression may also run in some families due to hereditary or genetic factors. What does a depressed person feel? A depressed individual feels sad and gloomy; feeling sad or having a depressed mood with loss of interest or pleasure in activities once enjoyed. The sufferer could have changes in appetite resulting either in weight loss or gain unrelated to dieting. The person could have trouble sleeping or he or she could be sleeping too much.  The patient could have loss of energy or increased fatigue. There could be increase in restless activity or slowed movements and speech. The sufferer could have feeling of worthlessness or being guilt as well as having difficulty thinking, concentrating or in making decisions. Thoughts of death or suicide or even the individual depressed patient could take steps to commit suicide or self harm. How is depression diagnosed? Surely, the doctor will undertake a thorough assessment of the individual and, if required, will conduct some investigations to exclude some underlying diseases, which I have mentioned above. If any disease is found to be responsible for the depression, such illness will be corrected. If not, the doctor will focus on depression in itself as a distinct entity. Treatment: As in anxiety disorder, depression can be treated by non-medical means. One of the most important ways to overcome depressions is exercise. Regular exercise will stimulate the brain to cope with stress and pain. It may be all that you need to deal with depression or in combinations with other measures. Another non-medical method is “talking therapy.” Otherwise called counselling or psychotherapy, counselling may help deal with underlying cause of depression, such as history of childhood abuse or domestic abuse. In some occasions, depression may co-exist with anxiety in what doctors called anxiety-depressive illness. In such a case, the therapist will focus on the two complex illnesses. However, another approach to deal with depression is cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT), which will help change the thought process that occurs in depression. In the event that the depression is due to consumption of substances, such as alcohol, the sufferer may need the help of specialists to help him or her to be weaned off the substance. The same thing goes for other depression-inducing substances. In the event that non-medication fails, medication may be considered. There are various formulations of medications that may be used to deal with depression. It’s important to comply with the prescribed medications for as long as it’s recommended so as to derive the full benefits from the medications. However, despite the medications, depression may still evade resolution. Therefore, another non-medication form to deal with depression is electro-convulsive therapy (ECT). This is a device that passes electrical current through the brain to stimulate its activities. This method may be combined with medications that I mentioned above or be used alone. Most depressions are treated on an outpatient basis. On few occasions, it may be necessary to admit the patient if he or she can no longer cope at home or in the community. Our next article will deal with psychosis, an equally serious mental health disorder.