The President and Chairman of Council, Nigeria Institute of Management (Chartered),  Professor Olukunle Iyanda on Thursday, urged the old and new fellows of the institute to accept the challenge to reverse the undesirable situation the country is currently facing, demonstrating high level of selflessness and loyalty to the country. He gave this admonition in the midst of celebrating the 2019 awards, fellows and spouse day luncheon at the Muson Centre, Lagos. The NIM boss noted that the country is faced with challenges that fellows of the institute should rise up to, and reverse the trend by exhibiting selflessness and good management, for the good of the Nigerian state According to him “the timing of this conferment is particularly significant. I do not think this nation has, in all its chequered history faced as many challenges as it does at this time. Apart from the insurgency that has refused to go away, there is increasing insecurity and fear among the people to exercise their freedom of movement, there are allegations of corruption in the most sacred temples of the land of the subjugation of national to sectional interest and a seemingly loss of faith  in the Nigerian nationhood. “Our fellows, old and new, should therefore accept the challenge to reverse these unproductive and undesirable trends in our nation. This we can do through the practice and propagation of good management. We are therefore called upon to demonstrate the highest level of selflessness, probity; objectivity and accountability in your own personal and professional responsibilities such that we can restore faith of all stakeholders in the Nigerian project” Speaking on the theme,  “Repositioning the Public Service for Public Private Partnership to Enhance Good Governance”, the Head of Service, Ogun State Government, Engr. Isiaka Olanrewaju Bisiriyu , submitted that partnership between the public and private sector is beneficial to Nigeria.. For him, public-private partnership is “moving apace to align Nigeria with the United Nation Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2030 The NIM gave awards of life members to eight members. They include Sir Ifeanyi Atueyi, Sir William Parker Odigie Eghobamien, Chief (Mrs.) Mary Nkese Nya Idehen and Prof. Fola Lasisi Others are Mr. Felix Ohiwerei, Chief Joseph Okanlawon Ogunbayo, Samuel Odubayo Odukoya and Ijeoma Jane Ohaeri Giving criteria’s to become a fellow in NIM, Iyanda highlighted that the candidate “must be a full member of the institute for at least ten years, must also be a financial member, and must have contributed to the institution, and he/she must be of good conduct, not charged in any court”. Brigadier General Saad Abubakar, on behalf of the awardees, thanked the institute for the awards and the faith put in them to be good ambassadors of the institute. 