GLOBAL technology giant, Huawei Technologies, at the weekend, unveiled a new operating system (OS), HarmonyOS ostensible to counter the pulling of its Android licence by Google. It said it is microkernel-based, distributed OS designed to deliver a cohesive user experience across all devices and scenarios. CEO, Huawei’s Consumer Business Group, Richard Yu, who spoke at Huawei Developer Conference, said the world is entering an age when where people expect intelligent experience across all devices. He said: “We’re entering a day and age where people expect a holistic intelligent experience across all devices and scenarios. To support this, we felt it was important to have an operating system with improved cross-platform capabilities. We needed an OS that supports all scenarios, that can be used across a broad range of devices and platforms, and that can meet consumer demand for low latency and strong security. “These were our goals with HarmonyOS. It is completely different from Android and iOS. It is a microkernel-based, distributed OS that delivers a smooth experience across all scenarios. It has trustworthy and secure architecture, and it supports seamless collaboration across devices. You can develop your apps once, then flexibly deploy them across a range of different devices.” According to the firm, traditionally, new OSs are released alongside new types of devices. “As early as 10 years ago, Huawei envisioned a future where intelligence would seamlessly integrate with all aspects of our lives, and it began exploring how it might deliver this experience – one that would transcend the boundaries of physical space and span different hardware and platforms,” it said. HarmonyOS is a lightweight, compact OS with powerful functionality, and it will first be used for smart devices such as smart watches, smart screens, in-vehicle systems, and smart speakers. Through this implementation, Huawei aims to establish an integrated and shared ecosystem across devices, create a secure and reliable runtime environment, and deliver a holistic intelligent experience across every interaction with every device. 