In a swift reaction to the sub-missions of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, at the public hearing of the House Ad Hoc Committee on eastern ports, where he described the two Lagos ports as being “overwhelmed and have attained breaking points,” the Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) has said the Apapa and the Tin Can Island ports are not congested. The body, in a statement obtained by The Nation, said both ports were operating at less than 70 percent capacity. The association said the major challenges facing the ports were the access roads, which are severely dilapidated. STOAN spokesman Bolaji Akinola, in the statement, said: “It is important to correct the understanding of the public about the ports. The hinterland infrastructure leading to the ports in Lagos, namely the roads, are at breaking points. The ports are not congested and are not at breaking points. “Most of the terminals in the two ports are operating below capacity. The busiest terminals are operating at less than 70 percent at the yard and 60 percent at berth. So there is no port congestion anywhere as of today,” he explained. Akinola said the ports in Lagos have capacity to handle cargoes beyond the volume they were handling, if the government pays attention to dilapidated port access roads, in addition to ending the manual handling of cargo clearing processes by the Nigeria Customs Service. He said port operation was not about the size, but about the efficiency of connecting facilities around the port. “I think the major problem we have at hand is that successive governments allowed the port access roads to degenerate so bad. The two main entry routes into the Lagos ports are the Ijora-Wharf Road and the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway. The Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, which is the major road to the ports with six lanes, has packed up several years ago. Every petroleum tanker, port truck and trucks belonging to the many manufacturing concerns in Apapa now use the narrow Ijora-Wharf Road, which is not even in a perfect state also. This has resulted in the inevitable chaos we see on the roads. If these roads are repaired as they should be, the chaos will disappear,” Akinola said. He also said ports in other parts of the country were not immune to the challenges of bad road. For instance, he said the Onitsha River Port, recently constructed by the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), was not functional because of bad roads. “Also, if you visit the ports in Rivers State – Onne and Port Harcourt Ports – and the ones in Delta State, it is the same story of dilapidated roads. The roads are bad and trucks spend several hours trying to get in and out of the ports,” the STOAN Spokesman further said. He called on the Federal Government to embark on “urgent comprehensive repairs” of the roads leading to all ports in the country, especially Lagos ports. He also tasked the government on the provision of functional truck parks in Apapa to stop trucks from parking on the roads and impeding the flow of traffic’’. 