The return of Dr Chris Ngige to the Ministry of Labour and Employment has elicited mixed reactions. While it came as a rude shock to some, others say it is a vote of confidence in the minister. Nonetheless, they have set agenda for him, writes TOBA AGBOOLA. FOllowing the inauguration of the new Federal Executive Council (FEC) by President Muhammadu Buhari last week, stakeholders have expressed surprise over the return of Dr. Chris Ngige to the Ministry of Labour and Employment. Their surprise was borne out of the fact that his last days in office were mired in controversy and confrontations with the labour movement. Most stakeholders said Ngige, considering his academic background, should have been taken to another ministry, arguing that he did not support workers in most of their struggles during his first tenure. The new minimum wage was the most prominent issue on which, the workers claimed, the minister frustrated them and almost scuttled the negotiation. Some also believe that with the experience garnered during his first coming as the Minister of Labour,  no doubt Ngige is no stranger to the challenges and intricacies of labour administration in the country. However, stakeholders have urged Ngige and and the Minister of State, Senator Omotayo Alasoadura, to hit the ground running. The workers also recalled that, instead of being a good arbiter, the minister, anytime the workers decided to go on strike, always looked for ways to work against the International Labour Organisation (ILO) convention with his pronouncements of “no work, no pay”. However, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, said the organised labour had nothing against Ngige’s reappointment. He, however, warned that the minister might incur the wrath of  workers, if he failed to respect the independence of labour as a partner in the tripartite ecosystem. He said: “We don’t have permanent friends and enemies. We have nothing personal against him. If he respects the independence of labour as enshrined in the labour laws and as we have it in the ILO Convention, which Nigeria has been a signatory to since the ’60s, we will not have any issue with him. “Clearly, we have nothing against him, but where there is a fundamental issue we will engage him. It’s also a welcome development that the minister will now attend the consequential adjustment meeting on the new minimum wage, but the minister has nothing to do with it. It is already a law. Hence from the side of the labour centres, we will ensure that workers are not short-changed and that is the reason we have told our members to do proper research on what the increase was when the minimum wage was increased to N7,500 and N18,000.” Trade Union Congress (TUC) President Comrade Quadri Olaleye said labour would draw the attention of the President to the challenges confronting the labour movement He said: “The ministry under his watch must as a matter of urgency brace for the task ahead. It is imperative to state here that we are not happy that months after the new minimum wage was approved by the Federal Government, the issue is still foot-dragging over parity. His presence must make a difference. “Other issues include casualisation, outsourcing, pension, among others. The strength of any union is their number; unfortunately, our members are losing jobs in droves. This has to be checked, if we must put a stop to acts of criminality. Posterity will be fair to him, if he protects and creates more jobs instead of losing the existing ones. We must not forget that an idle mind is the Devil’s workshop. “There are serious tasks ahead, but we shall continue to count and trust in his wisdom, adroitness and proficiency to provide the mida’s touch needed to positively turn around the ministry for the good of all.” The TUC chief urged the minister to review the labour law to curb the excesses of employers who are involved in anti-labour practices, adding that they must be adequately punished to deter others from embarking on such a predatory venture. United Labour Congress (ULC) President Joe Ajaero urged the labour minister to be proactive, prevent industrial disputes and disagreements at infant levels before they escalate into major crises. He said Ngige must begin to pay attention to the work environment to ensure that there are efficient health and safety measures to reduce industrial accidents, while obsolete laws should be reviewed in a progressive and dynamic manner that will be favourable to all the social partners. Ajaero urged the ministers to create policies for robust industrial relations, as well as to formally register the ULC, by ensuring the trade union movement is democratised and liberalised. The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) said the appointment is a call to service. Its Director-General, Mr. Timothy Olawale said: “We congratulate the newly appointed minister. However, this appointment is a call to national service as the nation is faced with dire challenges needing urgent attention. The task ahead of  requires commitment, focus and determination.” On the imperative of the new ministers to be proactive, consultative and facilitators of growth and development, the NECA chief said:  “The issues confronting our nation require that the government and all stakeholders join hands in navigating the ship of state away from the perennial challenges facing businesses and the monstrous high youth unemployment. We reaffirm that Organised Businesses remain the engine room of national development and is better positioned to create employment and wealth for the generality of Nigerians.” Also, National Union of Chemical, Footwear, Rubber, Leather and Non-Metallic Products Employees (NUCFRLANPE) President Comrade Goke Olatunji said it was a surprise that Ngige was returned because he performed below expectation in his first outing. Olatunji’s advice: The minister must learn from his first term and apply the lessons to deliver a stable industrial atmosphere where employers and workers would interrelate without suspicions. “He did not really performed as expected in the last four four years. Maybe because he is not a labour person. For instance, there are many ways you can address conflicts. As an intellectual, he should be able to diversify. He should not apply divide and rule approach. People around him should advise him on how to handle things in the sector,” Olatunji said.