A body known as Save Kwara Group (SKG) has decried the marginalization of the North-Central zone by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government in appointment to key positions.
The group, which said it was at the forefront of the winning the state for the APC added that north-central zone voted massively for the government at the centre in the last general elections. Addressing reporters in Ilorin, SKG’s chairman Mohammed Abioye said: “As you may be aware, recently there was a north-central zonal meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja. A point was raised that generally the zone has been marginalized in the appointment to key positions by the Federal Government. “It is on record that the north-central zone voted massively for the APC in the last general elections. As at today, the President, the Vice President and Senate President are not from here. “What we are saying is that the zone should be considered for some concessions in future appointments.”
On the performance of the Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq thus far, Alhaji Abioye gave the governor a pass-mark. Said he: “60 or 70 days are too short to assess the performance of any governor. But I think the governor has done very well. He has been able to demonstrate to Kwarans that a governor is not supposed to lord it over anybody. Our governor is very accessible.
“In terms of infrastructural development many of the pot-holes riddenroads in the metropolis are being patched up daily. He has also released money for the completion of ongoing projects. So I think we are going on well.” Earlier, Convener of the group Benjamin Oyinloye urged President Muhammadu Buhari to “consider the precarious political situation of the zone. “As it stands, north central zone is currently shortchanged
politically and the president needs to placate the tensions and emotions of its supporters in the region.” Mr. Oyinloye urged all elected public office holders in the state to reflect that “their election into office was bough at too great a price. Hence it is demanded of you all that you must distinguish yourselves, put the state and its citizens first in every decision you intend to make.”