He is undoubtedly the man of the moment, and the English-born Nigerian professional basketball executive and president of basketball operations of the Toronto Raptors, Masai Ujiri, who recently visited Nigeria with the 2019 NBA Championship won under his watch, shares his recipe for success, reports ADEYINKA ADEDIPE. Weeks after his team broke the rut and claimed the 2019 NBA championship, English-born Nigerian professional basketball executive and president of basketball operations of the Toronto Raptors, Masai Ujiri, has yet spoken about the golden landmark. Ujiri, who was on a whistle stop NBA Trophy Tour of Lagos recently, has for the first time revealed the momentous time with his wife after he led Raptors to gory against the odds. “My wife has been very supportive and she was happy when Raptors won,” the 49-year-old Ujiri who was NBA Executive of the Year in 2013 exclusively told The Nation. “She congratulated me specially and noted that I worked hard for it; she said she was proud of me and t is good to hear from people that are close to you;  and those are obviously intimate moments (after we won the NBA title).” The forward-looking Ujiri continued with a breathy purr: “The win (with Raptors) is the beginning of a new journey for me. “The first thought that came to me as soon as the buzzer in San Francisco sounded was my beautiful wife, my family, my kids my mother in law and people close to me. “The next I thought about was home, Africa. I am proud that I won the trophy, my team won the trophy for Africa and then I proceeded to get the Nigerian flag and wrap it around me. “So I really appreciate all those that have contributed to this success. I also appreciate all the journalists that have reported Toronto Raptors and Giant of Africa (GOA) as well as everybody that has continued to contribute to the growth of the game.” Apart from his wife, Ujiri has also spoken candidly about his close relationship with controversial entertainer, Drake, and his unquantifiable contributions to the success of Raptors. He explained: “Drake has always been a great supporter of Raptors. He is our guy. He had the trophy before I brought it to Nigeria and he made a big replica for himself. His relationship with the Raptors is bigger than anything. “When I came in, I brought in Drake or rather say that he brought himself in. So I don’t need to take any glory for that. He has been a big fan of Raptors whether we are winning or losing, he is always there. “My wife has seen me getting test from Drake at 3am because a thought comes to his head and he wants to share it with me. He has been an incredible partner and we will continue to work together and have a friendship. “He (Drake) will continue to be a die-hard fan of the franchise. He has been in trouble a couple of times because he crossed the line but that’s passion. That’s him loving the game and we love him in Toronto,” Ujiri reitreated as he further gave a rare glimpse on how Raptors find their ways through the maze and landed on the NBA podium for only their first time in history. Excerpts Biggest challenges at Raptors When you make those moves in basketball, people get hurt and it could affect relationship. The toughest thing in our job is trading a player like we did in the case of Damarre or when Kawhi left for Clippers after propelling us to the title. These decisions are emotional. As an administrator, you have to figure out a way to deal with these things. Damarre is one of the unbelievable persons I have worked with. He is a remarkable person and I knew it was tough for him to leave Raptors. When he came back to play against us with the San Antonio Spurs, he came to me in the locker room where we hugged and that’s the only time we have had contact but time heals and there will never be any grudge. I let Coach Dwayne Casey go, a tough decision; but I had to take it. As humans, we may consider it bad. But the business side of things is that you have to withstand pressure, withstand challenges and criticisms and move on. That’s the challenge of the business. Bedrock of Raptors I must commend the two prominent players on team – Kawhi Leonard, Kyle Lowry. I am also proud of the Africans – Pascal Siakam, Serge Ibaka, Uche Anunobi, who was sick during the play offs. The win gives us a platform to be able to tell a story and inspire more kids in Africa. The likes of Joel Embed, Siakam, Giannis Adetokunboh and many other African players in the NBA, through their exploits, will become huge inspiration to African kids who might want to follow their footsteps. I am also inspired by people who have taken the other routes like coaching and scouting. Great players like Patrick Mutombo, Patrick Engubird, Godwin Owinjie and many others. These people will continue to be shining examples of what is obtainable outside playing basketball. It is a huge ecosystem that I think we can continue to build which will give rise to other opportunities like being sports journalists, lawyers and trainers. There are opportunities for kids in the game and that is what we want to preach with the Giant of Africa. My dreams for Raptors My dream is to make Toronto Raptors the Manchester United of basketball in Africa. We hope to win over fans of other NBA teams to our side. I also want to see people donning the red jersey of Raptors all over Africa the way they wear notable jerseys of other teams. I am happy to bring the trophy home. It was a dream watching Larry Bird, Magic Johnson and others pop champagne while lifting the NBA trophy. I found myself doing that with the opportunity the NBA system as well as the support of people like Amadou Fall (President of NBA Africa) has given me. I tell my wife every day that I am pinching myself to be sure what has happened is real and I can’t even picture what this win will mean to me in future. My dream is also to bring more to Africa with renewed hunger because we have seen how the win affects us positively as a people. As administrators, we are put in positions to make tough decisions. I always say that if you can’t stand the pressure, you have to quit your post. It is our job and I think decision of hiring Nurse and Kawhi was well thought out. We needed to change after doing the same thing all over again. Sometimes the change comes with challenges and criticism. It’s a tough job and that is why we are here as leaders. Back to my root with NBA trophy This is home for me. I went home to Zaria and spent the whole day there. I took the trophy first to my parents because they raised me the right way and also took it to my second dad, Oliver Johnson (OBJ), on the courts of Ahmadu Bello University where I learnt the rudiment of the game when I turned 13. Everyone knows how difficult it is to play the game here but we will continue to grow and learn more about the game. We have to be visionaries, we have to be leaders and show the youths the path. I had that path and one day some other people will take it over just like OBJ said that I took it over from him. I am proud of the many talented youths of Africa. There is so much work to be done and challenges to overcome, so that we will continue to grow. I say this with all honesty and the passion in me – Africa is now. We have to pay attention to Africa now and sports are big part of what we want to do. Africa will win and we will continue to make it better for our youths. Giant of Africa project The Giant of Africa (GOA) has its goal but question is – what’s the end goal? Truly, people think it is to build arena or put structure on the ground or how many kids are going to become professionals. At the end of the day, positive things will happen. I believe some of these kids will become bigger and do better than what we are doing now to enhance the game and the lives of others. My dream is to see some of the graduates of GOA do bigger programmes and give other youths opportunities down the line. I do think one day a GOA kid will become the president of one of the African countries. As we continue to spread the programme to other African countries, I am sure my dream will come true. Getting more facilities for basketball across Africa These are the things I have talked about in the past. We are trying to see if we can build more courts and more facilities to encourage more kids. I know we value football most here and we have many talented footballers on the continent. When did that start? At a point, Stephen Keshi and the late Sam Okwaraji were the only pros that came to play for the Eagles. All of a sudden, we had so many African talents like Drogba, Eto’o doing well in Europe. The talent in Africa is abnormal and we have to pay attention to it.This challenge to provide facilities is that of our administrators, ministers and governors. I know that there are very important issues but sports is big business. The talent in basketball, especially in Nigeria, is enormous. In the Eastern part, we have big, tall people who need to be encouraged and it starts with providing facilities. Some countries are beginning to do it. President Paul Kagame of Rwanda sent me test message that the arena has been completed in Kigali while another one has been built in Dakar; and that will help develop the game in these countries. Role of government in sports Government in all African countries control sports and we try to involve the private sector as much as possible. But if we are going to reach the masses of youths, we have to do things on the government side. We have to put experts in charge of sports. I know this sounds controversial but the ministers of sports all over the continent are not experts and this hinders progress. We have to put experts in charge of sports; people who know what to do at every given time. Let me give you an example; the National Stadium in Lagos is an eye sore. There is a lot we can do to change the landscape and build an ecosystem that would bring jobs and encourage our national athletes. I encourage the likes of Austin Okocha and Nwankwo Kanu to talk about this. Kanu and so many officials send me test messages on issues like this. We have to form a movement that will change this not only in this country but on the continent. Talents are wasting in these countries. It is important to have facilities. Do you know how many Serena Williams we have in Nigeria and they have never played tennis? Do you know how many Siakam who have never touched a basketball? We have so much talents, it is time to develop them. Africa is now. We need to shut the Lagos stadium for a year and refurbish it. The money for such project is available, the brains that can do the job are here. Why can we build nice hotels there and other facilities that it will create something big? Africa is now. We have to start and face the challenges so we can reap the benefits later. Playing career with D’Tigers I had a short stint with the national team. I wasn’t very good but I had the opportunity of being with the team. I wasn’t the best professional player or college player. But I was a bench player on the national team but had the honour of playing with unbelievable guys – the late Mohammed Acha, Tunji Awojobi, and Julius Nwosu and many others. The experience I had playing at the Men’s Afrobasket in Dakar in 1997, I would never trade it for anything and I will always cherish those moments wearing the Nigerian jersey as well as coaching the national team. My stint with the national team was short-lived but very rewarding. Clarion call to World Cup-bound D’Tigers To our players playing in the World Championship in China, it will be a unique experience playing for their country. Nick Nurse is the coach of the Canadian team. They played against Nigeria in two friendly games. I was also lucky to play for my country and was also a coach. Wearing your country’s jersey is unique and I am sure China will be exciting. I think the national team has done well over the years. We always have talents but the problem has been lack of organisation. I have been in touch with Musa Kida, Sam Ahmedu and Coach Alex Nwora and I think they are trying to do things the right way; that is, by making sure preparation for competition is top-notch as well as create a process that leads to success. I have been very encouraged by what I see. With the talent that we have, I was sure that the women would win the Afrobasket and the men will present a good team in China. I don’t know what the World Cup is. May be it is not as big as the Olympics because we see players pulling out. But it is a platform for us to show what we can offer and I am sure the Nigerian teams will continue to do well. Winning strategy to retain NBA title First of all, I am from Nigeria, I don’t feel pressure. I think it is a pleasure to come from this country. There is no day I have lost sleep on the job. We are put in these positions to solve problems. Next year, the Toronto Raptors will be there to compete to win. In terms of strategy, when you get a job to run an organisation, the first thing you think about is hiring the smarter-than-you, people who are the best in their fields – basketball operation, finance, scouting and others. Having the right ownership also helps, which we are blessed with at Raptors. The ownership encouraged us to build and grow. You have to start trying to put the team together in a way that is possible for the franchise to win trophies. I think you play sports to win and we made a tough decision to bring Leonard and we were fortunate to win the championship. Right now, Leonard is moving on to play with the Clippers. We will be fine, we are very confident with what we do. He raised us to a high level by winning the championship. We want to win again and we have wonderful and young players that we are going to grow with the team. We are excited about the future. We will continue to build and we don’t want to reveal our strategy but we have come to a point that we feel comfortable about where we are, who we are and we will continue to grow as well as win that way. Possibility of Toronto Raptors owning franchise in Africa I must say that the NBA does not allow team to own teams outside the NBA. But in terms of building strategy to make Raptors popular in Africa, we have to start with winning because if you do not win, fans would not be interested in your team. You can see fans supporting Man United, Arsenal and Liverpool because they have won in the past. The Basketball Africa League (BAL) is an unbelievable project that I am happy NBA Commissioner Adam Silver is spearheading. It is also great to have President Barak Obama involved in this. Amadou Fall has been made president of the League. This is a big for the continent. The league will grow because of the great vision behind it. It is the first time I think the NBA is running a league outside the United States. It is interesting that they have come to Africa. It shows we have potential in terms of talent and business. We are really excited about the BAL league and I am proud to be part of it. Peculiarity of Africa’s problem There was a moment when I used to come back home and start spitting fire and criticising the system. But after getting some advice from close confidants, I mellowed and checked myself. Before we all criticise, we all have to set an example. I am not here to criticise but I am trying to make the game bigger and make more people aware. If we talk of how to grow sports in Nigeria and other African countries, we can take a cue from President Kagame who built an arena in eight months, the same for the Senegalese president. These leaders are encouraging the game of basketball to grow. Though privatisation is good, we need the leaders to help us by setting an agenda. If we can continue to do that at the high level, we will make progress. And I will tell you that NBA games can be played in those arenas when they decide to bring the games to Africa. We have made more progress than the previous year. We go to South to play a game every year and everyone is asking why we are not bringing it to Nigeria. I will also like to bring the Raptors to Nigeria tomorrow but where are we going to play? That is the challenge that we face. The commissioner wants to play a game in Africa and I know it can happen in Nigeria until we make progress to have the game here. Marrying basketball with Nigeria music culture I think what Drake has done is wonderful. Basketball brings people together and as entertainment continues to grow we can infuse the two. I have talked to Davido and Jidenna and we will like to bring in Wizkid. Nigerian music is popular now and we can create an ecosystem that will give people platform to succeed by blending music and basketball. I also listen to Nigerian music and watch Nigerian movies, and I like them so much. Scouting of new players There are talents everywhere and you will be surprised to see kids with their hands reaching their knees walking around the stadium. They also have speed when they start to play. I am a more talented footballer than basketballer because I started playing as soon as I was born, just like the same way kids in America start playing basketball at an early age. My three-year-old son is already shooting the ball. Football is easy to play. With four stones and a ball, the stage is set for a game. But basketball is more difficult to set up. I went to my elementary school in Zaria and I see the court is overgrown with weeds so I have decided to do something about that. Getting to pinnacle of his career It is left for me to make my dream come through. I kept dreaming and worked hard to connect all the dots and try to be the best. Sport is all about winning; you must try to win at all times on the court and off the court. For me, it has been the best experience to be able to get to the top. I wanted to win, you want to achieve. As you do that you bring others along and that is why you have to be humble and continue to grow.We will get to the top in Nigeria soon. Africa is now.