In a time such as ours that oozes with the entitlement mentality, toxic relationships thrive. People are in relationships for the wrong reasons; people live in a country of me, me and me and enter into romantic relationships with same mentality. They end up dragging their partners in a downward spiral of hurt, pain and brokenness. The sad part however is that many do not even know they are in a toxic relationship. Here are ways to know you are in a toxic relationship:
* You are always drained: Usually, a toxic relationship always leaves you drained of all energy. This could come from giving your all, constantly compromising, incessant quarrels and misunderstanding. In fact, you could find that you are the only one loving and trying to make the relationship work- there is simply little or no effort from your partner. *You always expect negative things: If you are in a relationship where you have gotten so used to criticism and verbal abuse that it has become normal for you, you should know you are in a toxic relationship. * You tread carefully: Relationships are meant to be a loving and blissful. Sure, there will be misunderstandings but when every single thing you do is seen as wrong such that you are careful of every word that comes out of your mouth, then you, my dear, are not in a relationship but a prison. In such case questions and statements become traps. Eg. “So you prefer to go out with your friends and leave me alone? ,“You have been smiling a lot at your phone today”. * You feel trapped: When you feel trapped but your partner uses manipulation to keep you in the relationship, beware. Sometimes, to keep you hooked to them, your partner will make sure to feed you a bit of positivity from time to time, overwhelming you with signs of adoration and love. In the end you stay put in the relationship with hopes that the relationship will get better even when the relationship is more of a negative one. *You feel unworthy: if you feel unworthy in a relationship and that your partner is doing you a favor by being in a relationship with you, that’s a bad sign. Also if you always seek constant acceptance from your partner, then that is a subtle signal of a toxic relationship. *You are ALWAYS wrong: If you can never do anything right and are ALWAYS wrong, then there is a problem. If your partner is constantly pointing out wrong things you do making you apologize every time, then it gradually brings down your self-esteem. Such a relationship is likely toxic. *They never accept they are wrong: When even in the face of complete and glaring evidence that your partner is in the wrong yet they refuse to admit it but find a way to make you the culprit, then that relationship is highly toxic. *They hit you where it hurts: Having knowledge of your fears, insecurities and deep issues, a toxic partner may use this information to hurt you. Normally, your partner is to make you feel safe with your issues and make you never regret telling them. However, when you hear things like “that’s why your father abandoned you” or “you can never be a lawyer” then you should hit the road. *They are controlling: If your partner has no consideration for your feelings and emotions but always wants to have his or her desire done no matter the costs, it is a glaring sign of a toxic relationship. They constantly check your phone, want to know everything you do and even up to what you are thinking. This is very unhealthy and not a sign of love. RUN. *They are violent: This is definitely a NO,NO! When it gets to the point where your partner physically abuses you then you should call it quits. No relationship is worth being abused physically or even verbally abused.