David Herbert Dale was the perfect example of the artist who started as a young man and died at the age of 71 without compromising the integrity of his calling. Those familiar with the visual arts know who this illustrious Nigerian meant to the world of the imagination. He did not write. He did not sing. He did not dance. He did not act. His stage was the canvass. His triumph was with his brush. A man of versatile gifts and amazing range, Dale showed that he could pursue the sacred and profane. Those who have seen the stained glass of Our Saviour’s Church in the vicinity of the Tafawa Balewa Square in Onikan, Lagos, can have an eyeful of his eternal imprint. Also, his mosaic work shines at St. Agnes Church in Maryland area of Lagos mainland. Outside the ecclesiastical domain, he stretched his doing to the business world at Chief Razak Okoya’s Estate as well as a mural for the unmistakable MTN Building in Ibadan.  The oil magnate Shell has fallen under his spell just as the towering presence of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The State House, Marina, Lagos, displays his forays into the world of politics and governance. During the iconic cultural event known as FESTAC ’77 art exhibition, he was appointed the graphic consultant. His range showed in the many media where he expressed his thoughts and worldview. He was associated with 23 different media, including oil, beads, glass works, water colour, gouache, stained glass. He worked with wrought iron, etchings, mosaic and lino prints. During his four decades of exploits, he exhibited to appreciative audiences around the world, including the United States, the United kingdom, the former USSR, Cuba, Japan, Sweden, Germany, France, Holland, Spain, Canada, Romania and Australia. He also taught art, with emphasis on architecture, at the University of Lagos until 1990. He was not restricted to pedagogy and work as a pure artist, he was also a valuable asset to the advertising world, practising at Akre Advertising until 1984. His creative run was slowed and came to an end because of an illness that lasted years. He slumped into coma, and then recovered. His coma lasted 12 days. But he never recovered his old fire and creative gusto since his physical and mental powers had declined. The stroke that afflicted him impaired his speech and eye sight, alienating him from his work and people. When his illness became so acute, fund raisers were organised by art lovers in the country, including a lottery sale tagged “Saving David Dale” put together by Quintessence Gallery in Park View Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos. Arthouse Contemporary, Nigeria’s leading auction house also cast lots for Dale. The initial medical bills were reportedly picked by Prince Yemisi Shyllon, a noted arts collector. Others who also pitched included the late Chief Rasheed Gbadamosi who set up Dale Soiree for a private viewing of the artist’s works. Born in November 22, 1947, Dale was born to a Scottish father and a Nigerian mother of Itsekiri extraction of Delta State. He lived with his paternal aunt in England before he returned to Nigeria at 17. He attended St. Gregory’s College, Lagos, and that was where he met the Nigerian living legend Bruce Onobrakpeya, who taught him art. He proceeded to the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, where he studied fine and applied arts. He graduated in 1971. In his tribute,  President of the Society of Nigerian Artists, Oliver Enwonwu, described him thus: “A fellow of the society of Nigerian Artists, he was best known for his dexterity and versatility in 23 different media, majorly stained glass through which he explored the energy and variety of urban life in Lagos.” We cannot agree more.