THE Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has begun deploying 35,000 regular and special marshals, 736 patrol vehicles, 120 ambulances, 25 towing trucks and 204 bikes during the Eid-el-Kabir celebrations. In a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, the nation’s capital, the Corps Public Education Officer Bisi Kazeem said the massive mobilisation is aimed at ensuring safer road environment during the festive period and beyond. He said: “With the declaration of Sunday, August 11 as the Say of Eid-el-Kabir in Nigeria, the FRSC has begun massive mobilisation of its personnel for the Sallah special patrol aimed at ensuring safer road environment during the festive period and beyond. Kazeem said the deployment will begin on August 9 and extend to August 16. He added: “The Corps Public Education Officer stated that the special patrol operation has become necessary, following the Corps’ commitment to its 2019 Corporate Strategic Goals of reducing road traffic crashes (RTC) by 20 per cent and fatality by 25 per cent. “FRSC has a tradition of always organising special patrols during festive periods as a way of averting the chaos that characterises the road during the celebrations. As such, this year’s Eid-el-Kabir will not be an exemption. Motorists must endeavour to avoid traffic violations and remain conscious of their safety to avoid not only arrest and prosecution by members of the Corps but falling prey to avoidable road crashes.” To ensure the effectiveness of the operations, Kazeem said the Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, directed commanding officers in various formations across the country to ensure that the 52 corridors are properly manned throughout the period of the operations. He said: “The Corps Marshal also directed that the operatives pay first-rate focus on effective traffic control, wrongful overtaking, use of phone while driving, drivers licence violation, lane discipline, removal of rickety vehicles on the road, driving with expired/ worn-out tyres and without spare tyres, among others. “To achieve this fit, the Corps has deployed operational equipment in the categories of radar guns, breathalysers to put a check on drunk driving, operational logistics materials are also to be fully deployed for this exercise. More so, the Corps Marshal has equally directed that all zebras must be active 24/7 and be responsive to calls within the minimum FRSC response time to crashes reported. “Kazeem noted that among the 52 corridors to be covered are: Akwanga-Lafiya-Makurdi, Jos-Bauchi-Gombe, Sokoto-Tambuwal-Jega-Birnin Kebbi corridor, Katsina-Kano-Wudil-Dutse-Azare-Potiskum corridor, Kaduna-Saminaka-Jos corridor, Abuja-Kaduna-Kano corridor, Okene-Ogori-Isua-Owo corridor, Makurdi-Otukpo-Obollo Afor-9th Mile corridor, Asaba-Abraka-Ughelli-Warri corridor, Ibadan-Ogere-Sagamu corridor, Sagamu-Mowe-Lagos corridor, among others. “In line with the foregoing, the patrol is to run in shifts as follows: 0600hrs – 1400hrs, 1400hrs – 2000hrs, 2000hrs – 2200hrs, and Night Rescue teams to be on standby at all operational Commands. “The Corps will go into the exercise with the friendly collaboration with military units en route or resident, the Nigerian Police Force (NPF), the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Department of State Services (DSS), state-owned/NGOs’ ambulance service providers, National Network on Emergency Rescue Services (NNERS) and Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA).”