A strong commercial aviation industry, stable defence spending and the need to service all platforms throughout their lifecycle are driving a growing aerospace and defence market, Boeing Market Outlook (BMO) has shown. The outlook estimated aerospace and defence market at $8.7 trillion over the next decade, up from $8.1 trillion a year ago. The Outlook included  a $3.1 trillion projected demand for commercial airplanes through 2028 as operators replace older jets with more capable and fuel-efficient models, and expand their fleets to accommodate the steady rise in air travel across emerging and established markets. The BMO also projected  a $2.5 trillion defence and space opportunities during the next decade as governments modernise military platforms and systems, pursue new technologies and capabilities and accelerate exploration from sea to space. The projected spending – spanning military aircraft, autonomous systems, satellites, spacecraft and other products – continues to be global in nature with 40 per cent of expenditures expected to originate outside the United States (U.S.). Supporting the defence, space and commercial platforms, the Outlook suggested that with lifecycle solutions will fuel a services market valued at $3.1 trillion through 2028. “Aerospace and defence continues to be a healthy and growing industry over the long term, boosted by strong fundamentals across the commercial, defence and services sectors and demand that is geographically-diverse and more balanced between replacement and growth than ever before,”  Boeing Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Enterprise Performance & Strategy,  Greg Smith said. Boeing also unveiled its 2019 Commercial Market Outlook (CMO), a longer-term forecast that delved  deeper into the market for commercial airplanes and services. The newest CMO showed that  growing passenger volumes and increasing airplane retirements will drive the need for 44,040 new jets, valued at $6.8 trillion over the next two decades and up  by three per cent from a year ago. The global commercial airplane fleet will also sustain the need for aviation services valued at $9.1 trillion, leading to a total commercial market opportunity of $16 trillion through 2038. Boeing Commercial Marketing Vice President Randy Tinseth, said: “Time and again, commercial aviation has shown itself to be extremely resilient.”