The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) has advised local and international investors to register with the commission so as harness the benefit of quality information, and location of the right investment destination. Its Communication Director, Emeka Offor, who gave the advice  during a chat with reporters in Abuja, said if investors come into the country and do not register with NIPC and decide to do it their way, they might fall into wrong hands.  He said if this happens, they will have no one to blame for whatever happened to them. “In line with NIPC’s mandate and recognising the intense competition among countries to attract foreign direct investment and to better focus its resources and ensure more effective investment promotion, NIPC has  developed a country focused investment promotion strategy. “Accordingly, NIPC has  concluded a diligent assessment to identify countries that are of strategic importance to Nigeria’s quest for direct investments. This is part of targeting carefully identified investors in the priority sectors and building relationships with key public and private stakeholders in the identified countries, whose relationship can be leveraged to get high impact world class investors to consider Nigeria,” Offor said. On the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Common Investment Code and Policy, NIPC and the Federal Ministry of Industry and Investment (FMITI) has worked with ECOWAS Commission to sensitise the public in Lagos, Calabar and Enugu on the gains of the recently signed ECOWAS common Investment Code and Policy by Nigeria, he explained. In addition, the ECOWAS Commission has finalised arrangement to set up National Coordinating Committee for Nigeria at NIPC. The Commission is in addition working with FMITI to negotiate and facilitate the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the establishment of the  United States (U.S)/Nigeria Commercial and Investment Dialogue. The Commission serves as Nigeria’s Secretariat for the implementation of the Agreement which covers five initial areas of focus which include agriculture, digital economy, infrastructure, investment and regulatory reform.