The immediate past governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, has disclosed that all his decisions as governor were in the interest of the state. The former governor and the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Chief Akin Oke, also appealed to all aggrieved members of the party in the state to embrace reconciliation for the sake of the party’s progress. They enjoined them to approach future political challenges with a resolve to be selfless, forgiving and more committed to the cause of the APC and Nigeria. Addressing leaders and chieftains of the party from the nine local government areas of Oyo South Senatorial district during a stakeholders’ meeting on Saturday at the party’s State Secretariat, Oke-Ado, Ibadan, Sen. Ajimobi took his time to explain the rationale behind some of his actions and policies which generated controversies among the populace. His words; “While we are expecting the courts to do justice to some of the cases emanating from conducts of the last general elections in the state, especially as it concerns the seats of the senator representing Oyo South at the Red Chamber as well as the governor of the state, I would like to admonish every member of our great party to eschew bitterness and preach genuine reconciliation. “There are insinuations in some quarters about some of the policies and undertakings of our eight-year administration which some people considered controversial but in all honesty, I meant well for the state. All my actions were geared towards facilitating development for the whole state and also thus make life more meaningful for the masses.” Ajimobi stated. In his welcome address, the party chairman in the senatorial district, Prince Adefisoye Adekanye, appealed to members to “remain faithful and committed in view of current challenges as what happened in the 2019 general election was an eye opener. We have all realized the need for loyalty to our party, renewed commitment to its cause and entrenchment of peace among ourselves”. Both the State Chairman, Chief Akin Oke, and Secretary, Hon. Mojeed Olaoya, in their separate addresses sued for peace and harmony to accommodate various interests. “We are not leaving any stone unturned to make Oyo APC stronger and better. All avenues for genuine reconciliation are being explored and we are optimistic about getting the desired results in the end.” Oke said. Hon. Olaoya and party chairmen from the nine local government areas gave updates on the efforts made so far to bring back all aggrieved members who left the party during the crisis which engulfed it before the general elections. According to Olaoya; “The State Executive Committee has put in place various committees made up of experienced and passionate individuals to bring back all the aggrieved members and we are satisfied with the success being recorded on daily basis.” Dignitaries at the meeting include the governorship candidate of the party in the last general election, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alh. Olalekan Alli, Executive Chairmen of the local governments and LCDAs, former state lawmakers, members of the State Working Committee, party leaders and chieftains across the senatorial district. 