Academic activities at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), have not fully resumed a week after resumption. The university had gone on a two-week break which began on July 8. One week after the re-opening, some classes in the university are still under lock. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, Manir Abdulhakeem, a 300-Level law student, told CAMPUSLIFE how he has made repeated  trips to the lecture hall for one week, thinking that lecture might hold yet nothing happened, even after another week rolled in. “It is more than a week now that I’ve been waiting to have a lecture, but it’s unfortunate that most of the lecture halls are closed. Even some lecturers are coming to the faculty but they couldn’t attend to us,” Manir said. “I feel so bad because that’s going to decline the zeal I had. I was resuming back to school, thinking we were going to start lecture. I really thought we would start on time, but I don’t think that’s feasible now.” Manir also feared it could have a negative implication. ”The students who are at home will still be thinking that lecture has not yet commenced because the university is indirectly telling us that we have not resumed. But if students still at home get to hear that all classes have resumed, they will quickly pack their loads and join us,” Manir said. Aside locked classes, the main library of the university- Abdullahi Fodio Library is also on skeletal operation. According to CAMPUSLIFE checks on the Library Guide, the facility operates between 8:00am and 10pm daily except the university is on break, which alters its operation from 8:00am to 6:00pm daily. But a week after resumption, the library is still closed by 6:00pm contrary to its operation. A  300-Level Islamic Studies Education undergraduate, Abdullah Abdullah, was politely asked to leave the library by 6pm on Monday. “It is not polite to close by 6pm when we’ve resumed,” Abdullah bemoaned. Another student, Abdulwaheed Sofiullah, a 300-Level studying English Language Education corroborated Abdullah. “It is not supposed to be so,’ he said adding, “If the students at home see that library still operates like this (closes at 6pm), they will be thinking we are on break. If everything operates normally, it will entice students back to school.” However, President of UDUS Students’ Union Faruk Barade, said he is in talks with management over the matter. According to him, management took the decision because students on campus are a sprinkle. “I phoned the university Librarian on the issue.  He admitted that the school has resumed though; but management has to operate the library like that due to few students around,” Faruk said.