Former Super Eagles’ captain, Joseph Yobo has expressed disappointment over Henry Onyekuru’s move to Monaco. The former Galatasaray attacker has completed a €15 million transfer to the French Ligue 1 side, a move which has left a bitter taste of frustrated hope for the retired Super Eagles’ defender. While charging Onyekuru to justify his high ratings at the Stade Louis II, the Everton legend admitted he would have loved to see the 22-year-old in the colours of the Premier League side to show the Goodison Park fans what they were missing. “He is a fantastic talent and I would have loved to see his deal [with Everton] go through but work permit restricted him from playing in the Premier League,” Yobo told Goal. Marco Silva’s side had to move the Nigeria international on after their application for a work permit for him was not granted by the British Home Office. “But he has shown what he’s got at Galatasaray, very exciting to watch and he can score goals as well. I was happy seeing him play for Nigeria national team but he didn’t get that chance to play for Everton because he didn’t play more international games to give him the right,” the Super Eagles’ legend said. “As an Evertonian, I feel he is a good prospect and would have been a great talent for Everton. He did very well at Galatasaray and was one of the fans’ favourites and if he had his way, he would have stayed to continue his progress but then, the club wanted to do a different business which was against his wish,” Yobo noted. “Monaco is a good team but haven’t done well in the past few years. Everything is now new for Henry to prove himself again,” Yobo said. Onyekuru joined the Merseysiders in 2017 and has since spent time on loan at Anderlecht and most recently Galatasaray, where he helped the Lions win a domestic double last season. “He would have been happy at Galatasaray and done more because he knows the club and their culture but in Monaco, he must prove himself. He is a striker, young and still learning the trade. I wish him all the best and hope he performs well as he did in Turkey and ultimately bring his form back to the national team.” Onyekuru joined the Monegasques on a five-year deal.