Lagos State has advised its residents owning housing estates to desist from modifying approved designs of buildings within the estates. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of, Housing, Mr. Wasiu Akewusola  stated this during a meeting with Abraham Adesanya Residents’ Association of  Estate’s representatives, Lekki,  at Alausa Secretariat, Ikeja. In a statement by the Public  Affairs Director, Adeola Salako, the permanent secretary maintained that it was in the best interest of residents of government-owned estates to stop alterations to the structures. According to him, such reconstructions include restyling, extension of, and additions to, existing facilities and in some extreme cases, increase in the height of buildings. He said alterations were deviations from the terms and conditions stated  in the deed of sub-lease signed by the two parties, warning that it could lead to a penalty as stated in the law. Akewusola noted that government-owned estates were designed and built by the state government in compliance with global environmental and physical planning rules to ensure durability and liveability. He said: “Contravention of such standards often resulted in dire consequences, such as reduced durability of the structure for the home owner and others in the environment. “Residents should desist from any form of redesigning of the building as this may cause damage to buildings and the entire environment in no distant time. A building is a permanent load whose capacity of erection can only be known and accessed by certified engineers, any plans to overload the capacity may result in disaster, he warned.” Akewusola underscored the need for residents to maintain the original structure and design of buildings to  prevent future disasters.  He further added that all unapproved remodeling contravened the Physical and Urban Planning Law of the state, stressing that affected buildings will be demolished by the appropriate agency of the state. He noted that demolition of illegal and unapproved structures in government owned estates will commence very soon without any further warning.