The clamour for state police has returned to the front burner of national discourse, following the deteriorating security situation in the country. A panel set up last year by President Muhammadu Buhari has also recently submitted its report, recommending the establishment of state and community policing. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI examines the prospects and constraints of decentralised police. WITH the deteriorating security situation in the country, the general perception is that the current centralised police could not provide adequate security cover for Nigerians. The Boko Haram insurgency in the Northeast, which started 10 years ago, but escalated during the dying days of the Jonathan administration was the first serious threat to national security. Before then, kidnapping of expatriate oil workers had started in the Niger Delta region as a money-making scheme. Today, the idea of kidnapping and ransom taking has gradually spread to other parts of the country. The security situation has been compounded by the escalating incidence of cattle rustling and banditry in the Northwest and farmers-herders clashes in the North-Central region. The national outcry engendered by the development has put the Muhammadu Buhari administration under pressure to do something to address the situation. One of the recurring suggestions aimed at dousing the situation is the idea of the creation of state police. There has been an increasing clamour for state police in recent times. State police is not new in Nigeria. It existed during the First Republic as Regional and Native Authority Police Forces. The officers were derived from the communities and with the advantage of shared common language and culture, crime prevention and containment at the early stages were relatively easy. Federal police officers, on the other hand, till date are posted randomly to states where the cooperation of the local populace is essential in carrying out effective policing. The abolition of Regional and Native Authority Police, which gave way to a unified police force, significantly weakened security at the grassroots level. The clamour for state police is part and parcel of the agitation for restructuring. This is based on the premise that there ought to be devolution of powers in a federal set up, to provide the opportunity for the federating units to handle certain things such as security that can best be tackled at that level. Nevertheless, owing to the fact that it is an inconvenient truth that is viewed with suspicion by the political elite, successive governments have not had the political will to confront the idea of restructuring once and for all and decide whether it is desirable or not. The clamour for state police returned to the front-burner recently when a panel set up by President Muhammadu Buhari recommended its establishment of community policing at the ‘state and local government levels. The panel, which was set up in August last year, recently submitted its report to the President. But, the question on the lips of those demanding for a genuine federal structure for the country is, how far is President Buhari willing to go? Is he prepared to set the machinery on motion to realise the said objective? This is because the establishment of state and community police is a constitutional matter and one of the issues that those clamouring for a new federal constitution have been demanding to see in a future constitutional amendment. Observers say the crux of the matter is whether the federal authorities are willing to alter the revenue sharing formula, by giving more resources to the states to shoulder the increasing responsibility that will result from moving items from the Exclusive List to the Concurrent List. Under the current revenue sharing formula, the Federal Government gets 52.68 per cent from the federal purse, the states 26.72 per cent and the local governments 20.60 per cent, with 13 per cent derivation revenue going to the oil-producing states. Others have also pointed at issues such as the problem of jurisdiction between the federal police and its states counterpart, as well as the possibility of state governors who are the chief security officers in their domains using it against political opponents. Elder statesman and Second Republic politician, Alhaji Tanko Yakassai is one of those who subscribes to the view that it would become a weapon in the hands of desperate politicians. He said politicians at various levels will end up recruiting their supporters and use same against their opponents. His words: “Establishment of state and community police will only worsen the situation, because at the rate we are now going when they are going to recruit the personnel party supporters would be the beneficiaries. So, the introduction of local government and state police at this point in time would constitute a death warrant to democracy in Nigeria. “There is need for synergy between the Federal Government and the federating units in tackling the security challenge facing the country. The idea of community and state police is being contemplated now because the Federal Government is only interested in a short term solution to the issue of crime and criminality that is currently bedeviling the country. To achieve a meaningful result, government must undertake a comprehensive study. The problem in Nigeria is that of inadequate manpower in the police. The government must decide how it intends to raise money to pay for the additional personnel that would be recruited to augment the shortfall in the number of men required in the force. “But, if President Buhari decides to go for state and community policing, he would be creating another problem in the process of trying to solve one.” Yakassai said those calling for restructuring are not serious because they have not produced a blueprint to support the idea they are canvassing for. He said that is the same way the ruling APC canvassed for ‘change’ prior to the 2015 general elections without stating exactly what they meant by that. He added: “Now the APC is talking about ‘Next Level’. These are what I describe as mere sloganeering. We are yet to come to terms with their change mantra, now they are talking about ‘Next Level’. “The current problem of banditry in the country was caused by the upsurge in cattle rustling in parts of the north. Cattle rustling led to Fulanis engaging in banditry. This is because cattle rearers inherited those cattles from their parents and all of a sudden they are being  taken away through cattle rustling. In the process, all their life savings are taken away, so there is no other alternative but to resort to banditry.” Governor Kayode Fayemi said recently at a security summit in Ibadan, the capital of Oyo State that the quest for the creation of state police by some governors, groups and individuals was not intended to undermine the existing federal police, the Nigeria Police Force. The Ekiti State governor who is also the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) spoke during the summit tagged, “Stakeholders’ Security Summit: Focus on Western Nigeria”. He said the security situation in the country has warranted that each state has its own police and that the existing federal police and the state police would work together when states are allowed to have their own police. Fayemi said what was obtainable in other countries where federalism is being practiced is that, federal and state police work side by side without engaging in unhealthy rivalry. For retired police commissioner and activist, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav, it will take a long time before such an idea would come on stream. He believes the President cannot approve the establishment of community policing without constitutional amendment. He said: “I don’t think that is true because he cannot approve the establishment of local government and state police unless the constitution is amended. Without amending the constitution, the President has no powers to give instructions for the establishment of local government and state police. You don’t approve the establishment of community policing by word of mouth. “I have said it times without number that state and community policing is a good idea, but our politicians are too corrupt and immature and they will use it against their political opponents. If we had state police in places like Rivers, Kano and Zamfara during the recent general elections, they would have used it against political opponents. We are not yet matured for it.” The National Chairman of the United Progressive Party (UPP), Chief Chekwas Okorie, said it is a good development, if it is true that President Muhammadu Buhari acceded to demands for the establishment of state and community policing. His words: “If President Buhari did that I would sincerely commend him. In my manifesto in 2015 when I ran for president, I made emphasis on state police and community policing. During the presidential debate, where I squared up against former President Goodluck Jonathan and a few others, I also made emphasis on that. “I am very passionate about it, because I believe very strongly that it would go a long way in policing our various communities. Not only that, it would also provide jobs for the people at the local level, because they are the ones that understand the communities where they live. They can identify a new face in the community and people in the area that are living a wayward lifestyle. “So, it would be an exponential improvement in the curbing of crimes, because most crimes begin at the local level. Even when a criminal has done something in another area and escapes to his community, they can easily be identified, picked up and handed over to the authorities. “It is something that previous governments lacked the political will to do. If President Buhari has done that, then he would have scored a major milestone in the political leadership in this country.” Okorie said though state police is just one of the things Nigerians have been clamouring for, the establishment of state and community policing would be the right way to go, since insecurity is the biggest problem facing the country at the moment. He said: “In this situation, tackling the most pressing problem is the right way to go. Otherwise, calling for a national conference to put all the problems facing the country on the table would be another way of tackling the multiple challenges in the country. But, this may take time. Given that the security challenge has assumed an emergency proportion or that the country is in a state of war, the policing angle would be the quickest way of tackling the problem.”