Countless youths in the country are yet to maximise their God-given talents due to lack of conscious efforts on their part and that of relevant stakeholders to cultivate and harness them for personal and national growth and development. Sports are, arguably, one of the areas of human endeavours where raw talents are discovered and groomed. Again, it is believed that sports men and women earn higher than some people in several other much-admired professions and vocations. Besides fame and glamour associated and enjoyed by successful sports men and women, mention must also be made of the enormous health benefits which accrue from engagement in sports activities. It is with these in mind that the first edition of the Jacob Esuene Squash Club Tournament was initiated. It was organised in the oil city of Eket in Akwa Ibom State. The competition, which took place in the squash court at the Villa Marina Hotel  Eket witnessed two  squash players in two categories of under 10 and under 15 drawn from the Southsouth geo-political zone. The 10 clubs from the Southsouth which participated in the tournament included the: Canaan Club of Calabar, Port Harcourt Club, Uyo Club, Benin Club, Police Officers’ Club Mess, Yenogoa Sports Club, Nak Club Calabar, NNPC Squash Club of Warri and Government House Squash Club Asaba. In a chat with reporters during the event, the Director of the Squash Club, Jacob Esuene, an Engineer revealed that Squash as a sport has a great advantage to health. According to him, with squash, the issue of high blood pressure normalises naturally without any medication. Esuene said the Squash Club would help the young people to develop their talent and help them to be future champions in the game of squash. He said the tournament will not end only in Southsouth region, adding that with time, it will go national and international with the aim of unfolding the talents of citizens. He said: “I used to hear about how our players are so good in a national platform; I reasoned that it was almost dead. “Some of the older players stopped playing for five years because there was nothing to encourage them. So, my coach encouraged me and said let us have a private court of our own before I built this court,” he said. Also speaking, the General Manager of ExxonMobil Mr. Gus Yupis expressed optimism towards the level of the competition and the players, saying that there were so professional. He said: “I like the discipline of the kids. The talent, the enthusiast and the coaching were absolutely amazing.” The highpoint of the competition was the announcement of results and awards to winners in various categories. Winners in the under 10 category for girls were Godsfinger Alison (Eket), Kelechi Onyekaze (runner up) while Favour Daniel (Eket) emerged third position. Winners in the under 10 category for boys were Emmanuel Ogbemi from Edo State who won the first position, Bright David of Eket Club clinched the second position while Michael Ibanga also of Eket Club took third position. For girls under 15 years, Delight Temple won the first position, Osas Ogbemi from Edo State emerged second, Emediong Usoro of Eket and Victory Lucky tied in third position. Winners for under 15 boys were Anthony Monday (Delta), second position went to Harold Whyte from Bayelsa State while Treasure Temple (Eket) and Timothy Albert (Edo) tied for third position.