After three months of exciting musical performances, music talent hunt Ariya Repete 2019 finally came to an exciting climax on August 9th 2019, at the car park of the Ikeja City Mall which was filled with thousands of music lovers. All nine finalists treated the audience to spectacular performances as they showed the audiences how they have were able to get that far in the competition. The night was a tough one for the Judges who had the near-impossible task of selecting the three finalists for the grand prize of 20 million Naira. However, the night belonged to the three amazing talents who etched their names in Ariya Repete history. All contestants had two performances to impress the Judges, as they all performed original songs. At the end of the night, Suliamon Adeyemi, Yomi Johnson, and Mayowa Alayo emerged winners in the Fuji, Juju, and Afro-pop category. All 3 winners could not hold their joy as the trio got very emotional when receiving their prizes. Mayowa Alayo, who has had a rough drive to the final, particularly after dealing with the tragic death of his infant child who passed away on the day of his audition, was clearly elated saying, “I still think I’m dreaming, I can’t believe I won, I’m so grateful to everyone who has supported me and Goldberg Lager, Thank you!”. Speaking Goldberg Lager, Brand Manager, Olufunmilayo Ogunbodede remarked on the occasion, saying,  “It’s been a great show, and I’m glad to see these talented acts emerge as winners. I believe, however, that everyone who has come on the show is a winner, and we are proud of the talents we have uncovered over the course of these 3 months. We thank the consumers for always coming out and cheering the contestants, and we can’t wait to delight our consumers with more initiatives such as these.” First off was King Sunny Ade. It’s hard not to run out of superlatives after watching his performance. KSA continues to prove that age is nothing but a number, whilst also offering a timely reminder of his immense talents as a performer. Next up was Taye Currency. The Fuji veteran was full of life as he engaged the crowd in a sing-along. Taye is a very confident performer, and his Charisma was on full display when he graced the stage. Wrapping up the night were the performances of Pasuma and Goldberg Brand ambassador, Olamide. From “Eni Duro” to “Oil and Gas”, the hip-hop virtuoso took his fans down memory lane with a performance that will not be forgotten anytime soon. While Pasuma capped off the night with a stellar performance that was fitting of the occasion.   