It’s been such a busy week with so many stories. We take a moment every week to bring you important stories. ‘Revolution Now’ Protest, Sowore’s Detention, Nigeria Police Vs Army Saga, El-Zakzaky’s Release and other controversial news dominated the socio-political discourse this week. The Nation brings you a brief round-up of the major stories this week. Alao Abiodun Reports. Here is a recap of the week’s big news: Protesters Defy Police, Hold ‘Revolution Now’ Protest Despite the arrest of its lead convener, Mr Omoyele Sowore, by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS), the ‘Revolution Now’ went ahead with the exercise on Monday. Several protesters were arrested at the National Stadium in Lagos after a crowd gathered to begin its protests against bad governance in Nigeria. States where the Revolution protests took place were Lagos, Osun, Ondo and Cross River. In Abuja, protesters took to the streets to air their grievances against bad governance. The protesters, who defied the early morning downpour converged on the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) office chanting anti-government songs and calling for a ‘revolution’ in Nigeria. However, mixed views have continued to herald the Monday’s protests in some states of the country and security agents clampdown on the protesters. Meanwhile, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, said Nigerians have the right to protest but they must properly articulate their grievances. Sowore to spend 45 more days in DSS detention after court ruling A Federal High Court in Abuja has asked that Omoyele Sowore be kept in detention for 45 more days pending investigation by the Department of State Services. Sowore was arrested for organising a ‘Revolution Now’ protest against the federal government. The Nation reports that Justice Taiwo in his ruling on Thursday, August 8, granted an ex-parte motion filed by the DSS asking that it be allowed to keep the former presidential candidate in its detention. The judge said the detention could be renewed upon to enable the DSS complete its investigation. The DSS in the motion accused Sowore of terrorism by tendering two digital video disks showing the former presidential candidate with Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). In the second video, Sowore was shown boasting that members of the equally proscribed Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) were going to join forces with him to bring down the Nigerian government. DSS bows to court order, releases El-Zakzaky The Department of State Services, DSS, has released leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria, IMN, Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife, following the order of Kaduna High Court. The court had ruled that the cleric and his wife be allowed to travel to India for medical attention. Public Relations Officer of DSS, Dr. Peter Afunanya, confirmed the released in brief statement in Abuja. El-Zakzaky and his wife who were not in court, have been in detention since 2015, following a bloody clash between members of IMN and the military that left scores of his members dead. Soldiers Kill three Policemen, Release Notorious Kidnapper in Taraba Some yet to be identified personnel of the Nigerian Army have been accused by the police of killing three of its officials and releasing a kidnap kingpin in the process. The incident was said to have taken place along Ibi-Jalingo Road, Taraba State, on Wednesday. The incident also resulted in injuries for other police officers and civilians as well. According to a statement by spokesperson of the Nigeria Police Force, Frank Mba, the affected officers led by Assistant Superintendent of Police, Felix Adolije, of the Intelligence Response Team, reportedly came under attack in the process of moving kidnap kingpin, Alhaji Hamisu, to the Command Headquarters in Jalingo, the capital of Taraba. Mba disclosed that one inspector, two sergeants and a civilian died as a result of gunshot injuries sustained during the attack by the soldiers. Following Nigeria Army’s statement over death of police officers killed by soldiers, the Nigeria Police Force has raised some questions for the Nigeria Army to answer. Reacting to the accusation, the army in its statement on Thursday, August 8, 2019, said that the soldiers chased and exchanged fire with the police officers because they were mistaken for kidnappers, having received a distress call from villagers that Alhaji Hamisu had been kidnapped. However, the police in a series of tweets has faulted the army’s statement raising questions on the whereabouts of Hamisu and why the soldiers decided to release him without taking him to the Army base for documentation. The police said it expects the Nigeria Army to answer the questions as they emanated from the statement the army released over the killing of the police officers. APC suspends Kogi dep gov The All Progressive Congress, APC, Kogi State chapter, has suspended the embattled Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba from the party for “anti-party activities.” The party also based the suspension on some actions the Deputy Governor allegedly took that constituted embarrassment to APC family in Kogi State. APC State Chairman, Abdullahi Bello, who disclosed this at a briefing in Lokoja, said the party had received several petitions from stakeholders in Iyano ward of Ibaji local government area where the Deputy Governor hails from, alleging that Achuba had discretely and openly worked for the candidates of the opposition parties during the presidential, national and state assembly elections in the state. The Chairman noted that the report of the disciplinary committees constituted by the Iyano ward and Ibaji local government APC to probe the crises in the area allegedly indicted the Deputy Governor and also recommended for his suspension to be followed by expulsion if he did not show any remorse.