De Norsemen Kclub Incorporated (DNKI), Akwa Ibom chapter has secured the release of two inmates of the Nigerian Correctional Service, Ikot Abasi, by paying the stipulated fines attached to their sentences. The gesture was part of the organisation’s events to mark this year’s World Humanitarian Day on Monday. While receiving the freed inmates, the Governor, DNKI; Akwa Ibom State chapter, Dr. David Umoh advised them not to go back to crime or risk facing another period of incarceration or worse. He also advised other inmates of the facility to put their faith in God and remain hopeful for a better future, adding that their time behind bars should serve as a lesson for their past mistakes. In his remarks, the International President DNKI, Mr. Adeshola Giwa, who was represented by the Director Project K9, Saint Kingsley said the gesture by the Akwa Ibom chapter of the organisation was in line with its project K9 which he said was aimed at de-congesting prisons and enhance reintegration of former convicts to their relations and the society. Furthermore, the Deputy Legal Adviser of DNKI and Coordinator of Project K9 in Akwa Ibom State Alfred Effiong, a lawyer, stated that apart from their effort at de-congesting prisons, they would also work towards offering pro bono services to inmates who do not have or cannot afford legal representatives and ensure justice is not denied them. One of the inmates who spoke on behalf of others expressed gratitude to DNKI for volunteering to pay the fine option for two of them, as well as the food items and toiletries they brought. He revealed that the gesture was a confirmation that there is hope for those in correctional facilities. Assistant Controller of Prison (ACP) Effanga Effanga, the officer in charge of Ikot Abasi Correctional Centre praised the group for the gesture, even as he called for similar support and collaboration from other groups and well-meaning Nigerians. High point of the event was the formal walk out to freedom by Inyeneobong Joshua and Lucky Amos (m) whose fine options of N120, 000 and N130, 000 were respectively paid and a release warrant secured by the Norsemen Kclub as well as a financial start-up package that would fast-track their reintegration into the society. Both of them expressed profound gratitude to the organisation for their kindness and pledged to stay away from crime.