The Anti-Corruption and Transparency Monitoring Unit, Presidential Villa, Abuja has called for transparency and ethical dealing in forex trading. Speaking at the MBA Forex and Capital Investment Limited’s “Bare2Blue Revolution” Business Banquet in Lagos at the weekend, its Chairman,  Ahmad Sulaiman, said transparency and ethical dealings will enhance the growth of the forex trading in the country. He said ethical business tailored to the policy direction of the current administration remain the way forward in building a fraud free forex market that will stand the test of time. According to him, the energy of the Nigerian youths needs to be channeled into a sustainable and legitimate business to reduce the unemployment currently plaguing the country. He said part of the drives, if adequately monitored and regulated by policy makers to tame unemployment in Nigeria is foreign exchange trading. “Part of the drives to provide employment, create opportunity for Nigerian youths to be able to trade and engage themselves legitimately is Forex businesses,” Sulaiman said. He added that MBA Forex and Investment Limited have been certified by necessary regulatory agency in Nigeria saying that the company unlike others before it is not a ponzi scheme. In addition, he said MBA’s modus operandi is in tandem with the anti-corruption and transparency drive of the current administration. “Unlike before when we have this MMM and other different ponzi schemes, MBA has shown seriousness and is doing things differently and that is why we are here today in support of their business,” Suilaman said. Furthermore, he advised Nigerians against going into business that is ethically deficit. He noted that any business lacking in transparency should be shunned as the current administration is out in its anti-corruption war. Also  speaking, the MBA Forex Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Maxwell Odum, reiterated the company’s commitment to transparency and ethical dealings. According to him, the presence of government monitoring in the business would make it impossible to legitimise a ponzi scheme. Odum added that there are necessary licences binding the company to operate ethically in the market and ensure investors money and other investments are safe. “MBA FX market is not a Ponzi scheme because our company is incorporated. When you are talking about ponzi, you are talking about a company not incorporated and a name without a company,” he said.