Abuja, one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa, is experiencing unrest due to the persistent rain-induced flooding, which has claimed lives and destroyed property in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). GBENGA OMOKHUNU examines the huge task before the incoming FCT minister, and how to get out of the quagmire. It is no more news that President Muhammadu Buhari will be swearing in new ministers on Wednesday August 21. What will be news is the portfolio that each of the would-be ministers will be given. Any of the 43 ministerial nominees that will be assigned to oversee the affairs of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), would have to be hard-working and must hit the ground running following the recent development of how flood has killed, sacked and destroyed property in the nation’s capital. Residents of FCT especially those staying in specific areas like Lokogoma, Galadimawa, Gwagwalada, have been experiencing sleepless nights since the beginning of this year’s raining season due massive flood that has continue to wreak havoc. The Director-General (DG) of FCT Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Abbas Idriss says increasing water level of River Niger portends great threat to the nation’s capital, given its proximity to Lokoja. The more worrisome was the latest forecast from the Nigerian Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) that 74 Local Government Areas in the country has high probability of flood, 400 as probable to experience flood, while 600 Local Government Areas are under threat of flood. It would be recalled that in 2012 Lokoja axis of River Niger overflowed its banks, destroying lives and farm lands, both within the riverine communities and the neighbouring states of Niger and FCT. It now rains almost every day and night with serious threat to Abuja residents. Against the backdrop of the increased flooding in the FCT leading to deaths and loss of property, more buildings in Abuja are to be demolished to open up the waterways built to ensure free flow of water. To avert further loss of life, 150 buildings have so far been demolished in flood prone areas of Abuja especially at the Lokogoma area. The most recent calamity was the death of the FCT, High Court, Director of Finance, Mr. Tony Okechime, who was drowned in a flood. Okechime and his driver were on their way to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in his black Toyota Camry car when his vehicle got stuck in the flood at Galadimawa roundabout. The two men were said to have climbed on the car roof as the flood water increased. They were said to have spent a long time shouting for help but no one came to their assistance until Okechime was swept away by the heavy flood while his driver was rescued by some boys in the area. The car which was filled with mud water was, however, pulled out by the rescuers. Worried about the sad development, FCT Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa last Wednesday hurriedly organized an emergency stakeholders’ forum on flood mitigation and response coordination and said the FCT administration will continue to remove structures constructed in violation of relevant laws and further complicate flood risk adding that: “So far, 150 of such  structures have been removed in furtherance of the ongoing exercise to clear obstructions of waterways, in line with the Abuja city plan.” He, however regretted that despite repeated sensitisation and awareness programmes, many residents still dump waste in drainages and other prohibited locations, which result in constriction or blockage of waterways. Ohaa also urged the committee setup to find lasting solution to the sad development to come up with watertight preventive and response strategies against the impending flood and also proffer durable solutions to the issue of recurrent flood in the FCT. The communique issued at the end of the emergency meeting decided that the committee should undertake a comprehensive drainage and flood control study which will culminate in development of a master plan update for the FCT. It reads in parts: “All personnel requiring training as a result of this studies should be undertaken. Flood mapping including flood plain delineation maps should be prepared. “The Department of Urban and Regional Planning should ensure that there is no redesign and change of green areas to any other land use. All developments on flood plains should be removed. “Enforcement and management of green areas, river courses should be strictly in line with extant laws. National Debriefing should be done after flood episodes, so that lessons learnt could be applied to prevent reoccurrence(s); There is need for understanding and enhancing collaboration with security agencies in response and rescue activities. “There is need for better synergy so that there can be joint responses during which the stakeholder Departments/Agencies could better appreciate the problems of the area and how to remedy it. There is need for enhanced and sustained flood enlightenment activities throughout the year. “There is need for improved monitoring and enforcement activities by relevant Departments/Agencies. There is need for training and retraining of disaster responders and managers; “There is need to step up sensitization in the media with real life images and the use of motorised public enlightenment campaign vehicles from the National Orientation Agency (NOA). “FCT Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to strengthen its relationship with the relevant security Agencies. Adequate budgetary provisions and prompt releases should be available for all flood related matters. “All stakeholder departments/agencies should make adequate budgetary provision for contingency plans. Enhance adequate solid waste management and sensitization in the FCT.” The administration has commenced the distribution of agro-inputs worth over N150 million for the procurement of variety of agricultural inputs to help the farmers across the six Area Councils in rebuilding their lost investment. It would be recalled that some farmers in the nation’s capital lost their farm produce to flood and erosion in the FCT within two years while warning farmers against engaging in agricultural activities without recourse to proper environmental assessment. With the recent development, residents and stakeholders in the FCT are clamoring that the nation’s capital needs a minister who will tackle the current challenges headlong without fear or favour. Many are suggesting that the erstwhile Minister of the FCT, Malam Mohammed Bello be reappointed as the next FCT minister to continue with the undoing developmental project in Abuja adding that he can also tackle the worrying issue of flood. While some residents say Bello’s administration during his President Muhammadu Buhari’s first administration turned a blind eye as infrastructural and public utilities in the city deteriorated, many are looking forward for his return as FCT minister with the believe that he is the only one amongst others that knows the FCT and can tackle the problems bedeviling the city. It is also the prayers of many that the would-be FCT minister will not dash the hope of residents of FCT as they look forward to a lasting solution to the flood that has cause more harm this year. 