A 35-year -old labourer in Awka, Anambra state has narrowly escaped lynching by suspected herdsmen in one of the secondary schools. The victim, Patrick Nnabuchi, a native of Eha Amufu, Enugu state resident in Awka, was said to be working in the school premises when he was allegedly attacked. Narrating his ordeals to reporters in Awka, Nnabuchi, said he was attacked for challenging the herdsmen against their cattle’s grazing on the vegetable farm in the school. He explained he was taken unawares by the herdsmen, who attacked him from behind with a matchet attached to a stick. According to him: “I was engaged by the school management to carry out some construction work in the school and have been on it before the incident took place. “When I saw the cows trespassing on the farm and grazing on people’s farmland, I asked them to pursue them from grazing on the vegetables. “It was not long I walked away when one of them ran after me and hit me on the head from behind.” Nnabuchi, further said he was unable to run after his attacker as he was unconscious for a while, adding they disappeared through the erosion gully near the place before some persons came to his rescue. “Before a security man in the school and one other person rushed to the scene, the attackers jumped into the erosion within the area,” he added. He said he was later rushed to a nearby hospital where he spent three days receiving medical attention. The victim’s landlord and one-time Ohaneze Ndigbo chieftain, Nwama Ibe, condemned the action of the herders. He canvassed for the dusting of the law of eastern Nigeria against rearing of livestock, adding that the issue of Fulani herdsmen had become worrisome Ibe, who was Ohaneze reconciliation Committee member, under the leadership of Enwo Igariwey, further said there was need to re-establish the 1960 anti-animal roaming law. He said the Southeast Governors, should enforce the law in the zone, to avoid such clashes. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Haruna Mohammed said no such case was reported to the command.