As we continue our discussion on the 2010 “Next Generation” report, it will be imperative to focus on an area that has been a source of concern to many: Nigeria’s growing population. I have written over four articles on this subject over the years. Recall that the “Next Generation” report is a series of global British Council research focusing on the attitudes and aspirations of young people, and the policies and conditions that support them in becoming creative, fulfilled and active citizens. The research projects examines young people’s views around education, employment, and lifestyle, as well as uncovering their hopes and fears for their country, their degree of international engagement and views on the wider world, and the values and beliefs that affect their lives. A ‘Task Force’ of some eminent Nigerians chaired by Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, at that time the Managing Director of the World Bank and later the Minister of Finance, was convened to explore Nigeria’s future at a time of rapid demographic, social, and economic change. In the chapter titled: “Dividend or Disaster: understanding Nigeria’s demographic choices,” the report drew a parallel between Nigeria and many countries that have experienced similar demographic challenges over the past 50 years prior to 2010. The essence was to draws on this international experience by providing a strong base of evidence on which effective policies can be built upon by policy makers. The report pointed out that: “demographic dividend is a concept that is well understood by economists. The window of opportunity opens as fertility and youth dependency decline, and the working age share of the population rises. The East Asian countries saw a sharp increase in the number of young adults in the workforce from the mid-1970s onwards, a period that coincided with the region’s economic ‘miracle.’ One third of growth in this period can be directly attributed to the favourable demographic conditions the region was experiencing at the time.” But as it rightly pointed out, demography is not destiny. “Countries can only collect their dividend if young workers are healthy, adequately educated, and able to find productive employment. Robust financial markets help too, allowing adults to save for their retirement while generating the capital that can provide a further boost to growth. All this requires an effective government, a strong society, and relatively high levels of peace and security. If these factors are not in place, a country will miss its opportunity. The damage may be subtle at first, with decades of underperformance followed by crisis as the baby boom generation reaches retirement.” What should frighten us now is the reality of some of the factors the report said would happen if certain actions were not taken. For instance, if young workers are not healthy, adequately educated, or being able to find productive employment, the outcome maybe glaring. “The results may also be much more dramatic, as large cohorts of unemployed or underemployed young people destabilise their societies, fuelling crime and creating conditions where civil conflict becomes more likely. Instead of collecting a dividend, a country that is not well prepared to make the most of its baby boom generation can find itself in the midst of a demographic disaster.” I watched a video clip of a demonstration by a group that took place in Abuja last year, and immediately this report came to my mind. I saw a young man atop a fast moving vehicle – movie style, except that it was in real life – trying to use his fist to smash the windscreen while the driver of the vehicle swerved in an attempt to get the intruder off his vehicle. The same daring feat was carried out on the Nigeria Police armoured water canon vehicle. These are some of the individuals we may have wittingly or unwittingly created through serious policy lapses. In analysing the seriousness of the demographic risks the country faces, the report had an “upside” and a “downside.” It stated that during the current decade (2010 era), Nigeria’s economy experienced relatively robust growth, with annual per capita income growth far outstripping its historical performance by most measures. “Assuming Nigeria maintains this growth; Nigerians would see significant improvements in their standard of living. By 2020, the average Nigerian could expect to have 48% more income than today. By 2030, his or her income would have more than doubled. Such a sustained period of growth would have a transformational impact on the lives of ordinary Nigerians.” We are today one year shy of 2020 and we all know what the conditions are; Nigeria was not able to significantly accelerate the transformation of its economy. Task Force research modelled a scenario that includes two economic drivers that are at the heart of the demographic dividend: an expanding labour force and steady improvements in life expectancy. Their impact on Nigeria’s prospects would be substantial as “31.8 million people are taken out of poverty by 2030, showing the potential of the demographic dividend to transform lives.” This certainly has not happened. Moreover, the research suggests that the dividend could be larger if its effects are augmented and supported by much-needed investment in human and social capital. At 48 years, life expectancy in Nigeria is still shockingly low and is projected to increase only to 56 years by 2030. “We explore what would happen if health improvements raised life expectancy to the current developing-country (excluding China) average of 64 years by 2030, which would correspond to Nigeria achieving a significant degree of catch-up by 2030 to income-adjusted global health standards. We also look at the impact of steady improvements to Nigeria’s institutions, where the country continues to lag well behind international standards on indicators including corruption, rule of law, and public sector efficiency.” Again, as it pointed out, the results are striking. Although the impact of better health and institutions looks modest in percentage terms, adding about two percent to per capita GDP in 2030, its true impact is in terms of lives, bringing another 2.3 million people out of poverty. Over the next generation, Nigeria’s demographic wave could bring huge benefits to its citizens – halving poverty and nearly trebling per capita incomes in a generation. Again, this has not happened. On the “downside” of the equation, the report noted with concerns that at the same time as Nigeria’s opportunities are increasing, its risks are multiplying. “Demographic change does not take place in the background. It heralds a profound and deep-seated transformation to all facets of a society, and many of these changes are already being felt in Nigeria. In 1960, fewer than 7 million people (17% of the population) lived in the country’s towns and cities. Today, Nigeria is half urban, half rural. Over the next 20 years, the urban population will almost double, increasing by 65 million (64% of the population).” This will come with enormous challenges as is being felt in major urban cities across the country. Nigeria’s urban centres are very different in character from its traditional villages. Kinship structures are weaker and families are smaller. Young people – especially those in cities – tend to have very different attitudes and expectations than their parents – and the sheer size of the new generation ensures that it will be an influential, and potentially disruptive, force. And as the report stated, these social and cultural changes are unsettling, but they can have a positive impact with certain conditions in place. Young urban countries can be powerful engines for innovation, but only if the society is sufficiently robust to adapt to new pressures and demands. “Weak states, with stagnant economies, are more likely to find themselves overwhelmed by the demands placed on them, leading to a vicious cycle of failure and decay.” In the worst case, Nigeria will find that: growing numbers of young people are frustrated by a lack of employment opportunity. Competition for jobs, land, natural resources and political patronage fuels violent conflict between groups. This unrest is exacerbated by the growing impact of climate change on weather patterns, water and other resource availability, and agricultural productivity.  Cities lack the resources to cope with the speed of their growth and become increasingly dysfunctional and lawless. It would appear we are witnessing some of these outcomes already.