As the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) completed training of 328 new detectives, President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the antigraft agency to go tougher on corrupt Nigerians. He said corruption was the major cause of insurgency, kidnapping,  armed banditry and poverty in the country. President Buhari spoke as the Reviewing Officer at the the passing out parade of the EFCC cadets Superintendent Course 8 from the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) in Kaduna state. Buhari who was represented by Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, therefore assured that, he will not interfere or influence the commission’s work. The President lamented that corruption has retarded development and also brought a great embarrassment to Nigeria especially before the international community. He stressed that, his administration has made significant progress in the fight against corruption especially cyber crime and financial crimes and will not relent in ensuring that every corrupt person is brought to justice. According to him, “As part of efforts to boost the war against corruption in Nigeria,  the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has trained a total of  328 new investigative officers  at the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) in Kaduna state. “The training is to prepare them adequately  ahead of their deployment as anti graft investigators across the country. “This  colourful passing out parade follows their completion of a year long intensive training in the elite training institution.” Addressing the cadets, the President reminded the cadets that much is expected from them in supporting the ongoing fight against corruption, hence he charged them to live shove board. He admitted that there are still undeniable and systemic challenges, and the deep-routed nature of the problem obviously os corruption. It would be recalled that driven by the need for improved professionalism and dedication to duty, the Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu in 2016, commenced the training of the commission’s cadets in the NDA which produced EFCC’s “Course 7” officers in 2017, comprising 314 detective superintendents. The commission is therefore,  optimistic that the 328 new officers will further boost the anti-corruption fight of the President Muhammadu  Buhari administration. Highlight of the graduation was the presentation of awards presented to cadets that distinguished themselves during the training.