Thirty two-year-old Omobowale Opeyemi Bright is down with kidney failure. All he needs is N8 million for kidney transplant. Bright has been pleading with the government, citizens and non-governmental organisations through his family and friends. They have flooded the social media with campaign tagged #SaveBright. He said the N8 million would cover surgery, anti-rejection drugs induction and maintenance fee, among others. According to him, his treatment started from the Ajeromi General Hospital before he was referred to Gbagada General Hospital where he was admitted for two weeks. Bright said following his lack of money, he goes to the Gbagada General Hospital for medical check-up from his home. He said he has been on dialysis at the Clinix Health Care, Ilupeju, Lagos. He goes there twice a week where he pays N80, 000 for blood grouping and cross matching infection screen, blood transfusion reaction care, haemodialysis subsequent session and post dialysis. Bright told The Nation that since May, N720, 000 has been spent on dialysis ahead of the surgery. He is an indigene of Igbogbo in Ikorodu. He has Higher National Diploma (HND) in Business Administration from The Polytechnic, Ibadan. He graduated in 2013. He is a member of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Ketu. Speaking with The Nation at his home at 45, Nosamu Street, Ajegunle, Lagos, Bright described the situation as tough and challenging, saying every person should always expect the tough side of life. He thanked his mother, Mrs. Iyabo Omobolanle, who he said had agreed to donate one of her kidneys to him. Said he: “The story started as a joke when I was embarking on a journey from Lagos to Ibadan. I was not comfortable where I sat in the bus. The heavy traffic also added to the discomfort. “On getting to my friend’s place, he noticed that my legs were swollen and I told him that maybe it was because of where I sat in the bus. To my surprise, the following morning, the legs were back to normal. “But sometime in February, I noticed that my legs were swollen again and immediately, I went to Ajeromi General Hospital where I was asked to run some tests, which I did. The doctor only told me that some parts of my body were not functioning well. He did not tell me the exact organs, but assured me that I would be fine. He asked me to get some drugs, which I did.” For information and verification, readers can contact Gbagada General Hospital, Clinix Health Care, Ilupeju and his family on 08034187947. Payment can be made into Sterling Bank account 0058818665, using Omobolanle Opeyemi Bright as the account name. “But a few days later I noticed that my legs were swollen again. I quickly visited the hospital, from where I was transfer to Gbagada General Hospital. I was admitted for two weeks and because I’m yet to get money for the transplant, I go for dialysis at Clinix Heath Care. I’ve been doing this since May.” Bright continued: “Everything is money and because we don’t have enough, I have to be going to Gbagada General Hospital from home after that two weeks. The doctor told me that the transplant would take place at either St Nicholas Hospital here in Lagos or Zenith Hospital in Abuja. “We don’t have any donor yet, but my mother has agreed to donate her kidney. This is to tell you how much she loves and cares for me. I am appealing to you all because this health challenge is about to take my life. I’ve been told that my kidneys are very bad and my case is critical. I have to undergo a kidney transplant. Please save me.” His younger brother, Emmanuel Omobolanle, said: “It is not easy, but we have to be strong for him at the moment. We strongly believe God will heal him because he is a vessel of God. “My brother is an easy going person. He does not drink alcohol, he does not smoke and I believe God will heal him.”