Some concerned mothers on Sunday, expressed divergent concerns over moral impact of ongoing Big Brother Naija (BBN) TV reality show on the children and, especially, among youths in the country. They spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) bordering on the alleged recent repeated dexual actions by some members of the house during the programme. Some of them said that the recent sex plays going on among the house mates had raised concerns over the future moral status of youths in the country. The immediate past president of the Christian Mothers at SS. Joachim and Anne Catholic Church Ijegun, a suburb of Lagos, Mrs. Josephine Eguavon, told NAN that the ongoing programme would implant some immoral values in most children and youths. “Personally, I see it as breaking the seed moral discipline had already planted in our youths. “For our country Nigeria, I feel when the child leaves the home front, the society that should have improved on the much the home had instilled in the child. Unfortunately, it has nothing to offer,“ she said. According to her, the handiwork of our leaders and those who directly or indirectly fund BBN should be censored and see the content value more than the economic value. A fashion designer and mother of two, Mrs Juliet Edozie, told NAN that the programme had no moral value, adding that it was adding more problems to the challenge of rape. “We are trying to curb the frequent rape cases in the country and another programme is bringing back such thoughts, it should be trashed before our children become loose,” she told NAN Also speaking, a pastor, Mr Tunde Awofade, said that such programmes should be aired only late at nights when children and youths would have gone to bed. “It is very difficult to control what our children watch in this age of technology, the best thing is to restrict the programme to very late at night when our children must have slept,“ he told NAN. However, Mrs Patricia Orji, a grandmother, described the project as a vocation rather than a moral disadvantage to the youth. Orji, popularly called, `Ezinne` said the participants went there for economic gains and were ready to do anything that would earn them a win. “Who will spoil, will spoil, though a few just go there to do rubbish, but nobody was forced to go there. What about children in school, do you know what they are doing? “These ones see it as a job that will put food on their tables; children of these days, it is the grace of God they need not to go astray even when you lock them inside the house . “In fact, I don’t see anything wrong in it, who will spoil will spoil. “Even some married people live reckless lives, talk less of people who came out to struggle to get this opportunity and people will say it is bad,“ she said. Two BBN housemates were alleged to have indulged in the immoral act on three occasions since the reality show commenced about two months ago. (NAN)