The Federal Government and Government of Adamawa State have resettled the 133 Adamawa citizens who returned from Cameroon last week. The returnees, who arrived the Yola International Airport last Thursday, were on Sunday assisted to move out of their reception camp near the state capital, Yola, to their various communities around the state. They began leaving the temporary camp opened for them at the Digital Bridge Institute along the Yola-Fufore road in Fufore Local Government Area on Sunday morning after days of sorting them out into families and then birth places through their council and community leaders invited to verify and receive them back home. The federal government officials, who supervised the exercise, said the 133 returnees were sorted into 26 families after due identification. They added that Madagali Local Government Area has the highest number of returnees. Madagali LGA has long been one of the worst hit by the Boko Haram insurgency in Adamawa State. Neighbouring Michika as well as Maiha, Mubi North and Mubi South, Gombi and Hong have also suffered varying extents of attacks, especially between September 2014 and January 2015 when all those seven LGAs fell to Boko Haram control. The Director of Refugees and Migrant Affairs in the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), Lawal Hamidu, explained to newsmen the handling of the Adamawa returnees, said provision had been made for their resettlement. “As part of package for them to leave the camp, they will all go home with one month food ration, which is dry ration: bag of rice, bag of garri, bag of maize, cartons of indomie, cartons of salt, sugar, as well as bedding, which includes bed sheets, pillows, mosquito nets; and then toiletries,” he said. He added that empowerment tools would also be given to them. “Each woman will for instance leaves with a sewing machine, because most of them have shown inclination for sewing,” he said, adding that as for the men, they would be provided with whatever training and enablement they would need,” they stated. He said the federal government and some donor organisations would further help the resettlement of the returnees with such needs as shelter kits and cash.