Kano State government has expended over N350 million for the second round of 2019 Maternal Newborn and Child Health Week kicking off on Monday, targeting over 3.2 million children under the age of five and pregnant women. Speaking during a press conference to kick off the programme, Usman Bala Muhammad who is the Permanent Secretary of the state Ministry of Health noted that “the number of targeted newborn and under-five children in Kano State is 3.2 million. “The programme also targets pregnant women that are the first to visit for ante-natal. However, the services for other affordable programmes are also readily available for all pregnant women across the state. “So, over 60,000 pregnant women are coming for the first ante-natal visit. Also, I want to emphasise that presently, pregnant women constitute about 20 percent of the entire population of Kano. So, from this statistics, you can deduce the number of pregnant women to benefit from this week-long programme. “In relation to the amount of money to be expended on this programme, I tell you that over N250 million has been earmarked for the purchase of treated nets that are going to be distributed during the programme. For other services, over N100 million would be expended to ensure the success of the programme.” He said there is collaboration with Kano State government and the National Population Commission (NPC), in achieving birth registration as vital events for target setting in healthcare provision in the state. The permanent secretary hoped that “during this week long campaign, household heads will allow their wives to visit the more than 1,200 healthcare facilities across the 44 local government areas of the state, to access the designated healthcare services that are available, free of charge, for the benefit of our women and children who are the future of our state. “It is also pertinent to highlight at this juncture that the campaign is planned to hold across all primary and secondary healthcare facilities from 19th August to 23rd August 2019, at designated service points within the various communities.” He, however, appreciated the contribution of development partners such as UNICEF and the World Health Organisation (WHO), Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), MNCH2, Aliko Dangote Foundation, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, USAID, HSDF, Society for Family Health (SHF), in areas of immunisation, nutrition, malaria control, HIV and AIDS, Integrated Maternal Newborn and Child Healthcare system. He emphasised that “Kano State government under the leadership of Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has always been consistent in the implementation of all programmes aimed at improving the health and wellbeing of the good people of Kano state.”