Nigeria is blessed with many icons and legends. Mr. Akintola Williams is one. He is not only blessed with long life, but many accomplishments. He is best known and recognised as the first African chartered accountant. Born on August 9, 1919, the man who turned a centenarian last week qualified as a chartered accountant in London in 1949. There has, since then, been no looking back. Three years later, at a time when there were only five firms of chartered accountants in Nigeria, he dared to venture into the uncharted path of an indigenous accounting firm. In no time, at a time when the fire of nationalism was burning across the continent, he won the accounts of many companies that appeared to have waited for so long for such an opportunity as they trusted their accounts to his firm. Since then, there has been no looking back. In 1960, he joined in founding the Association of Accountants in Nigeria which later translated to the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). Mr. Akintola Williams is not only an icon in accounting, but has been, as a connoisseur of classical music, a promoter of that genre of music that appeals to only a few. He teamed up with like minds to found the Musical Society of Nigeria that built the MUSON Centre at Onikan, Lagos. As well, long before concern for the environment and climate change became popular, especially in Africa, he became involved with the Nigerian Conservation Society. He remains active in the society that is involved in lobbying government and mobilising the people to protect the environment, preserve animals faced with extinction and save habitats from the fury of water bodies. Looking back, Mr. Akintola Williams will be satisfied that he has contributed so much to the Nigerian society. He was a member of a number of attempts to promote good governance by serving on commissions, panels and boards of enquiry and when it was deemed fit to set up a panel to douse the tension following implementation of the Udoji salary review. He had also served on panels that reformed the tax regime. Of particular importance was the only seeming involvement in the murky waters of politics. During the giddy days of political  fury in the Western Region, the centenarian foremost accountant was named on the Coker Commission of Inquiry into affairs of statutory corporations in the region. To members of the Action Group (AG) and its allies sympathetic to Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the commission was a sheer witch-hunt by rival politicians. Predictably, the commission indicted many leaders of the AG, including the legendary Chief Awolowo. On the business plane, he was involved in the establishment of the Nigerian Stock Exchange with a view to brightening the economic firmament of the country. The exchange has since gone a long way in getting many Nigerians to buy shares of blue chips, a thing of joy to many today. He was also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Commonwealth Foundation between 1966 and 1975. He was recognised by the Shagari administration that conferred on him the Order of the Federal Republic honour in 1982. In 1997, the 1946 graduate of the University of London received the Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire in recognition of his virtues, qualities and service to humanity. Mr. Akintola Williams is certainly one of those heroes of whom Nigerians sing with gusto in the National Anthem.