An Ado-Ekiti High Court has sentenced a man, Mr. Efe Efi, to 10 years imprisonment for unlawful possession of firearm. Delivering judgment on Wednesday, Justice Abiodun Adesodun found the accused person guilty of illegal possession of firearm, but was freed of two other charges following lack of evidence against the accused person. Justice Adesodun said: “A case of unlawful possession of firearm had been proved beyond reasonable doubt. The prosecution was able to establish the elements needed to link the accused person with the crime and he is accordingly sentenced to 10 years imprisonment, but the offender, being a first offender, is given a sum of N20,000 as option of fine.” On the attempted murder and robbery charges, she said: “Ingredients of attempted murder and robbery could not be substantiated against the accused person. You are accordingly discharged and acquitted.” In the case, with registration number HAD/10c/2018, the Department of Public Prosecutions (DPP) accused and charged Efi for attempted murder and robbery after he was arrested at Moferere area of Ado- Ekiti on October 27, 2016. During the trial, the prosecution counsel, Mr. L. E. Ojo from the DPP office, called a witness, while the counsel to the defendant, Owoseeni Ajayi, called no witness. Ojo also tendered the statement of the accused person as an exhibit. He said: “The convict made spirited attempt to rob a man, Adewumi Osasona, a commercial motorcyclist (okada rider) and student of Ekiti State University, who conveyed him from Ijigbo to Moferere on his motorcycle and was arrested by residents after the other accomplice, who shot the victim, had fled. “When the accused person got to Moferere, he tied the plaintiff with a rope, while a man who emerged from a nearby bush pointed a pistol at the okada rider and asked him to surrender his motorcycle. “After shooting into the air, the okada man resisted, while the second person, who was not available for prosecution, shot the victim and this made him to raise the alarm before residents trooped out to apprehend the convict. The other accomplice fled the scene.”