Activities at the University of Ibadan (UI) were shut down on Monday following the directive by the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU) to their members to embark on a five-day warning strike. In compliance with the directive, the striking workers blocked the gates of the institution early in the morning to prevent free vehicular movements in and out of the university campus, causing a traffic gridlock on the roads leading to the institution. When The Nation visited the university in the afternoon, the gates were not locked but the striking workers blocked them with tables, mats and iron bars. There was also heavy presence policemen around the three major gates just as some of the striking workers stood by the gates to ensure the obstruction remained. Within the campus, staff and students were forced to trek to their various destinations as the school’s shuttle services were also shut down. But some lectures held in spite of the strike. The lectures were held where social amenities such as electricity and other materials were not needed. Laboratories could not function as the striking staff withdrew their services. The Chairman, UI SSANU, Mr Wale Akinremi, told The Nation that the strike was “a very huge success.” His words: “I want to say that the directive to our members to withdraw their services received high compliance. “There was no power supply and free flow of traffic could not be guaranteed. Nothing practically worked. “The institution was grounded. It only functioned at about 10 per cent capacity. We had nothing less than 95 per cent compliance, apart from security personnel whom we allowed to work. It was a very huge success.” He explained that in complying with the directive, many members of the two unions stayed away from work while others came around to attend congress and ensure compliance. He assured that the situation would remain the same till Friday when the one-week warning strike will have been completed. The unions, working under the Joint Action Committee (JAC), announced on Friday that they would embark on a five-day nationwide warning strike following the failure of the Federal Government to show commitment towards meeting their demands after the expiration of a 14-day ultimatum. The leadership of the unions accused the government of failing to show firm commitment towards resolving the issues raised by the unions including the payment of earned allowances to members. Others are university staff schools matter and the renegotiation of 2009 Agreements.