The National Chairman of Accord Party, Hon. Muhammad Nalado on yesterday said the All Progressives Congress (APC) is working with his party to ensure that its candidate wins the forthcoming governorship election in Rivers State. He said Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs remains the authentic nominated gubernatorial candidate of the party in the forthcoming governorship election in Rivers State on March 9, 2019. Nalado refuted claims by the former Rivers State Chairman of Accord, Precious Baridoo that Accord has endorsed the River State Governor, Nyesom Wike as the party’s governorship candidate.  Nalado said Baridoo should desist from parading himself and the party’s governorship candidate. Nalado spoke in Abuja while briefing newsmen on the party’s development in Rivers State. He said the court verdict in favour of Baridoo to contest the governorship election in Rivers State on the platform of Accord would not stand adding that the party had appealed the case, hence the status quo remained. Nalado: “The APC is actually working with Accord in Rivers State to ensure that our candidate wins the governorship election. If you remember, we signed a pact in Abuja with the APC to support them where they have candidate while they will support us where they do not have candidates. “The Party never at any time submitted his name or particulars to Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as our candidate. The party dully submitted the name of Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs as its candidate. We affirm that Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs remains our validly nominated candidate. “We therefore urge our members and the general public in Rivers State to go out en-mass and vote for our candidate Chief (Barn) Dumo Lulu-Briggs on the 9th of March, 2019 as the only recognized candidate of our great party, Accord.” Meanwhile, the governorship candidate of Accord Party in Rivers State, Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs, has disclosed that Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State who is also the PDP governorship candidate for the state is desperate to be sole governorship candidate in Rivers, in view of his poor performance and failure to deliver real dividends of democracy to people of the state. Lulu-Briggs, who until September 28, 2018, was a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), stated this yesterday in Port Harcourt, at a news conference to react to Thursday’s judgment of the Federal High Court in the Rivers capital, presided over by Justice E.A. Obile, which directed that his name be replaced by the plaintiff, Mr. Precious Baridoo, by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), insisting that he ( Lulu-Briggs) was not the duly-nominated governorship candidate of Accord Party. Wike, through Rivers Commissioner for Information and Communications, Emma Okah, who doubles as the Director of Information and Communications of Rivers PDP Campaign Council, had earlier denied causing confusion in APC, Accord Party and other political parties, claiming that his “impressive” performance across Rivers 23 council areas would earn him re-election. Lulu-Briggs said: “We state in very strong terms, that we are aware that this case (by Baridoo) is another dubious shenanigan by Wike, who is afraid to go into any legitimate contest in the forthcoming Rivers State governorship election and he is doing everything possible, including sponsoring court cases against strong opponents, in order to achieve his primitive ambition to contest the 2019 governorship election against himself alone. “Wike’s connection in this dubious act is buttressed by the fact that Baridoo’s counsel, Wori N. Wori Esq, is from the law firm of Emmanuel Aguma, SAN, the deceased immediate past Attorney-General to Wike. “Baridoo got elected as Rivers Chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), months after his purported nomination as Accord Party’s governorship candidate, a position known to be occupied only by the cronies of the governor. “We are at a loss to fathom how Baridoo, who claims to have resigned as Rivers State Accord Party’s chairman to contest the October 4, 2018 governorship primaries could be elected a month after (in November 2018), as the State Chairman of IPAC, a position reserved only for party chairmen.