Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello and Permanent Secretary, Sir Christian Chinyeaka Ohaa have been commended for ensuring prudent management of financial and human resources. FCT Director of Treasury, Ismaila Ishiaku disclosed this while speaking with members of the FCT press corps who were in his office at the FCTA secretariat to celebrate his 59th birthday. Referring to the FCT Minister, Ishiaku recalled that Bello came in (office) determined to positively and quickky turn things around. He said, “He came in with the feeling of a government that wanted to do things differently. So he was in a hurry to see that things were changed. Thank God his efforts were complimented by the present Permanent Secretary Chinyeaka Ohaa who also is an accountant and has had a stint or an interface with politics. “Thank God for my fitting in, in my relationship with him, because the fact of the matter is that loyalty cannot be lopsided…either by any of the tendencies that tend to divide Nigeria. Loyalty is absolute, it is for the interest of Nigeria. That, I must thank him, for accepting me, for us to work together, and for the progress we are making.” Speaking about the vagaries of managing a lucrative treasury, The DOT said: “Being put in charge of finances of a big organization like the FCT Administration exposes us to a lot of challenges from both the high and mighty in the society, including politicians and the big business persons from the private sector. He however, warned that it behooves on them to work as a team, be honest, transparent, diligent, accountable and incorruptible in office and ensure attainment of government goals through effective service delivery. “So frankly speaking, the few years we have ahead maybe so stressful in maintaining our reputation…to make sure that whatever the temptation, we realise that the future is better than now so we cannot destroy it”, he warned Speaking about his staff and colleagues, the treasury director went philosophical: “I must thank my staff. I have only two eyes in my front; no eyes by my side; no eyes behind, so their honesty, sincerity and patience are very important. “We are supposed to be mature, such that I can guide them, so they too can guide me. If I fail, they have also failed; if there is lack of transparency here, it is all of us that are liable. We are old enough to make sure that the names we have built over a long period of time are not destroyed overnight, and we have children who will bear our names, because if my child is coming to apply for journalism, you will automatically look at him with that mindset. The FCT Treasury boss also hailed the media, particularly the FCT Press Corps for always being objective in their reportage of the FCT activities and programmes, adding that because of the objectivity and profeasional journalism devoid of fake news, the FCT Administration was always put on its toes and on the right path in its effective service delivery and world-class infrastructural provision. Chairman of the FCT Press Corps, Ikharo Attah who spoke earlier, extoled the virtues of the director and pledged that the Corps would maintain objectivity and balance and be professional in its duties.