Vice Chancellor, Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), Oye-Ekiti Prof. Kayode Shoremekun has declared  zero-tolerance for plagiarism in the institution. He said  plagiarism  would affect the university status in the realm of qualitative education. The vice chancellor, who was represented by the Dean, Faculty of Engineering, spoke at the maiden matriculation of the School of Postgraduate Studies, at Oye-Ekiti. Prof. Shoremekun said it was better to give credit to the author of an intellectual property rather than stealing somebody’s work without giving credit to the owner. He explained that plagiarism  would negatively affect the university and also the lecturer as well as the students involved. He, however, urged the new students to shun acts of plagiarism in their research work for the society’s betterment. About 292 students matriculated for their Masters, Post-graduate Diploma and Ph.D. programmes into 30 departments across five faculty, covering 70 programmes. Prof. Shoremekun, who described the maiden postgraduate matriculation  has a landmark achievement, said among the 12 federal universities established by former President Goodluck Jonathan, FUOYE is leading the rest in academics and infrastructural development. He said the university has a population of 17,000 students for its two multi-campus. He urged the newly admitted students to shun any form of anti-social activities capable of disrupting smooth running of the university. Prof. Shoremekun also advised the students to remain focus during their educational sojourn in the institution. He also admonished them to manage their time very well while pursuing their academics in the institution. On the dwindling research endeavours by university students, particularly at the postgraduate level, Prof. Soremekun attributed this to low level of support from the Federal Government and private institutions. He added that for any nation to grow in Africa, there was need for qualitative research in higher institutions, saying sustainable growth and meaningful growth are only achievable via adequate and continuous research. He urged the government and other education stakeholders as well as postgraduate students across the nation’s universities to put in more efforts in research studies. 