If there is no postponement again, the governorship and Houses of Assembly polls should be taking place by now in at least 29 states. The outcome of the presidential and National Assembly polls alarmingly indicate that Nigeria, already a unitary state by every possible definition, may be heading for a one-party state. But whether at the federal or state level, particularly now at the state level, Nigeria has through decades of elections solidly entrenched poor leadership. A few states may be guiltier than the others, but overall, nearly all the states in recent years have demonstrated a lack of capacity to produce competent and secular leaders. Where a few of those leaders are competent, many others are unable to exclude religion from public life; and vice versa. In addition, many of the states have produced leaders who should properly be described as rulers, with many of them acutely lacking the talent to procure a legacy for themselves. The question on many lips today as the electorate troop out to cast their votes is whether Kaduna and Kano will re-elect their governors or dare to embrace change. The Northeast is almost solely responsible for the beginnings of the Boko Haram insurgency when they enacted and supervised abhorrent social and economic policies between 1999 and 2003 that pauperised their people and fed or pacified them with the fake elixirs of religion. Ignorant of the factors that predisposed Hausaland to Jihadist conquest, the Northeast, particularly Borno and Yobe, attempted to spread a veneer of sham religion on a socio-economic milieu that already left the people hungry, and rendered them uneducated and hopeless. Whirlwind follows the sowing of wind. But strangely, the rulers of the Northeast felt they could get away with their reckless and complicit handling of public policies. One or two of the outgoing governors of the region have attempted a few remedies, but their efforts have been uncoordinated and inadequate to smother the ongoing rebellion or stanch the flow of blood. The Northwest is virtually in full-fledged rebellion, with Zamfara quietly but bloodily becoming the epicentre. Full deployment of military and police assets in the zone has barely made a dent on a crisis that is threatening to escalate beyond its present immediate confinement. The rebellion, like in the Northeast, was triggered by poverty, alienation and misrule. And like the Northeast also, religion was boldly deployed as a tool to distract and engage the populace, with only token efforts made to find an answer to the socio-economic crisis confronting the populace. So far too, the Northwest has been unable to produce a first-rate leader of men and resources, a visionary leader capable of offering the kind of leadership that could bring a significant number of people out of poverty and misery. In the First and Second Republics, the Southwest used to have a reputation for producing excellent leaders. Now, such leaders are few and far between. The last two election cycles were even worse; they managed to produce third-rate leaders who couldn’t hold a candle to the worst of the worse, leaders more grandiloquent and megalomaniacal than the most comical the Second Republic ever produce. From the swampy southernmost tip of Nigeria to the humid savannah of the Middle Belt, and the erosion-plagued communities of the Southeast, Nigeria is locked in a vicious circle of producing incompetent administrators and mediocre politicians quite unfit to govern even a local government. It is in the midst of this crisis that the country is once again heading to the polls to elect governors and state lawmakers. No state in Nigeria has managed to emplace a vigorous and independent legislature. If voters do not resist the temptations put before them, they will once again elect misfits into their legislative houses. No one can tell whether they will do what is right today. But far worse is the likelihood of the voters electing mediocre governors. Flowing from the convincing win the president secured in some states in the North, some governorship candidates are hopeful that the electorate would overlook their failings and foibles and re-elect them. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State is one of a few examples that constitute a moral and political dilemma for the electorate. Accused of demanding and receiving bribes to the tune of millions of dollars from contractors, with electronic evidence deployed as proof, the governor has stonewalled. Aided by what some critics described as a conniving legislature and a downright colluding judiciary, the governor has been able to stall both a potential trial and impeachment proceedings. Even the president has waffled over the accusation, wondering what type of technology was deployed to, as it were, entrap Dr Ganduje, one of his most ardent supporters. Should Kano vote for him this Saturday, the electorate would have made nonsense of the anti-corruption campaign garishly embarked upon by the president at the early stages of his presidency. With the courts inexplicably putting an obstacle before the governor’s leading Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) opponent a few days to the election, Dr Ganduje seems poised to retake the State House except voters can enact a full-scale rebellion against the state’s ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). After having voted massively, perhaps in defiance of statistical logic, for President Muhammadu Buhari, it remains to be seen whether the electorate can truly dissociate the controversial governor from the cult-like personality of the president. If they do, they would be displaying their remarkable sophistication. If they do not, they would be reiterating their commonalty, as fellow voters in the Northwest exhibited some two weeks ago when they broke the numbers bank. Kaduna State is contending with a far worse dilemma than even Kano. Yet, no one can tell how they will resolve the existential crisis facing them. Together with Kano, Kaduna State has faced some of the most violent religious crisis Nigeria has ever witnessed. That religious question has been further compounded by deep and unresolved ethnic fissures. The governor, Nasir el-Rufai, is of course not the cause of a crisis that predates him. But so far, both by his lack of restraint and poor understanding of issues, not to say his absolute lack of wisdom and irritating cocksureness, the governor has managed in his first term to aggravate the multiple crises the state has been contending with for some decades. First, he announced that he paid off those attacking the state, implying that he was able to identify them; but rather than bring them to justice, he preferred to use taxpayers’ money to mollify the fury of the criminals. Then at every turn, he has been unable to manage the state’s religious and ethnic differences and struggles, barely managing to disguise his biases. Now, he has finally set out to prove that he could break the political convention and received wisdom of presenting a mixed candidacy of Muslims and Christians for the State House. Today, the state will either reinforce Mallam El-Rufai’s iconoclasm or punish him. He believes that flowing from the president’s election, his repudiation of conventional wisdom will carry the day as voters turn out to make nonsense of the state’s religious calculations. He is daring, very daring. But there is nothing to suggest that he could not in fact get away with his cold and ruthless calculation. If the electorate support his redrawing of the state’s political and behavioural map, they will have voted for the present and hope that they would not reap any whirlwind sometime in the future. Mallam El-Rufai took on the more sensible and ethical Shehu Sani, a state senator, and vanquished him. Consequently, the governor, who is never a moderate and modest man to begin with, is already feeling invincible, nay immortal. Should he carry the day, his enemies will groan in anguish for years to come. But whether the electorate endorse him or not, it does not detract from the fact that Mallam El-Rufai’s legacy will be controversial at best, and poor beyond description at worst. It is inconceivable that a politician who has inspired so much division, while not matching it with grand and gargantuan futuristic projects and programmes, can hope to last in the minds of the people. Many other states will be grappling with their own peculiar issues and troubles. How they resolve these issues, starting from the votes today, will determine how far their states can go in the coming years. Using Kano and Kaduna as examples, there is not much optimism that the 36 states as a whole can go very far. They are crawling now when they should be walking briskly, and have embraced the wrong arguments and personalities in their prolonged quest for development. They must hope that the choices they make today would not completely paralyse them or, worse, predispose them to the full-scale rebellion ravaging some states in the country.