For the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) Area Comptroller of Ports Terminal Multiservice Limited (PTML) Command, Lagos, Mrs Florence Olasunbo Dixon, maximum collection of revenue at a model port dedicated to Roll-on Roll-off (RoRo) is not negotiable. This, she says, is evident in the command’s increased monthly revenue. In this interview, Mrs Dixon tells MUYIWA LUCAS that blocking leakages and persistent enlightenment against infractions are working for her. Your area is one of the country’s prominent Roll-on Roll-off (RoRo) cargo ports. What are the specific peculiarities that differentiate this command from others across the country? The PTML can be described as a mini port. We deal meanly in RoRo vehicles and containerised vehicles too. We don’t deal much in containerised cargoes. What was your total revenue collection for last year? What was your command’s contribution to the Custom’s N1trillion target? We made N120,368,433,364 from January to December last year; that is, 22 per cent increase from 2017 when compared to 2018. We actually did not meet our target; which  was N122billion but we managed to make N120billion. Appraise stakeholders’ compliance level on a scale of zero to 100 per cent. How are they complying with the rules? I will say 75 per cent because you still find some loopholes. We are trying gradually with the enlightenment, collaboration and communication. We hold meetings with them, reminding them about the rules and why they must stay compliant at all times. Many are complying but you will still find some minute number of people attempting to do it wrongly but we are on top of the game. Our vigilance is high and will continue to increase. How does x-factory price of imported vehicles influence duty calculation and collection at PTML? I think it’s the same everywhere. We rely on x-factory price for duty collection on used vehicles mainly. For brand new cars, they require PAAR (Pre Arrival Assessment Report); so, when they get the PAAR, we treat them, but to a large extent, we rely on x-factory price on used vehicle. Sometimes if we notice that there are differences or we are not satisfied, we can query, increase and uplift the value, to prevent revenue loss. How did you fare in 2018? What is the value of the seizures you made and suspects arrested, if any? This is generally a revenue area. We are not an enforcement area and I can say that we have a high level of compliance by our trading community and stakeholders here. We don’t have any seizures per se we didn’t record any. What are your achievements since your assumption of office? What have you done differently from your predecessors? Well, I followed in their footsteps because all my predecessors achieved successes, so I followed in their footsteps. But I tried to make a little difference here and there by exceeding my target, particularly in last October, November, December and January this year. Customs is fast embracing technology – PAAR and NICIS II. To what extent has this latest Customs technology influenced your operation? I will say it makes the work easier and there are  lots of transparency. Because everything is online and it makes the job faster. Actually, it saves time and impacts positively on the overall degree of efficiency here. How fast is it to clear a cargo at PTML by a compliant trader? I am happy you used that word compliant trader. If you make  honest declaration under six hours, you can get your consignments released. This is why adherence to compliance principles is in the interest of all. It saves time and cost while boosting revenue collection. How are you implementing the government’s ease of doing business policy in trade facilitation even with poor access roads? We have infrastructural challenge because there is no good access road from Mile 2 end to this place but we are trying in our own little way. We treat jobs promptly, which is encouraging people to come to PTML. We don’t delay work and we engaged our stakeholders, from time to time we meet with them, we try to resolve issues, so generally we are experiencing some peace.