It’s another World Kidney Day (March 14th), another opportunity to draw government attention to the plight of kidney patients. Omolara Akintoye writes about the travails of these people, opinion of a Nephrologist and how the disease can be prevented THE woke up that fateful morning and noticed swellings on her foot and face. Initially she thought it was a reaction to food but upon clinical advice by her doctor to run some tests, she discovered that she had, unknown to her, very high urea and creatinine values which had built up over the years. That was when it dawned on her that she had kidney failure, also known as renal failure. That was the story of Mrs. Abiola Ajayi who has been suffering from kidney failure for the past four years. Speaking in an interview, Ajayi (not real name), who is over 50 years, lamented that managing the disease can be very expensive and she has lost count of the money expended since she got diagnosed. “On the average, I spend a minimum of N60,000 for my weekly dialysis sessions and this is not inclusive of additional medications which I take for being hypertensive as well as other peripheral costs incurred on tests and injections which are done routinely to complement the dialysis, it has been an harrowing experience,” said Ajayi. Asides this, Ajayi is also facing the challenge of managing her business. “Although the dialysis centre I’m using gave me a flexible payment plan which aids my ability to continue with my dialysis and also to run my business,” she said. Ajayi is not left alone in this burden of managing this disease, her spouse, Mr. Kola Ajayi, says coping with the reality of managing the ailment of his wife has not been easy. His words: “It’s not been easy both emotionally and financially coupled with keeping late nights. Emotional instability has been the norm for me as I have to stay awake most nights whenever she has difficulty with sleeps as well as thinking of a way to raise the needed finds to sustain her dialysis sessions.” According to him, the disease has affected their finances drastically “because we have to sell off our properties, cars in order to raise funds for her dialysis.” Asked whether his wife intends going for transplant, he said: “no plan for transplant because after many consultations with nephrology specialists, we were advised not to opt for it due to the uncertainties accompanied with a transplant procedure, bearing in mind her age as well as the ordeals that come with a failed transplant.” Sufferers of renal failure are urging government to come to their aid by reducing custom charges on importation of drugs which have a ripple effect on the cost of dialysis. Prevention and early detection is the key to prevention of renal failure In an interview with a Nephrologist, founder, Renal Dialysis Centre, Dr. John Okoh, he said government can reduce mortality rate among kidney patients by funding their dialysis session How could someone discover he is having kidney failure? Someone that has kidney disease that persists for greater than three months irrespective of what caused the disease is an indication that the person has kidney failure. However, renal failure is a more advance form of chronic kidney disease and once the kidney fails, it means the ability to clear waste is going to be impaired; meaning that if there are not clearing the waste, which is going to accumulate, it will make them ill. Apart from that, one of the functions of the kidney is to regulate the amount of water in the body. When you drink a lot of water, you have to urinate the water. If the kidney is having a problem in clearing the water, the water will accumulate and then you will see some people who have kidney disease, depending on what caused the disease. Some people will have swollen legs, swollen face, swollen hands. Another thing they can have is low blood level. One of the functions of the kidney is it plays an important role in helping to boost our blood system, so people who have kidney disease do have low blood level and become sick due to the low blood level. Some of them will even warrant blood transfusion and they will require blood medicine from time to time. Also patients with renal disease can have bone problem. One of the functions of the kidney is to help in producing something that will help the bone to be strong, so the moment they have kidney disease, the bone is no more strong. It’s liable to facture, so there is going to be a medication for the bone. People who have kidney disease will tend to have lower immunity, frequent infections, among others, as the kidney disease progresses. What are the major ailments associated with kidney disease? There are many ailments that are associated with kidney disease but for the sake of simplicity, we have hypertension. Worldwide, it is the major cause of kidney disease both here and in other parts of the world. Diabetes is another disease.  What it means is that the body fails to recognise itself and starts to fight itself; so the body is attacking itself and it attacks the kidney, kills the kidney and causes kidney failure. The list is endless. But another one is the one caused by drugs taken over the counter. Most of these over the counter drugs affect the kidney. People with HIV can also have renal failure. Kidney failure is no respecter of age as it can happen to anyone, but the good news is that it can be prevented. Once a person is growing older 20 years, we screen them and once the screening is positive we check the blood pressure maybe is high. We can monitor him, make sure we get a diagnosis of blood pressure. We commence treatment such that we try to prevent the onset of kidney disease. As an expert on the field, what is your experience with kidney patients? I’ve attended to so many patients with kidney failure and kidney failure comes in stages. There is stage one, stage two, stage three, stage four, stage five, but by five most of the patients come from stage four. Stages one, two, three are the early stages of kidney failure; stages four and five are the latter stages of kidney failure and because more of the patients come to the hospital when they are in stages four and five. But once we pick them at these stages what we do is we inform them about what they have and the aim now is we want to reduce the progression and manage them with medications. There is a particular stage we will tell them they will require dialysis, which is called renal replacement treatment. This is the end stage of kidney disease, when the treatment can be inform of dialysis or kidney transplant. When you undergo dialysis, you are connected to a machine. But when you get to stage five, such a person will be on dialysis for life. What is the prevalence of kidney disease in Nigeria? I won’t give you a figure but the number is on the rise. How do you know you have kidney disease? For those at home, check your urine. Once it is foamy, go for screening. If you have repeated headaches, weakness, tiredness and dizziness, go for screening. What is the cost of dialysis currently? The first session of dialysis in some facilities is between N50,000-N60,000 I will advise that once the person reaches advance kidney disease stage he needs dialyses three times weekly. So three times a week means that if the person is going to pay 30,000 naira for continuous dialysis, that is 90,000 naira a week. So, in a month, that is 270000 naira just for dialysis; it’s very expensive. Prevention of renal failure Reduce your salt intake, condiments, spices etc, avoid sugary foods and drinks. Take more of healthy foods, avoid alcohol, smoking and over the counter drugs. What can government do to reduce mortality rate among kidney patients? I have travelled out of the country several times and they have health insurance scheme. Government takes care of patients who are on dialysis by subsidising their dialyses. In Lagos, there are many dialysis centres in Lagos and people pay from their pockets. It’s not easy to maintain the cost of dialysis, so what I try to do is to keep my patients healthy and enable them to work so that they can finance their dialysis. For those who that cannot work, family and friends will donate for them and when it gets to a point the family will get tired and the patient will die, so government’s assistance will indeed be helpful to reduce death.