•The good intention of WAEC needs more support from govts and other stakeholders The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) has released the results of the West African Senior School Certificate Examinations (WASSCE) for the first of two such examinations for private students in 2019. In the January 2019 examinations, 3,102 or 26 percent of 11,892 students who sat for the examination passed with credits in five subjects, including English and Mathematics. This year’s result is worse than that of 2018 in which 35.99 percent obtained credits in a minimum of five subjects, including Mathematics and English. The special WASSCE for private students was initiated by WAEC in 2017, and the first in the series of examinations for private students was conducted in October 2018. Even though last year’s result of 35.99 percent success rate was considered low by stakeholders, this year’s result of 26 percent is abysmal and certainly needs improvement. Parents and children were very upbeat when WAEC initiated the special additional opportunity for students who did not have the number of required credits at the end of their Senior School Certificate year to enter the country’s tertiary institutions. Given the importance of minimum of credits in five subjects, including English and Mathematics, to entering universities, polytechnics and colleges of education in the country, it is crucial that this special examination is taken with the seriousness it deserves by all the stakeholders: WAEC, governments at all levels, and students who are given additional chance to further their education. The new policy of allowing candidates for the examination to “walk-in” for it or register for it 48 hours before sitting for the examination needs to be reviewed.  Students need to know well ahead of time and have enough time to prepare for the examinations. Academic examination bodies generally require ample time between registration and sitting for examinations that require preparations.  There is no need for a fast-food approach to this opportunity as if it is on the same plane with registering for driver’s licence examination. WAEC should not give the impression that the most important goal is to increase the number of candidates taking the examinations, as this is what making it easy for candidates to register just a few hours to the examination illustrates. Furthermore, our governments ought to invest more in adult education. Adults sitting for such examinations require assistance towards extramural classes, more so when the candidates are adults who are already in the work force or struggling to enter the work force, and cope with the challenges posed by studying for examinations and at the same time making efforts to eke out a living. It is a no brainer that students who could not obtain five credits in their first attempt as full-time students in secondary schools would need all the assistance possible as private candidates. Extramural classes will provide opportunities for private candidates to have additional tutoring about expectations of examiners, especially in the two most troubling subjects: English and Mathematics. It is encouraging that citizens are already enthusiastic about self-improvement, by showing readiness to take and retake examinations that can further empower them. But it is also important that local and state governments provide additional structures and programmes to encourage students preparing for private WASSC examinations. The laudable intention expressed by the Registrar of WAEC at the beginning of this special opportunity for private students in 2018: “The level of desperation sometimes exhibited by the perpetrators of malpractice and the chance to afford private candidates the opportunity of retaking the examination without having to wait till another year” can benefit immensely from more investment in extramural classes towards this examination.