The Africa Netpreneur Prize Initiative (ANPI) has appointed Network of Incubators & Innovators in Nigeria( NINE) from Nigeria, RiseUp from Egypt and 22 On Sloane from South Africa, as the official Western, Northern, and Southern Africa regional partners, respectively. The three organisations will work closely with Nailab, the continental and Eastern Africa partner, to promote the prize in their respective regions. The ANPI is a prize competition for African entrepreneurs, founded by the Jack Ma Foundation. For the next 10 years, the ANPI will host a pitch competition across Africa, culminating in a finale where 10 finalists will compete for $1 million in total prize money. The prize aims to support and inspire the next generation of African entrepreneurs across all sectors, who are building a more sustainable and inclusive economy for the future. The regional partners will mobilise aspiring entrepreneurs across the continent through grassroots outreach. Nailab Founder and CEO Sam Gichuru said: “We are excited to work with these reputable and mission-aligned partners, who will help us bring the prize to all corners of Africa, as well as discover and spotlight a new generation of entrepreneurs from across the continent. Together with our partners, we will support both technology-driven and traditional companies with a special focus on small businesses, grassroots communities and women-founded enterprises.” Chair, Graca Machel Trust Board and a member of ANPI advisory board, Graca Machel, noted that the regional partners will help support the prize’s inclusive and community-based approach and praised the prize’s strong focus on women entrepreneurs. “There are so many undiscovered entrepreneurial heroes, women and men alike, who once unearthed, can become game-changers of the African entrepreneurship landscape. I am happy the Africa Netpreneur Prize has decided to make women a priority.” The southern partner, 22 On Sloane, is a legacy project of the Global Entrepreneurship Network Africa (GEN Africa) and home to the largest startup campus on the continent.      