Power solutions provider Royal Power & Energy Limited last  Saturday launched a new range of innovative products in Nigeria. The alternative energy products include Signal, a solar hybrid inverter; Numeric UPS, online inverter, Ritar Batteries and Signal tubular Batteries, among others. The firm said the unveiling of the   products was in line with its vision to provide sustainable and reliable quality power solutions across Africa, utilising a variety of cutting-edge technologies. Speaking at the Signal Gold Inverter and Tubular Batteries launch in Lagos, the Assistant General Manager, Royal Power & Energy Limited, Mr. Anil James, said the new products were capable of meeting the various energy needs of the market,  commercial or residential, depending on the product type. According to him, the new range of products has been built with the latest technologies to ensure clean and reliable power supply. He said, for instance, that the UPS Systems are available in a number of specifications and offer a convenient and flexible interface for user experience. James listed some of the unique features of the company’s UPS devices to include advanced DSP/Microprocessor design, wide input voltage rage, web-enabled monitoring, and extended battery back-up time option. Pointing out that the UPS devices could be used in hotels, industries, banks and other applications, he added that the company’s solar hybrid inverters are a great option for organisations and residences as they offer a three-in-one buffer with options of solar, generator and grid power. The 3.5KVA variant, which is capable of supplying uninterrupted power to a four-bedroom apartment with its four batteries, is sold for N850,000. But there are smaller models of the inverter like the 1.5KVA to meet the energy demand of consumers with smaller budget size. James, however, explained that the cost of the product was not an issue, as opportunity for a flexible payment plan exists for interested customers to purchase the products. ‘’Depending on the situation, an arrangement is made through the banks to allow for instalments on a monthly basis between 1- 2 years,’’ he said. Other innovative products under the company’s belt include batteries, industrial servo stabilizer (AVR), electrical control panels, protection systems, metering and monitoring solutions, compact substations, transformers, cables, conductors, and power network equipment. James said Royal Power & Energy has a comprehensive network of highly skilled field service engineers all across Nigeria and beyond, adding that the multiple locations of its field engineers facilitates a rapid response to customers in the event of any unscheduled maintenance requirements. “Our skilled service engineers have been trained in multiple brands and can provide service support for numerous brands of equipment,” he said. Apart from alternative energy products offering, Royal Power & Energy (RPE) Ltd, which was founded in 2005, also offers consultancy and managed services as well as provides technical skills to successfully deliver power projects on engineering procurement and construction contracts. “Our experience of 12 years in the Nigerian power industry enables us to understand the market, ensuring we offer high-performance products and systems that provide a high degree of reliability, manageability, serviceability, redundancy and flexibility of operation,’’ James added.