Over 2,000 members of Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria (ADSN), Lagos State Women Council, walked through streets in Oshodi last Saturday to raise awareness on healthy living. Clad in their traditional green and white colours, the women from different parts of the state, sang, danced and educated residents, passers-by and motorists on the benefits of regular exercise. They were joined by a few men. The two-hour walk began from the Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Secretariat near Bolade and ended at ADSN Oshodi Secretariat. It was sponsored by The Tempo Group, makers of Tempo Sudrex drugs. ADSN Lagos State Women Council Chairperson Alhaja Safirah Animashaun told The Nation that the annual programme was meant to increase the physical fitness of their members. “We do this every third Saturday in March. Elections made us change this year’s edition to today (Saturday). It is for healthy living and propagation of our religion,” she said. Alhaja Animashaun added that the walk will make them burn a lot of calories and make them live healthily. Women, she said, should engage in it regularly. “Experts have made us realised that physical exercise, such as walking, is important for weight control because it helps you burn calories. If you add 30 minutes of brisk walking to your daily routine, you could burn a lot of calories a day. We have also directed our 37 branches in the state to domesticate it in their various areas. Some will hold theirs next week,” she said. ADSN Women Council State Treasurer Alhaja Idiat Owolabi Faruq said the benefits walks are numerous. “It is supposed to be done daily or three times a week. It makes the body system work well. It gives you good health and your shape looks well. People will envy your stature,” she said. Alhaja Faruq, a retired Chief Nursing Officer from the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), enjoined the women to continue doing exercise but not the strenuous ones. The Tempo Group National Sales Manager Allan Sonza said he was impressed with the large turn out “I am not expecting plenty of people like this. I’m very glad that we join them for the walk. This is our fifth year of sponsoring them. It is good to see over 2000 women turning up for the event. They are our family. This walk is not easy, kudos to the women,” Sonza said.