Lagos State All Progressives Congress(APC) chieftains Valentine Buraimoh and Olayiwola Ishiaq Oba have said that Governor-elect Babajide Sanwo-Olu will not disappoint Lagosians. They assuered that the incoming governor will fulfill his campaign promised and take the state to greater hieghts. Buraimoh, Chairman of Amuwo-Odofin Council, congratulated Sanwo-Olu, his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, and House of Assembly member-elect Mojisola Ali Macaulay for their victory at the poll. At a recent stakeholders’ meeting  attended by market men and women, youths, students, clerics, artisans, peasants and Igbo residents,  he said their political labours will not be in vain. Buraimoh said: “I want to thank the national leader of the All progressive Congress, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for his support. He said he was going to support us financially and he did “so also for the success recorded in south west in the just concluded election . “I also want to thank the residents and good people of Amuwo-Odofin Odofin for believing in my government and leadership.” At the meeting were Alhaja Memunat Ajao, local party chairman Elder Ayodele Ogungbiye, Ali Macaulay,  Olayiwola Oba, Nuru Umaru, Olanrewaju Muhammed, Tunde Ajayi, Alhaja Toyin Yusuf Adesanya, Seriki Abdullahi Jagaban, Deacon Oladejo,Prince Rasheed Otolorin, Elder Ariyo, and Alhaja Ariyo. Oba, a lawyer and leader of ‘Team 11,’ which spearheaded the campaigns, thanked party faithful for their loyalty and commitment. He said: “The Team 11 was organised to ensure the success of the election. I want to commend the ward chairmen, the counsellors, and the executive chairman for his support the intelligence effort from the state ,the DSS athe chairman youth council of Nigeria” Alhaja Alao urged the lawmaker-elect to fulfill her promises to the people after her inauguration. Macaulay defeated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate,  Dipo Olorunrinu, at the poll. Urging the people to support his administration in its quest for infrastructural development, Buraimoh said: ‘’I will conclude by saying that this partnership will not stop at this victory chapter but continue into several projects that will ensure that Amuwo-Odofin becomes number one amongst committee of local governments.”