Seventeen persons have been reported killed in a fresh attack on Ungwan Barde in Kajuru Local Government of Kaduna State by yet- to- be identified gunmen in the early hours of Sunday. The state government confirmed the fresh attack and extended its sympathy to the community and the families of the victims. The Nation learnt trouble started on Saturday when a man identified as Nemi left for his farm shortly after voting on and did not return by evening. A source said when some members of the community noticed his absence, they decided to send a team of five persons to search for him. The source said the team on their way met some armed men by a small stream who asked them to go back leading to an exchange between the two groups. He said: “As the five persons who were on bikes turned to go, they were given a hot chase by the armed and in the process four escaped but one of them fell and has not been seen since yesterday.” Meanwhile, our correspondent learnt that the gunmen trailed the villagers to their community and attacked the village Sunday morning killing 16 other persons. Jonah Luka Sarki, village head of Doka told newsmen that, while the remains of the first missing person have been found, there is no trace of other person who he identified as Danlami. He said the area is however calm as there are security agents in the area. However, the state government in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Media and Publicity, Samuel Aruwan, appealed for calm in the area, urging all communities to uphold peace. According to the statement: “Heads of security agencies in Kaduna State have informed Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai of an attack on Ungwan Barde community by unknown bandits, today, 10th March 2019. “The government condemns this violent attack and extends its sympathy to the families of the victims and the entire community. “The security agencies have informed the governor that measures are being taken to contain the situation and to secure the general area. More troops have been deployed to the community, while the Nigerian Air Force personnel are carrying out aerial surveillance and reconnaissance. “The security agencies will provide further updates. The Governor has also directed the State Emergency Management Agency to proceed to the community for immediate assessment and delivery of relief materials. “The government appeals to all our communities to do their utmost for peace and harmony.” This is the fourth time in the last five weeks that, villages in Kajuru local government area have come under gunmen attacks.