Wife of Benue Governor, Dr Eunice Ortom, has expressed concern over hygiene and other practices surrounding menstrual health among women in the state. Ortom spoke at the opening of the Training of Trainers Workshop on Menstrual Hygiene Management (MHM) in Makurdi on Monday. The workshop was organised by the Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council (WSSCC) and the UN Children’s Fund. According to her, some practices, taboos, misconceptions, culture of silence have promoted poor menstrual health and hygiene, thereby reducing dignity of women and girls in the state. She called for improved information and awareness creation on MHM, saying that proper use of sanitary towels and disposal method should be encouraged for overall hygiene promotion. “We are taking the issue of menstrual health for granted. Speaking as a woman, I know the challenges that are involved and it can be terrible for some women and mild for some. “We need adequate sensitisation and enlightenment for everyone to take the issue of water and sanitation facilities seriously by making them available to promote menstrual health. “We all must make sure that there is access to clean toilets and water in schools and public places,” she said.
Ortom pledged the commitment of the state government to overall wellbeing and empowerment for women and girls to reduce stigma for menstruating women. She also called for an end to open defecation, saying it could affect not only those who practice it, but everyone in the society. “We know that through open defecation, we experience a lot of challenges, it extends to people that have good facilities to use; it will also affect the community. “We know that open defecation leads to cholera and other infections and diseases from poor sanitation, it is the duty of everyone to ensure that our society, state, community are free of open defecation. “We may be living in good houses, buy if we still have people practising open defecation, we would be affected in one way or the other,” she said. Ortom said that her pet project, Eunice Spring of Life Foundation, had engaged female youths in menstrual health management, through enlightenment and distribution of materials. An MHM Senior Trainer for WSSCC, Ms. Irene Gai, said there was the need for institutions to mediate in gender differences, urging the media to disseminate positive information about women and girls. She said in households and communities, children should be trained equally, saying gender roles should not be assigned to any sex. Gai called on the need for women to participate in Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH). Dr Priscilla Achakpa, National Coordinator, WSSCC Nigeria, congratulated the state for timely release of counterpart funds for WASH interventions, calling on all tiers of government to take the campaign against open defecation seriously. Achakpa added that in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs, the organisation had institutionalised MHM into all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) towards mainstreaming it into decisions and policies. NAN