Former youth international, Saviour Godwin, has been in excellent form in the current Belgian Jupiler League season and the KSV Roeselare’s winger-cum-striker here shares few things about himself away from the pitch in this conversation with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. HE may still be discreet about admitting it even on social media where he has a huge presence, future Super Eagles’ prospect and erstwhile youth international, Saviour Godwin, has admitted that he has indeed found the woman of his dreams. While some of his teammates that wrought victory for Nigeria at the 2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup in the UAE have since settled down to marital life, Godwin who would be 22 on August 22 has stated matter-of-factly that he is no longer searching. Yet the fleet-footed winger cum striker with Belgian Jupiler side KSV Roeselare seemed not to be in a hurry to reveal the identity of the gal that has so much caught his admiration and fancy. “Every man with his own plans but my wedding is coming very soon,” Godwin, an indigene of Cross River State, stated when pressed about his marital plans. “Yes, I have found love and she has every quality I need in a woman.” One can only guess how beautiful the choice of Saviour could be, given his antecedent as a suave guy with cosmopolitan outlook since he grew up mostly in the northern part of Nigeria. Born in one of Nigeria’s ‘mad’ soccer cities of Jos, Godwin  would be the first to admit that he was truly a pen in the hands of God since he started pacing the street as a budding footballer with FC Sports Jos, amongst other grassroots teams. But it was with the national U-20 set of 2015 that Godwin got attention after his blistering performances especially in  the tie against Korea where he scored a brace in the 3-1 win over the Asians. “He’s (Godwin) a lad I know well because he was in our squad when we won the U-17 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates in 2013,” said the then Flying Eagles coach, Manu Garba. I put him in my starting XI today for tactical reasons. “He’s quick, holds the ball up well and he can shoot with both feet. His qualities seemed useful for taking on Korea DPR. “Saviour responded in the right way, even if he can still do more. But it’s true that his two goals did us a lot of good.” Godwin was so good in the aforementioned match at the U20 Wold Cup held in New Zealand to warrant interests from many European clubs but he headed out to Belgium during the summer of 2015 and landed at KV Oostende. “I choose to play in Belgium because it a good place to start (my career) from,” Godwin told The Nation in a file interview. “Belgium is an interesting and a lovelycountry. It’s also a good place for young players to start their careers and I really find it interesting playing for my club, KV Oostende. “Playing football (as a profession) has always been my dream.  I have always taken football serious and one thing that keeps me going is the fact that I want to get to the top so I have to work extra hard and double my efforts. I am a growing fast winger who emulates and aspires to be like Ronaldo, Pedro and Victor Moses.” Between 2015 and now, Godwin has evolved to be one of the future players for the national team and he further explained that the Belgian Jupiler League has  since improved his quality. He was a surprise omission in the national U23 side to the 2016 Rio Olympic Games in Brazil and that episode still seemed to disturb his psyche. “I represented Nigeria at the U17 & U20 levels and I felt bad missing out (of the U23 side to Rio no doubt, but I will be with the national team (Super Eagles) soon, very soon.” Of course, it would be good to mark Godwin’s words on his resolve to be part of the Super Eagles in a foreseeable future because he’s a guy with a lion’s heart, which he has proved time and time again at different levels of the national teams. Ahead of both the FIFA U17 UAE 2013 ad FIFA U20 New Zealand 205, Godwin was not reckoned with as a possible member of the squad but his capacity to turn lemon into lemonade has undoubtedly contributed for his knack to survive even when the odds are stacked against him. “Every day and year in my life count ,”Godwin stated matter-of-factly. “ I will be 22 on August 22; and it means a lot to me knowing how far I have come and the journey ahead of me. So much plans for my future and I am gradually executing them one after the other.” Of course, Godwin is the kind of guy that loves life on the fast lane with all the attached refinements. “If not football, I would have probably been an actor because I have this keen acting skill in me,” he said. “For me, fashion is a way of expressing one’s personality with appearances and I love pop music; Rihanna is my favourite “Though I am not a fashionista, I make sure I appear presentable and Luchino Camicie is my favourite designer, affordable and reliable. “I like fashion a lot .if I had my way, maybe I would have been a model too. What I wear depends on the occasion I want to attend but generally I love looking good and classy. “Apart from football, I spend most of my time listening to music. I can’t really say what life after football would be for me, but I’m determined to do my best now. “Playing football doesn’t last forever and I have to learn from the mistakes of others. My target is to see that I grow more; sign more contracts earn good money and invest,” he hinted. But for now, it’s on the field of play that Godwin wants to build more consistency with Roeselare to increase his chances of donning the Super Eagles’ shirt. He has been one of the mainstay of the Belgian side since his arrival in 2016 and this season, he has contributed four goals in 13 appearances in the on-going Jupiler season “As a professional footballer, Belgian league has made me a better player,” he said with some smiles. “As a footballer, winning makes me happy and losing makes me sad; but both are inevitable because sometimes we win and sometimes we lose but we keep going,” noted Godwin, a huge fan of five-time FIFA World Player of the Year, Cristiano Ronaldo, who has been on fire since his arrival to Juventus last summer. “Ronaldo is my favourite footballer and I like his style of play from the days of Manchester United.” But one other person that has immensely contributed to the metamorphosis of Godwin is no other person than his first love in the shape of his mom. “I also get inspiration from my mom because she really sacrificed for me to get to where I am today,” Godwin had long ago hinted in an interview with The Nation.” People like other members of my family, my manager and many others have also been very supportive but my mom will always remain special to me.”