A young girl, Blessing Edeyigbo has emerged winner of I Go Dye’s Delta Talent Hunt project in Agbor, Delta State, smiling home with a prize money of N500,000. Blessing is the second winner so far in the contest, after comedian Douglas Oghenekaro emerged winner in the Warri audition which held on February 13, 2019. At the Royal Court Yard, Agbor, where the event held on February 21, 2019, Blessing soared above others at a keenly contested challenge which was witnessed by thousands of youths from the city. Her talent as a singer coupled with her stagecraft impressed the judges made up of music act, Faze, music producer, Nas T, OAP Monique, Maleke and comedian Ghana Must Go. Hence, she was crowned winner of the Agbor edition of the show tagged: Sorting Out Raw Talents (SORT). The SORT project which was conceived and executed by comedian Francis Agoda, popularly known as I Go Dye is part of his Francis Agoda Path of Honour (FAPOH) initiative, designed to identify and reward excellence in various fields of human endeavors. According to the comedian, the big idea behind SORT is to help checkmate the issue of youth restiveness in the country, occasioned partly by unemployment. He said: “Obviously at this point of our existence, selfless contributions that will create alternatives to engage the youths should be encouraged. We cannot continue to leave the responsibility of supporting the youths in the hands of government alone. In the past, programs like West Africa Idol, Project Fame and others have really helped our talented youths in Nigeria, making the winners who they are today. So, this requires the support of us all, because its objectives are aimed at eradicating youth restiveness, making them to become more resourceful and productive and we have the support of Delta State Government. We are looking at taking it across Niger Delta before we do SORT NINJA. Like they say, charity begins at home, that is why we are lunching this project SORT today in Delta State. The grand finale is set to hold in Asaba on March 5, 2019 where winners from the Warri and Agbor editions will be part of the grand finale. The overall winner who will be crowned Delta Talent and Brain Ambassador is also expected to get a 2019 Hyundai Accent sedan car.