Nigeria’s seat of power and commercial nerve centre – Abuja and Lagos will host the maiden edition of the FCV Gladiators Football camps holding in April. The Lagos camp will hold at the University of Lagos Sports Centre on April 14 to 19 while the Abuja leg will hold at Aduvie International School on April 21 to 26. The camp which is a brainchild of Dynaspro Sports Promotion and Advanta Interactive Limited is expected to give a new outlook to football with special attention to education. According to Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Oluseyi Oyebode, the camp is a departure from the usual football-focused clinic as the camp would give special attention to the education of the participants. “It is a great beginning. For the first time, we are having a foreign partner that is so keen on education and football; that has been the missing link. We will encourage as many as possible to be part of the first camp so that they can have the taste of what it takes. Children from schools now will now have the orientation and the importance of sports and education. That is why today, we have a lot of our ex-players and ex-athletes suffering by not being able to manage the successes, not being able to manage their finances while making the money,” Oyebode said. He added: “I think now we have about 20 schools on board, partnering the project in Lagos and Abuja. Also, there will be mentorship programmes and for the first time, we will have school coaches, coaches from the grassroots having FA certification and that is the greatest value that you can think about, so that we can have the same orientation that an average British coach will have in working with the youth academy. This is going evolve and help development of football in Nigeria.” For the Director of UK-based FCV International Academy, Martin Harris, the programme would help to give direction to football camp in Nigeria. “The programme is unique in the fact that we are not just here to impact football knowledge but also enhance their academics as well. Also various life skills, teamwork and everything other things involve to a holistic approach to the person we are impacting. Those core values the kids that are going to be involved in the camp will enjoy,” Harris said.