The deepening insecurity in Bayelsa State especially Yenagoa, the state capital, has generated concerns among residents and other stakeholders including Governor Seriake Dickson. The capital city has been under siege by armed cultists, who attack innocent residents, dispossess them of their valuables especially smartphones, kill and maim them at slightest provocation. The gunmen were also fond of killing policemen and stealing their rifles in a crime wave that had sent jitters in the spines of residents. The unchecked terrorism culminated in barbaric attack on residence of members of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) by cultists, who killed two of them and injured others. It was gathered the overwhelming insecurity in the state was majorly caused by acute shortage of personnel in the state’s police command. A police source, who spoke in confidence, said the number of personnel in the command was embarrassingly small adding that there was nothing the available number of policemen could do to contain the crime wave. Besides, the source said the police lacked operational vehicles and other required equipment to combat crimes in the state saying, “you can’t fight armed criminals with bare hands”. He said the insecurity might escalate ahead of the December governorship election unless the Force Headquarters undertook urgent steps to address the shortcomings. “We are in trouble in Bayelsa right now. We can’t perform magic. There are no logistics and we have acute shortage of personnel. With the number we have, we can’t police capital city let alone the entire state. “Something needs to be done urgently to address the shortcomings and secure the lives and properties of Bayelsa. “The force headquarters should come to our aide to save people from rampaging cultists”, he said. It was gathered on Sunday that Dickson was disturbed by the security situation in the state especially the reported killing of the corps members. A source from the Government House told the Nation that worried by the development, the governor summoned the Commissioner of Police, Olusholla David and other security commanders for an emergency meeting on Friday. “The governor is not sleeping. He is looking for how to solve this current problem. Apart from the emergency meeting, Dickson has dispatched a delegation led by one of his special advisers on security to the force headquarters. “Among other things, the delegation will appeal to the police high command to address accuse shortage of policemen in the state. The Bayelsa State security outfit, Doo Akpo, has over 30 patrol van, but the police can only manage 10 of the vehicles because of their number,” he said. But female stakeholders under the auspices of Women Arise for Safer Bayelsa (WASB) blamed the insecurity on desperation of opposition political parties to win elections in the state. WASB, in a statement by its President, Sotonye Nelson, recalled how Dickson effectively tackled insecurity in his first term in office using Doo Akpo. Nelson said: “With the coming of the Dickson Administration, Bayelsans heaved a sigh of relief as Doo Akpo effectively tackled the twin menace of crime and insecurity that was bequeathed unto the administration by former Governor Timipre Sylva and his men. “The State Security outfit, which was painstakingly designed to complement the efforts of the police and other security agencies in the fight against crime, did a great job in curtailing the crime challenge at the time. “Criminal elements who had held the state by the jugular were left with no other option than to either leave the state of face arrest and consequent prosecution. “The politicization of security by top chieftains of the APC in collusion with a Federal Government that cares less about the well-being and security of Bayelsans has frustrated in no small way, the efforts of the state government in maintaining peace and security in the state.”