•The circulation of fake U.S. dollars in Nigeria must be curbed ALTHOUGH the recent decision by the Association of Bureaux de Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) to launch a campaign against the proliferation of fake U.S. $100 bills in the country is commendable, much more must be done to halt this dangerous trend. The association’s president, Dr. Aminu Gwadabe, claims that the body has been given permission by both the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to begin the campaign. He pointed out that the situation could undermine the country’s bid to gain membership of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), in addition to other security and economic implications. There is little doubt that this is a grave situation. Nigeria’s heavy dependence on imported products and the fall in the naira’s value against the major international currencies has made American dollars an especially prized item. The influx of such high-value fake foreign currency into the nation’s economy could have crippling effects on a country still struggling to shake off the consequences of its recent recession. If the country is blacklisted by the FATF as a “non-cooperative jurisdiction,” it could result in penalties that will harm its capacity to attract investment and establish trade ties. In spite of the worthy efforts of ABCON to combat the fake dollar menace, it is surprising that the institutions whose remit it is to stem the circulation of fake currency in the country do not seem to be displaying similar levels of commitment. The CBN and the EFCC are Nigeria’s prime actors in any war against currency counterfeiting. The apex bank is entrusted with the integrity and stability of financial and monetary systems, while it is the commission’s duty to identify, investigate and punish the importation and use of fake foreign currency as an economic crime. The two organisations must ensure that they take the lead in the anti-fake dollar campaign, and the battle must be waged on three major fronts – education, detection and sanction. A comprehensive public enlightenment campaign must be launched to educate the country’s institutions and citizenry about the nature of currency counterfeiting, offering clues as to how to identify fake currency and what to do in such situations. Unlike that currently being contemplated by ABCON, it should not be limited to $100 dollar bills, but expanded to cover all currencies in use in the country. Detecting fake money has become easier with the advent of counterfeit money detector machines which utilise the latest in digital imaging technology. The use of such machines should be made mandatory in all currency-handling operations regardless of size. Individual purchasers in particular must learn to avoid doing business with informal operators offering ostensibly profitable deals, since the likelihood of fake currency being used is relatively high. While Nigeria appears to have enough laws to deal with the crime of currency counterfeiting, the country’s law-enforcement agencies would do well to step up their prosecution of those who are found culpable. More must be done to curb the activities of so-called dealers who loiter around the country’s streets with impunity, claiming to have foreign currencies for sale. Given the informal nature of their operations, it is difficult to determine those who are honest and those who are not. The CBN and the EFCC should work with the bureaux de change to create a less arbitrary system of selling foreign currency so that it will be less easy for faceless individuals to exchange fake dollars, euros or pounds for genuine naira and disappear. Nigeria already suffers from an unwanted notoriety for advance-fee fraud and other scams. If the fake-currency phenomenon is not dealt with effectively, it will simply worsen an already-bad situation, with negative consequences for the country’s global reputation