Many of us are familiar with the story of Miss Success Adegor, the spunky little girl whose natural charm over the matter of her school fees took hold of the Nigerian scene. We met the little girl when a certain Miss Stephanie Idolor shot and distributed a video in which Success spiritedly expressed her feelings of grave dissatisfaction with the way her school had gone about collecting school fees from its pupils. According to that video, which is said to have gone ‘viral’ (like many computer-related terms, this is not logically comprehensible to me), little Success vowed to ‘show’ her school for sending her home over school fees. When I first encountered the video, I thought it was a put-up affair; you know, one of those short comical sketches done by a playgroup. However, the subsequent comments from the public soon convinced me it was real. The genuineness of people’s sympathies with the little girl’s plight also convinced me this was no job borne of idleness. What finally had me was the amount of money the public was said to have poured into the bosom of the girl’s family. I was in consternation. I mean, I thought, all those lollies had to be real, even if the story was shaky. Actually, rather than being fooled, the public sprang into action, from what I hear. From the news reports alone, I understand the family of little Miss Success has received donations well in excess of the girl’s school fees, while the girl herself has been given more than one scholarship. This is nothing compared to the sudden fame that has come to her. I mean, no one is likely to forget the note of stubborn despair in her voice any time soon when she said, ‘den go flog me, den go tire, the cane go tire…’ I really should like to see how a cane gets tired. Such creativity. The story has highlighted one of the facets of our modern social system that this column has grumbled and moaned about endlessly: that we are not paying attention to our children’s education enough! At this point in our story as a nation, it should not be said that a little child was sent home by her teacher in a public primary school for not paying her school fees. What school fees?, we should all be asking. Actually, this is what I am asking. The dilapidated nature of our public school system is only comparable to the dilapidated structures used to support it. The corruption bedeviling the Nigerian public life has not spared the school administration system too. Then, the classrooms are of ground zero standard in everything, from the teacher to the flooring, if there is one, to the quality of the stuff the children learn. I will not get tired of repeating myself until something is done; I only urge that you should also not get tired of reading my repeats too. After all, when DStv repeats itself again and again, no one sanctions them. Anyway, most schools are faced with dealing with the government’s shortfalls in allocation either by charging their charges, or closing down. Most choose to charge their charges, hence little Success’s story. For this exposure, I don’t know if this is true, but I understand that the girl’s teacher has been made the scapegoat in all this and has been sacked. If it is, then I would cry foul on her behalf. It is not the teacher or school administrator that we should sack, it is the government. It is the responsibility of the government to provide funds and set the standards on how those funds are to be used. The plight of little Success has become a metaphor for this country’s failing educational and even socio-political system. Every animal species takes the education of its young very seriously. Mama bird would not rest until she has seen that her young can fly and hunt for food by itself. Mama lion would not consider her job done until her young one knows how to pin down an antelope for his/her dinner. Public primary education is supposed to be free and should be a spring board for greater life education, but this is not the case. This story happened because we have a country which does not consider the education of its young sufficiently important to engage its energy but considers political expediencies much more urgent. So, all the little Successes are left to learn to fly by themselves, often with painful results. I have, however, found the response of the public somewhat disappointing. It is too…too… fire brigade-like! I would have loved the public to have asked questions about how we got to this point where all our ‘Successes’ who are in their millions have become infected by this syndrome – having no money to pay school fees and being ready to suffer for it! We need answers. The public should not just throw money at one isolated case and ignore the remaining millions of other children who are also suffering like this girl in the hands of our insufferable educational system. That’s treating the symptom and leaving the engendering disease well alone to grow. We need to scrub the system clean. Certain things are basic concerning the education of Miss Success Adegor. The first is that in plying her with so much money, we are not really helping her. As it is, her life is already altered inexorably forever. From having no money before, she has suddenly been catapulted into the millionaire class, i.e., wealth beyond her dreams even before she can spell the word. So, before she can even add her math together, she learns that life can be unpredictable. Don’t count on her parents to help her add the math together, either. I suspect that they would be busy fighting off the vultures that will suddenly swoop down on the family in the name of family. I think that has begun to happen too, from news reports. Now, she knows nothing goes for nothing; no free lunch, baby. Then too, even success may also begin to go to the head of Success, after savouring all that admiration. First, all that money will certainly go to the little girl’s head. Then all the fame will collide with the money and we will have one colossal case of pride. Then she may learn that not all gifts are designed to make us richer. As a matter of fact, that is why they tell us to beware of Greek gifts. Certain things are basic to our education too as a people. First, we must fix our educational system so that every child can have access to quality education across this country. Spunky Success has helped to draw attention once more to an educational system that is not working and which we must make workable. We should begin by motivating our teachers, as we have said before, and overseeing their individual development, to the last of them so that they can be more effective. Well-motivated teachers make a working classroom. Then, we need to overhaul the supervisory system to ensure no teacher or headmaster/mistress is left on his/her own. Everyone should be interested in the education of our young ones. The children are our future so we need to show them the way, so goes a song. We should not wait for ‘tragedies’ like this to be written before we go into act one. I think our act needs to be well put together into one coherent whole for the sake of our children’s future.