OGUN State Governor-elect Prince  Adedapo Abiodun yesterday declared that if some  “men were God”, he would not have won his election. Abiodun said what had kept him going in the journey of life despite daunting challenges was his absolute and unshakeable faith in God. He added that such faith was anchored on the message of Christ in Mark 11:23, which assured that an unwavering faith could relocate a mountain from one point to another. The governor-elect spoke at St. James Anglican Church, Iperu, his home town, during a thanksgiving service to appreciate Almighty God for protection and his victory at the governorship poll. Prominent personalities at the service include former Ogun and Ekiti State governors Gbenga Daniel, Niyi Adebayo, Kwara State Governor-elect Abdulraheem Razaq, Senators Buruji Kashamu, Gbenga Kaka, Gbolahan Dada, Biyi Durojaiye, Senator Solomon Adeola (aka Yayi), Prof. Toyin Ashiru and Otunba Bimbo Ashiru. Also in attendance are Dr. Femi Majekodunmi, Prince Segun Adesegun, Chief Toyin Okeowo, Ogun West Senator-elect Chief Tolu Odebiyi, Otunba Rotimi Paseda, Kayode Oladele, royal fathers and others. The governor-elect, who won on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) noted that he was pained and heartbroken in 2015 when he lost in the contest for the Ogun East senatorial seat but kept pressing forward undaunted because an inner voice was telling him he still has a vision yet to be accomplished. He pledged to run an equitable, just and accountable government, which would create a public and private partnership for the benefits of Ogun State and the residents. Abiodun said: “My victory has a hand of God. My friends and people around me were asking, ‘Dapo, what has kept you going ahead in your ambition? What has propelled you? But I remained focus in God and unshakeable. For you to succeed, you don’t have to have doubts in your mind. “In my spirit, I have a mission for my country. I didn’t give up. For you to succeed, you should learn to get up and go. Also, you should have convictions. “I always refer to the book of Mark 11:23. Honestly, if men were God, I wouldn’t have been here. In the 90s, when I came back from the university, I offered to serve the people of Ogun State, but I came second in that contest. “Immediately after the primaries, I joined Otunba Gbenga Daniel and campaigned for him, eventually he became governor. “Again, in 2011, I joined hands with the incumbent Governor Ibikunle Amosun to win the election.  In 2015, I offered to become the senator but I wasn’t successful in that race but I was pained and heartbroken. But I didn’t give up because something continued to tell me that I have a vision which is yet to be unaccomplished.” He added: “Today, what I want you to take home from here is that we should never give up because many times when we meet disappointment, it is just an avenue to close a window for a double door to be opened. “I want to assure you that we would lead an equitable and a transparent government, which will create a public-private partnership for all, so help me God. “I want to thank you all for been here today. We would have postponed this thanksgiving service until after inauguration, but we want to quickly acknowledge the fact that this is an act of God. “Few days ago, I was with one of the paramount rulers in the state to thank him for his support and that which was rendered by his people and he said to me ‘even the leaves are singing and dancing over your victory’. “I pray may all of us enjoy this kind of victory in our individual homes in Jesus name.” In his sermon, the Archbishop Ecclesiastical Province of Lagos, Olusina Fape, said it was God that made Abiodun the governor-elect for a purpose in Ogun State. Fape said Abiodun’s value could only be determined when he begins to effect real and positive changes in the lives of Ogun people and the state. He advised the governor-elect to shun sycophants and surround himself with people of integrity when assembling members of his cabinet, praying that God would help him to succeed. Fape also advised him not to allow himself to be carried away by the excitement and euphoria of electoral victory, lest he forgets those who God used to help him to get to the position of a governor after being sworn-in.