THE National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) is to begin enrolment of Nigerian adults and children in South Africa into the National Identity Database (NIDB) for the issuance of the National Identification Number (NIN). The enrolment in South Africa is in collaboration with its licensed partner, Messrs Thebez Global Resources Limited (TGR). The company is in the business of providing similar services in partnership with other similar companies in the Diaspora. TGR is working in collaboration with Cox & Kings Global Services Limited (CKGS), a premium outsourcing partner for government and businesses across the globe, to enrol Nigerians in Diaspora by setting up enrolment centres in different countries. CKGS’ comprehensive range of services include consular services, identity management solutions, document processing services and an extensive suite of technology-enabled business process accelerators. The South Africa NIN enrolment centre, located at 205 Rivonia Road, Morningside, Sandton, Johannesburg 2057, will open for enrolment from tomorrow and  appointments can be made via the TGR website, nin.thebezglobalresource.com as from  tomorrow. It is expected that other countries will come onboard on TGR ‘s platform after the South African pilot experience. NIMC Director General/CEO ,  Aliyu Aziz, said the Diaspora exercise is in a bid to ensure that Nigerians living outside the country are not left out. According to him, six Nigerian companies have been licensed to  work with their respective partners across  all countries in Africa, Asia, Europe  and America to carry out the enrolment of Nigerian adults and children in the Diaspora into the National Identity Database (NIDB). “They will be issued with the National Identification Number (NIN) upon enrolment and subsequently the General Multipurpose Card (GMPC),” he said. He also assured that requisite standard guidelines and regulations have been put in place to ensure the effective implementation of the National Identity Management Systems (NIMS) as well as provide the right platform for providing digital identity for Nigerians and legal residents as well as Nigerians in Diaspora.