As part of plans to ensure the victory of the All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Oyo state, the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party for Ibadan North West/South West Federal Constituency in the just concluded National Assembly election, Dr Rotimi Ajanaku has made a return to the ruling APC. Ajanaku, accompanied by thousands of his supports at his Oke Ado base noted that his absence and that of his supporters was felt in the APC camp. He said his return to the APC was made possible by the “timely and uncommon intervention of the Executive Governor of Oyo State, His Excellency, Senator Isiaq Abiola Ajimobi who unequivocally fast-tracked the whole process, through his assurances of immediate re-integration of my followers into the party hierarchy and other worthy considerations.” Reading his text entitled; “I am back to my root”, the business mogul noted that his consultations with his supporters, loyalists, party leaders, elders approved the request and insistence of the APC governorship candidate for him to return to the ruling party. He vowed to work for the success of the APC candidates at the governorship and house of assembly levels. Ajanaku said, “The only constant phenomenon in life is change. “In my press statement when I joined the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), after my unpalatable experience in the All Progressives Congress (APC), as I was denied the House of Representatives ticket, I emphasized that my supporters and loyalists are the determining factor in every political decision I take. “I do not always decide without their consent. These people were severely embittered and they insisted that I must run on any available platform since there was no provision for independent candidacy. “You may recall that I reiterated that leaving the progressives bloc was a painful decision for me, judging by my investment and unquantifiable contribution since my foray into politics in the late 90s. “The outcome of the last National Assembly elections showed that my political camp is a formidable force to reckon with in Ibadan Northwest /Southwest Federal Constituency. Though, I didn’t win the election, the results of the election reflected our conspicuous absence in the APC. “Having consulted widely with the relevant stakeholders – the party hierarchy, public opinion leaders, supporters, loyalists and well-wishers, including the APC Governorship Candidate, Chief Adebayo Adelabu (Penkelemesi), who personally insisted on my comeback, I , Otunba Rotimi Ajanaku hereby succumbed to the public pressure to return to All Progressives Congress (APC). “This became necessary in order to support the governorship and state assembly candidates of the party and to further brighten their chances at polls on Saturday, March 9, 2019. “In view of this, I hereby direct my followers to start mobilising for the APC in their respective wards. Henceforth, all our campaign vehicles, billboards and other promotional materials should wear APC looks.”  