Founder and Executive Director, Global Initiative on Substance Abuse, (GISA) Dr Martin Agwogie, is seeking improved efforts towards mitigating the effect of substance abuse among youths from secondary to tertiary levels by ensuring that authorities include it in the curricula. According to Agwogie, this is necessary because of the frightened report on the just released National Survey on Drug Abuse and Health in Nigeria, in which one out of seven Nigerians youth between ages 15 and 64 at least use one substance abuse. This, Agwogie fears, is higher than the global average of 1 out of 20 according (United Nations Office on Drug and Crime (UNODC) world drug abuse. Agwogie stated this on the sideline of the one week training for practitioners on the universal prevention curriculum (UPC) for substance use disorders organised by GISA in collaboration with Colombo Plan Drug Advisory Programme, in Lagos. He said: “Globally it (substance abuse) is one out of 20, but in Nigeria it is one out of seven which means there is a problem that we need to collectively address as a nation, community, parents and individuals.” Agwogie, who is also the National Co-ordinator for Universal Prevention Curriculum on Substance Use disorders for Nigeria, also added that prevention can only be done through evidence base, a kind of method he said is uncommon in Nigeria. “This is the reason we are having this training, to be able to equip people in different sectors in providing or acquiring prevention skills and to be able to prevent the use of substance. “It is a training using the United States government developed material for substance use prevention. We are training practitioners, who will provide evidence base prevention for substance use. “And how do we do this?  The curriculum is in different tracks and the practitioner are trained according to their specialisation,” he explained. Agwogie, however, added that prevention should target age bracket so that the trained personnel will be able to flow with them and through this the target audience would receive the message that would help wade off substance of abuse. “Moreso as they develop both physically, cognitive, morally, emotionally and socially, there is also the need to also build their intrinsic motivation that will last longer. “That is why we have different tracks like school base for school environment, family base for family, work place for offices and community base tracks among others in order to prevent substance use in the as well to reach out to all individuals nationwide. He, however, warned against the passing of wrong messages to people through scare tactics, saying it has aggravate most cases of substance abuse. Agwogie also urged the society and the government not to be spontaneous in their reactions to cases of substance abuse among youths because policies made at that point do more harm than good. He said his office is open to collaborations across secondary to tertiary levels. “GISA is ready to collaborate with any organisation or non organisation to address this and you will agree with me that the National Education Research and Development Council involves stakeholders in developing curriculum and we are willing to go into collaboration.