Promasidor Nigeria Limited, a leading food company, has provided succour to more than 60 parents of children with disabilities through its low-interest microcredit scheme – “We Too Can Grow.” The scheme is in advancement of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy. Done in partnership with Children’s Developmental Centre (CDC), which supports children and young adults with disabilities, the scheme has benefitted five cooperative groups to which the families belong, with three more to receive their grants. Promasidor said it initiated the scheme to provide funds to cooperative groups in Lagos and Ogun states through CDC. It is facilitated by Surbpolitan Microfinance Bank. Commenting on the support from Promasidor at a ceremony held for the cooperatives at the CDC in Lagos, the Project Director, Delphine Misan-Arenyeka, said the company had shown that it cares for children and young adults with disabilities. She said a lot of progress has been made and that other groups would also get the funds after undergoing training with the Community Development Foundation (CDF), which is in charge of capacity building, in partnership with CDC. The trainings are for proper organisational development, which involves conflict management, credit and financial management and entrepreneurship. Misan-Arenyeka added that four of the five cooperatives that benefitted from the scheme were in Lagos, while one was in Abeokuta, Ogun State. They included Excellent Cooperative, Success Cooperative, Affectionate Cooperative, CDC/Parents and Atunda-Olu. She commended Promasidor for the scheme, adding that the company has demonstrated that it cares for the less privileged. “We Too Can Grow also includes provision of Promasidor’s products to CDC, which are sold to support the children through funds disbursed to parents,” she said. Dr. Olayinka Akindayemi, CDC service director, advised the benefitting parents to take adequate care of their children and make judicious use of funds provided to them. She said there are plans to extend the scheme to other cooperative groups for the wellbeing of children with special needs. Promasidor Corporate Communications Coordinator Isiaka Lawal said the scheme was a way of saying children with special needs should not be discriminated against in the society. “We Too Can Grow is a way of saying that we recognise that children with special needs are members of the society. They have the right to pursue their dreams like other members of the society do,” he said