Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Friday inaugurated the Policies, Programmes and Projects committee recently set up by President Muhammadu Buhari. President Buhari set up the 15-member committee, chaired by the vice president, to take stock of the administration’s efforts so far and to make concrete preparations for the second term in office, which begins on May 29 this year. The terms of reference of the committee include “to audit and determine the status of implementation of policies programmes and projects either inherited or commenced by the out-going administration;” and “to identify and highlight a residue of works and challenges that may militate against their successful implementation.” The committee will also “prepare and produce a detailed working document that will guide the incoming cabinet members on the direction of government regarding policies, programmes and projects;” and “co-opt organisations or persons relevant towards the successful execution of the exercise and make recommendations as may be considered necessary.” Other members of the committee are Chief of Staff to the President, Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Minister of Budget and National Planning and the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Minister of Transportation and the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development are also members of the committee. Also in the committee are the Minister of Water Resources, the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the National Security Adviser and the Permanent Secretary, Cabinet Affairs Office and the Deputy Chief of Staff to the President. Inaugurating the committee, Vice President Osinbajo said the committee would, “in the next few weeks, determine the current status of and performance on federal government projects and programmes, relying not just on submissions made by the various ministries, department and agencies but also on objective assessment of experts already engaged on similar assessments and will be co-opted to assist in this mission. “They will also be required to produce a detailed implementation plan based on the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, ERGP and on several documents, including the Next Level Document.” Prof. Osinbajo said the plan was aimed at ensuring the preparation of a working document that would guide in the implementation of federal government projects and programmes, and especially serve as an important guide for ministers in the new cabinet. “It is important to note that the review of ongoing projects is already an entrenched activity of this government. “In fact, status reports were presented to the Federal Executive Council by all ministers between January and May last year and those reports only need updating for the purpose of this committee’s work. “Also government plans are always guided by the manifesto of the All Progressives Congress, the basis of the promises which we made to Nigerians, and also by the ERGP, where we strive to reflect not just our annual budgets but policies and programme and implementation plans of the government. “Of course, this would be supplemented by the updates made by the party manifesto by way of the next level government.” The vice president said the policy, programmes and projects audit committee would also ensure that there would be objective report, critical analysis and realistic projections that would constitute clear guidelines for each cabinet minister. “We will focus on ensuring that we have for the incoming cabinet a clear presentation, ministry by ministry, what government needs to do, the challenges to be envisaged and the implementation plan.” He said the members of the committee would be required to work with teams of their own choice. Absent at the inauguration on Friday, the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister Justice, Abubakar Malami, sent in his apologies. The Head of Service of the Federation, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Minister of Transportation were represented by Magdalene Ajani, Edward Adamu and John Eboigbe, respectively.