A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Jubrin Abdulmumin, at the weekend said that any erring member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) involved in foul play in the emergence of the leadership of the 9th National Assembly won’t go unpunished. In 2015, some members of the ruling party had connived with some opposition members in the emergence of the leadership of the 8th National Assembly to the detriment of the APC. But speaking with State House correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abdulmumin was optimistic that APC lawmakers will tow the line of the party for the emergence of the next leadership of the National Assembly. He, however, harped on the need for lobbying prior to the process. He said: “Well the position of our party and our leaders has always been that all elected members and of course, senators should exercise patience, work is going on, consultations are being carried out and I believe that no any elected senator or members of APC would allow himself to be used by the opposition like in the case of 2015. “In the case of 2015, there weren’t consequences but I am pretty sure that this time around, if anybody allowed himself to be used by the opposition party, there will certainly be consequences.” Asked if they will follow the wish of the party, he said: “Well, that is what is expected. But as you also aware, they are matured people, they are elected members, there is need for engagement, there is need for a lot of lobbying – that is what is obtainable all over the world. “And we have in the person of the President- our father who is reaching out to everybody and of course the party chairman and other leaders working day and night consulting with members and lobbying where they should, so that at the end of the day we can have a very smooth leadership election. “But of course, that is not to say that there is no elements of desperation as you can see, a lot of people coming out to indicate interest. “Personally, I have complained about that and the way and manner they are going about it it’s a bid unhealthy for the party, because at the end of the day only one person will become senate president and only one person will become the speaker and other principal officers. “So we need to start imbibing the culture of putting the country first or the party first before ourselves. “Personally, I have demonstrated that because I have indicated that I am not interested in running for the office of the speakership, deputy speakership or any principal office because of how chocked up the whole system is as regard the number of people that are contesting. “Just to open up space, and allow some of us to sit down and organise and ensure that the government and of course the party eventually have the kind of parliament or the kind of leadership of the National Assembly that they can work with harmoniously.” he said