The Nigeria Police Force said it has arrested three suspects for their alleged involvement in the attack on a Deputy Commissioner of Police DCP Kola Okunola in Twon, Brass, Bayelsa State. One of the suspects, Hon Israel Sunny Goli, according to the Police is a candidate of one of the major political parties in the House of Representatives elections in Brass Constituency, Bayelsa State. The Police, in a statement in Abuja on Friday by the Force Spokesman, ACP Frank Mba, said Adi was arrested in his hideout in Abuja on Friday morning. Other suspects arrested are Tamarapreye Victor, ‘m’ 34yrs and Azi Newton ‘m’ 34yrs. The suspects alongside others who are still at large brutally attacked and molested DCP Okunola a day after the Presidential and National Assembly elections while leading the team providing protection for INEC officials, voters and materials. The statement reads: “The Police have arrested Hon Israel Sunny Goli, the mastermind and ringleader of the irresponsible, unprovoked and unwarranted attack on a Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCP Kola Okunola in Twon, Brass, Bayelsa State, on Sunday, 24th February, 2019. “Two other persons arrested in connection with the incident are (i) Tamarapreye Victor, ‘m’ 34yrs and Azi Newton ‘m’ 34yrs. “Hon Israel Sunny Goli, a candidate of one of the major political parties in the House of Representatives Elections in Brass Constituency, Bayelsa State, was arrested in his hideout somewhere in Abuja this morning, 1st March, 2019 in a well-coordinated covert operation.” Mba explained that the arrest is in line with the directive of the Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP Mohammed Adamu for the immediate arrest, comprehensive investigation and diligent prosecution of all persons involved in the Sunday, 24th February, 2019 attack on the DCP in Twon, Brass, Bayelsa State. The Police also said effort is ongoing to apprehend other members of the gang involved in the unwholesome attack on the officer. On the forthcoming Governorship and House of Assembly Elections on March 9, the IGP reiterated that the Force under his watch will not condone any act of assault against any member of the Public, including the personnel of the Force legitimately assigned to protect the sanctity of the ballot.