TEMPERS have continued to rise in Bayelsa State following the shooting and killing of serving members of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) by suspected cultists. The cultists, in what has become a regular occurrence in Yenagoa, the state capital, stormed the corps members’ residence along the School Road in Swali and shot three of them. While two of the victims were confirmed dead at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Yenagoa, the third was lying critically injured and receiving treatment at the hospital. The attacked corps members were identified as Popoola Oluwatobi Olamide (30-year-old), a graduate of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) and an indigene of Oyo State; George Onokpoma and Gbenga Dada. Popoola was shot dead on the spot,  Onokpoma died at the FMC while Gbenga was receiving treatment for gunshot wounds at the medical centre. Yesterday, the Bayelsa State government through the office of the Commissioner for Youth Development, Mr. Udengs Eradiri, and the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC), Central Zone, condemned the gruesome murder of the corps members. Eradiri and the IYC Chairman, Tare Porri, led a high-powered delegation of Governor Seriake Dickson’s aides on youths to pay a condolence visit to the state coordinator, NYSC, Bolade Loto in Yenagoa. The youth commissioner said the governor was devastated by the report of the killings and mandated them to visit the IYC management in the state. “As a state we heard what happened. Our principal the governor was very touched and concerned about this ugly incident and we must express our condolence as a state government to NYSC. “Young people who came to serve their nation don’t deserve to die in the process. For us, we are sorry that such will happen in our environment. It should not happen to the NYSC not to youths who are serving their fatherland. “But the government is doing everything possible to ensure that the culprits are brought to book. It is unfortunate that the society has gone this bad. We condemn what happened and we are doing our best to engage young people.  “There is no reason why a young person will take another person’s life. Youth corps members are priceless assets to every nation. Our condolences go to their families and we will work very hard to ensure it doesn’t happen again,” Eradiri said. Also speaking, IYC Chairman, Porri,  said it was unfortunate that such dastardly acts were happening in Yenagoa despite the presence of many security outfits. He accused the security agencies of conspiracy and urged them to step up their game and guarantee security in the state. He said: “It was terrible and shocking incident that happened to us as Ijaw people. We are not known for things like this. It is unfortunate that young people who were serving our fatherland could be killed in such manner. “But my concern is that this sincerely calls for sober reflection. We have many security outfits in the state. We have the Nigerian Army 16th Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Central Naval Command of the Nigerian Navy, Mobility Command of the Airforce, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the Joint Task Force, Operation Delta Safe (ODS), the police, the DSS and other security outfits and this kind of incident is happening. “The Bayelsa State government is doing its best but these other security agencies should do their best. I don’t know what is happening whether it is conspiracy. I call on the security outfits to step up their game. It is life that we are talking about. We are worried and concerned.” The NYSC coordinator, Loto, described the incident as very heart-breaking, pathetic and very shameful and charged the police to thoroughly investigate the killing and bring the perpetrators to justice. Loto said the motive behind the killing was still unknown since the murderers left the scene of the incident without stealing any valuable. Narrating how the incident happened, she said: “When I was notified of this incident at the middle of the night on Wednesday, I immediately sent messages to the DG of NYSC, the Deputy Governor and the SSG. “They all replied me to express their shock for this dastardly act. Up till now I am still in shock. I keep asking myself, why? What could have happened because report has it that they took nothing from them. Since then, we have been in constant touch with the DG of NYSC and with the state government.  “That very morning, I visited the surviving corps member in the hospital. I ensured the hospital quickly and promptly gave the corps member the needed attention. The two families that lost their children had been contacted. They are still in shock wondering what their children could have done. They are still weeping. Also the Sagbama branch of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) condemned the brutal murder. A statement by its Chairman, Dise Sheila Ogbise, said the unwarranted murder of two was the latest in the spate of incessant violence, killings and criminal activities in the state. She said: “The insecurity in Bayelsa is alarming and a concern to peace and development in the state.”