The Queen Mother of Egiland in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area of Rivers State, Her Royal Majesty Grace Nwokoma, believes women must be able to balance work with family. This, she feels, should be done in such a way that one does not suffer for the other. She expressed her mind on March 12 in Port Harcourt at a capacity development workshop for women from host and neighbouring communities of Total Exploration and Production (E&P) Nigeria Limited in Rivers. The workshop was to commemorate the United Nations International Women’s Day, with the theme: “Balance for Better.” The Queen Mother also stated that women should multitask and balance all the tasks without getting tired, but she admonished the women to always take good care of their husbands and children, for peace to reign in their homes and the society. She said: “Women are blessed. I do not believe in gender equality. I do not believe that women are equal to men. I believe in inclusiveness. We (women) should be asking for inclusiveness, especially to be included in decision-making processes/activities and to be considered for appointments/elective positions and leadership roles. “Women will always have problems, when they feel that they are equal to men, especially their husbands, who may opt to beat them, either physically or with their attitude. Women must be submissive to their husbands. Do not neglect your husbands and children for professional lives or careers. Women must be helpers to their husbands, not competitors.” HRM Nwokoma also admonished women to support and give their money to their husbands, stressing that by empowering women, many persons would be liberated from poverty and the world would be a better place to live, work and do business. While also speaking, the Ada (Princess) Ekpeyelogbo of Ekpeye Kingdom, comprising Ahoada East and Ahoada West LGAs of Rivers State, Dr. Patricia Ogbonnaya, noted that she would continue to advocate gender main-streaming, not fighting for equality or competing with men. Dr. Ogbonnaya described men as the head and women as the neck holding/supporting the head, with women having potential and they should be encouraged, especially in their areas of comparative advantage, where they would do much better, stressing that women could now do better than men in various fields, with women now flying commercial aircraft and warplanes. One of the resource persons, Chief Magistrate Helen Umanah, who is the Akwa Ibom State Coordinator of African Women in Leadership Organisations, urged women to always think out of the box, think smart and innovate for change, stressing that being women is a blessing. Umanah, who represented the organisation’s Chief Executive, Emem Ette, said: “Women must place emphasis on economic and family balance. Not everybody is gifted to go to school. You can acquire skills to support yourselves and your families.  Start something today, no matter how little. Connect and network with other women. Ensure your businesses are visible to the world, through effective use of the Internet and social media. “Leave your comfort zones. Do other things to make your businesses more viable. Break out. Break barriers. Learn new skills. Put your minds and brains to work. Take risks and venture into new areas, for your lives to be better. There is also the need for mentorship. Be focused. Regularly go for training and retraining. Stay in your areas of interest/specialisation and be prayerful. “Take care of your health. Avoid junk and regularly visit your doctors. Do not let anybody mess up with your emotions. Stop competing, but be the best that you can. Think of fresh ideas. Build smart and innovate for change. Give vital parts of your lives to your families.” The chief magistrate also urged women to always harness their resources and not be careless or stupid, but to be better persons. Another resource person, Dr. Charles Apoki, 60, who is into private medical practice, a pastor, motivational speaker, an entrepreneur, capacity builder and has been married for 34 years, while addressing the teeming women, admonished them to always harness their potential and never to limit womanhood to marriage and childbearing, but to continually trust in the Lord for progress and success. He urged husbands to always listen to and respect their wives, compartmentalise their minds and balance their activities, stressing that with technology, women are no longer weaker vessels. The medical doctor, who is an indigene of Delta State in the Niger Delta, said: “Give women the same opportunities and training as men, but women must be outstanding in their fields. Women should not be confined to the other room or the kitchen. Women must be confident, courageous and competent. Parents should always strive to give their daughters quality education and good home training. “Women also need to develop good character, be smart, have charisma and chemistry. Build/develop capacity and have time for self-development. Do not be inferior to men or you should not be lazy. Breasts, buttocks and fine faces have expiry dates. Love does not keep marriage. It is responsibility that keeps marriage. It is difficult for women to marry into a lower class and be tolerated. Always take the right decisions, by God’s grace. “Men should not look at the mistakes of women, but to always encourage and nurture them. Cherish and love women. Value women and treat them with respect. Do not underrate women. Women must also be nice to their husbands, children and they should not be rebellious. Women must be neat at all times and they should place emphasis on cleanliness, because dirty wives can put off their husbands.” Apoki also admonished men over 40 to write their wills and they should let their wives know the codes of their bank accounts, if they are not operating joint accounts, stressing that men should live their lives as if they would die tomorrow or live forever. The medical doctor urged women to also be speaking for women and be supporting mostly contesting women during elections, describing women as their enemies, because of envy. The Manager, Community Affairs, Offshore and Port Harcourt of Total, Mr. Okechukwu Obara, added that no group had been empowered by the oil giant more than women, stressing that women had been getting 60 per cent in Total’s microcredit schemes and skills’ acquisition programmes. Total’s Deputy Managing Director, Port Harcourt District, Mr. Francios Le Cocq, in his keynote address, stressed that balance for better was what the world would be looking forward to, noting that the expectation would not be only for gender balance, but also for gender balance in wealth creation. The deputy managing director, who was represented by the oil company’s Deputy General Manager, Community Affairs and Development, James Uroh, pointed out that the international women’s day was to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. He said: “It has been noted that balance drives a better working world and we all know that gender balance is essential for economies and communities to thrive all around us. This year’s celebration is focused on ways in which innovations and technology can provide opportunities for gender parity and enhance the empowerment of women, particularly in the areas of social protection systems, access to public services and sustainable infrastructure. “Our passion is to assist women through networking opportunities, development programmes and enlightenment. So that they not only aspire, but also achieve their aspirations. In doing all this, we try to understand your perspectives and align them with societal, economic and business opportunities that exist for you. We believe that once these aspirations are achieved, society would be better for it. “Total E&P Nigeria Limited has for the past few years been actively involved in the promotion of programmes aimed at recognising the achievements of women, building sustainable support for women’s rights and participation in the socio-political arena. Our drive is to unleash the potential that women have in all things that they can do and will do.” Le Cocq also urged everybody to join hands with the world and the United Nations’ women to seize the moment, celebrate, take action and transform women’s lives everywhere. Women must be enterprising and creative, not becoming full housewives or liabilities, in order to be respected and celebrated.