FSDH Asset Management Limited has opened an application list for the initial public offering (IPO) of its FSDH Treasury Bills Fund. The asset management firm is offering 15 million units of its Treasury Bills Fund at par value of N100 each. The minimum investment amount is 100 units or N10,000 with multiples of 100 units or N10,000 thereafter. The IPO, which opened on March 01, 2019, is scheduled to close on, March 28, 2019. The FSDH Treasury Bills Fund, a money market collective investment scheme, is an open-ended fund that will primarily invest in low risk short-term securities such as treasury bills, commercial papers and fixed deposits. The fund is authorised by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in accordance with the provisions of Section 160 of the Investment and Securities Act (ISA). In an executive summary on the new fund, FSDH stated that the objective of the fund is to provide investors with capital preservation, stable and consistent income flows. According to the company, the fund manager will achieve its objective by pooling funds together to actively manage and obtain competitive returns for investors. FSDH noted that the fund is targeted towards investors, who are interested in fixed deposits and are looking to achieve higher returns that ordinarily are not achievable with minimal funds. The company urged investors with low risk appetite, investors that require liquidity and those seeking to establish, on ongoing basis, a savings plan to invest in the new fund. Authorities at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) last week launched a new trading platform for mutual funds. The platform is expected to facilitate electronic transactions with seamless connection among key parties in transactions, including the Exchange, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS), stockbrokers and fund managers. A mutual fund is a pool of funds brought together by a professional fund manager from several investors to invest in selected underlying securities. The underlying securities can be one or a combination of the following: stocks, fixed income securities, real estate, and commodities. A mutual fund portfolio is structured and maintained to match different investment objectives. The type of mutual fund an individual invests in depends on their financial objectives and appetite for risk. Most mutual funds are open-ended investment schemes. This means that the fund manager can create additional units for new investors on demand. The fund manager is also able to provide active liquidity by redeeming units from existing investors, who want to sell units for cash. Through this pool of funds, an investor creates wealth over a long period of time by making the money work for him through regular saving and investment. In addition to liquidity, mutual funds offer a range of benefits to investors, including portfolio diversification and lower transaction costs. The existence of a Trustee and Custodian to a mutual fund ensures the safety of investments, as the Trustee ensures that the fund is managed in line with approved investment guidelines, and the Custodian holds the fund assets.