With the arrest of no fewer than 115 commercial motorcyclists, popularly known as Okada riders, last week, the Lagos State Government may have reaffirmed its commitment to restricting their activities to last-mile shuttles, ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE writes Alhassan Ahmed, a salesman, was running out of time for a business meeting in Ota, Ogun State. It was about 1pm, when he left his office at Ikeja, Lagos. He had to make it to Ota by 3pm. He stood by the roadside, contemplating the fastest route out of the traffic bedlam at Ikeja, when he saw the Gokada rider, a commercial e-hail motorcycle operator, in black with green Gokada helmet. He flagged him down, and negotiated the trip, mounted the bike and donned the helmet, which Gokada said is certified to the American Department of Transportation (DOT) standard. Within one and half hours, he was sitting comfortably at the company’s boardroom. Since that experience, Ahmed said he had “become addicted to Gokada”. He added: “Except on Sundays, I don’t see the need to go out with my car again. I move around the city, on a motorcycle. It is fast and affordable for anyone who does not want to spend eternity in the perennial traffic that has made Lagos a pain in the neck for many commuters.” Ahmed’s testimony is one of the thousands, who have turned to this two-wheeler alternative to beat the gridlock, which has become a permanent feature of movement around the metropolis. Also, a food blogger, Yewande, said she had been taking Maxokada, everyday from Maryland, where she lives, to her Broad Street office, on Lagos Island. According to her, the risk associated with riding such a very long distance pales into insignificance when you imagine the alternative of spending a minimum of three to five hours in buses or a taxi. “I have simply stopped thinking of the risk. I just hop on it because it offers me the quickest option of reaching my destination, though it costs more,” she stated. In Lagos, two brands – Maxokada and Gokada Gokada – have become ubiquitous, seizing the space from local operators, who have almost been snuffed out of the business by security operatives. Andrew, who works in a media house at Apapa, said he alternates between Gokada and Maxokada daily in and out of Apapa’s perennial traffic gridlock. Maxokada, which began operation in August 2015, said it has made over 300,000 kilometres and carried no fewer than 500 passengers. It has 1000 drivers on its platform. Similar milestone were reeled out recently by Gokada, which marked its forst year on the road recently. Other operators apart from these two are sprouting by the day, to cash in on the huge market caused by the perennial gridlocks that has made transportation a nightmare. The emergence of more organised fleet bicycle operators, have thrown a new spanner to the works as they all deploy machines that do not fall below the acceptable standards in running their shuttling business. Unlike the regular motorcycle operators, who have been forced out of business by the government, because of their use of low-capacity motorcycles, these new operators have a fleet of no less than 200cc engines which were approved under the Lagos State Traffic Law 2012, as permissible on its roads. Armed with the right kind of machine, the operators have claimed that they could go anywhere unmolested by the law enforcement agencies. While Maxokada promises a 70 per cent reduction in travel time on safe, and affordable motorcycle, known as Maxgo, Gokada on its website boasted it could get riders to any destination 50 per cent quicker than any closest road rival. Over the past four years, Maxokada, have also become the biggest logistics partner for major brands on its delivery service known as MaxNow. Life saving Though transportation and logistics experts are wont to agree that motorcycle, better known as para-transportation, is unknown to organised transportation system and would want it stamped out in Lagos, the “madness on the roads,” are making it alluring to those who needs timely delivery or requires fast-paced movement to move in the course of their business. With the Transportation Law 2012 in place, the government had restricted motorcycle drivers from plying major roads, highways and bridges. Eleven highways, 45 bridges and 502 roads were out of bound for them. The law also extends to tricycle operations. Operators of commercial motorcycles and tricycles, are expected to operate only the last mile, otherwise known as the inner city roads. According to the government, the enforcement of the law brought down the rate of motorcycle-related accident by as much as 70 per cent, and stopped its ugly underbelly of being used as getaway vehicle by armed robbers and other criminally-minded deviants. Instilling decorum Non- compliance with regulations, according to Safety Without Borders founder, Mr. Patrick Adenusi, could only be a recipe for disaster and a return to the state’s immediate ugly past where accident was the order of the day. He sided with Kola Egbeyemi led Task Force, for impounding 115 comercial motorcyclists recently. Like Egbeyemi, Adenusi believed operating on restricted routes, including the one-way around Ikeja, Ojota, and Maryland would further excercebate the traffic crisis to which the state has sunk. Egbeyemi differed, describing their operations as illegal. He wondered why they should be in business without valid documents or willingness to be regulated. “It was an eye-sore seeing operators of these newly branded commercial motorcycles (Gokada/Maxokada) competing for right of way with motorists on highways and bridges across the state,” he said. One of the arrested Gokada riders, Francis Ayeni, who claimed to pay N3000 daily to the firm, said they were not aware of any documentation with the government. Another arrested rider, Mr. Adebayo Adeniran, confirmed that he collected one of the newly branded commercial motorcycles Maxokada on hire purchase after presenting a guarantor. An indication that commercial motor cycle system has no place in the state’s transportation architecture is the fact that commercial motorcycle operation has no place in the state’s transportation master plan. The transportation policy being put together is silent on comercial motor cycle operation. An expert, Dr Tajudeen Bawa’Allah, insists that commercial motor cyclist has no place in the state’s transportation policy. He saidcommercial motor cycle operation is powered by poverty and unemployment, adding that though commercial motor cycle business remains the lowest end of the transportation business, it remains illegal and unacceptable as a means of transportation in a state aiming to operate a smart economy.