FOR the managers of the Nigerian economy, the latest statistics from the United States Energy Information Administration (EIA) on the trend of imports of Nigerian crude oil into the United States of America ought to be sobering, given how much the economy has remained tied to petrodollars. According to the figures, from a five-year high of 112.92 million barrels in 2017, crude oil sales to the United States fell to 64.06 million barrels last year – a difference of 48.87 million barrels or a whopping 43 per cent. That trend, hardly surprising, has been most noticeable in recent years. For instance, since 2012 when the U.S. peaked at 148.48 million barrels of Nigeria’s crude, its annual demand has been somewhat of a mixed bag. In 2013, it took only 87.40 million barrels – ostensibly owing in part to the shale oil revolution. This would dip to 21.24 million barrels in 2014 – when oil prices hit the roof at $114 per barrel, and19.85 million barrels in 2015, only to rise dramatically to 75.81 million barrels in 2016. Of course, to state that global crude trade patterns have witnessed unprecedented dynamism in recent years is merely to state the obvious. However, while the rise of Far East countries like China and India has meant a surge in global demand from  Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting countries (OPEC) and other producers, it has not necessarily translated into improving Nigeria’s fortunes. In fact, there have been, in recent years, reports of Nigeria’s crude being stranded on the high seas in search of buyers from the Far East, occasioning in some cases, massive discounts on official prices. Yet, as dire as the latest prognosis appears, it has certainly been long in coming. Having led the shale revolution, it was perhaps predictable that the United States would sooner than later join the league of oil exporters. It is however unfortunately the case that the Federal Government continues to pretend that the same short-sighted policies being pursued in the sector will somehow produce a different outcome, even at a time the country is being increasingly sidelined as a player of relevance. One way to address the challenge would have been for the Federal Government to explore bilateral relationships to deepen its market share of crude. Unfortunately, this approach comes to nothing in practical terms. This is because Nigeria’s market share is set by OPEC quota, hence its unlikelihood of being able to push for any grand bargains outside of the framework of what the cartel puts on the table. In fact, that option would in the end, merely deepen the current cycle of dependency further, rather than vitiate it. And, as the example of Venezuela and Iran – two countries under the hefty weight of United States sanctions – does show, oil trade is not exactly a matter between willing sellers and buyers. In any case, the Nigerian situation remains precarious, no thanks to the continuing regulatory uncertainty, under which a number of new projects that could have come on board have stalled. Which of course takes us to the point that we have made – repeatedly – that the way out is for the Federal Government to encourage more refineries and petrochemical plants to come on board to process the nation’s abundant crude and to provide industrial raw materials for industries. That way, not only will the country not have to worry about OPEC quota or even declining U.S. imports; the ghost of a leading producer of oil spending humongous amount of its foreign exchange earnings from the same crude to bring in fuel for its citizens would have been permanently laid to rest. Even more than that, the government would have gone several steps ahead to lay an enduring foundation for a truly diversified economy, and, by extension, the country’s industrial take-off.