According to the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), It is estimated that about 30,000 Nigerians spend up to a $1 billion on medical tourism per annum and about 60% of this amount is spent in the healthcare areas of cardiology, orthopedics, renal dialysis issues and cancer. I have observed that indigenous pharmaceuticals companies’ healthcare medical centres in Nigeria are only able to meet about 45 percent of the demand for drugs and medical equipment which provides an avenue for import substitution. Nigeria with its massive population and lack of a robust national health insurance framework, has become a major source market for medical tourism. In Nigeria, there is obviously a ready market of its citizens seeking high quality medical care with the requisite purchasing power. In one year as an Ambassador, I have had the chance to meet with government personnels, international organizations and doctors who work in Nigeria’s health care field. What they told me was though Nigeria is the largest economy in Africa, Nigeria’s health industry infrastructure is not developed enough and asked me how Korea has developed itself in both its economy and health care industry. Also, I noticed that when Nigerian experts come back from Korea, they seemed fascinated about Korea’s cosmetics and medical tourism. In this instance, I would like to introduce Korea’s health care industry to Nigeria. Korea’s Health Industry statistics Korea has consistently ranked amongst the top five countries for quality healthcare provision by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development(OECD) and Bloomberg. The country is ranked first by the OECD for healthcare access and rated as the fourth most efficient healthcare system in the world by Bloomberg. The quality of Korean healthcare has been ranked as being among the world’s best. Satisfaction of healthcare has also been consistently among the highest in the world. Also, According to ‘2018 OECD Health Statistics’, Korea’s Life expectancy was 82.4 years, infant mortality rate was 2.8 among 1000 which is 1.1 less than OECD country’s average, Current Health Expenditure(% of gross domestic product) is 7.6% which is 1.3%p less than OECD country’s average(8.9%). World’s Best Medical Technology Korea is an emerging new leader on the global healthcare market through advanced medical technologies, cutting-edge hardware and IT-based infrastructure. Therefore, patients can receive high quality health care at affordable prices through high-tech hardware and infrastructure like small cameras and robotic surgery. According to World Health Organization(WHO), Nigeria’s death rate from Cancer is to rise to 75% by 2030. Over 100,000 Nigerians are diagnosed with cancer annually, and about 80,000 die from the disease, averaging  240 Nigerians every day or 10 Nigerians every hour, dying from cancer. The Nigerian cancer death ratio of 4 in 5 is one of the worst in the whole world. However, Korea’s top medical technology has led to a result of five-year Cancer survival rates as 70.6% in 2012-2016 among all cancers. Korea has the highest colorectal cancer survival rate at 76.8%. Furthermore, Korea’s breast cancer’s survival rate is 92.7%, prostate cancer’s survival rate is 93.9%, and stomach cancer’s survival rate is 75.8%. Mortality from hemorrhagic stroke is the third lowest in the OECD at 13.7 deaths. For ischaemic stroke it ranked second at 3.4 deaths. Also, The country has the lowest adult HIV/AIDS prevalence rate in the world with only 0.1% of the population being infected. Excellent Medical Facilities & Medical Practitioners Hospitals in Korea boasts of excellent medical practitioners and facilities. The Korean government has a strict regulation over hospitals to ensure optimum medical services. Korea’s hospitals put the safety and satisfaction of patients ahead of profits. The OECD statistics count only hospitals, and do not reflect statistics concerning clinics, dental clinics, traditional herbal medicine clinics, and midwifery centers common in Korea. The number of hospital beds per 1,000 population is about 13.55, well above the OECD countries’ average of 5 and hospitals dominate the health system. Also, In 2017, Korea has 120,630 doctors and 355,524 nurses as practicing physicians. For example with Korea’s Plastic surgery industry, the country also became a major producer and exporter of fillers and botox. With 650,000 operations performed annually, Korea is ranked seventh place in terms of absolute number of plastic surgery operations performed each year, as opposed to the United States where plastic surgery is most frequently performed (3,110,000 annually). When these numbers are converted into the per-population ratio, however, the rankings are reversed. With 13.5 plastic surgery operations performed for every 1,000, Korea tops the rankings, followed by Greece (12.5 per 1,000), Italy (11.6 per 1,000), and the United States (9.9 per 1,000). Affordable Medical Costs In Korea, patients can receive high quality of health care and treatments at affordable prices through cutting-edge hardware and infrastructure. Medical costs in Korea are only 20-30% of those in the United States while medical services are still on a similarly high level. For example, liver transplant that costs about 575,000 USD in the United States would generally cost about 130,000 USD in Korea. Traditional Medicine in Korea Traditional medicine in Korea has its own treatments, hospitals and prescriptions that is comparable with western medicine. The World Health Organization (WHO) has recognized hanbang, or traditional Korean medicine, as valid medicine.  Traditional Korean medicine involves identifying the physical constitution of each patient, and finding the right (customized) care and prescription accordingly. Traditional Korean medicine also prefers more natural treatments, such as herbal medicines, acupuncture, and moxibustion, over artificial drug regimens of antibiotics and painkillers. Korean Wave K-pop, K-beauty, and K-fashion are emerging as hot trends in many countries worldwide today and Korean pop culture is spreading rapidly across the globe. Thanks to Korean TV series, movies and beauty products, the number of international medical tourists visiting Korea for beauty and traditional medicine treatment or experience has been on steady rise. Since 2016, K-Beauty has become somewhat of a phenomenon, with women all over the world looking to achieve that luminous glow. The pursuit of beauty can be found across socio-economic classes. Korea and Nigeria has always enjoyed a cordial and friendly relationship since we established diplomatic ties in 1980. By 2020, Nigeria and Korea would mark their 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations, and with an improved cooperation in the health care industry, I expect Korea and Nigeria’ s bilateral relationship to keep soaring in the years’ ahead.