An accredited election observer group has commended the preparedness of the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agencies for Saturday’s governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections in Enugu state. The observer group under the aegis of Congress of Civil Society Organisation in Nigeria, hailed the level of preparation by INEC towards ensuring a credible and transparent election in the state. The group disclosed this in a statement issued by its Chairman, Moses Ebahor and its Secretary, Chidi Chielo, in Abuja on Friday. It also commended the readiness of electorate in the state for the elections particularly in voters awareness and the number of permanent voters card (PVC) issued by INEC. The statement reads: “As INEC Accredited Election Observers we were able to ascertain the level of the preparedness of INEC towards ensuring credible and transparent election in Enugu State especially in providing a level playing ground for all political parties to participate. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is resolute, transparent and committed in conducting credible, free and fair election in Enugu State, hence providing a level playing ground for all political parties in Enugu State. They are seriously disseminating information that will lead to credible election across the Local Government Areas in Enugu State. “The level of voters awareness and mobilization by INEC for the election is very encouraging as they are seriously committed to voters education. The electorates in Enugu State are fully ready for the election as over 70% have collected their PVCS and wish to use same for the election. “We were also able to ascertain the security situation in the state ahead of the elections. The various security agencies in Enugu State should put more effort in ensuring that area boys or political thugs are not found within the polling centres. “The state Government and the various security agencies in Eungu State have been able to set a formidable security structure that guarantees the safety of lives and property during and after the election in Eungu State. “Hence, it is our earnest advice that they should be professionals in the discharge of their duties. “It is indeed very remarkable to conclude that INEC is fully ready for the election in Enugu State comes 9th March, 2019.”