A House of Representative member-elect from Yagba Federal Constituency, Kogi state on the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) Hon. Leke Abejide has debunked insinuations he was sponsored by Hon. James Falake, a member representing Ikeja Federal Constituency. According to a statement by the newly elected lawmaker, he described the story published by a section of the media as cheap blackmail orchestrated by his political detractors at Kogi state Government House. He said: “Shocked by the way the All Progressive Congress was roundly defeated at Yagba Federal Constituency by our great party, the ADC, some disgruntled elements sponsored by Governor Yahaya Bello resorted to blackmail and mischievous propaganda to make the world believe I cannot stand on my feet. “The baseless document which was made available to news media in Lokoja by its authors last Tuesday alleges that Honourable Abejide, the popularly elected representative of the good people of Yagba Federal Constituency on the platform of ADC in the Green Chamber of the National Assembly, was sponsored by Hon. James Falake, a member representing Ikeja Federal Constituency of Lagos state at the House of Representatives.” Abejide stated: “I am too profound and successful in all facets of life to be sponsored by anybody within and outside Nigeria. “The African Democratic Congress (ADC), which I nurtured from inception to a position of strength which cumulated in its victory over established political parties, including the ruling APC in Kogi state in the recently concluded National Assembly Election in my constituency has no relationship whatsoever with Hon. James Falake or any other person (s), for that matter. “For avoidance of doubt, I wish to place it on record that I am a very successful business mogul capable of sponsoring myself, and to make it straight that I sponsored/inaugurated the party ADC in Yagba Federal Constituency. “I single-handedly sponsored myself and all other State Assembly Candidates of the party in Yagba land without receiving a dime from Hon. Faleke of APC.” On why he won, he said: “I have always enjoyed the goodwill and support of Yagba Federal Constituency through my over six years unprecedented empowerment programmes for widows, less privileged, students, youths and the aged spread across Yagba land. “These credentials, alone earned me the landslide victory at the last National Assembly Election in Yagba land. “So, the sponsorship allegation at its best can be described as the figment of imagination of some few demented souls in Kogi APC who are already jittery of their diminishing popularity occasioned by failure of governance of APC in the state.”