As activities resume at the Audio-Visual Rights Society of Nigeria (AVRS), following the election of founding Chairman of the society, Mr. Mahmod Ali-Balogun, popular actor Richard Mofe Damijo; former Director General of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Emeka Mba and Chairman of Social Media Week-Nigeria Obi Asika will headline the maiden edition of the stakeholders and users forum, organized by the primal and sole Collective Management Organization (CMO) for cinematography and films in Nigeria. Scheduled to hold at 10am on March 27 at the Eko Hotel and Suites on Victoria Island, Lagos, the trio will be joined by other prominent members of the audio-visual community at the event. Organisers say RMD as Richard Damijo is simply called, will moderate and serve as compere at the event, which is aimed at sensitizing prospective licensees of the AVRS and other stakeholders in the Nigerian creative space on the nature and functions of AVRS. According to Ali-Balogun, the forum was also conceived to sensitize the licensees on their roles as partners and the need for them to meet up their obligations. A statement signed by the AVRS Chairman indicates that the event will have the former Director General of the Nigerian Broadcasting Commission (NBC) Emeka Mba as Chairman while the newly appointed Director General of the Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) John Asein will deliver the keynote address. The event will be Mr. Asein’s first official outing with stakeholders since his recent appointment as Director General of the NCC. Also expected as speakers and panelists at the event are the CEO of Dragon Africa and Chairman Social Media Week Nigeria Obi Asika, CEO of ACC Broadcast Multimedia Limited Dr. Don Pedro Obaseki, Sandra Oyewole, partner at Olajide Oyewole LLP and Chijioke Uwaegbute of Pricewaterhouse and Cooper. Licensed by the NCC in 2014, in pursuant to section 39 of the Nigerian Copyright Act and the CMO regulations 2007, the AVRS is the only company that is authorized to license public and commercial use of cinematograph and video works in Nigeria. The AVRS is to the cinematographic industry in Nigeria what the existing CMO’S—Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON) and Reproductive Rights Society of Nigeria (REPRONIG) that were licensed few years ago is to musical works, sound recordings, and literary works respectively.