Nigeria’s mines and steel resources are enormous but currently harnessed in small and artisanal scale and exported raw. But the federal government says it’s fully ready with measures and policies to encourage modern exploitation of the value chain opportunities. Charles Okonji reports. Stakeholders gathered recently in Lagos to brainstorm on the ways of achieving the much needed diversification of the country’s economy. The occasion was manufacturers exhibition NME-2019 organized by the Manufacturers Association Nigeria (MAN). During the exhibition with the theme, ‘Optimizing the Value Chain towards the Growth and Competitiveness in the Manufacturing Sector’, one sector that was critically x-rayed with aim of achieving greater national growth was the Mines and Steel. The sector is believed to house myriad of value chain activities that when fully exploited, will create great positive impact on the economy and job creation. That Nigeria is greatly endowed with enormous natural resources, conducive climatic weather encourages for agricultural exploration and exploitation, water resources, is no longer news. However, harnessing these resources for the maximum benefit of the country and citizens has remained problematic. The nation’s geology is replete with untapped mineral resources of unfathomable quantum and variety. Limestone with its unimaginable applications in cement manufacturing, Lead/Zinc, Gold and Iron Ore, Manganese, Tin/Columbite, Tantalite, Ceramic Clays, Barytes, Coal, Bitumen and several other industrial minerals and Gem Stones to mention but a few. But the narrative is about to change as current political leadership in the country is committed to diversify the age-long single product economy. Speaking at the NME2019 expo, Hon. Abubakar Bawa Bwari, Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development says a vast array of these minerals are available in Nigeria and are being exploited either formally or informally. Bwari argued that the exploitation of myriad of value chain activities associated with these resources will go a long way to create positive impact to the nation’s economy. “However, the subject of optimizing this initiatives now borders on sustained virile policies and continuous stakeholders engagement to ensure sustainable growth and competitiveness which is most desirable to ensure a healthy national economy”, the minister stated. While commending MAN for its foremost role and uncommon resilience in the quest to diversify the economy posited that the elite body of Organized Private Sector (OPS) and members in the country need to do more to harness the numerous opportunities in the mines and steel sector. “The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), being a foremost and elite organized private sector Body has demonstrated sterling competencies and uncommon resilience in the face of daunting challenges confronting the manufacturing sector in Nigeria”, Bwari added. Call for Action As the minister rightly observed, at the occasion, the big question has been “Why are we not adding value to these commodities prior to export”, saying that a significant quantity of the minerals resources are being mined in small and artisanal scale and exported raw. “A One (1) or Two (2) Step Value Addition to them would generate a lot of employment and improve skills and technical capacities of Nigerians as well as make significant contribution to the Nigerian Economy. Nigeria has depended solely on Petroleum Resources as its revenue earner for over 70 years. “It is in the light of recent dwindling Oil Prices that the Federal Government began to look inward to develop additional sources of revenue”, Bwari posited. According to him, to correct this, the Federal Government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari initiated policies and programmes aimed at diversifying the revenue base of the country with the agriculture and mining sectors identified as handy catalysts. The Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) he said, is is one of the cardinal Programmes of government that outlines the strategy for achieving government’s vision of sustained and inclusive growth. “The Plan aims at economic recovery in the short-term, and structural reforms aimed at diversifying the economy to set it on a path toward sustained and inclusive growth over the medium to long-term. “The Economic Recovery and Growth Plan serves as an umbrella’ framework that incorporates 60 national development strategies. 12 of these strategies including infrastructure, industrial and power sector development have been identified as priorities”, he disclosed. Strategic objectives of ERGP2017 – 2020. ERGP aim at restoring growth, investment in human capital and building a globally competitive economy. He described the theme of NME-2019 as perfect fit into the ERGP objectives, adding that the mining and steel sector having been identified as a sector that will help reposition and facilitate Government’s diversification efforts and source of additional revenue. This he observed, has placed a great demand on the Ministry of Mines & Steel Development (MMSD) as clearly conveyed by President Buhari to the Ministers during their appointments with clear mandate to increase the revenue generation from the sector, broaden the sector’s capacity to create jobs, and implement policies that will engender sustainable mining. “The Ministry of Mines and Steel Development in an effort to implement its mandates has undertaken far reaching reforms and developed strategies to fulfill this mandate and has so far recorded some achievements”, he said. Some of such achievements include the development of a Roadmap for the Growth and Development of the Nigerian Industry; addressed the issue of low funding through the N30 Billion Intervention Fund meant for exploration to enable sectorial growth and equally secured World Bank loan of $150 Million for MinDiver Programme. Others are, improved contribution to GDP from 0.03% to 0.6% in 2016, improvement in revenue generation from N2.08 Billion in 2015 to N3.92 Billion in 2017, while the figure stood at N2.97 Billion as at October, 2018. There are many more. He disclosed that the Mining Cadastral Office recorded Limestone as highest Royalty Payments of N5.2 Billion through processing and other licensing fees, retrieved the old Geological Data of Aeromagnetic Survey Data of the Country from Fugro which the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency is already using to explore for strategic minerals. There is also Phosphate exploration project ongoing in Sokoto State with support from OCP of Morocco, an inventory of the Carbonates Resources of Nigeria in conjunction with Cement Technology Institute (CTI), and facilitated the Development of an Industrial Minerals Roadmap. The ministry also facilitated the Integrated Exploration Programme to address the issue of scare Geoscience Data to aid mining investments decision on Gold, Lead, Zinc, Iron Ore and Rare Metals and strengthened ease of doing business and addressed perception issues by establishing the Investment Promotion and Mineral Trade (IPMT) Department. Equally addressed is the lapses in Mineral Exports documentation (reducing processing time), and collaborated with Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) to develop Mineral Export Guidelines, addressing the lapses in Mineral Title Administration of the Mining Cadastral Office, Health and Safety Issues as well as promoting Federal – State Governments Cooperation, the issue of funding for Operators in the sector through collaboration with the Bank of Industry. With all these in place, Bwari says all is set for the OPS to take full advantage of the value chain activities in the mines and steel sector of the nation’s economy. “The subject of optimizing the Value Chain of the Manufacturing Sector to enhance growth and global competitiveness of Nigeria is the theme for this gathering. We have come to realization that no industry or sector operates in isolation and therefore every manufacturer correspondingly has to ensure that his products and services add to the value chain of the product line to achieve national growth and global competitiveness. “Nigeria at the moment has many isolated products that need to be inter-linked with its up-stream and or down-stream products and services. I am sure that Value Chain concept does not need a definition to this audience but necessarily have to state that the strategic linkages of the products and services of the various sectors of the nation’s economy would define speed of accomplishment of national goals”, he advised. Also speaking at the occasion, the President of MAN, Engr. Mansur Ahmed noted that the Nigeria Manufacturing sector will add great value to sector to truly anchor growth and development of the Nigerian economy. He said; “We must commend the present administration for the significant progress made so far in the effort to diversify the economy, especially the remarkable achievements in Agriculture and food security, as well as in the improvements of the business environment.  We also acknowledge the Government’s commitment to engage the organized private sector especially through the Industrial Policy and Competitiveness Council, and the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan.” Summary of value chain opportunities For the Minerals and Metals Sector, the observed disjointed development of the various minerals resources of the nation has led to the identification of 7 strategic minerals out of over 40 minerals. These 7 strategic minerals (Gold, Iron Ore, Coal, Lead/Zinc, Bitumen, Limestone and Barytes) are receiving focused attention which looks at their development through their various value chain to achieve specific national goal. An example of this initiative is the Iron Ore value chain activities through the Backward Integration initiative. The Ministry of Mines and Steel Development in collaboration with Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment pursued this initiative since 2013 in order to achieve the objective of the National Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP). Iron Ore Mining Kogi Iron Limited continues to blaze the trail in the utilization of iron ore. Contrary to previously held beliefs, the company has developed ways of using its iron ore resource at Agbaja, Kogi State to produce high grade steel, proving that apart from Itakpe, – which was meant to feed Ajaokuta – Nigeria has other sources of iron ore for making steel. The Company plans to build a steel plant at Agbaja is in the final stages. Also worthy of mention is the current backward integration project of some companies who have taken far reaching actions to explore and exploit local Iron Ore Resources and undertaken value addition activities to produce Iron & Steel as well as produce power from locally sourced Coal. GOLD Value Chain Another mineral commodity that the Ministry has focused on is the Gold Value Chain. Gold is one of the most smuggled commodities in Nigeria and a great deal of Nigeria’s gold is traded in the international market with hardly any impact on the economy or GDP. Understanding the role precious metals and minerals play in the economy of any nation, we have decided to re-organize the gold sector by developing a National Gold Policy. The policy is aimed at facilitating formal gold production, trade and exports to ensure regular payment of royalties and taxes. There is also a National Gold Purchase Scheme which is meant to promote the production and refining of gold for purchase by the Central Bank of Nigeria under a Federal Gold Reserve Treasury Scheme. The Scheme will be funded through a Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative, using a similar framework as the one used for the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative and Anchor Borrowers Project. The pilot phase is expected to be launched in Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi State by President Muhammad Buhari. Also, in line with our policy of developing the downstream operations of the sector, and following decisions reached at the recently concluded ERPG Focus Lab, the Ministry approved the first ever gold refinery license in Nigeria to a private operator, Kian Smith Trade Co. Ltd. The ground breaking ceremony of the plant took place in Mowe, Ogun State, on the 13th of December 2018 and production is expected to start in 2019. The company will start with a production capacity of three tonnes per month of 99.9 percent gold and one tonne per month of 99.9 percent silver. Most of the gold will be sourced locally and when completed the refinery will provide more than 500,000 jobs in two years. As one of the major outcomes of the ERPG focus labs, the scheme is meant to accredit 10,000 artisans miners in five states; shore up our gold reserves as the CBN purchases the refined gold under the Federal Gold Reserve Treasury Scheme; produce 175,000 ounces of gold per annum, and increase the earnings from Gold by N53 billion thus boosting our sector’s contribution to the GDP massively. Tin and others. Other strategic value chain activities of the MMSD involves the mineral Tin. The Nigerian Tin has been reported to be one of the best quality in the world and therefore the Ministry is making efforts to reorganize the Tin mining operations in Plateau State to develop its value chain to harvest its economic benefits to Nigeria’s advantage. This initiative when effectively executed will attract several Billions of Naira which the country has been losing. In the area of Gemstones – AMRAN Mining Company Ltd commissioned the first ultra-modern incubation centre for gemstone faceting in Gwarimpa, Abuja in June 2018. The centre will be training youths in the art of gemstone faceting to enable them establish their own businesses, which should result in more jobs and wealth creation. Another mineral commodity that is having extensive value chain activities in Nigeria is Lead/Zinc – First Patriot (Former Royal Salt Ltd.), Symbol Mining/Imperial Joint Ventures located in Bauchi State and Tongyi Allied Mining Co. Ltd. are mining and processing major Lead/Zinc. In the Coal sub-sector – Eta Zuma located in Ankpa LGA, of Kogi State is presently mining coal and is also into intensive exploration to determine more coal reserves. The Company supplies coal to Dangote Industries for firing their kilns. Eta Zuma has also successfully developed the production of coal briquettes for household cooking; thus helping to curb the menace of deforestation arising from using wood as fuel for domestic heating. In the Marble and Granite industry – Royal Ceramics Ltd has successfully launched a new line of engineered marble tiles made from marble chipping with a total local content of 95 per cent. Its products are comparable to the best anywhere and still cheaper than imported ones.