The police have denied reports that two persons died during the clash between loyalists of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Lagos State House of Assembly member-elect, Surajudeen Tijani Olatunji (aka Emir) and a co-contender and former Chairman of Oto Awori Local Council Development Area, Mr. Kayode Roberts, aka Bibiire. Speaking with The Nation on the phone yesterday, spokesman Elkana Bala said peace had been restored to the community. He urged residents to go about their activities without fear. Shortly after the crisis, the Oloto-in-Council alleged that Alhaji Suleiman Adeshina, aka Jafo, who is the Lagos State Chairman of the Motorcycles Owners and Riders Association (ANACOWA), an arm of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria ((RTEAN), provoked the crisis. Bala, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, however, absolved the leadership of ANACOWA of having instigated the riot. The story, which was published in yesterday’s edition of The Nation with the headline: ‘Oto-Awori…No longer at ease’ , claimed that two people had died in the crisis, with several others sustaining various degrees of injuries. Bala said loyalists of the two groups sustained injuries, adding that the injured had been taken to hospital. “I can tell you categorically that nobody died during the clash,” he said. Bala went on: “It is not also true that residents of the Oto-Awori community now live in fear. I can tell you that peace has been restored. “Members of the same political party were involved in the crisis. “The report I have here shows that this (crisis) was a family affair and the leadership of the communities has started addressing it so that lasting peace can be restored.” ANACOWA members had staged a road show across Ijanikin and Oto-Awori axis two days to the Governorship and House of Assembly elections to support Olatunji, the financial secretary of ANACOWA. Trouble started when the convoy attempted to pay homage to the Oloto of Oto, Oba Josiah Ilemobade, a move which loyalists of Roberts rejected because of the allegation that Roberts, who is from Oto-Awori, was rigged out of the party’s primaries last October by Olatunji’s supporters. Adeshina said the police report had justified ANACOWA’s position that their members were on a peaceful rally to identify with one of their own, and not out to cause crisis. “We came to Oto-Awori and Ijanikin to canvass for votes. Do you expect us to fight such people whom we were appealing to for cooperation? “Our road show was peaceful. Although the people were the first to attack our members, we kept calm because we did not want the crisis to worsen.”