The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), police, candidates and party faithful are in a rush to be ready for Saturday’s polls, report Our Correspondents. Three days to polls… Security, missing cards readers, others dominate IGP warns would-be troublemakers  Acting Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu has warned would-be troublemakers to abandon their plots against next Saturday’s governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections. He spoke with State House correspondents at the end of security chiefs’ meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He also said security personnel have been increased for trouble spots identified during the Presidential and National Assembly elections. He said: “We are all aware of the fact that we just concluded the presidential and National Assembly elections and we want to congratulate Nigerians for the peaceful conduct of the elections and we are prepared now for the governorship and the House of Assembly elections in the country. “We’ll like every Nigerian to come out and cast his or her vote. The security arrangement we provided during the presidential elections is being enhanced so as to provide enabling environment for everybody to come out and cast his or her vote for their preferred candidates. “We will again advise those that will want to disrupt the process to rethink because during the presidential election, we had some few challenges here and there, those challenges, we’ll not allow those challenges to repeat themselves. We are taking more security measures to address those pockets of challenges we noticed. “So, thuggery again, is not allowed, ballot snatching is not allowed, disruption of the election process is not allowed. We, the security personnel have resolved to deal ruthlessly with anybody that attempts to disrupt the process of this election. “For that reason, we expect, every states, the conduct of the election should be respected. We expect that electoral materials must not be tempered with, we expect that the INEC officials would do their work without fear or favour and without being allowed to compromise. The same thing, the security personnel are to perform their duties without allowing themselves to be compromised. “So, we have heightened the security arrangement to make sure that the election goes without any hitch.” he stated Asked if the police made any arrest of hoodlums disrupting the Presidential and National Assembly elections, he said: “We’ve made a number of arrests all over the country but probably we shall come out with the number of arrest we have made in terms of those that disputed the process of the election in some areas within the country. We’ve a lot of arrest.” On the special effort being put in place to ensure peaceful elections in the troubled spots, he said: “Virtually, in Bayelsa and there are other states within that zone that we have taken notice of the fact that people there prone to violence so we have increased the number of security personnel that have been posted there. “Also, we have increased intelligent outfit that has been posted there so as to help us identify those people that are trying to cause problem so that we can take them out of the environment before they cause the problem. Therefore, there is increase in security personnel.” On the allegation of militarisation of the process by security agencies, he said: “Well, as I said before, everybody, the lives of Nigerians are secured in terms of provision of adequate security to come out and vote. If you judge what you have said with the report of the international observers and local observers, you will see that both the local and international observers have adjudged the process to be peaceful. “So pocket of challenges you get here and there did not affect the peaceful conduct of the elections. The process was peaceful and credible.” Asked when those arrested would be prosecuted, Mohammed Adamu said: “Investigation is ongoing. There is an investigative team that has been setup headed by the Commissioner of Police in-charge of legal, they are compiling the case files, they are investigating them. At the end of the investigation, the police in liaising with INEC will prosecute them.” Those at the meeting are the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonishakin, Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Yusuf Buratai, Chief of Naval Staff, Ibok-Ete IIbas, and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadiq Abubakar. Also present at the meeting were the National Security Adviser, Major Gen. Babagana Monguno, Director of National Intelligence Agency, the Director General, Department of Security Service. Minister of Interior Abdulrahman Danbazzau and Minister of Defence Mansur Dan-Ali were also at the meeting.  INEC omits APC governorship candidate in Enugu  All Progressives Congress (APC) may not field a governorship candidate in Enugu after all for the February 9 gubernatorial election. A final list for the March 9 governorship election published on the website of the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC) showed that Enugu APC had no candidate. The list signed by Rose Oriaran-Anthony, Secretary, INEC, said it was in obedience to court order as the party was yet to submit a fresh name after Ayogu was sacked. In the 330-page final list of candidates, Enugu occupied pages 100 to 111, with the APC having none in provision for candidate. A Federal High Court in Abuja sacked Senator Ayogu Eze as the governorship candidate of the party in Enugu State. In the judgment delivered by Hon. Justice I. Ekwo of the Federal High Court 5, the court urged the INEC to recognise George Ogara as the candidate. The APC National Working Committee (NWC), which earlier declared that Ayogu was still the candidate known to the party, was yet to obey the order of the court, which had asked that Ogara’s name be submitted to the INEC. The Ayogu Eze campaign organisation, however could not offer any reaction to the development. The spokesman of the campaign organisation, Okey Ezerigwe told The Nation that Ayogu Eze was in Abuja to tackle the issue, assuring that “he is making some progress and is due back to Enugu today (Tuesday).”  Our 63 card readers missing in Bayelsa, says INEC  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Bayelsa has raised the alarm over its missing 63 card readers in the state. The commissioned appealed to persons in possession of the card readers to return them before Wednesday ahead of the House of Assembly election scheduled for Saturday. The commission said it discovered the missing item after the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections. Speaking on Tuesday in Yenagoa, Head of Department, INEC Voter Education and Publicity, Mr. Wilfred Ifogah,  said the the card readers were found missing in Brass, Sagbama, Southern-Ijaw, Nembe and Yenagoa local government areas. Ifogah explained that one smart card disappeared in Brass ward 6 unit 19; 24 in Nembe, ward 1, 4, 12 and 13 while 24 were not found in Southern-Ijaw, ward 1, 2, 3, 12, 15. He said; Eight are missing in Sagbama ward 1 unit 5 and ward 6 unit 3 while in Yenagoa, a total of six are also missing in ward 1, 11 and 16 respectively. “Yes, about 63, card readers are missing.  The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) has issued a statement that those involved should return it to a point where it will get to INEC on or before Wednesday”.  Unity Forum members agree to work for Adelabu in Oyo  Members of Unity Forum, the break-away faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State have agreed to work for the governorship candidate of the party, Adebayo Adelabu in the Saturday election. They came to the agreement at an emergency meeting in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital yesterday. In a statement by the coordinator, Alhaji Fatai Ibikunle, the group said it “bowed to pressure from the national leadership of the APC and resolved to team up with their former party to ensure victory for Chief Adebayo Adelabu in this Saturday gubernatorial election in the state.” The statement continued: “The Forum, which is made of many aggrieved Oyo APC faithful, had broken away in the wake of crises which engulfed the ruling party during its Congresses in May last year. It is also recalled that members of the Unity Forum later scattered as most of them landed in popular opposition parties such as African Democratic Congress (ADC), Action Democratic Party (ADP) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “But the fall-out of the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections which clearly indicated that Oyo APC might be facing a difficult task in its desire to produce another executive governor as a successor to Senator Abiola Ajimobi had sent a signal to the national leadership of the APC which swung into action immediately the results were announced by calling for a truce among the warring factions. “In an emergency meeting held on Tuesday at a private location in Ibadan, leaders and members of the Forum unanimously considered the reports of a delegation which had earlier met with Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu and agreed to unite for the sake of peace and progress of the pacesetters state. “According to the leader of the delegation which recently had an interface with Tinubu in Lagos home, all the issues that led to the schisms within the Oyo APC were presented and treated accordingly while far reaching agreement were reached by both parties with a view to facilitating victory for the APC gubernatorial candidate, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, on Saturday.”  Ladoja, Lanlehin, others present Makinde as joint candidate  Five opposition parties in Oyo state on Tuesday publicly presented a coalition governorship candidate to run against the ruling All Progressive Congress in the March 9, governorship poll. The parties in the coalition include, African Democratic Congress (ADC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the New Progressive Movement (NPM). The coalition adopted the PDP candidate, Seyi Makinde for the governorship poll while retaining their separate structures for the house of Assembly elections. Former Governor Rashidi Ladoja made the public presentation of the joint candidate during a well-attended news conference which held at the NUJ Press Centre, Iyaganku, Ibadan. While reading a speech titled “An alliance for the freedom of Oyo State”, the ADC governorship candidate, Senator Olufemi Lanlehin said the parties decided on the move as a workable solution to what it described as “unpalatable situation where Oyo State has been remotely controlled in the last eight years.” Meanwhile, SDP National Working Committee (NWC) yesterday endorsed the adoption of Makinde as the joint governorship candidate of the opposition parties. Its National Chairman, Chief Supo Shonibare, spoke  in Abuja. According to a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Alfa Mohammed, the chairman observed that participation of multiple opposition candidates in the governorship race would have granted the APC advantage.  ‘Ishaku sure of victory’  Taraba State Governor Darius Ishaku has expressed confidence he will be re-elected in free, fair, peaceful and credible poll. He spoke to our correspondent on the telephone, urging the people to go out in numbers on Saturday, March 9 and vote. Ishaku, who is flying the flag of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), advised his supporters to conduct themselves peacefully during voting. He alleged that his main challenger and the All Progressives Congress (APC), knowing they will lose in a serene atmosphere, were plotting violence for the polls to postpone. “I am aware of all their plans -they don’t want the election to hold. But my concept is that peace should always reign in whatever we do. Peace is a prerequisite of the development Nigerians are yearning for.” Ishaku said a win for him means consolidating the gains of the “Rescue Agenda” of his administration in the first four years, which he described as a “foundation laying stage.”  PWDs call for removal of Cross River REC  People living with disabilities (PWDs), who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have called for the removal of the Resident Electoral Commissioner of Cross River State, Dr Frankland Briyai. The PWDs, who went on a peaceful protest at the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Calabar, alleged that the REC was instrumental to the manipulation of the polls in the state, especially the last National Assembly elections. Speaking on behalf of the PWDs, their leader, Mr Offiong Okon, said: “It is with great disappointment that I on behalf of all the PWDs and the entire membership of the All Progressives Congress in Cross River State address you today on the fatality that is hovering around our hard earned democracy. That fatality is unfortunately being orchestrated by none other than the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Cross River State, Dr. Frankland Briyai. “The issue in question is that the REC has been instrumental to the manipulation of the polls in the state. The just concluded National Assembly Elections in the State speaks volume of the monumental fraud perpetrated by Dr. Briyai. “We witnessed how results were hastily declared to the advantage of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the government of Cross River State who are his paymasters. In some cases too, results were changed to reflect the bidding of the PDP. There were several other cases of manipulation space will not allow us.” They alleged that the REC, was working with the government towards rigging the March 9th Governorship/State House of Assembly polls,” Okon said. When The Nation visited the INEC office to get his response to the accusations, the REC declined audience, saying he was busy at the time. A response could not be gotten before press time.  APC to PDP, APGA: get ready for epic battle  The All progressives Congress (APC) has promised other political parties in the state an epic battle on Saturday. There is no governorship election in the state, as it had its own on November 17, 2017 where Governor Willie Obiano was re-elected. APC declared yesterday that what happened in the presidential and National Assembly elections was a conspiracy against President Mohammadu Buhari and vowed it would not happen again. The leader of Good Governance Ambassadors of Nigeria GOGAN, Chief John Bosco Onunkwo, told the APC faithful not to lose hope because of what happened during the last elections However, based on the threats from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and APC over Saturday’s elections, the governor has held meetings with the stakeholders of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) at the Dr Alex Ekwueme Square in Awka yesterday. Obiano addressed workers at the state secretariat, telling them not to vote for any other party on Saturday except APGA Addressing the stakeholders, a visibly angry Obiano said he was not happy with what some people in the party were doing, adding that few people do not want the party to grow with their attitudes of being selfish. Also, he told the workers that a vote for APGA would be a vote for better welfare of workers in the state, reminding them of his interest in the election  20 Edo communities promise to vote APC  Over 20 communities in Ward 2 of Oredo Local Government Area have promised to vote for candidates of the All Progressives Congress for Saturday’s House of Assembly election. The communities said their purpose for opting to vote for the APC was because of the number of road projects being constructed in their domain. They spoke when Chief of Staff to Governor Governor Godwin Obaseki, Mr. Taiwo Akerele, inspected over ten road projects at Amagba, Ogumwenyin, Irhirhi, Iyekogba, Ugbor amongst others. Leader of Ogumwenyin community, Mr. Frank Omogiate, said many landlords had sold their properties and moved away because of no passable roads. Omogiate said all members of Ogumwenyin have keyed into the next level agenda of the All President Congress. According to him, “Whoever is plying these roads will see how fast the communities are developing. We can now drive out within five minutes unlike before when there are no roads. Traditional head of Amagba community,  Frank Imadamwan, said no government has provided infrastructure for the community in the past ten years. Akerele said Obaseki needs a friendly House of Assembly to enable him get more funding to provide infrastructure across the state.  Ondo opposition Assembly candidates raise alarm over alleged rigging  Opposition political parties for Saturday’s House of Assembly elections in Ondo State have accused Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and the leadership of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) of planning to rig the House of Assembly election in favour of the on behalf of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The candidates alleged that Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and Akeredolu held a secret meeting in the Ondo State Government House in Akure yesterday with the chairman of the NURTW in Ondo State, Adebo (aka Idajo). Speaking on behalf of other candidates, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate for Akure South Constituency 1,Ebenezer Adeniyan, said ‘Idajo’ and all the leaders of the NURTW in the state are card-carrying members of the APC. “This plot was hatched as a result of the poor performance of the APC in the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly election in the state, particularly in the central senatorial district where the party did not win any seat. The coming House of Assembly election has therefore been tagged a must win for the party, using “all means necessary.” “Consequently, Idajo immediately summoned all the 18 local government chairmen of NRUTW for a meeting today in Akure to deliver the message of the governor and to mobilise members of the union for the election.” However, Akeredolu, through his Chief Press Secretary (CPS) Segun Ajiboye, wondered when it has become an offence for the governor to hold meetings with stakeholders. He said: “Akeredolu is a man of honour and will never be associated with such plan as to rig an election. This is election season when all sorts of lies are being peddled to gain attention. “This attitude was a sign that they have accepted defeat even before the game and are looking for excuses for their anticipating failure. “Akeredolu knows the importance of the election and has been holding meetings with party members on how to excel at the polls. According to Ajiboye, these people are merely crying wolves where there is none instead of getting more people to accept them.  Group warns against ethnic politics  The Integrity Friends for Truth and Peace Initiative (TIFPI),  has warned against ethnic politics in some part of the country. The Executive Director of the Group, Livingstone Wechie, gave this warning,  while presenting the preliminary report of the group for the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections. Wechie said no ethnic group should be subjected to any form of intimidation, harassment or violence because of their choice of candidate in the Governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections coming up this Saturday March 9 nationwide. The group called on the government to set up a Commission of Enquiry into these cases of violence and killings with a view to bring perpetrators to justice. “Thus it is important to note that threats and killings of innocent people who are rightfully stakeholders in the electioneering processes are absolutely unjustifiable.”  , seeking to undermine the credibility of the elections at the expense of citizenship participation. “Hence we propose that a 30- year jail term be enshrined in our laws as punishment for electoral violence offences. This will serve as a deterrent to ready-made perpetrators of these heinous crimes. Therefore whoever is found culpable should be barred from political participation for a fixed period in spite of sentence. “We also advise all those who lost and those who won to see themselves as victors. Nobody should resort to self-help but head to the Courts where the law provides hope for the common man. “We strongly urge INEC to make frantic efforts to improve from the shortcomings during the governorship and states Assembly elections coming up on March 9, 2019 to further address whatever shortcomings and doubts in the minds of stakeholders,” the group said.    