Anita Nana Okuribido is a renewable energy expert, as well as the national 
co-ordinator of Association of Nigerian Women Business Network (ANWBN) consisting of 18 member organisations spread across the country. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about the impact of the coalition on businesses owned by women, the four priority issues, prospects in the renewable energy sector and galvanising a critical mass of women to change the sector positively LET’S talk about the things your organisation has done in the past We have done a lot in the past to empower women in business and particularly setting up the business agenda. It’s a great achievement with the four priority issues being addressed. The first is lack of access to finance, patronage of Made in Nigeria goods, harnessing the multiple taxation system that we have in Nigeria and inclusion of women in governance and policy-making. These are vital priority areas that ANWBN has been involved in for advocacy. I am so happy to say that the patronage for Made in Nigeria goods has really been addressed; a bill has been passed because of the advocacy from ANWBN. You can see that the Ministry of Information going for the advertisement of Made in Nigeria goods. So, I would say that has been achieved about 70 per cent, even though we are still fine-tuning this to make sure it goes beyond advertisement. For the ease of access to finance, the process has started but somehow women still find it difficult to access finance with single digit interest. Some people who have the muscle actually have access to finance but not on single digit. ANWBN would continue to go on advocacy until it is achieved in such a way that women-owned businesses  can access finance with single digits or such a time that women can own their own banks, operate our own banks and have what you call zero interest for women-owned businesses. You will be attending the Commission of the Status of Women (CSW) in New York this month. What are you looking forward to? I was going through the agenda and what caught my focus is still poverty alleviation. We are also happy to have signed the MOU with the International SheTrades and we are really happy about that. It means that our women can look forward to the capacity building programmes particularly in the Liverpool community engagement that is going on for the next two years. We can do a lot of e-commerce, training, export and some of our women are already on the training. The global movement for gender equality and women’s empowerment has broken new ground in recent years, making headlines in the media on sexual harassment and discrimination in the workplace and putting the business community in the spotlight. From driving the representation and leadership of women in management and investment decisions and from ensuring equal pay for work of equal value, to increasing support for women-owned businesses and entrepreneurs, companies of all sizes and from all sectors play a tremendous role in advancing gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, marketplace and community. In tandem with the emergence of gender equality as a critical corporate sustainability and risk mitigation issue, business action to advance women’s empowerment is also central to the achievement of global multi-stakeholder agendas, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These issues set the context for the 2019 Women’s Empowerment Principles Forum, to be held on 14 March 2019. Since its launch in 2010, the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) initiative has been at the forefront of transforming business policies, practices and approaches to advance gender equality and create opportunities for women and girls, engaging more than 2,000 businesses globally to date. The 2019 WEPs Forum will look to the future and consider how the WEPs can help business, investors, governments and other stakeholders navigate new opportunities and work collectively to ensure that women help define and benefit from opportunities in the future of work. The forum will also explore how to maintain momentum on advancing gender equality, accelerate the pace of progress and position responsible businesses to rise to the challenge. International Women’s Day 2019 is here, what is your organisation doing to mark the day? The Association of Nigerian Women Business Network (ANWBN) is an umbrella body of about one million women instituted by the Centre for International Private Enterprise (CIPE) in collaboration with the International Chambers of Commerce, Nigeria (ICN) will be organising a great walk termed Walk for Balance on 7th March, 2019. We are embarking on the walk with the 18-member organisation in the 36 states of Nigeria plus FCT. The premium goal of this walk is to present the ANWBN Charter bill to the governors and speakers. The charter consists of the seven-point priority issues that have come up during the workshop, roundtable conference and some other meetings of the women. We are proud to say that ANWBN member organisations drew up about 250 women to have an audience with the vice president of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osibajo, in February and some of the priority issues were presented to him. How would you assess the participation of women in the elections? Honestly, I would really say that I am quite impressed this time around. I belong to so many women organisations and for the past six months a lot of postings have been going on on all these platforms that are encouraging. I am pleased with the large turn-out of women. The awareness has been created and women took the great opportunity to be part of the electioneering process. You are also the president of the Council for Renewable Energy and Women in Renewable Energy. Tell us about that aspect of your life I like that. That is my passion, that is my life. Renewable energy technology is my passion because when you think renewable energy, you are thinking green. You are going green and whatever aspect of the value chain that you pick in the value chain, you are mitigating climate change and you are protecting the environm ent. If we do not protect the environment right from now, honestly in the turn of the millennium, you may not have somewhere you call the earth anymore. If the Ozone layer is depleted, there is a global warming, then you will have floods and all sorts of hazardous gases all over the place. And then if there is no oxygen to breathe anymore and we don’t have the cycle of ecosystem, then there won’t be life. Let’s talk about some memorable moments working in the renewable energy sector I am a woman of many parts and when I am achieving in one aspect before basking in the euphoria of one, I am already in another. I think that what gives me joy is to see women being empowered, being mentored and getting better life. I have had so many opportunities  and one that comes to mind was the first installation I had in a village in Benue State when I got the opportunity at that time to install solar in the local government so that they could communicate with their radio. When we got there, there was no illumination on ground at all. Apart from installing the radio, we also gave them illumination in the night. When we were finishing, the villagers saw the light and they trooped to the local government office. They were so excited and brought all kinds of gifts that included yams, bags of maize and millet. An old woman said she had never seen light in her lifetime. I think that was where the inspiration came from. Also in Lagos, I got a street named after me in Onigbongbo local government for the things I did by illuminating the community. What are the potential for women in the sector? When women have access to energy it contributes to poverty reduction. Energy access saves time, when it substitutes manual labour and reduces drudgery of fetching fuel wood and water; tasks women typically are responsible for. It reduces indoor air pollution levels and hence improves health, when polluting energy forms such as wood fuel and kerosene intense stoves are replaced by improved cook stoves. It improves education, as it enables studying after sunset and greater flexibility in the organisation of everyday chores. Lastly, energy access creates new opportunities for income generating activities, as products or services can be improved, processes made more efficient, operational costs reduced and working conditions improved. Benefits of a higher income for women reach far beyond the individual. Studies show that women reinvest 90 percent of their income in their families and communities, while men reinvest only 30 to 40 percent Taking women into account in energy interventions means improved energy access. Female-headed households are less likely to have access to energy than male-headed households. Specifically targeting female-headed households therefore means higher levels of energy access. On the adoption rate side of access, appliances (such as stoves) that have been designed in collaboration with women are more likely to be accepted and used by women. Women in energy jobs can improve the energy supply chain with great potential for effectiveness. Women are part of the social networks that differ from those of men and through which they have access to hard-to-reach households. In decision-making positions at all levels and branches within the supply chain, the voice of women contributes to more balanced and diverse decisions. Opening up the green energy sector to women in non-traditional jobs increases their chances of higher income generation and empowerment.