One of the unseen hands that was instrumental to the emergence of Kelechi Iheanacho at the national level, Mazi Amanze Uchegbulam, believes under-pressure Super Eagles and Leicester City’s striker Kelechi Iheanacho can regain back his fitness with a little bit of tinkering. Iheanacho has struggled for form with Leicester and has only scored once in 25 EPL matches in the on-going season. He has not scored in national team colours since scoring the opener in the 4-2 defeat of Argentina in a pre-Russia 2018 friendly match in November 2019 at the Krasnodar Stadium in Russia. “I think he (Iheanacho) must be more professional,” stated Super Eagles’ German coach Gernot Rohr on why he left out the 22-year-old striker for the double header against Seychelles and Egypt. “We’re not satisfied with his performances the last time he was with us. “There’s a new coach at Leicester City (Brendan Rodgers) and it (his omission) will be an opportunity for Iheanacho to show during this international window that he wants to get back into the starting team of Leicester. “Personally, I think it’s a good thing for him to stay back at his club to prove this.” Meanwhile, Uchegbulam is worried that the youngster has not been pulling his weight for club or country, adding that something urgent is needed to put his career on course. “There is no doubt that Kelechi needs help and it has to come fast because it would be so sad if he can’t fulfil his great potentiality,” Uchegbulam , former Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) 1st  Vice President,  told The Nation. Uchegbulam said, Kelechi, apart from coming from his home state, has a special place in his heart after the fortuitous role he played in putting the career of the youngster on stream. He explained:  “I didn’t know Kelechi Iheanacho at the start when he was at Taiye Academy which is under my jurisdiction in the Imo State Football Association. He was in the Imo State’s U-13 that had a tournament in Abuja but somehow the sport council said they had no money to send the team to the championship in Abuja. My secretary brought this to my attention when the boys were crying because they won’t be able to go to Abuja for the championship and this was sometime around 2007. “The boys were so sure of themselves that they were going to win the championship and I had to cough out one hundred thousand naira to facilitate their trip and had to call Coach James Peter to fix their accommodation in Abuja.  The boys won the tournament and Kelechi was voted as the Most Valuable Player of the tournament and was the top scorer too. Four of them were later taken into the national Under-15 team and, eventually, he went to represent the country at the U-17 level and was even MVP when the Golden eaglets won the World Cup in the UAE, and from there he went to Manchester City. “So, I have this sense of pride to have contributed my part though remotely to Kelechi’s emergence and I think if not for that vista, who knows what would have happened to his career. Maybe he would have been walking the streets of Owerri without any breakthrough; so I’m happy for him because he wouldn’t have made it without that intervention because if not for that opportunity, his breakthrough would have been so swift.” Of course, getting to the top and remaining at the top is two different things and Uchegbulam in his fatherly wisdom has called on Iheanacho’s minders to come to his aid fast. “As we speak, Kelechi has not for once come to the Imo State FA to say ‘thank you’ for what we did for him to kick start his career and I feel disappointed about this,” noted the Imo FA Chairman. “I have confronted Taiye about this and I think they need to bring him closer to people who can advise him well; he needs guidance and support at this point.” Meanwhile, Uchegbulam has equally made a clarion call on the NFF ahead of the forthcoming 2019 Africa Cup of Nations to be held in Egypt in June as he canvassed for a functional technical committee to support Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr. Since his appointment in 2016, the Franco-German coach has worked sans inputs from the hitherto ‘powerful’ technical committee that usually scrutinises the workings of national team manager as was in the case when Nigeria won her last AFCON tittle under the late Stephen Keshi in 2013. He said: “I think we have a functional technical committee which is yet to be put in place in order for the Super Eagles to do well. “I like the maturity of Coach Gernot Rohr because I’ve had one or two discussions with him while I was still with CAF. Of course, he sounded mature and experienced; he has done well by bringing together a crop of young players which is very good for our football. “I think we have a good chance of going far at the 2019 AFCON but I still feel we need a functional technical team to assist him in one way or the other. “We need to have a pool of experienced coaches that can do a lot of espionage for the team especially at tournaments when he would be saddled with so much other responsibilities. Generally, we need a functional technical department and committee that would relate with coaches of all the national team,” he noted.