•INEC must improve on tomorrow’s governorship and state legislative 
elections to make the 2019 polls a success Though local and international observers declared the February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections credible and fair, failure of logistics stuck out, like the proverbial sore thumb, in many polling precincts, all over the country. That mostly translated to some electoral staff getting late to polling booths, and raising anxiety among many voters. Though most of those problems were eventually resolved, with extended voting time, that initial glitch nearly marred the elections. That is why the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should have sorted out these logistical problems; and present the country with a better exercise tomorrow. Still talking logistics, is the card reader question. Though generally the card reader worked far better on February 23 than it did in 2015 – and it indeed shaped what appeared saner returns, as opposed to a past of willful writing of results – INEC must also pay especial attention to this crucial technology. Since 2015, the smart card reader has been the near-sole reason elections are becoming fairer; with reduced reports of pre-vote ballot stuffing, which came with the electoral territory of old. But inasmuch as INEC must continue to make the card reader better, it must guard against it becoming a tool of disenfranchisement. So, it must calibrate every card reader to validate every legitimate voter. Nothing less is expected from these polls tomorrow. Gubernatorial and state legislative polls are local, and therefore more intimate than the presidential and National Assembly ones. So, passions might fly and emotions soar; with not a few regarding the polls as the electoral equivalent of a grudge match. That is why the card reader must be top notch; and weigh in on the side of the legitimate voter. Besides, soaring passions call for extra vigilance on the security plain. Therefore, security agencies must also play their lawful role, in strengthening the democratic process. INEC, in concert with the security agencies, should map out volatile zones all over the country, and work out adequate and proactive security solutions to curtail any expected troubles. States like Ogun, Imo, Rivers, Kwara and even some parts of Lagos, where ethnic tensions peaked during the previous election, should command special attention. Still, even the best and most thought-out security plans may collapse in the face of brazen bad faith. That takes the issue back to the prime actors themselves – political parties, politicians and voters. Political parties, across the board, must ingrain in their members that elections are only a periodic ritual to recruit democratic leaders. In that contest, one side would win, the other would lose. So, no party should develop a do-or-die attitude to a democratic contest, which is really a civic celebration of free choice. Rather, what every party must insist on is electoral fairness.  They should therefore invest more time and energy in a partnership with INEC and other stakeholders to make elections progressively freer and fairer. If that is achieved, the fundament of electoral tension would have been knocked off. Politicians, on their part, must eschew the current worst practices for a new democratic culture; and guide right the generality of the people that look up to them for direction. They should, therefore, stop the seeming eternal belief in thugs, touts and allied criminals to help muscle the vote or sabotage voting, in areas they feel their opponents have advantages. The people themselves must know that elections are no war. So, they too should stop exposing themselves to any danger whatsoever, on behalf of any politician or political party. Above all, let the law take its course on those who break any electoral law. And let everyone behave responsibly. That is the only way to deliver an election Nigerians would all be proud of. That would not only deepen democracy, it would also earn Nigeria its place in the comity of democratic nations.