Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State Wednesday assured voters that security challenges experienced during Presidential and National Assembly elections will not repeat itself on Saturday during gubernatorial and House of Assembly polls, He said efforts have been intensified to ensure that everyone registered in the state by Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC for the exercise participate without any security hindrances. The governor, who was accompanied by his deputy, Dr. Idiat Adebule, and other cabinet members, gave the assurance yesterday after the weekly Executive meeting at the State House Alausa Secretariat, Ikeja. He stressed that the security challenges experienced after the just concluded election have been dealt with and efforts have been made to ensure such does not repeat itself. “We were very much aware of the incidences that occurred after the Presidential and National assembly election in the state. We have taken proper care of that. We understand that everyone in Lagos are same. “The peace, harmonious relationship and security that had existed in the state are very paramount to this government. We will ensure that everyone that is eligible to vote perform his civic duties without intimidation,” Ambode added. The governor argued that the state government understand that the cosmopolitan nature of Lagos and efforts would be made often to ensure it sustain that status. “We will ensure that Saturday election is held without hitches. We want to assure all residents of the state of their safety. Lagos is a cosmopolitan state and it will remain like that even after the election. “We encourage every resident that had been registered by INEC to come out and perform their civic duties. The security agencies have assured us that there will be adequate security in the state during and after the poll.” The governor however, noted that giant strides recorded in Lagos could only be sustained when every electorate vote for the All Progressives Congress, APC governorship candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other candidates of the party. Adding that, “We believe in continuity in this government and that is why we have decided to back every candidate of the party. So, we urged everyone to support and vote every APC candidates in Lagos.”