 It is called the round leather game, and the dictionary defines a game as an activity that one engages in for amusement or fun.  Other synonyms that go with the definition includes, describing it as a pastime, diversion, entertainment, amusement, distraction, recreation, and leisure. While non-passionate fellows may agree with the dictionary definition, die-hard fans of the game believe such definitions should be reserved for the marines. For them it is serious business and winning means everything.  A loss especially when it matters most is not only annoying but indeed could trigger unbelievable and unpredictable reactions. Some may have accepted the ouster of Real Madrid and PSG from this year’s Champions league as one of those things, but an unnamed PSG fan could not accept the situation as he descended on his television set smashing the innocent gadget with a chair after PSG lost to Manchester United thus booking their exit from the Champions league The video which has gone viral on social media revealed a man breaking his television with a chair after PSG lost to Man Utd on Wednesday. The match shocked most fans who had thought the reverse was going to play out Manchester United needed an improbable two-goal win Wednesday to advance to the Champions League quarterfinals over PSG. And that’s exactly what they got with the help of mental errors from the Parisian club. United went into the French capital and capitalized on three huge mistakes to seal an unlikely 3-1 win in the round of 16, advancing 3-3 on aggregate on away goals. Romelu Lukaku scored twice for his sixth goal in his last three games, and a last-minute penalty kick from Marcus Rashford proved to be the difference. PSG had two away goals at the Old Trafford in the first leg, but the three scored by United at Parc des Princes gave them the tiebreaker. While one fan took revenge on television, Manchester United has released a statement confirming that one of their supporters was stabbed after the match. The fan was reportedly stabbed in the chest by a taxi driver after he took offence to a group of supporters singing in celebration of the 3-1 win over PSG.