The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta state has called for the cancellation of last Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections in the state. APC’s position was made known at a press briefing addressed by the chairman of the Delta state chapter of the party, Prophet Jones Erie, on Monday evening. Erue accused security agents who were deployed on election duties in different parts of the state, as well as officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of conniving with agents of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to massively rig the election in favour of the PDP. “You all witnessed an electoral process where soldiers aided PDP thugs to hijack ballot boxes and materials in collaboration with the presiding officers and thumb printed them for the PDP. “Our people were not allowed to enter any collation centre, our agents were treated as enemies of the electoral process. The whole place was militarised against APC and results were changed at will. “For example, at Emede Ward 5 unit 2, soldiers aided the destruction of that unit. At about 10:00am, ballot boxes and ballot papers were carted away, we managed to complete the election and at the end, APC had 4323 votes, 1134 votes for PDP House of Assembly. “Surprisingly, the same votes were counted and they recorded 2,712 votes for the governorship for the APC and 2,702 votes for PDP. If this is the discrepancy in my own ward, it is enough prove to show that the same thing took place across the state. “Our members were brutalised, presiding officers collaborated with PDP to undo us. In Warri South and Warri South-West, most of the materials did not get to their units”, Erue alleged. Erue said the party would approach the Election Petition Tribunal should the electoral umpire refuse to cancel the election. However, when reached for a response, the spokesman of the 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, said the allegations by the parties against security agencies borne out of the wrong perception of what the agencies stand for. “People see security agencies as instruments of the state that can be used by the ruling party. The opposition parties will bash on the security agency, the ruling party will also bash on the security. The election is over, if he is not satisfied, he should go the Election Petition Tribunal,” Iliyasu said.