 Protesters on Wednesday asked the Coordinator, Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) Prof. Charles Dokubo to resign his appointment following the recent looting of the Boro Town Amnesty Training complex in Kaiama, Bayelsa State. The placard-carrying youths appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to force Dokubo to step aside to allow independent and unbiased investigations into the looting that lasted five days without any intervention by security agencies. The aggrieved youths insisted that PAP officials must be probed on allegations that they stage-managed the stealing of amnesty equipment to conceal alleged fraud and non-existing contracts in the amnesty office. The protesters carried placards with inscriptions such as ‘Charles Dokubo must be probed for the Kaiama amnesty facility looting’, ‘President Buhari, investigate Buhari for fraud, fake contracts’, ‘all amnesty directors must go’ and ‘there will be no safe haven for the corrupt’. Kingsley John, who led the protest under the auspices of Concerned Niger Deltans for Sustainable Development (CNDSD), wondered how looting occurred in a complex for five days without any effort by Dokubo to stop it. John, who led the protesters to the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Yenagoa, accused Dokubo of mocking Buhari’s anti-corruption war. He said: “The looting of the facility lasted for five days with no police or Military Personnel present to stop the hoodlums. “On February 14, 2019, Prof. Dokubo drove along the East-West Road and saw the looting of the facility. “Sources said stakeholders who saw him, pleaded with him to call for security, instead, Dokubo drove away and went to Benin on February 14, 2019. “Dokubo later called Esther Boro, to go and commission the facility on his behalf. “While the looting was going on at one end, Madam Esther and a few elders she gathered were commissioning the facility at another end in the same complex all on February 14, 2019. “The Head of the Training Center reported the looting to the Police in Bayelsa state February 14, 2019, three days after the looting of the N60bn Vocational Training. “After the Head of the Boro-Town Vocational Training Center reported the matter to the police in Bayelsa state, Prof. Dokubo became very angry at him for reporting the matter to the police. “Dokubo then instructed him to immediately withdraw his statement and the police report that had already been filed with the police in Bayelsa state. “On February 15, 2019, the head of the centre wrote to the police in Bayelsa state to withdraw his statement and the report that he had already filed with the police. “Dokubo waited for almost one month after the looting before setting up a committee to investigate the looting. However, the people of Kaiama and Niger Deltans know the truth”.