The Lagos State governorship election has been won and lost. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Jimi Agbaje, has conceded defeat and congratulated the winner, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The question is: what next for Agbaje, the pharmacist-turned politician? Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU writes on the effects of the defeat on the opposition platform. He was optimistic of winning. During his campaigns in some parts of Lagos State, shouts of ‘Jay Kay is okay,’ always filled the air. Jimi Agbaje, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, is an eminent Lagosians held in esteem by many stakeholders. But, at the close of polls at the weekend, he saw the handwriting on the wall. Reality dawned on the pharmacist-turned politician that his vehicle, the PDP, could not carry him too far. At 7.07 pm, shortly before the formal announcement of results by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), he conceded defeat and congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was at the party secretariat on Acme Road, Ogba, Ikeja, warming up for a victory speech. The governor-elect thanked his major challenger for the kind gesture. He later broke the news to party chieftains who surrounded him in that moment of history. The recent election was Agbaje’s third attempt. He was in the race in 2007 and 2015. Despite past electoral defeats, he was full of enthusiasm and optimism during the campaigns. He was vocal and some people listened to him. His campaign slogan was: ‘freedom.’ Irked by the slogan, APC stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Sanwo-Olu decried the mobilisation approach, saying that Lagos was not in bondage. Party women, who composed partisan songs, fired salvos at Agbaje, describing him as a familiar customer. Replying them, the PDP candidate said: ‘the customer is king.” But, on poll day, his supporters were drowned in their illusion of hope. According to a report, the multi-millionaire politician has rationalised his party’s failure at the polls. He complained about voters’ apathy, which he attributed to alleged intimidation of his supporters. He said many shunned the polling booths because of fear of violence. The APC Chairman, Tunde Balogun disagreed. He said the elections were peaceful, free and fair. For the PDP, the impact of the defeat is monumental. For 20 years, it has been the major opposition party in the Centre of Excellence. Its ambition to hijack power had crumbed six times. According to observers, Agbaje has been its most formidable and promising candidate in post-Funso Williams era. In 1999, its candidate, Chief Dapo Sarunmi, lost to Asiwaju Tinubu. In 2003, the late Williams also lost. In 2007, Musiliu Obanikoro and Agbaje, who contested on the platform of the Democratic Peoples Alliance (DPA), lost to Governor Babatunde Fashola (SAN). In 2011, Ade Dosunmu could not fly. In 2015, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode also defeated Agbaje. In 2019, Agbaje, who has become a veteran contender, also lost to Sanwo-Olu. The implication is that Lagos PDP has been left in the cold for two decades. Many PDP leaders have jumped ship and gravitated towards the ruling party. Ahead of the weekend polls, scores of PDP members deserted the party. Even, the party chairman, Adegoke Salvador, quit the platform. Agbaje is a household name in Lagos. He is admired by many people across political parties. As a pharmacist and businessman, he had made money and name. Many people see him as a man of honour and integrity. He rose to political fame as the treasurer of  Afenifere, the pan-Yoruba socio-political group. Eyes were not on him until he threw his hat into the ring in 2007. Althoigh he had no pubic sector experience, he pulled crowd ahead of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), later Action Congress (AC) primary. Other aspirants included Fashola, former Deputy Governor Olufemi Pedro, Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi, former Commerce and Industry Commissioner Remi Adikwu Bakare, former party chairman Abiodun Ogunleye, Oyinlomo Danmole, Kaoli Olusanya, Ganiyu Solomon, Erikitola, Kunle Lawal, and Tola Kasali. However, the shadow poll did not favour Agbaje, who alleged that it was not free and fair. Although party leaders offered him the Lagos Central senatorial ticket, he rejected it. To spite the former governor and party leader, Agbaje, Afikuyomi, Danmole, Lawal, and Adikwu-Bakare defected to DPA. A week after, Afikuyomi went to the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and emerged its governorship candidate. Pedro left for the Labour Party (LP), and later, the PDP. Surprisingly, Afikuyomi later showed up on election day as Fashola’s agent at the INEC office. In DPA, Agbaje floored Adikwu-Bakare during at the primary. Another aggrieved aspirant, the late Prof. Lawal, became his running mate. Adikwu-Bakare hurriedly left for Progressive Peoples Alliance(PPA). She lost her deposit at the poll. The campaign was interesting. The contenders-Fashola (AC), Agbaje (DPA), Adikwu- Bakare (PPA), Afikuyomi (ANPP) and Musiliu Obanikoro (PDP)–were locked in a war of sorts. Before the primaries, they belonged to AD, an offshoot of Afenifere. Agbaje’s manifestos were not significantly different from the promises made to Lagosians by Fashola and Adikwu-Bakare. Except Obanikoro’s PDP, the competing parties were similar. Throughout the campaign, Agbaje and Fashola only disagreed on one point, which was the viability of the Fourth Mainland Bridge. While Agbaje said it was not a priority, Fashola insisted that the people needed it for ease of transportation. Up to now, it has remained a tall order. However, feathers were ruffled. The parties were enveloped in anxiety. An eloquent speaker, Agbaje ran a neat campaign devoid of thuggery, unlike the PDP train of cutlasses, clubs, bows and arrows. His adverts, including radio and television jingles,  were captivating. Excited at the way the campaign had progressed, his associate, Yinka Odumakin, said Agbaje offered a credible alternative to the ‘same of the same.’ There was apprehension during the televised debate. Agbaje was confronted by Pedro, who had inquired from him, derisively, the experience that qualified him to vie for the governor of Lagos as the owner of  a patient medicine store, with not more than five employees under his control. The DPA candidate noted the scornful look and the attempt to diminish his profile. Returning the missiles, Agbaje  reminded Pedro that when he was a managing director of a bank, he was a shareholder and a director, which implied part ownership. The pharmacist also asked the banker to explain the circumstances that led to his exit from the bank.  Besides, he added that the former deputy governor should respond to the allegation by his boss that he had not properly rendered his account of stewardship. Pedro flared up, taking exception to Agbaje’s remarks. He explained that when he left the bank, the organization held a befitting send-forth for him. Despite the enormous electoral investment, Agbaje came third, trailing Obanikoro, who was defeated by Fashola.  The love of Lagosians for Agbaje was undermined by a corresponding reluctance to adopt his party by voters. He was a strong contender hindered by his weak party. Following the defeat, Agbaje protested, claiming that his photograph or logo disappeared on the ballot paper. He went to the tribunal, urging the temple of justice to upturn Fashola’s victory. His prayer was rejected. In 2011, Agbaje did not contest. Although APC leaders were said to have offered the position of deputy governor to him, he rejected it. But, he remained a public figure who commented on national issues. In 2015, he finally yielded to pressures to run on the platform of the PDP. Backed by the PDP leader, Chief Olabode George, he defeated Obanikoro at the primary. His chance was bright. Former President Goodluck Jonathan threw his weight behind him. Also, members of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) were on the prowl. Agbaje rallied Igbo residents behind his ambition. Although PDP won some House of Assembly and Representatives seats, Agbaje was defeated by Ambode. After the election, crisis broke out between Agbaje and George. The retired soldier wanted to be the PDP national chairman. Agbaje, who enjoyed the support of  Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and his Ekiti State counterpart, Ayo Fayose, also unfolded a chairmanship ambition. But, the crown later went to Prince Uche Secondus, who was sponsored by the PDP governors. During last year’s primary, Agbaje defeated Deji Doherty, who does not enjoy his kind of popularity. But, at the close of poll at the weekend, there was gap between expectation and reality. Sanwo-Olu polled 739, 44 5 votes to defeat Agbaje who got 206, 141 votes. What future awaits PDP in Lagos? What next for Agbaje, its symbol? Will he return to the drawing board, restrategise and rebuild the party into a winning platform? Will he return to his shell? Will he quit the politics? In four years’ time, will Agbaje re-contest? 