THE National Youth Service Corps ( NYSC ), in Kogi State, has said  1, 600 Batch ‘ A’ 2018 corps members have successfully passed out of the scheme; with none of them having extension in service year.  In addition, two corps members got state award for outstanding performance in their personal community development service projects (PCSP) during their service year, NYSC added. The two corps members who won the state award are: Dr Alabi Boluwaji Vincent with state code number KG/ 18A/0445, and Seun Albert Oyelude with state code number KG/18A/007. State NYSC Co-ordinator, Mrs. Oludolapo Ahile, described the set as ‘unique’ with outstanding CDS initiated projects. He praised them for their active participation in national assignment which ended recently. Oludolapo urged the outgoing corps members to remain focused on becoming self-reliant and selfsustaining, asking them to put into practice all the skills and entrepreneurship training they had acquired during their one year national service. He said: “In this one year, you have understood the meaning of mobility of labour. In this sense, you are free to remain behind after the service year as a result of discovery of greener pasture.” Oludolapo expressed her appreciation to Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello for the support during the service year. He said the success of the service year was on account of peaceful and secured environment, and improved camp facility, courtesy of the government. As part of activities to mark the end of their service year, the corps members organised a ‘Corpers week’ an event, which featured visitation to the prison, sanitation exercise, visit to the motherless home in Lokoja where the corps members identified with them and distribution of gifts to them. The climax of the end of service year week was the dinner and award night, which held at Glass House, Government House, Lokoja. Speaking at the event, Governor Bello pledged to support the corps members with 1,500 benches to ease their discomfort at Muslim Community Secondary School, Lokongoma, Lokoja where their CDS meeting always hold. The governor, who was represented by his Chief of Staff Edward David Onoja, enjoined the corps members not to give up on Nigeria, stressing that he believes in the present administration’s commitment to youth development. Bello pointed out that the future of Nigeria lies in youths’ hands, therefore, they must avoid discrimination along religious and tribal lines.