A fifteen-year-old girl Nyankaniya Garleya, has emerged the winner of African Young Orators (AYO), a public speaking competition organised by Peat Philip’s Foundation (PPF). Garleya, a Senior School 1 (SSI) pupil of Princess Adeja International College, Gboko, Benue State, beat 13 contestants from five states in the second edition of AYO, which  theme was: Nature is a common language. She will represent Nigeria at the world  finals of the International Public Speaking Competition (IPSC), in May, this year. The Taraba State indigene said she was excited that she did not let her school and family down. Garleya said she prepared by reading hard for the competition and went for coaching. “I knew I was going to win because I prepared hard for the competition. I am preparing harder and still going for coaching because I will be representing my country. I need the support and prayers of all. I will do my best to make Nigeria proud,” she said. She urged government to improve education  and create more platforms that will help students showcase their talents to the world. “Education should be made more interesting. We all have talents and abilities, and instead of letting them die, we should show it to the whole world,” she said. PPF Executive Director, Akin Olu-Philips, said the programme was established to unveil the hidden leadership potentials in youths. He said AYO is targeted at students between the ages of 15 and 21 years old in Nigeria, noting that the winner will go on a trip to London to represent Nigeria at the world finals of the International Public Speaking Competition (IPSC) May this year. “AYO, a public speaking competition, is the local version of the IPSC. IPSC is run annually by the English Speaking Union (ESU), a charity registered in the United Kingdom to promote international understanding through the use of English throughout the world. “In the course of selecting those that made it to the grand finale, we came across great talents that gave us an assurance that from their tender age, there is no doubt that we have  quality minds that will help shape the society from now into the future. We shortlisted from the 13 participants we have today from short video clips sent by the pupils. They will all be given consolation prices and certificate of participation will be given to those who made it to the final stage, while the winner is to represent Nigeria at IPSC,” he said. One of the judges, Tunde Alabi, said the programme was to raise good communicators. “Leadership is about communication, it is a sacrifice and you have to inspire people and make impacts in them. Many kids speak but are faceless, we are here to out their faces, to imbibe in them good communication skills and make them the future generation of great leaders for the country,” he said.