•’They should be patient, I will pay them’ Some landlords of Ogudu in Lagos State are seeking the payment of the N50million damages awarded them for the demolition of their houses about three years ago by a woman, Mrs Aderonke Oshinowo. They have asked the government and the police to help them collect the compensation awarded them last year by a court. In a swift reaction, Oshinowo said she would pay them, asking them to give her time to raise the money. The Lagos State Task Force on Land Grabbing demolished 18 houses at Peter Oki/Raphael streets, Ogudu,  for allegedly  encroaching on Oshinowo’s land. A landlord, Mr. Peter Oki, who spoke on behalf of others,  said they did not encroach on Oshinowo’s land. He said : “When the survey of the land was done, it was discovered that she (Oshinowo) was the one who encroached on our land. She pleaded for the matter to be settled out of court, but we refused. We insisted that the settlement had to be the court judgment. “The demolition of our houses is illegal and according to the court judgment of October 2017, she is to pay us N50million as compensation and another N5million for general damages. The judgment said she should pay within 90 days, but till now she has not paid us. She keeps saying she will pay. “She has caused us (about 18) hardship. We have become homeless. Our houses were demolished in October 2016. The demolition was done without notice.” Oshinowo told The Nation that she would pay the compensation as, according to her, ‘’the houses were demolished in error’’. Oshinowo said she did not intentionally demolish the houses, adding : ‘’I don’t have money for compensation now. The people should be patient with me. I will pay them as soon as I get money, hopefully in a few months’’. Her lawyer, Mr. Seun Omotoba, said the people would be paid, adding : “After we bought the land about 10 years ago, it took a while before the Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) was obtained. When we got it and wanted to take over the land, we realised that there had been an encroachment on the land, so we reported this to the Lagos State Government. ‘’We told the government that there were structures on our land. The Ministry of the Environment went there and carried out operations. Some people said we demolished their houses and they did not encroach on our land. They gave us a letter that they had taken the matter to court.  We wanted a peaceful way to resolve the matter. Eventually we agreed that we would pay them N50million. The affected people were about 20. We promised them N50million. “Mama (Mrs. Oshinowo) has told them to be patient. Once she is able to sell one or two plots, she will pay their money. I understand how they feel. We have not forgotten the agreement. I am a lawyer and I don’t think I want to undermine the judgment of the court. But the truth is the woman doesn’t have the money now.” 