Lagos State Governor-elect Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Friday promised not to betray Lagosians after assuming the reins on May 29. He reiterated his determination to preside over an all-inclusive government, adding that other campaign promises will also be fulfilled. Sanwo-Olu described himself as a winner of free, fair and credible election, saying the electoral commission deserved applause for conducting a peaceful exercise. He also extended a hand of fellowship to the 40 opposition candidates who competed with him, stressing that their inputs were required in tackling the myriad of challenges in education, health, transportation and the environment. Sanwoolu said:”A victory for one is a victory for all. It is a victory for all Lagosisns. No victor, no vanguished. We will all make life better for Lagosians.” The governor-elect spoke at the Lagos State office of the Independent National Electoral commission (INEC) shortly after receiving his Certificate of Return from Resident Electoral Commissioner Sam Olumekun.  Sanwo-Olu was accompanied by his wife, Dr Ibijoke; his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat; his wife Oluremi; Lagos State APC chairman Tunde Balogun; party secretary Dr. Wale Ahmed; Governorship Advisory Council (GAC) deputy leader Prince Oluyole Olusi; Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and Chief Demola Seriki. Also at the ceremony were Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, Pa Sunny Ajose, Jumoke Okoya-Thomas, Hakeem Bamgbala, Joe Igbokwe, Abiodun Salami, Bayo Ajisebutu, Ayodele Adewale, Bayo Ajisebutu, Fausat Gbadebo, Emmanuel Bamgboye and Imam Shakiru Gafar Mofesayo of Lagos Central Mosque. Thanking the stakeholders, Sanwo-Olu commended INEC and other apparatus of government involved in the election, saying that the reward for hard work is more work. He also thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for showing leadership example of what the APC stood for and for winning Lagos votes. The governor-elect also applauded the national chairman, Comrade Adam’s Oshiomhole, Lagos APC GAC leaders, and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who he noted, was in birthday celebration mood. He peeped into the future, praying that all the critical stakeholders will be present at his inauguration on May 29. However, in a voice somehow laced with emotion, Sanwo-Olu said the inauguration date will coincide with the post-humous birthday of his late mother, who had passed on few years ago. Reiterating his commitment to an all-inclusive administration, the governor-elect said his doors were already open to stakeholders, including the opposition, to make their contributions to governance. He promised to reenact the true greatness of Lagos which the stakeholders stand for. Sanwo-Olu added: “We will not betray public confidence. Better times are coming. Lagosians deserve the best. We must get it right in Lagos. “If we get it right in Lagos, we will get it right in Nigeria. “We are ready. We are committed.We will do the job that Lagosians have given to us”. Imam Gafar, who paired with a Christian priest to pray for Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat, urged them to work for public good. The cleric, who also advised them to beware of pychopants who peddle falsehoods, wished the governor-elect a successful tenure. Also, he charged Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu and Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat to be prepared for the challenges of adjustment to new life and cooperate with their husbands. The REC reflected on the election, saying that it was adjdged credible, smooth, peaceful, free and fair by the international community. Hailing Sanwoolu for his victory, Olumekun said:”Lagosians have spoken Your Excellency and I dare say that they spoke loudly and without equivocation ocation. “Therefore, the journey to a better Lagos is laid squarely in your court. May God Almighty be your lode-star in this journey.” Nothing that Lagosians maintained their peace and decorum during the exercise, he urged them to sustain the tempo of tranquility.  Olumekun thanked the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security chaired by Lagos Police Commissioner and the National Youth Service Corps for their collaboration. He thanked the Branch Controller of the Central Bank of Nigeria Atise Ekhator for ensuring the safety of the sensitive electoral materials, traditional rulers, media led by the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) chairman Dr. Quasm Akinreti, civil society, youth and women groups for their cooperation. However, the REC lamented the apathy that marred the poll, pointing out that, in Eti-Osa Constituency 1, the turnout was below four percent. He said: “This is unacceptable in a sophisticated society like Lagos.” Olumekun, therefore, admonished the political parties, pressure groups, religious bodies and civil society groups to rise to the occasion in the areas of voter sensitisation, education and mobilisation of the electorate to complement Inec’s efforts in ensuring large turnout of voters during elections.