International show promoter, Alex Ozone, is one of the big names who have taken Nigerian music and artistes around Europe for music tours. In this interview with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN, Ozone who has been doing this for six years speaks about his Culture Tour’19, why he wouldn’t work with any female artistes, and other issues. Excerpts. TELL us about your tour in Europe Part of what we do in our company 03media Entertainment is to promote Nigerian culture across the globe most especially Europe. So, by doing that, we take Nigerian artistes to international tours in Europe and we have been doing this for five to six years now, and we have been successful. For 2019, we tag it Kulture Tour. We’ve started with Lil Kesh already which will be followed by Timaya in May; we have Tekno, Patoranking, Kizz Daniel, we Reekado Banks and Victor AD. Those are our artistes for this year and we will be taking them one at a time. Why this full list of artistes? Normally, we do it quarterly or every four months. We do like three artistes in a year except for last year when we did just two. For example, it is Lil Kesh they want to see right now, this moment. After this moment, who else do they want to see again is Timaya who we have already scheduled for May/June. After then, we will weigh the options and ask them which artistes they want. Then we pick it from there. It is not really our own choice it is the market demand or the fans’ demand that we follow. Why just Europe? You have to know your strengths, your pace. You have to know where you can penetrate your product to the market. Europe is my own strength; it is where I know I can sell African culture. I don’t want to run around, then gain nothing. I want to go to where I would be able to achieve results. You’ve been in the business for over five years, what’s particular about this year? That is what we strive for in every day of our life. It is about changes and positive results. We keep improving. I believe the next tour will be better than the last tour. And the last tour was Reekado; the next tour is Lil Kesh. Trust me, Lil Kesh will be better than Reekado tour. Can we know some of the challenges that you had and how you overcame them? The truth is it is never easy. Look at all these politicians sweating, campaigning all because of power. So, nothing good comes easy. But for me, I know we don’t have sponsors, we don’t have support from anybody, and these are individual efforts. I try to let these artistes know that there’s no money. I don’t have a sponsor but this is what we believe we can do. I don’t see the monetary problem as a challenge; I see it as motivation to work harder. There is no challenge so far. Holding tours in Nigeria and abroad, which one yields better results? It depends on the type of result you’re talking about, in terms of awareness, in terms of the monetary result. Our artistes are selling out abroad, why is this so? People are buying the Afrobeat now. I believe they are selling out in Nigeria but the concept of selling out, I don’t understand. Truth is here, just like what I was telling a friend of mine in the industry, when an artiste, like say Wizkid live on stage. Why does Wizkid need to invite Davido, why does he need to invite other artistes to come perform when it is a live stage, why can’t he do that show alone? Let’s know his true fans. Over there, it is only Lil Kesh, so anybody coming out to watch Lil Kesh is a Lil Kesh fan. So you see the difference. I don’t think it is live in concert, because you need to invite Maleek Berry, Mr Eazi and some other people to watch your show, which means you’re inviting their fans. If you want to know what you are worth, pull up a concert and play for three hours without a guest artiste and let’s see how many people that will come for you. So at the end of the day, you don’t even know the crowd you can pull as an artiste. Which is quite different from America; if it is Chris Brown tour, it is only Christ Brown concert and maybe the MC, that’s all. So in Europe here, I try to put only one artist on a tour and try to market the artiste to make sure that those that come out to watch him are fans of the artiste. So how is the performance going to be like? I had experience with Olamide tour, which is why I say we improve every time. Olamide performed, the fans went crazy, then Olamide performed for 30 minutes and people started complaining. It was online, in the news that Olamide performed for 30 minutes. I never knew he was meant to perform for 35minutes at which was the time frame. The fans went crazy and Olamide satisfied them, but to them they want him to be on stage for 45 minute or one hour. They like that live performance because they take out their time to be there for you so you must satisfy them for at least one hour. Not ten minutes or twenty minutes. You must satisfy them for one hour because they made up their time to come and watch you. How do you handle a situation where an artiste breaches a contract? Thank you for that question. That’s why I build a family relationship with all these artistes and try as much as I can to play my own role professionally. They always breach. When I was pushing for Duncan Mighty, he breached. I took it as one of those things. People say, put it in the media, put it in the press. But at the end of the day, we settled, we are good friends now. To me, disappointment sometimes is a blessing. And you should not let that weigh you down from moving forward. The guys we are dealing with are human beings and they’re artistes because their ways of reasoning are always different. So you have to understand them and know how to deal with them. How else do you think such cases can be prevented? It can’t be prevented. It must happen, trust me. The truth is you have to play your own role perfectly so that at the end, you won’t be crucified. It won’t be your fault; it will be the fault of the artiste or the management or whoever that is in charge. On my side, I always try to play my own role perfectly. You work mostly with male artistes, why? There’s room for the female (artiste) but the street where I come from, we hardly have that time for them. For example, I put a female on a tour, that moment you are going to wake up you should be on stage, the moment you’re taking your shower you should be at the airport. Imagine on a tour, you have a seven o’clock flight and you’re performing, maybe 3am, after the show you are heading straight to the airport. A female will tell you I need to shower at the end of the day. You are missing out on so many things. In other words, you’re saying managing female artistes is more cumbersome than managing male? Sincerely speaking, I always doff my heart for those that manage female artistes. I respect them so much. So there are no chances of managing female artistes, maybe in the nearest future? They come across me every time but I always recommend them to those I know that can manage them. What if you see prospects in them? That’s why I say I will recommend them. Looking forward, what are your plans for the future? My plans for the future are to take this hustle to the world stage, taking street music to the world stage. Making people believe that anybody can do it. There’s an opportunity for everyone to do what they can do. The plan is to create employment for everybody through entertainment. You have been exporting Nigerian music to the rest of the world, how do you view it now? The acceptance of Nigeria music has been awesome. It is growing everyday for people to say Lil Kesh can sell 15 shows on a tour in about 12 countries. Back in the days, people would say it is not possible but right now it is happening. Last year, you were on tour with Olamide and it went viral; but we have Burna Boy now, why is he not on the list? As I said, I go for those who are like my family. We run this street and if you don’t have money, yes he’s on the demand but Europe cannot afford his fees except for few cities. But for me, I do commercial stuff. Burna Boy today that’s on demand, he’s a fixed fee that he has to be paid which I can’t afford. Talking about street music, you’ve selected Lil kesh for this quarter, but presently Zlatan is on the street, everywhere. Can you say anything about this? How many tracks does Zlatan have at the moment, probably five? With five tracks, can you stay on the stage for 45 minutes. Zlatan is good but how many tracks does he have, because it is only one artiste, there are no other guest artistes? Some people might take him, but I’ve to be diplomatic here. When you say what the Europe market wants, it sounds a bit technical, how do you know what they want, what are the parameters? That’s why you need to know the job, you need to study the market. I’ve got people, partners. I make an enquiry. I don’t just wake up and say I’m bringing Lil kesh. People do it but at the end of the day, they feel frustrated. They don’t ask questions, just because you saw me doing it you jumped into it and it the end of the day it flops.