The Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has disclosed that the country will experience hot temperature this year. Following the hot temperature, which the agency said will be witnessed between March and May, it advised Nigerians to avoid over crowded places. This was disclosed in Abuja on Saturday by the Director General of NiMet, Prof. Sani Mashi during the celebration of the World Meteorological day with the theme ‘The Sun, the east and the weather‘. Prof. Mashi also advised farmers to disregard the pockets of rainfall witnessed in some parts of the country, adding that they should adhere to the agency’s prediction to avoid crop loss. The agency also allayed fears that Nigeria may experience extreme weather events. It said the location of the country makes it immune to extreme weather events like the tropical storms witnessed recently in Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi. Mashi said: “It is very clear that, our environment is in serious challenge of extreme weather events as a result of climate change, which is seen as the single most prominent risk. “As such, 2018 was found to be one of the four warmest years on record, and was the warmest year without an El Nino. “While 2019 as an ElNino year, has already begun with pockets of extreme events in form of severe storms currently ravaging Mozambique and parts of Australia. “This came after the passage of Polar Vortices as well as soaring temperature of about 50 degrees Celsius in Australia recently. Long-term climate change as a result of greenhouse gas emissions commit our planet to a warmer future, with more extreme weather and water shocks.” On the heat wave, he advised Nigerians to avoid over crowded places. According to him: “The fact of the matter is there are lots of diseases that tend to flourish under high temperature.  When temperatures are high, vapours of the disease normally flourish.  So, what we normally advice is that conditions that make the diseases to flourish should be avoided. “People should avoid staying in overcrowded rooms. Staying in high temperature will create an environment for the vapours to flourish and diseases will flourish. “People should learn to modify their way of living. If you don’t have the means to artificially to control the temperatures, try to avoid over congestion and have access to outdoor air. “2018 was hot and it was one of the hottest years and the prediction for 2019 will not be very different. The way we experienced heat in 2018, we are expected to experience similar situation in 2019. “Temperatures will be very high between the month of March and May. The temperatures will be abnormal during this period.” Allaying the fears of occurrence of extreme weather events in Nigeria, Mashi said: “We are so fortunate in Nigeria. The tropical storms that are very active and prevailing the cyclone is not close to us. “We are not within their movement whenever they occur. They build up in the Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean and it is not close to us. “So, we are lucky and we should grateful to God because we are immune to extreme events.”