The Osun State governor, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, has advised the people of the state and the supporters of the All Progressives Congress not to panic over the Friday judgement of the state Election Petition Tribunal declaring the People’s Democratic Party’s candidate, Ademola Adeleke, the winner of the September 22, 2018 governorship poll. He spoke while addressing supporters and members of the APC in Osun State, who paid a solidarity visit to him at the Government House on Saturday. Oyetola reiterated his commitment to the development of the state, saying nothing deter him from providing dividend of democracy to every nooks and crannies of the state. Oyetola, who expressed gratitude for the solidarity visit, assured them that there was nothing to be panic about the ruling. Describing the judgement of the tribunal as a ‘split judgment of two against one’, he said with God by his side he would become victorious. He said: “I want to appeal to our people to remain calm with the judgement of the Tribunal. I want to appreciate you for identify with me over yesterday verdict. Well, it was a split judgement of two of one and it’s not unanimous. “There is a dissenting judgment, the Chairman of the tribunal disagreed on the issues on noncompliance and the nullification of the rerun. “We urge our people to remain calm and be steadfast prayers. By the Grace of God, the verdict of the Appeal Court will vindicate us. “Our people should have faith in God, and believe that nothing has actually changed. We are appealing against the tribunal judgement and by the grace of God, we will come victorious. I want you to believe that God has actually ordained this government. “God has ordained this government, to the service of our people, and nothing will actually change that, you need to go about your business. The governor remains the governor and nothing has changed that, we are in the government and we will continue to go on. “You should start enlightening people who are ignorant of the judgment that, there is nothing to worry about; I remain the governor of the state of Osun. “I thank you all for solidarising with me, your party’s government will remain the best and am urging the security agencies to be at alert and maintain peace and order. “I am energised, nothing has changed. I remain the governor of the state of Osun and am promising you to do my best.”