 Some group of youths in Nnewi, Anambra state on Thursday, staged a peaceful protest against what they called imposition of representatives from rich families in the community on them. The protesters, under the aegis of Anaedo Concerned Youth Movement, Nnewi Academic Congress and Greater Nnewi Youth Ambassadors/ Graduate Partners, insisted that one Mr. Nonso Smart Okafor, the son of an akara (bean cake) frier would represent them in the State Assembly. They said the choice of Okafor vying under the platform of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) was informed by his poor background, insisting that he would fight for the interest of poor masses if elected. Leader of Anaedo Concerned Youth Movement, Comrade Echehome said the protest was informed by a perceived plan by an influential man in the town to impose one of the richest men on the community. He said, “We are on this solidarity rally because we learnt that a business mogul in the industrial city wants to influence the electorate to vote for a candidate from a rich family to represent the community in the State House of Assembly “through cash and carry style of electoral process.” “It would amount to injustice and disservice to Nnewi community to impose an unpopular candidate on the people just because he could not foot the bill.” Echehome insisted that the youths were comfortable with the APGA candidate who they noted had made the community proud in various capacities as a youth leader. According to him, there would be no hope for people of poor background in Nnewi in politics if any form of godfatherism was allowed. “We are going to set a bad precedent if we allow any form of godfatherism to be part of Nnewi political ideology and representation. “We are the youths of this community and we know who is who and nobody should tell us the choice to make. “We are the leaders of tomorrow in Nnewi and we should be allowed to make our choice and not imposition,” he said. Also speaking, Leader of Nnewi Youth Ambassadors/ Graduate Partners, Mr Ifeanyi Nwajide said the revolution was born out of the youths’ disgust to imposition of unpopular representative that had crippled their expected quality representation. Addressing the protesters, Senior Special Adviser to Governor Obiano, Hon Nnamso Nwafor Orizu assured them that the State government was behind the APGA candidate for the State Assembly election despite threats and persuasion to support a candidate against their wish. The protesters displayed placards with various inscriptions like: we need personality, not party; Nwa nwayi n’eghe akara ka anyi choro (we want the son of akara frier); Nnewi youths stand for Smart; no need for godfatherim and even okada riders want Smart; justice for the poor in Anaedo, and many other inscriptions. The solidarity rally took the youths and okada riders to Nkwo Triangle, Nkwo Nnewi markets, streets of Nnewi community and the palace of the traditional ruler of the community, His Royal Highness, Igwe Kenneth Orizu III with positive responses from the traders and larger Nnewi community members that they supported a poor woman’s son to represent them.