Coronation Merchant Bank survey has predicted early passage of the 2019 N8.83 trillion budget with the All Progressives Congress’(APC’s) renewed majority in the Senate. In a report released at the weekend, the bank said the announcement of election results saw the APC of President Muhammadu Buhari retain the presidency, defeating the challenge from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar. “This implies a continuation of the government based on firm regulation and security. However, while Buhari’s first term sailed into the oil price crash of 2015 and the recession of 2016, economic conditions are different – arguably better – now.  The APC’s renewed majority in the Senate is significant. The Senate proved frustrating to Buhari’s agenda in his first term, 2015-19. Expect the budget to be passed quickly this year,”  the report said. Coronation Research said Nigeria will almost certainly continue with a managed exchange rate.  “As we argue in Coronation Research: Year Ahead 2019, A Year of Two Halves, 15 January, the Naira is within 10 per cent of its fair value, so fundamental pressure to revalue it is weak. Foreign exchange reserves are $42.4 billion, which we calculate is compatible with Naira/$ stability, at close to N363/$1, for the rest of 2019,” he said. According to the report, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) offers a risk-free-rate 587 basis points above inflation, which keeps foreign investors in naira money markets. “As we argued in January, if inflation trends down mid-year, there may be scope for rate cuts in fourth quarter, or even third quarter. There was a brief pre-election rally, which partly unwound last week. High economic growth rates were not a feature of the last APC administration. That said, the trend in non-oil Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, evident in recent data, suggests that the economy is doing better than earlier thought. As we argued in January, we believe that under such conditions there is upside risk in bank stocks,” the report said. Continuing, it said a feature of President Buhari’s first term as President was weak economic growth, 2015-18. “GDP developed well below trend and fell into recession in 2016.  One key cause was the oil price collapse in late 2014 and 2015 which put pressure on: government revenues; the naira exchange rate; the trade account; and Nigeria’s ability to import critical industrial inputs,” it said.