The Youth Empowerment Foundation (YEF) NGO is set to train and mentor up to 12,000 secondary school-age girls by the end of 2019. The Programme Officer, YEF Abuja, Kemi Omole said this during a stakeholders conference held in Abuja. She explained that the organization, which operates in 19 countries worldwide, has recruited 30 direct beneficiaries who will train 14 girls each week in and week out for 10 months. Omole said: “Since our inception in Abuja in 2010, we have trained over 100,000 girls,” she stated in an interview. “We have 4,200 students that we train annually in Abuja. Our target now is to reach 12,000 students by the end of this year and we have already begun the process. “Our aim is to empower girls and to teach them how to save money, to know their rights and how to avoid being violated.” She commended the Federal Government for its involvement and support in giving them the opportunity to reach the students, but also listed time as a major challenge and hindrance to the impact that could be made towards the students. “What the federal government has done is that they have given us the opportunity to reach these students, however, we would like more time with the students,” she complained. “Many of the schools that we work in give us only about 20-30 minutes per week. At times, we are turned away by the school managements. We need to be allotted more time,”she added. Omole also named poor infrastructure as another challenge the group faces, noting that some lessons require them to sit outside to teach the girls. She implored the federal government to make available more classrooms for convenience. Speaking during an interview, the Head of Department of Gender for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Universal Basic Education Board (UBEB), Dr. Safiya Tamanuwa, praised the initiatives of YEF in empowering young women and capacity building. “YEF is impacting marginalized girls by helping them attain their fullest potentials in education and life skills. “They have succeeded in sensitizing girls on societal and personal development, especially those who were timid and afraid to ask questions. “UBEB is out to assure that no girl child is left on the street. Admission into any of the FCT secondary schools is open at all times to both girls and boys of school age. We are leaving no child left behind.” Tamanuwa expressed her hope that the Gender Equality bill will soon be passed to further strengthen the federal government’s mission to aid girl child education in the country.