Dry season is in full force, it also comes with some health concerns such as being dehydrated, excessive exposure to sun which accelerates aging of the skin, among others. Omolara Akintoye writes on tips to stay healthy and safe this season. IN certain states across the country, the sun could be as intense as biting one’s skin, hypothetically, while in the coastal area, the sun is hot enough to cause immeasurable discomfort. Some side effects of excessive exposure to the sun, include skin cancer, freckles, which are small light brown patches on the skin, mottled pigmentation, shallowness, which is the yellow dis-colouration of the skin, patterns on the skin and wrinkles, it also accelerates ageing of the skin, among others But, beyond the impact of sunlight on the skin, the prevailing heat wave has also been found to cause dehydration, facilitate the spread of chicken pox and, of course, stress and fatigue. Meanwhile, to avoid these negative impacts of this hot weather, the following are some helpful tips to stay healthy in this dry season: Drink lots of water to stay hydrated Ajose, who is a consultant dermatologist, pointed out that when people are exposed to the sun or heat, it is a given that they would sweat and be dehydrated, whether they feel the hydration or not. This explains why medical experts have advised that people should drink enough water. But a consultant dermatologist, Prof. Frances Ajose, had told our correspondent that drinking a lot of water helps to ensure that the skin has enough fluid to replace the quantity lost as sweat and that needed to get rid of the toxins in the body. She also recommended that the minimum quantity people in a tropic region, like Nigeria, should drink is four litres of water, an equivalence of eight sachets of water daily. However, this hot season, people are advised to take more than that, and possibly go around with either bottle or sachet water, to serve as a reminder. Experts say one cannot go wrong with the water, because not only does it regulate the temperature, it keeps the skin soft, helps the kidneys to function and lubricates joints and muscles, thereby reducing the likelihood of fatigue.  Mind what you wear Even though people are advised to, as much as possible, limit their exposure to the sun this season, there are always compelling needs for people to enter the sun, whether due to job demands or emergency situations. And findings showed that the sun is usually intense between 10 am and 4 pm. However, in such situations, experts advised that it is best for people to wear protective clothing, like long-sleeved shirts, pants and hats that are broad wide, so as to protect the face, scalp and ears from the sun. This would help to keep their skin fresh, avoid irritation and wrinkles. “It is important for people to remain in a shade as much as possible, especially during the peak hours of the sun, to minimise sun exposure and the tendency to sweat so much,” Ajose added. Wear sunglass One other important way to keep the eyes safe during this hot season is to wear sunglasses when entering the sun, but people tend to shy away from it maybe because they do not know its advantage or they are just shy to wear one. It is worthy of note that the ultraviolet ray of the sun could damage some sensitive cells in the eyes, which in the long run could affect the person’s vision later in life. The World Health Organisation said current scientific evidence suggests that different forms of eye cancer may be associated with life-long exposure to the sun. Also, the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States found that sun-related vision problems include macular degeneration, pterygium and cataracts, which the WHO described as the leading cause of blindness in the world.  Therefore, constant exposure of the eyes to the sun is dangerous. “People should use sunglasses, because excessive ultraviolet radiation also damages the cornea,” she added. Have your bath as much as you can One other way to stay cool this season is to have a bath as many times as possible. Apart from the fact that it is refreshing, it washes off the sweat the body must have secreted.