The policies, programmes and projects audit committee recently set up by President Muhammadu Buhari is working to produce a specific document that will encapsulate all promises made by the president during the election campaign that preceded the 2019 general election. The committee, which is chaired by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, was inaugurated last Friday to prepare and produce a detailed working document that will guide the incoming cabinet members on the direction of government regarding policies, programmes and projects. The committee would also audit and determine the status of implementation of policies programmes and projects either inherited or commenced by the out-going administration. The work of the committee would also be to identify and highlight a residue of works and challenges that may militate against their successful implementation. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the Vice President, Laolu Akande, who briefed State House correspondents on Monday, said the committee was working to prepare for the successful take off of President Buhari’s second term in office. “The important thing is just to assure Nigerians that the Buhari administration’s second term is going to take off with detailed programmes, detailed policies after the work of this committee has been done. “ And to assure the people that everything that was promised by the president during the campaign; all of these things are going to come together in a very specific document that will be produced by the programmes, policies and projects audit committee who work has started.” he said Akande said that the next meeting of the committee would be held next week. “After the inauguration, the committee went ahead to have its first deliberation and it will continue to have regular meetings until its work is done. “Its next meeting is going to be next week, probably by the end of next week. “But even between now and then, the work of the committee continues because there are other background compilations and consultations that are going on,” Akande said