Acting Inspector General of Police,  Mohammed Adamu has explained why the  Police are not efficient as they should be. Adamu spoke before the House Committee on Police  Affairs yesterday while defending the Force’s 2019 Budget proposal, as well as reflecting on the performance and challenges experienced with the implementation of the 2018 Appropriation. According to him, as the lead agency of government responsible for protection of life and property,  “at every turn, I am confronted with the issue of inadequate funding.” The Police boss said: “The Nigeria Police Force which I command today, is a pivotal organ of government and the lead agency in internal security with a strength of 301,737 personnel (made up of Police, Traffic Wardens and Civilian Staff) as at 15th January 2019. “It is stationed across the Federation (the Force Headquarters, 12 Zones, 37 States including the FCT, 224 Area Commands, 1,401 Divisions, 1,759 Police Stations and 3,846 Police Posts). “This strength and spread are not static but continue to grow side by side with overall national growth and development. Unfortunately, these growth and development have over the years, not received commensurate funding.” He said the Police are expected to live up to the billing to ensure internal security which will attract investments, promote trade, industry and commerce for socio-economic development and growth. According to him Nigeria is a large country with a huge population and policing a nation as large and diverse as Nigeria requires enormous funding. He also told the lawmakers that for the force to maintain neutrality and avoid compromises in the performance of its statutory duties, it should obtain its funding requirements from constitutionally recognied sources. “Presently, the Police depends on the government for the provision of funds for its day to day operations. However, the annual budgetary allocation to the Force especially with regards to capital and overhead costs do not reflect the enormous size, scope of responsibility and actual needs of the Force. “Arising from the limitations of funding occasioned by the budgetary constraint, most of the requirements that would enable the Force perform are never met. “For instance, as against a capital budget estimate Of N342.9billion proposed for the 2018_ fiscal year, the Force was given an appropriation of N25.2bn.” Adamu said despite the increasing security challenges it has to contend with, the funds given the Force are grossly inadequate.   