Fifteen-month-old Taye Adetunji, who died on Sunday under curious circumstances at HJ CLAIROOWEN Medical Centre, 10, Busari Street, Egbeda, Lagos, was buried without autopsy based on the clinic’s recommendation, the family has alleged. The child’s father, Adeola Adetunji, told our correspondent yesterday that the private hospital contacted someone at a cemetery near Command, Ayobo, Ipaja, Lagos and gave his brother the number of the person, for them to bury the infant there. Adetunji said they were given a medical report, which they took to the cemetery and gave the person ’Nurse’ Dayo Badmus linked them with, to enable them bury the baby. He said: “Before I came to Lagos on Monday morning, the nurse (Badmus) spoke to my brother and gave a number from the cemetery to him. Badmus directed us to the place to bury the baby. They buried the baby at Command, Ayobo, Ipaja. “When I returned, my baby was already dead. Yes, I saw the baby. The ‘doctor’ (Badmus) told my family that he had got a place for them and directed them to the cemetery at Command, Ipaja. “I asked for doctor’s report and he wanted to write it on a paper, but I refused, saying it should be on the clinic’s letterhead. He later brought the letterhead, wrote the report and signed it. “We gave the cemetery attendant the doctor’s report before we were allowed to bury the baby there. We also paid N7,000 at the cemetery. “We agreed to use the cemetery because my baby deserved last respect. We did not know about autopsy and the doctors did not say anything like that. They just told us that we should go and bury the baby and since my family lives in a rented apartment, it would not have been easy to get a burial place by ourselves. My house is in Ogun State.” Lagos State Government, through the Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA), has shut down the medical centre, while investigations into the allegations continue. The Director for Public Health, Mrs. Adeola Salako, confirmed the closure to our correspondent on the phone. She said investigation would be thorough and findings made public. Health Commissioner Jide Idris, in a phone chat with The Nation, dismissed claims by the medical director that Dr. Joy had been sacked. He said investigations into the matter were still on. 