Southern Sun Hotel Ikoyi said it has upped its services to make sure its customers continue  to enjoy high quality and value added services. Located within easy access to the central business area and government offices, the hotel offers business and leisure travellers’ exceptional convenience. The hotel’s stylish sophistication and classic, contemporary design combined with discreet service provides an uncomplicated approach to giving guests a memorable experience. Tastefully decorated rooms offer spacious living areas fitted with all modern amenities one may require to feel at home. Featuring a pool and fitness centre with sauna and steam rooms, the hotel caters to travellers’ comfort on every level. Guests can also make use of the comprehensive business centre, executive lounge, banqueting and meeting facilities available. A choice of eight productivity enhancing meeting and event venues, excellent overnight group rates, a location in the city’s most desirable postcode, renowned restaurant quality catering, free wifi, secure on-site parking, inclusive AV technology, space for 10 to 100 and an events-experienced team, ensure Southern Sun Ikoyi’s conference centre is one of the best in Lagos. Southern Sun says whatever the event, it has packages and venues that can be customised and adapted to your team and your needs. With a selection of new meeting rooms and boardrooms, there’s no shortage of spaces for everyone from Nigerian startups and Lagos entrepreneurs to the biggest names in international banking and business. Every venue at the Lagos conference centre can be equipped to meet your audio, display and connectivity needs. From the large flat screen displays in Mezzanine meeting rooms to the projectors and ceiling mounted screens in our conference rooms, as well as optional PA systems to make meetings sound and look great. The hotel says it offers guests quality catering with a selection of event menus that include plenty of global variety. From Nigerian classics like egusi soup and pounded yam to caprese salads and gourmet burger sliders, as well as no shortage of bakery prepared desserts and sweet treats