Managing Director of Wale Adenuga Productions, a company known for award-winning television series and sitcoms, Wale Adenuga Jnr, speaks on delving into film production, and their debut production, ‘Knockout’, due for release in Easter. Excerpts: YOUR organisation has created an image as a leading television content producer in the country, why are you delving into filmmaking? Great question. Both the television space and cinemas have one thing in common, they thrive on content. We have created good content for the television audience for years no doubt, but we were also observant of some good Nigerian films coming out in the cinemas over the years and this spurred us to also want to provide content to that audience – the cinema goers. However, the audience should not assume for a second that production standard for television has been used in producing this film. We teamed up with professionals with experience in making some of the world class standard Nigerian films in recent times, and we are proud of what we have come out with. So tell us what exactly is Knockout about, and what inspired the idea? Knockout is a hilarious comedy featuring several Nigerian comedy icons – legendary and fresh. It follows a group of people that in an attempt to participate in a one billion naira boxing completion, select the most unlikely boxer and get into lots of trouble as they attempt to participate in the competition against all odds. What inspired the idea is a need to have the audience laugh off their seats and take away one or two lessons from the film. You have a rainbow of stars in the film, what informed this decision and in a whole, how much would you say this film has cost? Like the tagline says- The biggest, the funniest. We wanted to make a larger than life film that will be heavy on every component of film making. The story is extremely funny, the cast features most of the biggest talents, the recording equipment is state of the art etc. We believe our aim has been achieved. The cost of making the film should be close to a hundred million. That’s without promotion and advertising. What is your general assessment of Nollywood? The industry has greatly improved over the years. People are taking bigger steps, getting more daringly creative and all in all, Nigerians are being taken more seriously as film makers. Generally people are seeing the global acceptance effect of professionalism and are keying into it. So the industry is doing well and we are committed to playing our own role to make it better. After Knockout, are we looking to more films from Wale Adenuga Productions? Yes of course we would be making more films after Knockout. Truth is we do not see ourselves as creators of content for only one platform, but as creators of content for general consumption. The only rules are to respect and treat each platform differently. If this requires collaborative efforts, then so be it. What matters is in the end you have a satisfied audience.