As the Kwara State Governor-elect, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of the All Progressives Congress prepares to take over power from the political dynasty that has governed the state for decades, Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, reports that Kwarans see the development as an opportunity to take power back to the people ALHAJI AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been elected as the new governor of Kwara State in the North-central zone of the country. The new governor comes as the product of a statewide agitation by the people for a change in the way government is being run in the state. The massive votes for the opposition APC across the state, analysts say, represent a rejection of the old order as represented by the Saraki political family. Through the ‘O to ge’ movement, the people identified with the opposition APC, led by Abdulrasaq as its flag-bearer. Not only did they reject the governorship candidate of the PDP, Rasaq Atunwa, they also voted out the PDP in all other elective positions in the state. Even the Senate President and leader of the PDP, Bukola Saraki, was denied a return to the senate by his people in Kwara Central. The fall of Saraki and the PDP at the polls meant that a new order has been installed as desired by the people. The APC represents that new order. As they say, to whom much is given, much is expected. From this new order, to who they have given so much of their time, energy, resources, support and confidence, the people of Kwara State expect so much. To put it mildly, the people want to take ownership of their state. “The people have for long desired to take ownership of their state. They have seen how the state is being administered and they have yearned for more without the opportunity to bring about the much needed change. But when the APC provided the platform through the ‘O to ge’ movement, our people jumped on the bandwagon and confronted Saraki and his allies,” Bola Oba, State Chairman of the Good Governance Initiative (GGI), said. Aware of the burden placed on him by the people’s expectation, AbdulRazaq said he will run a government that will embrace everybody in the state, including members of the opposition. “This state belongs to all. We don’t see anybody as opposition. It is Kwara for all. All hands must be on deck to rebuild the state.  This is a poor state and a lot of work must be done. We will embrace everybody,” he said. He said the new administration has a lot of work to do to get the state back on its feet, and called on all Kwarans to support his government which will be inaugurated in May. “When you record a winning margin of 75 per cent as we did, it means that even those on the side of PDP voted for us. So, we are going to ensure that we all work together. We are not going to label anybody. There are good people on the other side too,” he said. The senator-elect for Kwara South Senatorial District, Lola Ashiru, who assured that the government will pay the N30, 000 minimum wage, cautions of the attendant high inflation rate. He also said probing of the current and past administrations may not be the priority of the APC government unless where it is absolutely necessary. Optimism Buoyed by the governor-elect’s admission of the need for his incoming administration to give the state back to the people by involving the various strata of the population in the business of government, various groups and sectors in the state are gearing up to take part in the next government. To many of these groups and individuals, with Abdularasaq and the APC in charge, Kwarans will take ownership of their state. According to many observers of the politics of the state, the process that will determine the future and new status of Kwara State reached a crescendo on March 9th when residents of the state rejected the PDP and voted the APC. Apparently, that singular decision to change guard in an unprecedented preference for the progressive party, will have effects on the socio-economic well-being of the people of the north central state. According to Kayode Oyin-Zubair, a chieftain of the APC and an age-long advocate of change in Kwara, “It is an open secret that the socio-economic quagmire experienced by Kwarans can be traced to over concentration of power in one family. The decision of how to govern Kwara State was for almost 45 years decided in a family house in Ilorin. Even a ward councilor who operates at the simplest level of representation must take orders from the “leader” in Ilorin. “It became so appalling that the dissatisfaction of the people with the status quo ante became loud to the deaf and visible to the blind, going by votes garnered by the APC. However, an average man living in Kwara State seems not have got it right. The nostalgia of the past governments where political patronage took precedence over infrastructural development still rules the land. The first assignment on the shoulders of Kwarans after they indicated interest in joining the progressive platform of the APC is to roll up their sleeves. Kwarans must be reminded that every government is true reflection of the society and the people that put it in place. Therefore, different shades of people must engage the next governor of the state on critical infrastructural and human developments.” A prominent Kwaran, Chief Wole Oke, called on the governor-elect to effect genuine and positive change in the state. Oke, a former leader of the Kwara State Assembly, said the expectations of the people of the state had begun to run riot with the victory of Abdulrazaq on March 9. The party chieftain also appealed to the governor-elect to embark on a change that would ensure meaningful, equitable and even development throughout the state. “He should lend the people his ears and be receptive to their demands, views, opinions and ideas, which will revolve around gratifying and maximising their well-being. They expect change that positively impacts on the living standard and well-being of the people in terms of availability of potable water, not only in the state capital. Such change must reflect in every town and village in every local government areas of the state. “Access to good health facilities for every citizen, no matter his/her place of habitation in any part of the state. The people’s desire is for a change that will take our youths away from the streets as job seekers and make them fully employed in order to legitimately earn their living. The people desire a change that will distinguish an Abdulrahman progressive administration from a Bukola era of stagnation,” he said. As the people take over The youth took the bull by the horn at the weekend when they converged at the auditorium of the University of Ilorin to rub minds on areas that are important to the development of the state. Critical youth groups cutting across all strata had opportunities of marshaling their ideas on how the state can be better managed and developed. The program was designed to have the governor-elect in attendance for him to hear from a population that can drive his policy thrust. “The uniqueness of the gathering is that as the single largest community of youth in Kwara State, it was opened to young professionals, artisans, student unions, community based organisations among others. It was hinged on a central theme of making Kwara youth the catalyst for socio-economic development. The governor-elect now have all that the youths said to help him in repositioning Kwara. “We believe this, among other means, is the way to return sovereignty to the people where their economic survival will not only be determined by them but equally dictating the pace of development to the Chief Executive of the state. The business acumen of the next governor, Abdulrazaq, will be seen in the economic recovery plans of the state,” Oyin-Zubair said. Kwara’s governor-elect, Abdulrazaq, was part of the few Nigerians either as government head or business owners that attended the just concluded Africa CEO forum conference in Kigali, Rwanda. Many observers are of the opinion that he is already showing early signs that he understands that this people expect him to tackle the twin needs of industrializing the state and creating jobs as soon as possible. AbdulRazaq, on the sideline of the conference, held discussions on how to mobilize private sector funding for infrastructure and logistical projects. “We discussed on how to mobilize private sector in funding cross – border infrastructure and logistical projects. The African Continent Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) launched recently will provide the desired window for trade amongst Africa itself,” he explained. Similarly, pensioners, under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP), have urged the state governor-elect to live up to expectations by fulfilling all his electioneering campaign promises. The retirees gave the advice in a statement signed by their union’s chairman and secretary, Alhaji Saidu Oladimeji and Elder Abraham Gana, respectively. They said that this is the only way the governor-elect could justify confidence reposed in him by the people. The pensioners also pledged their support for the incoming administration. Describing the victory of the governor-elect as the will of God and well deserved, the pensioners hoped that the emergence would usher in peace, love and development in the state. The union then prayed God to grant him and other elected APC members sound health, wisdom and understanding to take the state to the next level of development. Even members of the opposition parties are not left out of the new movement that will see the people truly taking ownership of Kwara state. The Alliance for Democracy (AD) in the state, in a statement signed by its secretary, Micheal Ologunde, and made available to journalists in Ilorin, advised governor-elect to work to meet the yearnings of people of the state so that his party does not suffer fate of its predecessor. The AD wants Abdulrazaq to improve on employment, food security, free education, quality health, water supply, electricity and other facilities for the benefit of people of the state. “The people are eager to see Kwara move forward. I can tell you that, in Kwara today, the ‘O to ge’ movement is home for all those who genuinely want our state to develop, not just APC members alone,” Oyin-Zubair boasted.