President Muhammadu Buhari should have received more votes from northern states in the February 23rd poll but for insurgency and insecurity, Senator Kabiru Marafa (Zamfara Central) has stated. He also welcomed the decision of presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar to go to court to challenge the result. He spoke on Friday with State House Correspondents after a parley with President. On criticisms that have trailed votes from the north, Senator Marafa said: “If you ask me I will tell you that I am not even pleased with the votes that came from my state because I believe we could have done much more. “We have 1.4million registered voters and we recorded only about 650,000 votes, so what is the big deal about it? “If you look at all the states, I think the overall performance is below 60 percent. African leaders congratulate Buhari on his re-election in most of the states. “We have more than 80 million registered voters and out of that figures how many voted? “In fact we are supposed to lament because the situation was supposed to be much more than that. “Nigerians are supposed to be more politically aware and they are supposed to turnout in their numbers to vote much more than we have seen. So I don’t see anything unusual about that.” On the March 9 governorship election, he said: “Well, the most important thing now is that we have finished the presidential election which a lot of people are united on the candidacy of president Muhammadu Buhari but when it comes to the governorship election, there are a lot of disparities across the states which the President himself has reckoned by actions. “So I will urge people to vote for people they trust that can protect their lives and properties, people that will bring about prosperity to them. “The President has shown that he is a great democrat and we have seen what he did in Ogun State. We have seen what he did in Imo State and so on and so forth. “This is to tell you that the president is ushering a new brand of democracy without bitterness. People should be allowed to choose.”