The police in Ogun have arrested two self- acclaimed pastors of God of Possibilities Church for allegedly killing their brother-in-law, Peter Chukwuyem. The suspects, Chukwuka Stephen, 43 and Ejim Stephen, 39, both brothers, committed the alleged offence on February 5 but were arrested February 24. It was gathered that the deceased married the suspects’ elder sister and brought them to live with his family from their village in Delta State. The suspects were said to have converted the frontage of the man’s home at Papa Ibafo in Ogun State to a church, which the deceased found unpleasant and chased them away. As a result of that, the brothers nursed animosity for their sister’s husband and allegedly butchered him at his farm on the evening of February 5. Police spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) said the suspects initially denied committing the crime but when they were confronted by the man’s children, they opened up. Oyeyemi said: “On February 5, the deceased went to his farm with two of his teenage daughters in the morning and met the two suspects at the farm because, of the presence of the girls, they were unable to do anything to him for fear of being exposed. “In the evening of the same day, the deceased went back to the farm alone and the suspects who have been waiting for him at the farm accosted him and matcheted him to death. “It was when the deceased didn’t return on time that his wife traced him to the farm and met his dead body. “She subsequently went to Ibafo police station where she lodged complaint. The two brothers were later arrested by the police at Ibafo on account of the two daughters of the deceased who informed the police that they saw the two of them earlier in their father’s farm. “On interrogation, the two suspects denied killing their brother in-law but when they were confronted by the two daughters of the deceased, they confessed to the crime. “They said they did it because he deprived them of continuing using of his frontage for their church activities. “The corpse of the deceased was subsequently removed and deposited at the General Hospital mortuary for post mortem examination. “The Commissioner of Police Ahmed Iliyasu has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for proper investigation and prosecution.”