The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved a loan variation of $461,795,551.02 for building new airport terminals in the country. Minister of State Aviation, Hadi Sirika, stated this on Monday when he appeared before the Senate Committee on Aviation to defend his ministry’s 2019 budget proposals. The $461.8 million variation, he said, is required in addition to the $500 million loan already received from the China Exim Bank. The minister explained that the variation became necessary to deal with some challenges in the building of the terminals. According to him: “there are challenges with the new terminals being built with the $500 million loan from the China Exim Bank.” He listed some of the challenges to include change in the structural design of the airports, foundation footing and escalators. Sirika also listed the need to make provisions for the biggest modern aircraft, change in departure and arrival floors to rhyme with railway station, provision of adequate power supply and relocation of control tower and fire service station, as other challenges. He said: “The challenges have resulted in the need for variation and additional works to the tune of $461,795, 551.02, which has been approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC).” The minister told the committee that the China Exim Bank had indicated willingness to consider funding additional works. He said he had written to the Ministry of Budget and National Planning to provide for the sum of $73.9 million as counterpart fund in 2019 outside the ministry’s proposed budget. The Minister said that the airports where work took place already wearing new looks befitting of modern airports. He also told the committee that two of the new terminals, in Port Harcourt and Abuja have already been commissioned, while Lagos and Kano will soon be completed. Sirika noted that adequate provision had also been made to complete the new terminal buildings in at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. He sought the support of the National Assembly and other stakeholders to ensure needed equipment for safety and security were provided to meet the Standard and Recommended Practices (SARPs) as outlined by regulatory aviation bodies. The minister noted that more bilateral and multilateral air service agreements would be signed for the benefits of or travellers. On the 2019 budget, the minister said the sum of N47.5 billion was proposed for Capital Expenditure at the headquarters. The amount, he said, would be used to sustain infrastructural renewal at the airports especially re-modeling of projects to upgrade of air navigational equipment, safety and security infrastructure. On the implementation of the 2018 budget, the minister said that N26.9 billion was budgeted for the Aviation sub-sector out of which the sum of N3.12 billion representing 11.6 per cent was released to the sector. He said that N2.99 billion representing 96 per cent had been expended as at March 15. According to him, the sum of N508.8 million was appropriated for overhead expenditure for the whole Ministry of Transport, which includes Aviation, Marine and Land sectors. He said that N296.8 million, representing 58.3 per cent was released, while N296.8 million representing 99.9 per cent was expended as at December 2018. The minister said the ministry was funded from national budget, while agencies like Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NIMET), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Nigeria College of Aviation Technology(NCAT) and Accident Investigation Bureau were also funded from Internally Generated Revenue(IGR).