The Provost, Federal College of Education (Technical) Umunze, Anambra State, Dr Tessy Okoli, has praised the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) for supporting tertiary institutions with infrastructure and training. She said TETFund interventions have helped to bridge the funding gap and reposition many institutions, including FCET Umunze. The Provost said this after the matriculation of 2,000 students of the College recently. “One of the cornerstones of FCET Umunze is capacity building, academic staff training and development. With TETFund sponsorship, many academic staff of our college are pursuing higher degrees in both local and foreign universities. The entire cost of their academic programme is funded by TETFund. This has helped our college so much. We have more than 50 doctorate degree holders in various fields, who invest their knowledge in the quality of teaching in the college,” she said. However, the Provost called for help to improve the college’s access roads and facilities.  She said the dilapidated state the access road to the college had become a cause for worry and appealed to the Federal Government and the Anambra State government for help. “The Anambra State Governor, Dr Willie Obiano, did palliative work on the road before the last general election. During the last Convocation, Governor Obiano promised to reconstruct the road and provide a 32-seater Coaster bus to the College. We pray that the amiable Governor, who is also a Fellow of this College, would fulfil these promises,” she said. She further appealed to other philanthropists in Anambra State and the entire south east, including senators, federal and state lawmakers, educationists, captains of industry and corporate organisations to take up legacy projects in this college and immortalise their names. “Such supports like building projects, landscaping of the main campus, donation of vehicles, institution of academic prizes and awards, landscaping of the Main Campus of the College, or donation of learning facilities, would be appreciated,” she stated. Since her appointment as the first Provost to be selected internally, Dr Okoli said she regarded it as opportunity to explore the huge potentials in the institution, and as well address the peculiar challenges crippling the system. “I have seen the glittering prospects, the glowing promises and daunting challenges of this college. I want to assure you that this administration would bring all the factors to the table to chart a way forward for this college,” she said. The Provost promised that the college would continue to provide unhindered access to tertiary education for students seeking admission into NCE and degree programmes. According to her, thousands of students seeking admission into universities every year are often turned down because of the limited carrying capacity of these institutions. “With the degree programme hosted in our college, we offer opportunities to countless students to achieve their dream. This college will continue to play a leading role in increasing access to tertiary education for millions of Nigerian students,” she stated. Okoli said the college would not neglect her core mandate, which is the NCE. According to her, as over 1000 students were admitted into the NCE programme for the new academic session. While administering the matriculation oath, the Registrar, Sir Augustine Udensi, urged the students to abide by the rules and regulations of the institution.