FORTY-ONE suspected Boko Haram terrorists were at the weekend killed by the Multinational Joint Task Force Troops (MNJTF), the military announced yesterday. The terrorists were neutralised in clearance operations by troops who destroyed six gun trucks and other equipment belonging to the insurgents. According to the Chief Military Information Officer of the Force, Col. Timothy Antigha, the feat was achieved following the launch of Operation Yancin Tafki last month. Col. Antigha explained in a statement that the troops of the MNJTF, comprising of air and land components, would continue to pursue and raid the hideouts of fleeing terrorists until they are wiped out. The Force spokesman said: “In continuation of Operation YANCIN TAFKI which was launched last month, troops of the MNJTF, comprising Air and Land Components from Chad, Cameroon, Niger Republic and Nigeria have for the second time in about 10 days, dealt a devastating blow on Boko Haram Terrorists. “Last night, Boko Haram Terrorists operating on the Kamadougou River, between Niger and Nigeria, attacked troops location in Gueskerou, about 30 kilometers from Diffa in Niger Republic. “However, troops showed valour and gallantry by fiercely defending their location and killing 27 terrorists, destroying six gun trucks and capturing equipment, arms and ammunition. “A few terrorists who escaped the fire fight were observed running towards Gashigar in Nigerian territory and were being pursued as at the time of issuing this press release. “In a related development, between 3 and 6 pm today (Saturday), MNJTF troops also confronted Boko Haram Terrorists around Abadam, in the general area of Mallam Fatori. “A summary of human and equipment casualty suffered by Boko Haram during the engagement is stated below: 13 Boko Haram Terrorists killed; 20 AK 47 Rifles, five AA Gun, and another 12 AK 47 Rifles were seized from them.” He listed others as: 1000 by 7.62 MM ammunition and 500 by 12.7MM ammunition, adding that one Boko Haram Terrorist was captured alive. Col. Antigha also said five motor cycles were seized and another one destroyed by troops. According to him four gun trucks were destroyed, three gun trucks captured, three general purpose machine guns captured and three hand grenades were also captured from the terrorists. He said: “It would be recalled that about 10 days ago, MNJTF troops also struck Boko Haram Terrorists in Dorou in Niger Republic, neutralising many of them in the process. “The MNJTF is therefore determined to intensify subsidiary operations such as raids, ambushes and fighting patrols among others until the last strong hold of Boko Haram in the Lake Chad Basin is neutralised.”