A Lagos High Court yesterday heard how a four-year-old  was kidnapped in church in 2015, during a workers’ meeting. The boy’s grandmother, Mrs Gladys Alaegbu, said he was sitting behind him with her bag when he suddenly disappeared. Alaegbu, a worker in Amazing Grace Pentecostal Church, Palmgrove, Lagos, was testifying in the trial of a kidnap suspect, Gabriel Ogunsawe. According to the press, Ogunsawe and his accomplices, who are on the run, kidnapped Joshua on February 1, 2015 and released him the next day after collecting N300,000 ransom and N3000 airtime. His arraignment at an Ebute-Meta Magistrates’ Court in 2015 and re-arraignment at the High Court in 2017 followed his arrest in May 2015, by the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, Lagos. Ogunsawe was allegedly sent to Kirikiri Prison in 2013 for his part in a similar offence. Led in evidence by the prosecutor counsel Bisayo Apata, Alaegbu said. “My grandson was kidnapped inside the church on February 1.” She said following the conclusion of the day’s service, she stayed back to attend a workers’ meeting, gave Joshua her bag and found him a seat behind her. The witness said: “I looked back several times and saw him playing. But after we did the closing prayers, I did not see him again.” She said only her bag was on the chair. The witness said after looking for him in vain, she ran home to inform her husband that the boy was missing, adding that together they went to the nearby Pedro Police Station which refused to take her statement. “The police said we had to wait for 24 hours,” Alaegbu said. The witness said they returned to the church where they were informed that the kidnapper had been in touch with the clergyman, Pastor Joshua. “I stayed there till 8pm before leaving for home. The pastor told us the kidnappers were still calling, mentioning a ransom. I cried throughout,” she said, adding that the kidnappers threatened to hand over Joshua to money ritualists at Ijebu Ode in Ogun State, if the family or church failed to raise the ransom. Alaegbu said the next day, they returned to the church, where, at about 3:30pm, “I received a call from my compound, one of my neighbours said the police had found Joshua.” She said the police left a note, asking her to come to the Onikan Police Station, where she recovered Joshua. The witness added: “Three months after Joshua was found, I received a call from the SCIID, Panti. They told me to come with Joshua. That’s where I saw the defendant.” Justice Modupe Nicol-Clay adjourned till April 4. 