The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Ekiti State has distributed sensitive materials across the 16 local government areas of the state for the conduct of House of Assembly election scheduled for Saturday. The distribution, according to the Acting Resident Electoral Commissioner in the state, Dr Muslim Omoleke, was done in the presence of security operatives and various parties’ representatives. The governorship election was held in the state on July 14, 2018, which produced Dr Kayode Fayemi, leaving the state with only Assembly election. Speaking with newsmen in Ado Ekiti on Thursday, Omoleke assured that the commission won’t disappoint Ekiti voters with the conduct of the election. He advised all the regular and ad hoc staff not to be partisan, by displaying high level of neutrality and shunning any corrupt tendencies that could cast a pall on the electoral process. “The sensitive and non-sensitive materials have been distributed to all the council areas under heavy security cover. “We are not taking anything for granted. We tracked all the vehicles to ensure that those materials were not diverted but delivered at the appropriate place. “We did not only distribute the materials, but we partnered the security agencies to ensure that they are on ground in all the LGs to protect them till Saturday. “Early on Saturday, the materials will be distributed to the wards for onward distribution to the units. “Our projection is that the elections must start at 8am simultaneously in all the 2,195 polling units on Saturday. “So, the materials, including the reconfigured smart card readers, ballot boxes and papers are in safe custody and under heavy police protection”. “We did not disappoint during the presidential and National assembly elections and we promise that we will do better in this assembly election”, he said. Omoleke called on the security agencies and the electorate to be civil and maintain high level of orderliness for the success of the election. 