One clear advice from President Muhamm-adu Buhari to Nigerians from the pre-2019 general elections period was that they should feel free to vote for candidates of their choice in the various elections. That advice did not change when he took his campaign train to the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The moment he highlighted his achievements during his campaign and how he was going to take the country to the next level, he never failed to urge Nigerians to vote for their preferred candidates. Even after he raised the hands of the governorship candidates during the campaigns in the various states, he was not ready to force anybody down the throat of Nigerians. That didn’t change after he was declared the winner of the February 23rd Presidential election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He repeated the advice to Nigerians at least twice last week just before the supplementary elections in parts of the country, even when it didn’t go down well with some people in his party. The President was more interested in letting the will of the people prevail in the various elections. In the first statement issued last week Sunday, it was made very clear that President Buhari will not interfere in last weekend  supplementary polls in favour of anybody including members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Unlike some past leaders, Buhari ruled out interference in the supplementary elections and decided to uphold the constitution to the letter. In the statement signed by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity, Garba Shehu, the President insisted that INEC was fully in charge of all the electoral processes. He said “The Presidency has cautioned against a lot of the hate spewing, incitement to violence and the polarising statements by so-called political leaders as a number of states brace up for supplementary elections prescribed by the National Electoral Commission. “The Presidency also rejects unfair and ridiculous criticisms of President Muhammadu Buhari’s apparent disinterest in the upcoming elections in some states by party members who wrongfully assume that the President will abuse power by changing results to favour them. “Past Presidents of Nigeria were known to interfere in inconclusive elections, and that is why party members appear to be upset that the same thing is not happening now, but President Buhari is a different kind of leader. He swore to defend the constitution and will not veer off from that. “The constitution of Nigeria gives the President no such powers. It is unfair and ridiculous to criticise President Buhari for not going against the constitution. “Party members in states where there will be supplementary elections then need to be reminded that they need to work hard to earn their people’s votes, rather than expect President Buhari to manipulate INEC in their favour. “Interestingly, while members of the ruling APC party were criticising the President for not interfering on their behalf, members of the opposition were condemning the President based on their assumptions that he would definitely interfere, as many in the opposition did while in power. “Under President Buhari, INEC had been and will be completely independent throughout the elections, free from any interference. “President Buhari is a man of conviction, and the manipulation of election results goes against everything he stands for. INEC is completely in charge.” he stated The second statement issued  last Friday wasn’t quite different from the earlier one. In the statement, the President appealed to voters to vote for the candidates they believe will deliver on promises because it is their “constitutionally guaranteed democratic rights.’’ President Buhari dismissed rumours and insinuations that he was forcing voters to elect candidates other than those they preferred. Describing the rumours as baseless, the President said at no time did he give instructions that the electorate should vote particular candidates. ‘‘I believe in the will of the people, and I cannot, therefore, put pressure on voters to elect leaders they don’t like,’’ the President said The President assured Nigerians, in the statement, that he is ready to work with elected representatives of the people regardless of party platforms on which they are elected, in the best interest of the country and democracy. But the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) didn’t fail to fault Buhari last week over his advice for Nigerians to vote for their preferred candidates. The party believed that Buhari’s comment to remain neutral in the  supplementary elections showed that the Presidency rigged the Presidential elections. The party said “The Presidency’s confession that the All Progressives Congress, APC, members are mounting pressure on President Buhari to help them rig the Supplementary elections further confirms the Nigerian Presidency manipulative and rigging capacity, including militarization of the electoral process, instigating of violence and alteration of results, as were freely used by the APC in the Presidential election.” “The Presidency has never been committed to free, fair and credible elections. “Nigerians can recall that ahead of the Presidential and National Assembly elections, President Buhari had promised to allow for a free, fair, transparent and credible process, only for his Presidency and party, the APC, to engage in downright manipulations at the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, deployment of military and thugs to intimidate and suppress voters, as well as outright alteration of results delivered from the polling units. “President Buhari cannot exonerate himself of the harm inflicted on our polity by the deployment of soldiers in the 2019 general elections, as nobody deploys the military except the President and Commander-in-Chief. “Now that President Buhari, in his official capacity, has come out to state that he will not intervene in the March 23 Supplementary election; we ask, is Mr. President assuring Nigerians that any ‘soldier’ seen directly involving in the rerun election is fake and should be treated as such? “The PDP charges the military to note the import of the statement by the Presidency and steer clear of the supplementary elections. “The PDP also cautions INEC officials to note that Nigerians are very eager about the outcome of the governorship supplementary elections, given that the PDP is already leading in these states. “Nigerians are not ready to accept any results that do not reflect the reality of our victory, which is already known to all.” the party stated It is hoped that the will of Nigerians have really been allowed to prevail in last Saturday supplementary elections held in some parts of the country