The Bauchi State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has hailed   the decision of  the independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to resume collation of result for Tafawa Balewa Local government , which hitherto was cancelled . The state chairman of the party, Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam in an  interview with the Nation  said  INEC has been fair in it’s decision after a fact finding committee was set up to investigate the events that led to the cancellation. In his words ” INEC  have done justice. We cried foul and they set up a committee to investigate and the committee has done justice. To us,  we still have confidence in INEC. “We have been  waiting for justice to be done . finally it has come.
As we told you from the beginning,  our party has already won this election. And God so kind, to us INEC and to me or to our party,  has done what is right” Akuyam also expressed optimism that  the People’s Democratic Party, PDP gubernatorial candidate will  win the election considering the latest development. “So, we are all prepared for whatever, and we know that victory is with us Insha Allah” “We will now go back to our arithmetic and see what will happen. But let’s assume that there is going to be a rerun, we are already in the lead with about 14,000 votes. So, we are prepared” ” We still have upper hand  in the contest even if there later happens to be a re-run,  because, before what the returning officer said was 45,000 votes, now it is coming down to 22,000 votes which is fair as 22,550 votes that were added on the initial figure” He added further The PDP ,  however, accused the  Commissioner  of Police and the Director state security, SSS, of being partisan during the entire process . “We don’t have confidence in the Commissioner of police, we done have confidence in the Director SSS.  who have compromised in all these issues” He added. In the same vein, a group known as Bauchi Forum of Lawyers with Conscience, BOBALAC, has also commended INEC decision. The convener of the group, Esq. Shipi Rabo Esq,  said  “It is a fair judgement, we can’t query INEC” It would be recall that INEC had announced the decision in a press statement on Friday night after resolving some issues around the result of Tafawa Balewa local government and some polling units in Ningi local government. The result for Tafawa Balewa LGA , a strong hold of the PDP was initially cancelled after the  Collation Officer,Mrs Dominion Anosike alleged she was  under pressure from Party Agents who could not wait for the arrival of a replacement result sheet, and decided to collate the result on an available RA result sheet instead of the replacement LGA result sheet. The Returning Officer, Mohammed Kyari, had  rejected the regenerated result because it was on a wrong result sheet during her presentation at the State Governorship Collation Centre which led to the declaration of the election as inconclusive.