Former Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ikeja branch, Yinka Farounbi, was yesterday arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), for alleged N25 million fraud. Farounbi’s arrest during the general monthly meeting of the NBA, Ikeja branch, held at the Bar Centre, old Secretariat, Ikeja, GRA, followed his refusal to honour an invitation sent to him by the commission. Three members of the NBA, Ikeja chapter, including Gabriel Opayinka, were alleged to have petitioned the EFCC alleging N25 million fraud during the last administration led by Adesina Ogunlana. It was gathered that Ogunlana was recently released after spending three nights in EFCC custody over the same issue. Ogunlana was said to have been arrested at his Ikorodu Road, Onipanu law firm after his initial refusal to honour the anti-graft agency’s invitation. The Nation learnt that Farounbi was invited for interrogation by the EFCC when investigation showed that he was still signing bank cheques despite that his tenure had lapsed. It was gathered that Farounbi and another signatory were prevailed upon to sign cheques to execute urgent programmes of the branch, as the Ogunlana led executive were yet to effect change of bank signatories as a result of the crisis that engulfed the bar after their election. A source within the bar said the meeting of the lawyers was in progress when it was suddenly interrupted by the arrival of the EFCC operatives. On arrival, the EFCC officials were said to have asked for Farounbi, saying they wanted to arrest him. The Chairman of the branch, Dele Oloke, was alleged to have identified Farounbi to the EFCC operatives for arrest, a development that infuriated the lawyers. It was said that Opayinka and two others owned up to the petition submitted to the EFCC alleging N25million fraud in the bar. The source said the situation turned into a chaos, as lawyers, who were not happy about the invasion of their meeting, resisted Farounbi’s arrest and slammed the branch Chairman, Oloke, for not protecting the former chairman. In the crisis that ensued, a female operative of the EFCC was allegedly assaulted before they retreated. The development made the EFCC operatives to call for reinforcement from their office. However, before their arrival, Farounbi surrendered and was driven away in a Toyota Hiace bus marked BWR 643 GA at about 15:35pm. With the arrival of the reinforcement, the injured female EFCC operative, whose jacket was torn, and her colleagues said they would not leave the centre until those who assaulted her were arrested.