Sympathisers yesterday gathered on the scene of the collapsed building to pray for the victims and survivors. The prayers were organised by the House of Prayers. Christian and Muslim clerics took turns to pray for the victims, survivors, and their family members. House of Prayers said accommodation and money would be provided for them. Pupils from other schools also came to sympathise with the survivors. The clerics urged the victim’s families, relatives and friends to take solace in God, saying God gives and takes. A minute’s silence was observed for the victims. A non-governmental organisation (NGO), the Civil Society Action Coalition on Education for All (CSACEFA), yesterday called on the Lagos State Government to admit pupils of Ohen Private Nursery and Primary School, Lagos Island, in public schools. The group said this after donating relief materials to the survivors. CSACEFA Acting Lagos Coordinator Mrs. Aderonke Kimemenihia-Eseka said the right to education for the children must not be truncated by safety inadequacy, “which has assaulted our moral sense and has sadly evoked deeper concerns about the role of safety in our educational system.” The group, therefore, enjoined the state government to make provision for affected children through the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) for immediate admission into public primary schools. This, Mrs Kimemenihia-Eseka said, would not make them miss the present school term. The government, she said, should establish more public primary schools to cater for the educational needs of children in communities where private schools appear to be thriving due to the distance of public schools. She called for more strict supervision and monitoring of safety guidelines by all schools across the state, especially private schools. “A quality assurance seal that must only be handed over to supervised and monitored schools after health and safety audits. We recommend this activity to take place annually. The government should extend the School-Based Management Committee (SBMC) model to cater to private schools and strengthening existing SBMCs in public primary schools,” she said.