The Deputy Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Dr Dakuku Peterside, has stated that he is not behind the arrest of Rivers Commissioner for Education, Dr. Tamunosisi Gogo-Jaja, and he never led security personnel to pick Gogo-Jaja. He also described as reckless and baseless, the insinuations that he was planning to disrupt today’s governorship and House of Assembly elections in Rivers state. Peterside, who is also the Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), stated this yesterday in an online statement by his media team. Governor Nyesom Wike’s education commissioner and his driver were arrested in Port Harcourt on Wednesday evening by troops of 6 Division, Nigerian Army, with incriminating items found on them. Gogo-Jaja, a former Majority Leader of Rivers House of Assembly, who hails from riverine Opobo, the headquarters of Opobo/Nkoro Local Government Area of Rivers state, was arrested with his driver in his residence at Government Reservation Area (GRA), Phase 3, Port Harcourt, paraded at 6 division on Thursday and handed over to Rivers Police Command for further investigation and possible prosecution. Peterside, also an indigene of Opobo, the ancient Kingdom of the great King Jaja, noted that it was ridiculous for him to be accused by enemies of progress of distributing fake army uniforms, arms and ammunition to thugs, allegedly with the aim of disrupting today’s polls in Rivers. He insisted that he had been mobilising Rivers people ahead of Saturday’s elections and that only irresponsible people could have concocted the lies. The APC chieftain said: “Rivers people know me as a peaceful person. I am proud of my heritage and Opobo/Nkoro LGA’s people love me, because of my antecedents. “Associating me with evil deeds is not only reckless; it is the handiwork of jobless people and a jittery pay master who is afraid of his own past misdeeds. “Despite belonging to different political leaning, Gogo-Jaja remains my brother and friend. I have no reason to hurt or harm him. I will never be part of such plot. “I have never been associated with violence and would never support such. I am a man of peace and decent engagement. Only those who have skeletons in their cupboards are now looking for whom to pull down.” The NIMASA chief also called on Rivers people to ignore the fake stories, declaring that he had no reason to cause mayhem, while reiterating that he had always won his home LGA. Peterside pleaded with Rivers people to be peaceful ahead of Saturday’s polls and cooperate with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies to ensure smooth elections. Besides the arrest of Gogo-Jaja and his driver, Rivers Commissioner for Urban Development and Physical Planning, Dr. Reason Onya, was also arrested during the presidential and National Assembly elections of February 23, while allegedly attempting to rig the polls. He was paraded at 6 division on February 26 and handed over to the police in Rivers. The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Maj.-Gen. Jamil Sarham, on February 26, equally paraded the representative of Ahoada West constituency in Rivers House of Assembly, Nwanaka Okpokiri, also of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), for rigging February 23 elections in the state. Camp Commandant of Government House, Port Harcourt, Oyoku Ifelle, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP); Major Akpoge Peter Ubah of 6 division; and thirty one others, including policemen, thugs and ad hoc staff of INEC, including two women, were also paraded on February 26 and all handed over to the police. Rivers Commissioner for Information and Communications, Emma Okah, however, accused the Minister for Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and the GOC, 6 division, of masterminding the mass arrest of innocent Nigerians and prominent members of the PDP, which they denied outright.