Nonye Goodie-Obi is a former banker, an Ambassador for Peace awardee and designer. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about her passion started in school, having an imaginative mind, designing for celebrities like Omotola Jalade Ekeinde and working with bank giants who mentored and sharpened her entrepreneurial skills WHAT inspired you to go into the fashion sector? The brand Nonnistics is a coinage from my name by my husband during our dating period, which I immortalised by registering it legally as a business name. Nonnistics is a full-fledged design house operating from Lagos, Nigeria. We design apparels across the full spectrum of apparel design comprising women’s, men’s and children’s apparel, bridal wears as well as costumes. Our designs are inspired by the world around us, the dynamic taste of our ever-expanding clientele and our wacky imaginations. I have always loved fashion. I have always admired beautiful dressing. I have always been inclined towards fashion without realising I would not just be an admirer but a full part of the process. As a kid in primary school, I had my first touch with fashion in our extracurricular subject – needle work. I looked forward to it every Thursday. We were given a piece of khaki fabric, needle and thread. I remember clearly how our teacher would make us thread the needle and ensure we hold our practice cloth well so that our stitches are straight. We learnt simple running stitch, chain stitch, fancy runny stitch, tacking stitch. And then we learnt how to use different colours of thread to create different stitches all-round the edges of the fabric and I was always excited seeing the outcome. I practised at home. And I even went ahead to use my mom’s unused scarves to hand cut and sew blouses for my younger sister. I can never forget my giant rosette on one of the blouses I made for her. I wasn’t taught that in school but I had itchy fingers and a very imaginative mind. Beyond needles and thread at this young age, I loved knitting. I knit socks, purses, sweaters, head and arm rests for our sofa set. Fast forward to my years in the university (1st degree), I loved sketching. I didn’t even know it was called sketching. I just loved drawing clothes designs. They weren’t perfect but the tailors understood them. I also loved combining fabrics and colours. Some of my year mates started pushing their fabrics to me to sketch what I thought would come out good and I’d gladly do them. My reward was the excitement I had when I saw them wear my designs. I also did beading (beaded jewellery) without formal training. I bought from a fellow student who was never willing to teach anyone. I got home, loosened it and fixed it back. I did it the second time and fixed it back. I went to market, bought plastic beads and created different twists and sizes of beaded chokers. I didn’t sell them. I was so happy to give them to people to wear for free. My kick was seeing my work on people. I remember how my late dad offered to give me money so I could actually get the right equipment for the beaded jewellery and do it well and make something out of it but I turned it down. I told him I wanted to do my youth service and work in the corporate sector just like my friends wanted to do. I became a banker immediately after my national youth service. At each point in my life, fashion had always drawn me close. It’s something that was there that I fought and failed. I love colours a lot and that’s how I started balloon decoration and moved into full event decoration while I was in banking. I enjoyed every bit of it except packing after the events! It was event decoration that led me to my first real commercial fashion business. A groom wanted me to help rent a wedding dress for the bride but I convinced him to buy a new one and he gave me the responsibility of finding a new dress that would fit into his budget. I hit the internet and got a seller on Alibaba online. We chatted and I chose a design and asked for some adjustments, showed the bride and she loved it and I ordered. The couple were so happy that they told their friends planning to get married to contact me for both decorations and wedding dress. I didn’t have a store. I was a banker. That’s how I started selling wedding dresses. I would get a design, and recreate it by removing and adding different parts and getting an entirely new design. I got someone online who I’d send the design to and they’ll make and dispatch to me via DHL. I did it for a period of one year and closed it because my banking job was so demanding. I never thought of doing fashion business again till I resigned from banking in 2015. I was running my consulting firm focusing on infrastructure funding. Sometimes, my head gets so full with crunching figures and writing project memos and reports. At such times, I would leave my desk and lay down on my office couch to calm my brain. One day, I thought of opening another soft business that would not involve numbers where I would see a lot of people having fun, and I thought of sharwama kiosk. The mall I asked for a space for the kiosk failed me but gave me a small store for a boutique instead. I wasn’t ready for boutique but I took it. I opened my first boutique on December 10, 2016 in a 17 square metre space. I travelled to Turkey and US on my own and got a few things and started. That was the high point of naira depreciation. I was surprised that I could sell. By February 2017, I got a 30 square metre space in another mall but retained the first space too. By May of 2017, I was tired of the travelling to Turkey and US for retail shopping. I was finding it more difficult to get unique pieces that wouldn’t break the bank. Sometimes, when I travel, especially to Turkey, I’d share my design ideas with some of the stores and they would take them and produce and make a lot of money without giving me discount even when I buy. So I knew I wanted to be an apparel producer. My last retail shopping for my boutique was August 2017. By October same year, I got a place and renovated it and by November 2017, Nonnistics as a clothing brand was birthed. I would say I was inspired by something innate I cannot describe; the desire to bring my imaginations to life, to see people dress beautifully in my creations and the desire to create something unique, something different and the desire to create jobs and means of livelihood for families. I see job creation as a means of giving back to the society that nurtured me and irrespective of the harsh conditions we live in today, one job created is one family lifted off lack and impoverishment. What was it like at the beginning? Becoming an apparel producer, a clothing brand is not easy at all. First was the excitement followed by a huge fear. Yeah, I was afraid. I was scared. I was anxious. I worried about many things – what if I fail? How do I begin to let the world know I now design and create outfits right here in Nigeria? How do I get good tailors? Can I afford all the machines? Will my go-to-market strategy work?  These questions and more were burdens on my mind. I did two things; first was to speak to a dear friend of mine, Tope Fajingbesin. She turned my fears around by asking me a question; what if you succeed? And she reminded me of my little success in the few months I did retailing items from Turkey and US and asked me how that happened. Basically, she reminded me and boosted my faith in God and the fact that God will never fail me. I was encouraged. I then sought the services of a consultant to handhold me through the process for my first year. I felt I needed someone else who understood the fashion language and the business language. Part of the services was helping me recruit the tailors and set up for production. It helped a lot. I drew up my business plan and market penetration strategy myself and discussed it with my consultant who also added value to my thought process. I started with one professional tailor, a joiner and a beader. We got our first order the very day we opened and that was a miracle. I got a call from a former colleague who asked for an urgent couture work for her award ceremony. I still do not understand how on earth she knew I just opened a production outfit for apparels. Thankfully, all our first clients were so happy with their orders and I saw it as a good sign. Sincerely speaking, we had a beautiful start and God has sustained it till this day. What are the challenges encountered? The first challenge was how to manage the technical staff. Truthfully speaking, managing people at that level is totally different from all my previous experience. It requires tact, patience and good old native intelligence. I had to think back to how my dad managed all the people like that and they loved him and I started putting it into practice. It worked. It still works. The first technical challenge was finding out that the strategy of having cutter and a joiner wasn’t panning out fine. It slowed down work because of errors from the joiner that had to be corrected again. I was and still am so particular of the finishing of the work done in my factory. I would rather do it all over if it wasn’t rightly done the first time. But doing that often is also costly so it became imperative that we get more professional tailors that can handle my designs excellently. They don’t come cheap but we had to recruit more and work harder to get the business to pay the bills. Tell us about your designs, what makes your different from others? I have a mind I am struggling to tame with respect to creations so we are versatile designers. I would consider my designs classy, stylish and timeless although I hear a lot of people say I do dramatic stuff. I love the red carpet and I have always loved the red carpets. I was always glued to E! in the US, watching Giuliana Rancic host the red carpet and I would just be totally soaked into the whole array of diverse evening wears for all the red carpet events – Oscars, BET, Grammy’s etc. I looked forward to Fashion Police with the late Joan Rivers after each big event to listen to the criticisms and applause on the celebrities and their outfits. I just loved the red carpet fashion world! So I would say my signature style is evening wears. I love the glam, the attention, everything that great evening wears attract whether on the red carpet, special events, birthday shoots, anniversaries. My designs work for women of all shapes and sizes. I just believe that every woman is beautiful and deserves to wear beautifully made clothes. I am African and most African women are on the plus size or curvy women radar so I feel it is imperative to have a clothing label that is inclusive. When I create my pieces, I think of how that piece will be viewed in the next 20-50 years. Will it still stand out? That is why I do styles and not trend. I love creating timeless pieces that give the customer good value for money. Whether we are creating a pair of shorts, a bikini set, a cocktail dress, a suit or an evening wear, it is very important to us that fabric quality and tailoring excellence are primary. Tell us about some memorable moments as a designer My first red carpet outfits I made were Arabian themed designs I made for academy member and Nollywood veteran, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, and radio host and sweetheart, Tolu Demuren, popularly known as Toolz. Both outfits were for the premiere of Mo Abudu’s blockbuster movie, Wedding Party 2. The fact that people doubted that the outfits were made here and actually thought they were imported was exciting to me. It reinforced my belief that my dream is valid and can be achieved. My next memorable moment was being the lead designer for the 40th birthday ceremony of Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde. She believed in me so much despite the fact that I only had just opened my production less than two months before she chose me. I value that opportunity a lot and will always value it. I was very much aware of the many established names that wanted to design outfits for her for free but she maintained that she wanted to wear my creations. Now, if you understand the intertwine between the fashion industry and the entertainment industry as well as the cult followership and respect this actress has, you would agree with me that it was a huge endorsement of my brand. That birthday put us out there and we are grateful for it. I love winning and I know we all love winning. AMVCA2018 was a super win for me. Two of the actresses I styled, won the awards in their categories. Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde won the Best Actress for the Year and Lilian Afegbai won the Best Indigenous Movie of the Year and both actresses wore my creations on the red carpet of that event. The high point of our beautiful first year of operations was our runway show at the Glitz Africa Fashion Show held in Accra, Ghana, in 2018. My brand went there unknown but blew the stage away. I was so emotional as I walked that runway to acknowledge the excited crowd in that hall. It was humbling and super exciting. Again, it reinforced my dreams and aspirations in this industry. In 2018, my young label received two major nominations – The Most Versatile Designer of the Year from Lamode’s Green October Event and Best Designer of the Year from ELOY Awards. We won the Most Versatile Designer of the Year 2018. potato just watching the wedding channels. I have few close friends and I love chatting or hanging out with them. We discuss each other’s businesses and add value to each other. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? My parents are the greatest influence on my life. Their love story, the life they lived together and the bond they shared till death separated them provides me with a lot of inspiration in life. I find many solutions to life’s problems by referring to what they would do if they were faced with the same problem. Then I would never forget my bosses who gave me the opportunity of working under them while at GTBank and Access Bank Plc. Mr. Fola Adeola, formerly of GTbank and board chair of various institutions now; Mr. Aigboje Aig-Imokhuede now of Coronation Merchant Bank; current GMD of the Access Bank Group, Herbert Wigwe and Okey Nwuke, now the deputy managing director of Coscharis Motors. I was allowed to leave my young mind to roam to any possibility and they, especially Aigboje, taught me a lot of things about taking responsibility and leadership. I would say I became an entrepreneur first as a banker under him. I learnt resource management and people management, marketing, strategic thinking and planning, effective self-leadership and a whole lot from these leaders. I will always be proud to say I worked under them. On an innate consideration, I would say my desire to help people out of poverty keeps me working hard and looking forward to the day my brand will grow to create a thousand good jobs, provide scholarships for indigent children and set up grants for students in creative courses in Nigerian universities. So help me God. What lessons has life taught you? Each stage of my life teaches me something. Life is dynamic and we learn and unlearn every day. One big lesson I have learnt is that it is good to be good to others. Yes, you might be hurt, you might be paid back with evil, but it is still good to be good to others. God has a way of repaying everyone – good or bad. I have had my fair share of disappointments from people I treated so well, people I took bullets for, people I considered too close to be allowed to hurt but I have also smiled at favours I received from people I never knew I impacted in any way, people that heard about what I did for someone else, people who never even knew me at all. God’s love is eternal and never judges even though it gets bruised. Tell us about the people you admire One close person is my husband. He has a lot of patience. I still do not understand how he remains calm when everything is in chaos and comes out with a banging solution to the problem! I really admire Michelle and Barak Obama. I got more drawn to them when I read Obama’s book, The Audacity of Hope. I literally saw how a man can become anything if you so much desire it and work for it. I have visited Chicago South Side a few times and I totally understand what that environment could do to the psyche of a child. It’s a place you look back as you drive and shop. I love their love and belief in each other and most importantly their realness. I admire the tenacity of Nelson Mandela. It takes a lot of love for one’s countrymen to do what he did for South Africa. If we have more Nelson Mandelas in Africa, the world will bow to us. I admire Oprah Winfrey for turning the lemons thrown at her in life to not just lemonades but lemonades that everyone scrambles for and Serena Williams and her sister Venus. I started watching them in 2001 and they made me love lawn tennis. Being black and competing at that level in a game that is traditionally white, a game that still has racist umpires, and topping the charts is so admirable. Their story creates the can-do spirit. I admire Fela Anikulapo Kuti. I consider him a prophet. Everything he said about this country in his music still stands true. He carved out a niche for himself in the music industry and his works are evergreen. On the fashion scene, I strongly admire the brand channel. The story of Gabrielle Bonheur “Coco” Chanel is one that inspires. Despite the ups and downs, the brand remains solid and independent till this day with a market value of about $10 billion as at their 2017 financial reporting.