The Nigerian Gas Company (NGC), a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) on Thursday officially commissioned and handed over a fully equipped Basic Health Center it built to Ijomi community in Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State. The Managing Director, NGC, Mr Babatunde Bakare, who spoke during the ceremony said NGC embarked on the project as a token of appreciation and their contribution to the development of the community, which they cherished as one of their peace loving communities in Nigeria. Bakare, who was represented by the Executive Director Asset Management, NGC, Engr. Ibrahim Yusuf, noted that NGC would continue to encourage and appreciate communities that promote peace, dialogue and understanding in the resolution of any issue. The MD said that as a responsible company, NGC remained committed to developing a robust and sustainable relationship with its host communities, noting that the well-being of the community is paramount in their Corporate  Social Responsibility thrust. He said, “On our part as a company, we shall continue to solicit for your cooperation and assistant in the maintenance of peace and support for our business growth aspiration, in the interest of our purplet in his community and Nigeria in general. The NGC Boss appreciated the government of Delta State for creating the conducive environment around the state which had enabled them to operate peacefully. He also appealed to the community to safeguard the facility by putting in place adequate measures to enable their people participate and benefit fully from it. “May I in behalf of NGC, Management commend the effort of the government of Delta State, His Royal Majesty, the Ovie of Oghara Kingdom, You Ogharaname, Orefe III, the elders and entire Ijomi Community Relation Committee,  Security Agencies and other individuals too numerous to mention fortheir valuable contribution and cooperation in the protection of NGC facilities and maintenance of peace and harmony in the state. “As a gas Transportation Company with a vision to support the economic growth of Nigeria, our network of gas pipelines extend to over 2,500km with metering stations located in 11 states of the federation including Delta State. What this indicates is that our pipelines transverse over 300 hosts communities across diverse areas of the country where our facilities exist.” The Secretary to the Delta State Government, Hon Ovie Agas, who represented the Delta State Government thanked NGC for the gesture. The SSG who was represented by Mr Najomo Ide, said that the government cannot provide everything for the people, appreciating the community for creating the enabling environment for NGC to build the health facility. Agas, also called on the community and the youths to protect the facility as their own for the benefit of the future of their children. Speaking on behalf of the community, High Chief Frank Edede representing the monarch of Oghara Kingdom, thanked NGC for the gesture saying that Ijomi community is a peaceful community. He said Ijomi community youths are very accommodating assuring that they will take care of the facility. He appealed to NGC to continue the gesture and do more for the communities, pleading for job opportunities for their youths.