•Just as well FIRS has denied immediate plans for 50% hike in VAT.  For now, that is no direction to go Just as well – the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has denied that hiking value-added tax (VAT), by 35% to 50%, from its current five per cent, is imminent.  Given that the economy is just making it out of recession and the government is about implementing the new minimum wage, the move would have been counter-productive. Wahab Gbadamosi, FIRS head of communication and Servicom department, put the record straight on what Babatunde Fowler, FIRS executive chairman, told the Senate committee: “Though he indicated that there should be an increase in VAT rate by the end of the year, he never for once suggested a 50% hike or any percentage increase at all” Before that denial, Mr. Fowler was quoted to have told the Senate Committee on Finance, on the imperative to increase VAT to shore up the government’s revenue, as part of the Federal Government’s Medium Term Expenditure and Fiscal Strategy Framework (MTEF).  Jacking up VAT, he was reported to have insisted, was necessary to raise more cash, so the government could meet its obligation to citizens. “Nigerians should be ready for increase in VAT before the end of the year,” he reportedly declared. “VAT is higher in other countries, including Ghana and many others.  There should be increase in rate but not immediately.” To further underscore the imperative of making taxes – and less oil revenue – as  primary basis of government spending, Mr. Fowler told the committee that the government’s tax revenue projection for 2019 was N8 trillion, out of which VAT was projected to rake in N3 trillion.  He also painted the progressive increase in tax receipts, in the last three years: 2016 (N3.31 trillion), 2017 (N4.03 trillion) and 2018 (N5.3 trillion), suggesting that for FIRS to gross the 2019 N8 trillion target, VAT should be pressed into service. “I can certainly see an increase in VAT of at least 35% to 50% this year, based on our enforcement activities.  There certainly will be an increase in company income tax (CIT) and also petroleum profit tax (PPT),” he said, adding that “A lot of Nigerians travel to Ghana and other West African countries and they can see that theirs is much higher.  They pay when they go for those trips.  We should be ready for an increase on VAT.” There is a lot to be said for making taxation the main driver of public spending; just as there is much to be decried in the present practice of oil money, driving public expenditure.  Taxation could be the single antidote to combat public sector corruption, since citizens are much likelier to exert control and demand accountability, if the cash, by tax, is hard earned money, coming from their pocket. Indeed, the present endemic corruption could well have emanated from the feeling that oil money is nature’s manna, and not anyone’s direct sweat.  So, tax as main engine of public spending, is near-unassailable. Since VAT is consumption tax, the points that push other taxes should, other things being equal, push the case of VAT. Still, the weakest argument is clearly the one that presupposes that since Ghana’s VAT is 10%, Nigeria’s should automatically be so.  That is soft and emotive; and commands little or no merit, beyond a mere wish.  First, it shuns the economy of scale VAT should enjoy, with Nigeria’s huge population.  Then, it underplays the lack of enforcement, that the FIRS boss himself admitted.  If these two factors are harnessed, VAT earnings should soar, other things being equal.  So, instead of making a lazy, surface-to-surface comparison with Ghana and other West African countries, FIRS should first revamp its enforcement machine.  But there is also talk of some West African ECOWAS tax protocol, to which Nigeria is bound.  That is true.  But even regional protocols should not be at the expense of locals’ economic benefits. The argument is, therefore, not ever to increase VAT.  That would come when the economic indices allow it.  Right now, however, it is bad timing: with Nigeria’s economy slowly coming out of recession and the new minimum wage regime about to take off. You don’t increase minimum wage with the left hand only to take it back, from the poor and most vulnerable, with the right, through VAT.  That is why any call for VAT increase right now is nothing but a foul call.