•Committee inaugurated to look into causes of collapse Lagos State Government said yesterday that it had marked 149 distressed buildings for demolition across the state. According to the government, 48 of the buildings are on Lagos Island. Physical Planning and Urban Development Commissioner Prince Rotimi Ogunleye disclosed this yesterday at the inauguration of a committee to look into why a three-storey building collapsed last week at Ita Faji and proffer solution, to avoid recurrence. He said 40 of the distressed structures were demolished last year during the first phase of the demolition. Ogunleye said 51 buildings would be pulled down in the ongoing exercise, out of which 16 had been demolished as at yesterday. According to him, the ongoing demolition is the second phase of the exercise. The commissioner said the demolition will continue until the state is rid of distressed buildings, adding that none of the structures is being occupied, “so there is no issue of rendering people homeless.” He, however, said should there be any issue like that, the government has made provisions at Igando and Agbowa to take care of those rendered homeless. Ogunleye said the ministry had invited the owner of the collapsed building at Ita Faji for interview. The ministry, he said, was still waiting for him or her to appear, noting that failure to show up will attract sanctions. Inaugurating the committee, which comprises professionals in the building industry, Ogunleye said they would investigate the incidence of collapsed buildings and prevent recurrence. The committee is chaired by a civil and structural engineer, Olatunde Wasiu Olokunola. Other members are:  Fitzgerald Umar, Bayo Owojori, Ayo Adediran and Kunle Awobodu. The terms of reference of the committee are: to determine the remote and immediate causes of the collapse of the building; proffer remedial measures to stem reoccurrence of the incident; examine the operations of the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) and make recommendations to ensure effective and efficient service delivery. Others are: any other recommendation to be considered for implementation and determine the level of negligence by the owner or developer. The commissioner advised builders and developers to ensure they comply with town planning regulations, engage professionals and obtain approvals from the ministry before building, to avoid incidence of building collapse. 