Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) has unveiled unique machines, technology devices courtesy of the School of Engineering. The innovations include motorised car jack, motorised melon seed shelling machine, manure drier, multi-purpose fruits extractor, and multi-purpose trashing. Others are: cleaning machine, pneumatic can crusher, microcontroller traffic light, turmeric slicing machine, break wear test rig and sensor for tricycles and de-feathering machine, as well as chicken slicer machine, among others. Taking reporters on a media tour of its workshops, the Dean of School of Engineering, Michael Ashaolu, said the innovations were borne out of necessity to right certain inadequacies in the available technologies in the society. He said the overall advantage of the designs, when subjected to mass production and industrial plants, would lead to massive reduction in importation of less effective devices from the West and China. ‘’We have different areas of engineering; but we are showcasing to you today equipment and devices designed and produced by agricultural and bio-environmental, mechanical and electrical/ electronics departments. He continued: “One of them is a de-feathering machine, which makes it easy for people to de-feather from chickens. Feather removing is one of the tasks involved in the process of producing ready-to-cook poultry meat in large quantity. Operation of the machine involves dropping of a fowl previously soaked in hot water in the basin and operating the machine at designed operating speed to remove the feather. The machine is capable of de-feathering 5 Kg of fowls within a period of 15 minutes. Some of the devices and equipment built by the mechatronics engineering and electrical/electronic  department include motorised car jack and traffic light with sensor for efficient traffic control in the metropolis. Ashaolu equally spoke on the essence of the pneumatic can crusher. ‘’The pneumatic can crusher was developed and fabricated to crush aluminum waste cans by 80  per cent size reduction. Can Crushers are primarily used to reduce the size of cans for easy transportation for recycling purposes Can constitutes environmental pollution in the society and crushing technique employed in  the machine fabricated will convert the waste material to raw materials for industrial uses. The purpose of this device is to smash an empty can of diameter 65mm and height 120mm to height 25 to 30 mm.’’