Saudi King, Emir of Qatar, Russian envoy greet Buhari MORE world leaders yesterday congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on the renewal of his mandate for another term. The messages came from Saudi Arabia King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Emir of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thania and Russian Ambassador to Nigeria Alexey Shebarshin, among others. In a telephone conversation with President Buhari on, the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques in Suadi Arabia wished President Buhari success and good health in his second term in office. The President’s senior media assistant, Garba Shehu said in a statement that the Saudi King extended good wishes of steady progress and prosperity to the government and people of Nigeria. President Buhari expressed appreciation to the King, affirming his readiness to enhance aspects of cooperation between the two countries in various fields. The Emir of Qatar sent a his congratulatory message through the cable to President Buhari, wishing the Nigerian President success and the Nigerian people further development and progress. The Russian envoy wrote in his congratulatory message: “I am honoured to extend my congratulations to you personally, Mr. President, and the people of Nigeria on the successful conduct of free, transparent and credible Presidential and National Assembly elections on February 23, 2019, that will shape the destiny of this nation for the upcoming four years and beyond.” Describing the election as yet another substantial step towards further strengthening of Nigerian democracy, Mr. Shebarshin wrote: “It is my conviction that your decisive victory will pave the way for yet stronger and more prosperous Nigeria that you will be able to deliver on the people’s mandate.” The Russian envoy expressed the hope that the President’s second term in office will be associated with further enhancements of bilateral cooperation and closer contacts between the two countries. The French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs in its congratulatory message said: “France congratulates President Muhammadu Buhari on his re-election on February 23. It will continue to stand by Nigeria and to provide its full support for the implementation of the country’s priorities, especially economic diversification, job creation, counter terrorism and the fight against corruption.” President Buhari has also received congratulatory messages from Presidents Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zimbabwe, Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa and Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya, as well as the United Kingdom (UK) Minister of State for Africa, Harriett Baldwin. She said: “I offer my congratulations to President Buhari on securing a second term as the Nigerian President. The UK is a long-standing friend and partner of Nigeria and the Nigerian people, and a stable and prosperous Nigeria benefits Africa and the world.” China had on Wednesday congratulated the President. “Nigeria is China’s strategic partner of cooperation in Africa”, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang said at a daily news conference in Beijing. “China always attaches high importance to bilateral ties and stands ready to work with the new Nigerian government to strengthen exchanges and cooperation in various fields and bring more benefits to the two peoples,” Lu added.