Current political calculations in Ogun State do not give the governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Hon. Adekunle Abdulkabir Akinlade any chance of winning the March 9 contest. From all indications it appears to favour the governorship candidates of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Mr. Dapo Abiodun or the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Kashamu Buruji to emerge victorious. One of the candidates, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka (GNI) of the Action Democratic Congress (ADC) seems limited by many factors. It was revealed that GNI, who hails from Ogun West, was in the camp of former Governor Gbenga Daniel as at 2011 shifted to the camp of Kashamu in 2015 having lost the 2011 governorship election in the state However, GNI is said to be standing alone as he has left both Daniel and Kashamu and pitched his tent with the newly formed ADC. Sources stated that GNI has a weak political base in Ogun East and Ogun Central. In Ogun West where he hails from, he would contend with Akinlade, who is being sponsored by the incumbent Governor Ibikunle Amosun with his strength limited only to Imeko Afon. On his part, Akinlade of the APM is said to lack political pedigree apart from the fact that he is a member of the Federal House of Representatives under the All Progressives Congress (APC). The APM reportedly performed woefully in the Saturday 23 February, 2019 Presidential/National Assembly elections. The performance was said to be due to lack of popularity of the party and fact that Amosun contested for the Ogun Central Senatorial District under the APC and even worked for Presidential Muhammadu Buhari under the same party. With this, the APM is relatively unknown to the people of the state, which will affect the fortune of the party. Ogun state is ruled by the APC, which places Abiodun at an advantage though Amosun is fielding the APM candidate, Akinlade against him. However, Kashamu who hails from Ogun East like Abiodun is currently the Senator representing the district, which puts him at an advantage. A political source in Ogun said: “Dapo Abiodun cannot defeat Kashamu Buruji in Ogun East. “Remember Kashamu is currently representing Ogun East at the senate and this is because he is popular amongst the people as a philanthropist and a man of the people. “Moreso, Kashamu does not believe in violence, which is why he resorts to courts of law anytime he has any serious issue with anybody, especially on political matters.” We gathered with what has happened between Amosun and the national leaders of the APC, which necessitated his sponsoring Akinlade as the governorship candidate of the APM, he will not work for the APC in the governorship election. Also, with Akinlade and GNI coming from Ogun West, some of the votes of the area would be divided between the two candidates. Majority of the people would vote for some other parties including Kashamu of the PDP, who is said to be popular in the area. On the differences in the PDP in Ogun State, Kashamu is said to have been meeting all the stakeholders in the party in the state and has promised to operate an all-inclusive government that will include people from the two major factions of the party in the state.