•An iconic surgeon departs Focus and dedication were strong points of Prof Emmanuel Adeyemo Elebute (CON) who died on February 23 at the age of 86. These qualities took him to great heights in surgery and health administration. ”I wanted to become a priest,” he had said in an interview, “but later on, I got to read about a gentleman called Sir Samuel Manuwa. He was a very bright doctor who had qualified from Britain and had risen in the medical service of this country above any level any African had achieved back then. There were always reports about him in the newspapers, particularly in the West African Pilot run by Nnamdi Azikiwe. Manuwa was the first Nigerian to become a deputy director of medical services and he was in charge of the Western Region; he was later in charge of all the medical services in Nigeria. He was also a surgeon.” Elebute had added: “After reading about him, I decided that I wanted to become a surgeon. From the time I entered medical school abroad, I was determined to qualify and train as a surgeon. That is how I had a change of career path.” After his education at the CMS Grammar School, Lagos, between 1941 and 1948, he studied Medicine at Trinity College, Dublin, where he graduated in 1956. He was a bright mind. At Trinity College, he won the Cunningham Medal for Anatomy, Acquilla Smyth Prize for Pathology, Bacteriology and Material Media, and Fitzpatrick Scholarship for best performance in all professional examinations. Given his brilliance, by 1969 he had become Professor of Surgery at the University of Lagos. He was Provost of the institution’s College of Medicine between 1977 and 1980; and the Chief Medical Director of Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) from 1978 to 1980. By his own account, Elebute decided to put into practice his ideas about how a hospital should be run by starting one after spending about 19 years at LUTH.  His words: “By then, a decline had started in the conditions around teaching hospitals and it was during that time that we decided to go into private practice. After three years of experimenting, we decided to build a hospital that would be according to the standard we believed a hospital should be. That was how Lagoon Hospital was born.” Elebute’s dream of “building a proper hospital in this country,” was testimony to his professionalism and patriotism. It is a tribute to his experience and commitment that the Lagoon Hospitals in Lagos, the first of which was established in 1986, have become a reference point for quality healthcare in Nigeria. In various capacities, Elebute worked for improved healthcare locally and internationally. He was the President of the Nigerian Medical Association (1968-1970); a former President of the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria; member of Executive Committee of the International Federation of Surgical Colleges (1970-1976); member of the Council of the UK-based Association for the Study of Medical Education. Also, he was Chairman of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Task Force on the Development of Appropriate Technology for Health in the field of Laboratory Equipment, and of WHO’s Committee of Heads of Medical Schools in Africa. In 1997, he chaired the Health Group of Vision 2010 Committee set up by the Nigerian Economic Summit Group. In 2005, the Federal Government appointed Elebute as Chairman of the Board of Management of the University College Hospital, Ibadan, following which he was elected the Chairman of the Committee of Chairmen of the Federal Government’s 53 tertiary hospitals, a position he held till 2007. No doubt, Elebute’s services to healthcare were worthy of note. He demonstrated that healthcare is “a developmental project,” and that a country’s development can be measured by the quality of its healthcare system. His Nigerian national honour, Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON), was well and truly earned.  