Tributes and encomiums overwhelmed in Akure, the Ondo State capital at the weekend in memory of Prof. Pius Adesanmi who died in the ill-fated Ethiopian airline 302 penultimate week. Sympathisers and admirers gathered at the NUJ Press Centre in Adegbemile,Akure to honour the departed scholar from Kogi state. In attendance were the Special Adviser to the Governor of Ondo State on Public Utilities, Engr. Tunji Light Ariyomo, former Ondo state Head of Service( HoS) Bar Ajose Kudehinbu, Rev. Fr. Joseph Ogodo of Ondo Catholic Diocese who is the Director, Domus Pacis Pastoral Institute,Igoba, Akure, Tope Famuti, President of the 83/88 set of the St. Thomas Aquinas College Akure Old Students’ Association among others. Speaking on the life and times of the late erudite scholar, Ariyomo said Adesanmi was an intrepid revolutionary fought with superior ideas for the emancipation of the black race. According to him, late Adesanmi had seen that education and leadership are the two principal keys to the liberation of Nigeria and the rest of Africa. He said “Pius knew long ago that our future as a people would be affected by the depth and quality of our education as well as the quality of minds that constitute our leadership”. Ariyomo added that “there are many works of Pius that many have described as the best. For me, however, due to its central significance to the leadership ascension theme of most African democracies, my best of Pius’ works is an essay titled ‘2015: I endorse you, spectocrat!’ “This work ministered directly to the theme of pseudo-democracy in Africa and the ultimate need of ensuring that leadership becomes beholding to the ordinary masses rather than as boons from garrison commanders of Nigerian politics”. Ariyomo, who could not hold back tears described Adesanmi as brilliance-personified. Kudehinbu, in his tribute, described the late Professor as someone who was focused on seeing Africa become a safe haven for her people. He said the late erudite professor was never tired of promoting knowledge that could lead to bridging the gap between the poor and the rich. The former HoS said: “I met Pius on Facebook. He was a writer and therefore a citizen of the world. His works are towards building a good nation. He promoted the interest of the people through his works and with his sterling talents. Although he could come across as very critical at times, his criticisms were well directed. He was a prophet who appeared to have seen his death coming. He saw into the future.” Rev. Fr. Joseph Ogodo while delivering his exhortation on Life and the Place of God offered words of consolation to the family, associates and friends left behind by the late professor. The cleric described the late Professor as an Afro-dynamic Laureate because in all his works, he promoted excellence and Africanness. He delivered a special greeting from the Bishop of the Home Parish of the late Prof. Adesanmi as well as the Bishop of Yagba Catholic Dioceses who were also on their way to attend the programme at Isanlu. Ogodo also left admonition while quoting several verses in the Holy Bible to prove that death is a mystery. He also said that it is not in the length of the years that matters but the good in the years. Sympathisers later moved from the venue in procession to the popular Oba Adesida Road in Akure donning T-shirts and Fez caps with images and inscriptions of late Adesanmi.