Outgoing corps members in Anambra state have been urged not to be in a hurry to leave the state but to exploit all job opportunities available in the state. The state Coordinator, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Mr Kehinde Aremu, gave the advice at Ojoto while issuing discharge Certificate of National Service (CNS) to the 92 Batch A outgoing members. Aremu who was represented by Mr Felix Okoli challenged the corps members to strive to settle down to establish their careers in the state. He said, “Don’t be in a haste to rush home. Anambra people are not harsh. Exploit job opportunities here. Develop some of the skills you acquired during your NYSC scheme as a starting point. “Avoid short cut to success. Be part of the positive people, who will make Nigeria proud. Some of you in serious relationships with Anambra people can marry and settle down here.” Also speaking, Head of Department, Education and Social Development, Idemili South, Dr Kingsley Ozodi asked the corps members to take advantage of the hospitable and business-friendliness of the residents to excel. “Look around and start up something; no matter how menial to help yourselves and your family. “You have seen that Anambra people are hospitable unlike notions you had before coming here. Those seeking job opportunities or if you have opportunity to marry from here, you are welcomed to do so,’’ Ozodi said. On her part, the NYSC Local Government Inspector, Idemili South, Mrs Augustina Obinero thanked the outgoing members for conducting themselves lawfully during their service year, wishing them the best in their future endevours. She said that none of the members had a case of service extension as punishment, stressing that two members won the NYSC State Award Recommendation letter for their secondary assignment. The two are Lynda Ugochinyere Kamalu AN/18A/2784 from Imo State and Chikezie Prince Enearo AN/18A/2778 from Enugu State. Miss Kamalu received the state award for assisting a blind NYSC member throughout her service year and holding sensitisation/health education programmes on Diabetes Mellitus in Churches, schools at Oba, Idemili South. Enearo got his state award for holding sensitisation seminars on stroke at various Churches, Health Centres and Council Headquarters. 