ALL is now set for Adamawa State supplementary governorship election as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday insisted on holding the election today. The rerun will, however, hold as the court, which earlier granted the injunction against it, is yet to give judgment on a motion by a governorship candidate asking for the nullification of the original March 9 election. The candidate claimed that his party’s logo was not on the ballot paper for the election. The court, at a sitting yesterday in Yola, adjourned till today for a ruling on preliminary objections against its insistence on jurisdiction over the case and then on the motion seeking the annulment of the election. With INEC going ahead with the supplementary election despite the continuing court process and the indisposition of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to it, the PDP will be going into it with the advantage of an unassailable lead. The state governorship election on March 9 had been declared inconclusive with the PDP already having 367,471 votes. About 32,467 votes higher than the 334,995 votes polled by the next leading party, the APC. INEC declared the election inconclusive because the 32,467 margin of lead was lower than the 40,948 registered voters in the polling units, where voting was cancelled. The polling units where voting was cancelled are 44 and they are located in 14 local government areas. But, the APC has in many ways shown reluctance towards the supplementary election. Its state organising secretary, Ahmed Lawan, has been quoted as saying the party would boycott the supplementary election because INEC rushed to pick a week day for it when many voters might be unable to go for voting. It was unclear if Ahmed was expressing the party’s view, because when asked for an update of the party’s position on the matter yesterday afternoon, its Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Abdullahi, merely said the party would speak on the matter at the appropriate time. The Resident Electoral Commissioner, Kassim Gaidam, said INEC would organise the supplementary election today.