Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Manhattan Corporate Essentials Ltd., Olumuyiwa Williams, yesterday appeared at an Ikeja Special Offences Court for allegedly stealing N165. 2 million from Equitorial Energy Company Ltd. He pleaded not guilty. The prosecuting Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) counsel Anselm Ozioko Williams and his company committed the offence in 2017 with  five others, who are now at large. Ozioko alleged that the defendants with Rotimi Ogundairo, Capt. Edward Williams, Olayinka Iduda, Atlantic Finaplux Ltd and Jodaf Investment Ltd (all at large), in January 2017 conspired and stole the money. He alleged that between January 9 and February 9, 2017, the defendants and their accomplices, with  dishonest intent, stole another cumulative sum of N41.2 million belonging to the complainant. Ozioko also claimed that between January 26 and February 10, 2017, the defendants and their accomplices stole N125million belonging to the oil company. Williams’ counsel Tunde Busari, sought his client’s bail on liberal terms, noting the defendant’s health challenges, which required urgent intensive medical check-up. But Ozioko opposed the bail request, describing Williams as a flight risk , who shoulod should be remanded in prison. Ruling, Justice Olusola Williams said based on evidence before her, the defendant would not pose a flight risk. “I am satisfied that the defendant is not a flight risk. He should be admitted to bail for many reasons, one of which is the decongestion of prisons. “He is admitted to N10 million bail with three sureties in the like sum. The defendant should provide details of his residential address within jurisdiction and enter an undertaking that he will not change addresses without notifying the court. “The defendant shall be remanded in EFCC custody for up to seven days till the perfection of his bail and if he fails to do so within that time, he shall be moved to Ikoyi Prisons,” the judge said. Justice Williams adjourned till March 25.