The incumbent Governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu was on Sunday reelected as the governor of the state. Ikpeazu was announced the winner of the 2019 gubernatorial election by the State Returning Officer, Professor Benjamin Ozurumba, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN). The Governor after the collation of the entire results from the 17 local government areas in the state polled 261, 127 to defeat his closest rival and governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress that pooled 9975 votes where as the runner-up in 2015 general election and candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr. Alex Otti scored 64366 to come third. The total valid vote is 433315, while total votes casted is 444376 with 11061 void votes. Recall that The Nation had reported that there was voter apathy across the state as the people stayed indoors. Governor Ikpeazu while addressing newsmen at the Governor’s Lodge in Umuahia on Sunday evening flanked by the state PDP chairman, Johnson Onuigbo, Sen. Mao Ohuabunwa, Hon. Chinedum Orji, his deputy, Sir Ude Okochukwu after the declaration of his victory at the poll said that the victory means more work for the interest of the state. The governor while extending hands of fellowship to those that contested with him, stated that the state would be better through the collective participation of all its citizens. He used the opportunity to commend INEC for sticking to the rules of electoral process and also Abia youths in particular for maintaining their peaceful disposition throughout the process. In the separate speeches, the State Publicity Secretary of PDP, Don Okwubunka and the deputy Governor, Okochukwu, stated that though they were happy over the reelection of Ikpeazu, they maintained that they were confidence that the governor would win the election as he has been able to positively touch the lives of the people. Okwubunka while reminding those that contested with Ikpeazu that Abia is an APC state, stated that it would be a journey in futility for anyone among the candidates to challenge the overwhelming support that Abians gave to Ikpeazu. Meanwhile the leadership including the Governorship candidates of the APC and APGA who had staged a walkout from the collation center has respectively and collectively rejected the outcome of the poll results. Spokespersons of the two opposition parties, Hon Ihenacho Obioma and Uzo Nwachukwu who spoke to our reporter accused INEC of conniving with the incumbent government to deny Abians the opportunity of choosing who lead them. They also cited vote buying, ballot box snatching, attack on INEC officials, over voting, non use of card readers and among other electoral anomalies recorded in various polling units and wards and as some of the reasons they were demanding for the cancellation of the results in the state. Obioma and Nwachukwu went further to question the second missionary of the UNN VC to state after they alleged that the VC in 2015 superintended the controversial 2015 general election in the state.