Registration for the InterswitchSPAK National Science competition 2.0 has opened for secondary school pupils nationwide. Both public and private schools have until April 7 to register their best six pupils – among who must be two females – for the competition that would test their knowledge of sciences and also challenge them to develop innovative solutions to problems plaguing the country. The competition would feature a national qualifying examination from which 81 pupils who would feature in the television quiz and innovation stage of the competition would be selected. Announcing the opening of entries at the Southern Sun last Wednesday, Enyioma Anaba, Group Head, Brands, Interswitch Group, sponsor of the competition, said the competition was targeted at teenagers aged 14-18 years old who are at a stage where they seriously begin thinking of their future careers. She praised the winners of the last competition, including Tolulope Shoneye of Remo Senior Secondary School, Ogun State, who came fifth and was the only public school pupil to make the final nine of the competition. Urging pupils to register for the competition, Ms Anaba said: “In the new episode we hope to get more new stars.  The winners will get N7.5 million, N4 million and N1 million scholarship grants.  There will be a Master Class for the 81 shortlisted candidates and we will bring in captains of industry to inspire them.  We will also give them new problems to work on for the innovations challenge. It is a 360 degree platform where you can learn,” she said. Cherry Eromosele, Group Chief Product and Marketing Officer, Interswitch, underscored the importance of Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education in the fostering societal development. “At Interswitch we understand that technology is key to solving most of our challenges in Africa. Promoting and rewarding excellence in STEM subjects among secondary school students is our way of preparing the younger generation to take up this challenge,” she said. NECO Registrar, Alhaji Abubakar Gana, represented by Alhaji Ibrahim Saad, a Director, praised the initiative for stimulating pupils’ interest in STEM education.  He said the test items administered by the examining body on behalf of the sponsors were of high quality to assess how much the pupils knew about the sciences.