The last may not have been heard of the endorsement of Senator Ahmed Lawan for Senate President by the All Progressives Congress (APC). The spokesperson for “Ahmed Lawan for Senate President Group of Senators, Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, told reporters in Abuja on Wednesday that APC senators-elect were carried along in the adoption of Lawan for Senate President. This is contrary to the position of Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume who claimed the announcement of the adoption of Lawan by the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, surprised APC Senators-elect, who attended a dinner meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. Although Abdullahi did not mention Ndume, he was categorical that “it is not good for somebody to peddle lies.” He added that when Oshiomhole announced the adoption of Lawan as the party’s choice for the Senate President of the ninth Senate, the party chairman spoke in the presence of some governors including those of Oyo, Kebbi and Borno States. Abdullahi, who is also Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, said Oshiomhole appealed to them to support Lawan to avoid the mistake of the past. “Immediately he said that, there was instantaneous and spontaneous applause by senators who were there. “For somebody to say there was surprise and shock following the announcement, he was economical with the truth. There was no shock, rather there was relief,” Abdullahi said. Abdullahi, who said the APC has learnt its lesson from the mistake of 2015 when Bukola Saraki emerged Senate President against the directive of the party, assured that there would be no such crisis this time around. He said that there was no clear directive by the party in 2015 leading senators to go their different ways in the chamber. The APC, he said, has a great role to play in who emerges the Senate President. According to him: “If the party has promised Nigerians good governance, it is only fair and proper for the party to play some role to deliver that good governance. For me, we have learnt our lessons from whatever happened in 2015. “Even when I’m walking on the street people say please you people should make sure you learn from your past mistake. As far as I’m concerned, we have unity of purpose. “We the Senators-elect, we have made a choice. We have the right to say this is who we want. Our choice is Ahmed Lawan. “Do you expect that Mr. President and the party should abdicate their responsibility? This is what they accused us of in 2015. Now they have spoken, why are you complaining.” He insisted the announcement by Oshiomhole should have been enough for a genuine party loyalist to abandon his ambition and toe the line of the party. Abdullahi said that there was no doubt that Nigerians would be the best for the emergence of Lawan. “It is not good for you to have bills that are not assented to,” he asked. He said that on the day of inauguration of the ninth Senate in June, by the grace of God, Ahmed Lawan will be Senate President.