A former CAMPUSLIFE correspondent at the Delta State University (DELSU), Philip Okorodudu Ogaga, is dead. He died days after he was discharged from hospital, where he was treated for a heart-related disease. He was 32. Before his death on Sunday, the deceased was a doctoral student of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), where he finished his Master’s degree. The late Philip, it was gathered, died a few weeks to the completion of his PhD. He belonged to the second-generation of CAMPUSLIFE writers. He started writing for the campus-focused platform in 2011. The late Philip, who was fondly called “Prof”, won several awards for his works, which brought positive developments to DELSU and its host community. Some of his peers have described his death as “tragic” and a “big blow”, wondering why the “promising young man” could not have access to quality healthcare. Femi Ogunjobi, Philip’s contemporary, said he was yet to recover from the pain brought by his death. Describing Philip as “soft-spoken and brilliant”, Femi said: “He was a guy whose lifestyle would inspire you and make you humble. He was simple and ready to be a friend to everyone. Beyond his writing prowess, he was a brilliant engineering student, who finished on top of his class. We will surely miss him.” Head of CAMPUSLIFE Desk, Wale Ajetunmobi, described the late Philip as “the brightest star in the galaxy”, saying the deceased was one of those, who made his task rewarding when he took over the leadership of the desk, following the death of the pioneer Editor, the late Ngozi Agbo (née Nwozor) in May 2012. In a tribute to the deceased, who hailed from Urohbo clan of Delta State, Jennifer Umeh, former CAMPUSLIFE correspondent at Federal Polytechnic, Offa (OFFA POLY), Kwara State, wrote: “I still find it hard to believe you are no more. Philip, why did you go unannounced? May your soul rest in the bossom of the Lord.” His classmate at DELSU, Ms Eduvie Erivwode, wrote: “I am in pain after learning about your death, Philip. You were too good, so calm, so humble and ready to help. Rest in peace.” The late Philip was 32.