The die is cast in Ogun State. On Saturday, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Allied Progressive Movement (APM) will test their popularity at the governorship and House of Assembly elections. Who wins? EMMANUEL OLADESU writes on the battle for the Oke Mosan Government House. The stage is set for the governorship and House of Assembly elections in Ogun State. In the governorship race are Dapo Abiodun (All Progressives Congress (APC), Adekunle Akinlade (All Progressives Movement (APM), Buruji Kashamu (Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and Gboyega Isiaka (AFrican Democratic Congress (ADC). Since the Second Republic, no incumbent governor has had the privileged of handing over to an anointed candidate.  Former Governor  Gbenga Daniel, who attempted it, failed in 2011. Can Governor Ibikunle Amosun, who is backing Akinlade, succeed where his predecessor failed? Can he break the jinx? Since last year, the governor has declared that he will like to hand over to a governor from Ogun West Senatorial District. However, to counter him, many indigenes came up with an ‘Ijebu-Remo Agenda.’ While Amosun has maintained his position on power shift to yewa Division, other party leaders, led by former Governor Olusegun Osoba, are backing Abiodun in the succession battle. Against all odds, the governor fortified his stronglehold on the party leadership. Thus, he opted for a consensus candidacy, picking Akilade as flag bearer, Mrs. Bimpe Adebajo as running mate, National Assembly and 26  House of Assembly candidates. The situation generated a bad blood. Following protest by other chieftains, the APC national leadership intervened throug a ‘direct selection.’ Abiodun emerged as the candidate. Amosun fought back, firing salvos at  Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), Osoba and APC National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, describing them as architects of his political travails. All pleas to back out of the ‘Akinlade project’ fell on deaf ears. As an APC governor and senator-elect, Amosun is suppporting APM candidates. However, close associates have deserted the governor, vowing to toe the party line. They include former Chief of Staff and senator-elec t from Ogun West  Chief Tolu Odebiyi, former Special Adviser (SA) on Special Duties, Princess Peju Shote, former Special Adviser on Forestry, Chief Yinka Odufuwa, Special Assistant (SA) on Energy, Mrs Adenike Osoba, Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Environment, Chief Yetunde Onanuga (now, newly elected member, House of Representatives for Remo North/Ikenne/Sagamu), former Commissioner for Youths and Sports, Afolabi Afuape, Special Assistant (SA) on Culture, Sunday Baminola, Chief Ayo Olubori. Odebiyi said: “At various fora, Senator Ibikunle Amosun said he was considering me for the Ogun State governorship ticket. I thought over it and I decided to contribute my quota to the development of the state. “We discussed the idea of looking at the governorship race and he (Amosun) asked me to consider it. He asked me to start making necessary contacts and consultations across the length and breadth of the state. We started consultations at all levels and he (Amosun) took his decision at the end of last August. “I didn’t leave the party and rather. I still maintain my loyalty to the party. And I was given Ogun West senatorial ticket as a consensus candidate. We held primaries and I emerged as Ogun West APC candidate. “The main reason I went a separate way with Amosun was when the issue of going to the new party. Because Amosun’s candidate, Akinlade, wasn’t recognised by the NWC, the governor mooted out an idea to me. He asked me to get back to him. I got back to my people and they were aversed to the idea. “When I got back to the governor, what my kinsmen said, the thing was not well received by him. I don’t like switching political parties. I respect party’s supremacy, because my political pedigree has to be maintained. I stay in a party and build it. “Turning my back at the party is like turning my back at the people. The loyalty and commitment for President Muhammadu Buhari is to remain steadfast. “I feel a sense of responsibility to my followers to remain in the APC, because it is critical to the development of my party. I lnew the roles my late father, Senator Jonathan Odebiyi, and mother, Mrs Kemi Odebiyi, former Lagos State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), played. So, leaving a progressive party, like APC is tantamount to severing relationship with my people. I am not leaving the party and I am ready to give my support to President Muhammadu Buhari”. Another casualty in the scheme of the power- play was Chief Bode Mustapha, whose appointment as the Chairman, Board of Directors, Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), was withdrawn and replaced by Mrs Ronke Shokefun, former Ogun State Commissioner for Physical and Urban Planning Development. Mustapha was the Director-General (DG) of the Amosun Campaign Organisation in 2015. The duo fell out of favour, following irreconcilable differences. According to a political analyst, Chief Segun Olakunle, Amosun is unfair to Ogun APC. Amosun knew he could not have won the senatorial seat without riding on the goodwill of Buhari to win the senatorial seat. If he had contested on the platform of APM, he would have lost like the rest that he planted in APM. Tolu Odebiyi was wiser, he persuaded him to move to APM, but he declined. The godfathers have always polarised them along ethnic lines by picking one person from one side of the divide while another godfather will also pick from the other side of the divide I remember how we taunt Yewa/Awori people in our place of work that “Enu yi o ko,Yewa lo kan, Ijebu lo ma se”. But, the Ijebuand Egba have engendered this situation to keep them in perpetual subjugation Forget about your godfathers. Where did they land you in 2011? Obasanjo who sponsored Olurin eventually switched over to Amosun, his kinsman. Gbenga Daniel, who sponsored GNI, switched allegiance in 2015. “For somebody who had to ride on the popularity of Buhari to win election is now sponsoring the Yewa/Awori agenda.You had better think twice. “Is Amosun really interested in the Yewa/Awori agenda? I have it on good authority that when Amosun assembled Yewa Elders in APC to pick a candidate from Ogun West, it was Biyi Otegbeye that came first, followed by Tolu odebiyi. He single handedly choose Akinlade. Is Akinlade therefore the choice of the Yewa/Awori, people in the first instance? I have never met any of the two candidates from Yewa/Awori but I know one is far more popular than the other and these are my reasons: One of the candidates who did not have any strong financial backing from any godfather was able to assert his influence as his personal popularity made  his candidate for the House of Representatives from his axis to win. As a result of his popularity in Ogun Central, his party’s candidate came second in the senatorial election, in spite of huge amount invested in vote buying by her opponents. Olakunle added: “The Ijebu people have vowed not to vote for Amosun’s candidate because they are very bitter about the level of infrastructural decay occasioned by the Amosun’s administration. “The Ijebus have a rallying point in Awujale who can always invoke the spirit of their ancestors against anyone who works against Ijebus’ interest. As a matter of fact, he (Awujale) refused to see Akinlade when he went there to see him, saying “Ijebu people have their own son”. Apart from the disruption of the Presidential rally held at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta, Amosun has made good his threat. Daring the national leadership of the party, he has started campaigning for Akinlade of the APM. To herald the campaigns, the suspended Publicity Secretary of the APC, Chief Wole Elegbede, had, in a statement, said: “The Allied Peoples Movement (APM) governorship campaign fully kicks off today to be led by the amiable governor of Ogun State and Senator-elect of Ogun Central Senatorial District, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. “Amosun said: “As from tomorrow (that is today, Tuesday, 26th February 2019), I am campaigning full blast for my candidate and our candidate in Ogun State, Hon. Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade, and all our assembly candidates”. “Since the APM in Ogun state had adopted President Muhammadu Buhari and fulfilled the promise to vote for the President, it is only fair to reciprocate the gesture” “All APC and APM supporters in Ogun State will combine their votes to ensure victory for the APM candidates. Meanwhile, the voting patterns in the last Presidential and National Assembly elections held on Saturday, February 23,  in the state, and their subsequent outcomes are clear indicators of the stocks in the offing. APM candidates on National Assembly polls lost to APC candidates. They include, the Ogun West Senatorial candidate, Hon Segun Gbeleyi, Hon Mikhail Kazeem who vied for Abeokuta North/Odeda/Obafemi-Owode Federal Constituency whom Hon Olumide, son of former governor, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, defeated at the poll, Rotimi Rahman, who failed to clinch the Ado-Odo/Ota Federal Constituency, Hon Yinka Mafe who contested for Remo North/Ikenne/Sagamu Federal Constituency, Mr Leke Adewolu, who also contested for Ifo/Ewekoro Federal Constituency, Mr Bayo Adeyemi of Egbado North/Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency. Amosun who is relishing over his electoral victory as winner of the Ogun Central Senatorial ticket, has quickly forgotten the massive votes he enjoyed from his arch-rival group. Earlier, Osoba had, in both newspaper publication and short-message-service (sms), courted the chieftains and supporters of the APC in the Ogun Central, who were aversed to the aspiration of the governor, but wanted to seize the occasion as a payback time, to jettison such a plan and throw their support for Amosun, just for the collective interest of the party and for posterity sake. The sms reads, thus: “All we are saying: vote APC all the way. For Presidential, vote Muhammad  Buhari and for Senatorial, vote Ibikunle Amosun. All we are saying Vote APC all the way”! In his current travails, Amosun has a lot of hurdles to cross. He has axe to grind in his face-off with Ogun State government workers who are poised for a total showdown for non-payment of pensions and gratuities, cooperative deductions and other allowances. The President, Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, has unfolded plans, to lead a protest of organised labour in Abeokuta, the state capital, to press home what he described as “anti-worker actions” of  Amosun’s government. While Isiaka wields control in Ogun West,  it is clear that Akinlade, also an indigene of the same district, will square it up with Isiaka, and split the votes from the zone. Besides, the ADC candidate does not have the financial resources to slug it out with his co-contenders. But at the end of the day, political pundits believe that Isiaka would trounce the APM candidate at the poll, on account that the latter’s party which is still at its infant stage is hard to sell to the electorates, despite the huge fortunes of the state’s resources that have been sunk into it, in order to breathe life into to it. Abiodun seems to stand high  over and above his co-contestants, if the opportunities that  abound are well harnessed in his favour. The results of the last month’s presidential and National Assembly elections, are living testimonies whereby virtually all the APC candidates emerged victorious at the polls. Abiodun is enjoying the unalloyed support of the national leadership of the party, seasoned technocrats, organised labour, students, the Awujale of Ijebuland and other Ijebu-Remo monarchs, and the masses to shore up his political base. This will, according to observers, translate into his electoral victory at the election.