A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Prince Adesola Gold, has charged the newly elected members of the Ekiti State House of Assembly to partner Governor Kayode Fayemi for good governance. Adesola, a House of Representatives aspirant in the last APC’ primaries, said harmonious relationship between the executives and legislature would guarantee speedy and quantum socio-economic development. He further urged them to refrain from any crisis that could derail governance in the state, saying the current administration was aptly determined to bring dividends of democracy to the people. In the House of Assembly election conducted on March 9, the APC won 25 of the 26 seats while that of Ekiti East constituency II, was declared inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). A new assembly will be inaugurated by Governor Fayemi on June 6, the day the tenure of the present one will elapse. Speaking in Osun Ekiti in Moba Local Government Area of the state, Gold assured that with the calibre of governor like Fayemi, that the lawmakers can’t be reduced to mere rubber stamps in the discharge of their duties. He added that the alleged suppression which characterized the assembly under former governor Ayodele Fayose won’t dog the assembly that will be constituted in June. “Under the immediate past government, lawmakers voices were subjugated, nobody dares looked the governor in the eyes. “Those lawmakers who tried to assert themselves were suspended indefinitely and some were expelled from the party despite being members of the PDP. “But with the kind of refined governor like Fayemi that we have, I am sure that there would be mutual respect and there will be partnership that will make Ekiti great in all spheres. “I want to also charge the lawmakers to come with the determined mindsets to serve Ekiti and not to engage in any battle with the executive”, he said. Speaking about the patterns of voting, which predominantly favoured APC; Gold added that the electorate in Ekiti are now better informed about how to make the right choices for good governance. “Our people decided to vote for real governance and moved away from stomach infrastructure at the detriment of Infrastructural development. “The four Local Governments of Efon, Ikere, Emure and Ado-Ekiti, won by PDP in July 14 Governorship Election were not left behind, they all moved with the moving train of the  Next Level. “In less  than six months in office, governor Fayemi has opened our eyes to how a globally recognised government should be and I applaud our people for believing in APC and took the right choices”. He, however, urged the elected officials to work hard and carry their constituents along , in order not to betray the confidence reposed in them by the electorate. 