A group of youths, traders and artisans under the umbrella of Grand Council of Yoruba Youths (Agbarijo Egbe Odo Yoruba) has endorsed governorship candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo, Lagos and Ogun States Adebayo Adelabu, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dapo Abiodun respectively. Representatives in the umbrella body include National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Market Women Association, Non Indigenes Association, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Okada Riders Association, Nigeria Automobile Technicians Association (NATA), Egbe Omo Odua (USA and UK), as well as Civil Society Organisation led by Comrade Mrs. Kehinde Olaoni. The endorsement at Western Hall, Oyo State House of Assembly Complex, Secretariat, Ibadan, on Monday was chaired by Senator Ayo Fasanmi, who was represented by Otunba Jumoke Ogunkeyede. Noting President Muhammadu Buhari’s performance and intention earned him the second term ticket, Otunba Ogunkeyede explained the administration of President Buhari was slowed down by the leadership of the National Assembly, which he said consists of people with questionable characters. He pointed out the purpose of the gathering was to ensure that Yoruba states are toeing the line of progressives ruling in the country to ensure even development of the region. He added that the step will go a long way to guarantee the people of Southwest more dividend of democracy. While endorsing the APC gubernatorial candidates, the chairman of the occasion stated it was imperative for South Western states to align with government at the centre by voting governorship candidates of APC in Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections to sustain the progressive’s developmental agenda of late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. The convener and Chairman Planning Committee, Comrade Awa Bamiji enjoined people in Oyo, Lagos, and Ogun States to come out on Saturday to vote for the candidates of the APC to ensure sustainable and rapid development of South West region. Bamiji commended President Muhammadu Buhari, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies for creating a level playing ground to ensure that, not only free and fair but also credible election was conducted. Mrs. Iswat Ameringun who represented the Iyaloja General of Nigeria, Folashade Tinubu-Ojo, Comrade (Mrs.) Kehinde Olaoni and other representatives from different parts of the region in the separate remarks on why Oyo, Lagos and Ogun States cannot afford to deviate from the government in power at the centre.