Youths have been advised to embrace discipline, hard work and consistency as virtues for a successful life. Wing Commander Anslem Osasuyi gave the advice at the launch of his novel titled: The Great Citadel, held at Sam Ethnan Air Force Base, Ikeja, Lagos. He said youths had a faulty impression in believing that shortcuts could lead to success, which propelled him to write the book. “My interactions with many Nigerian youths made me to realise that a lot of them believe that you only read when you are preparing for an examination. This mentality needs to change. “Another point is the idea that there is a shortcut to success. My experience in the university was a tough one and yet, many of our young ones do not have the discipline to do the needful. It is my desire that this book will help to re -orient our youths that hard work and consistency are necessary ingredients for success,” he said. The author, a maxillofacial surgeon, who has written eight professional publications in local and international journals, said the novel was centred on his undergraduate experiences at the University of Benin. It reflects how moral values and right mentorship can prepare youths for productive lives in institutions of higher learning. He further explained that the 212-page novel was impactful and would encourage youths to strive for academic excellence in the face of challenges in citadels of learning. He added that the book was also entertaining and hilarious. “I hope my humble contribution will make some form of positive impact on our youths and Nigerians in general,” he said. The reviewer, Mrs Betty Ogbeche, who was represented by her husband, Agada Ogbeche, Chief of Accounts and Budget, Nigerian Airforce adjudged the book to be a very good literary work, detailed in plain simple English and intriguing to the reader. She recommends it for people of all ages, especially senior secondary school  students who stand to benefit from the message of the book that ‘hard work pays’. Also speaking, Air Marshal Sadiq Abubakar, Chief of the Air Staff, Nigerian Air Force, who was represented by Air Officer Commanding Logistic Command, Air Commodore Abdulaganiyu Adeyinka Olabisi, praised the author for his effort to change erroneous poor thinking and reading culture of the youths in the society. “Indeed, this is a thing that is worthy of emulation as we all know dedication is the foundation of all human capital development. The book highlights the importance of hard work and perseverance in the attainment of academic excellence. It enumerates possible reports students could experience during their studies and suggests solutions to such challenges. The Great Citadel is not restricted to only academic excellence of university life, but also talks about the social activities on campus as well as campus politics. No doubt the book is a must read for young under graduates and secondary schools students preparing for university life” He was hopeful that the book will help revive the past eroding values of hard work, perseverance and quest for excellence among the youths.