The All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) yesterday scored President Muhammadu Buhari high on his economic policies. The party said  Nigerians with the result of Buhari’s economic initiatives will soon begin to enjoy stable economy and better living standard. Briefing reporters in Abuja,  APGA Chairman Victor Oye, said Nigerians should give moral and spiritual support to the President by praying for him, adding that he deserves complete eight years as provided for by the Constitution. Oye lamented that some Nigerians spend their time criticising the President, warning that politics is not a do or die affairs, just as he pointed out that desperate politics is why there is always political violence during elections. He urged Nigerians to learn how to cooperate with those in leadership position, saying it is by this understanding that the unity and peace of the country can be promoted irrespective of race and religion. The party chairman emphasised the need for Nigerians to offer valuable advice to the President to enable him succeed in office. Commenting on the 2019 general elections, Oye said the party believes that the election was generally free, fair and credible, noting that even the international community adjudged the process as such. He said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was not given such benefit of the doubts by Nigerians to conduct a credible general elections. “We have our own misgivings, but in our own thinking, the outcome of the election was fair. Nobody gave INEC the chance to perform the little it has done. INEC showed immeasurable courage by ensuring that the elections went the way they did, especially the Presidential elections. In our own estimation, the election was free and fair and APGA is happy with the outcome of that elections”, he said. Responding to the loss of the three Senatorial seats to other party , Oye said the party is growing in leaps and bounds, having won six House of Assembly seats in Imo State, 24  of 30 seats in Anambra State House of Assembly, five seats in the House of Representatives in Anambra.