When you savour delicious and succulent mangoes every season, you probably don’t think about the immense health benefits coming with every bite. A common nickname for mangoes is actually ‘the king of fruits’. Beyond the sweet, luscious taste of mangoes, they also contain an abundance of vitamins, minerals and antioxidants that assure your optimum health. Here are myriad benefits of mangoes Mangoes could help facilitate healthy digestion. Dietary fibre helps lowering risk of heart disease, type 2 diabetes. Green mangoes have more pectin fibre than ripe mangoes. Mangoes contain enzymes that aid the breakdown and digestion of protein, and also fibre Promotes healthy gut According to the book ‘Healing Foods’, mango flesh contains prebiotic dietary fibre, which helps feed good bacteria in the gut. Healthy gut is detrimental for a healthy state. Leaky gut, apart from poor digestion results in skin conditions like IBS, asthma, slow metabolism and other health issues. Mango flesh contains prebiotic dietary fibre, which helps feed good bacteria Boosts immunity You would be surprised to know that an average sized mango contains up to two-third of the daily recommended intake of vitamin C. The powerful antioxidant helps boost immunity system and prevents cold/flu. Mango contains up to two-third of the daily recommended intake of vitamin C. Promotes eye health Including mangoes in the diet may also help promote your eye health. Mangoes are rich in beta-carotene that helps in the production of Vitamin A. The powerful antioxidant helps improve vision, boosts overall eye health and even prevents age-related macular degeneration or loss of vision. Mangoes are rich in beta-carotene that helps promote eye health. Lowers cholesterol Eating mangoes could help regulate your cholesterol levels too. The high levels of fibre pectin may help bring down the low-density lipoprotein (LDL or bad cholesterol) which causes plaques in the vessels and blocks blood flow. The high levels of fibre pectin may help bring down the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) Other benefits include: Clears the skin; Mangoes, eaten in moderation are also known to exfoliate and eliminate dead pores, “Mangoes are loaded with skin healing nutrients; for example, fibre in mangoes cleanses your gut that is overloaded with toxic substances: even diabetic patients could enjoy mango; aids weight loss, among others.