The event will be celebrated with a 2-day event with the theme ‘Balance for Better’. The celebrations will kick off with a cocktail event on Wednesday, March 13, 2019 at the Access Bank Head Office Lagos with top management from both banks and other dignitaries in attendance. Both banks will host women across various industries to a breakfast conference at Eko Hotel & Suites on the second day of the conference, March 14, 2019. This conference will feature insightful panel sessions with seasoned speakers addressing issues related to how women can leverage on technology and finance to build profitable and innovative ventures as well as accelerate actions towards supporting women in their quest to be the best they can be. Ada Udechukwu, Head of Women Banking, Access Bank Plc   said: “At Access Bank, we are passionate about the woman and her overall well-being. “We are interested in her growth in family life, career, health and other areas. We will continue to provide platforms and support programs that will help women and their businesses. “This value-packed conference has been organized to help women learn essential lessons which can be applied to their daily lives and businesses. It will help them become all they want to be and be the best at it.” Herbert Wigwe, Group Managing Director/CEO Access Bank Plc, said: “At the core of our services is catering to the needs of women and we are constantly gearing efforts towards promoting women-focused initiatives and providing opportunities to help them maximize their potential. “One of the reasons we are hosting this breakfast conference is to help women overcome limitations as well as reach their best potential.” He added:  ”As we expand with the merger, and continue on our journey to building Africa’s biggest retail bank, our women now have more innovative offerings that they can explore to make themselves and their businesses better.” Head of Affluent Banking at Diamond Bank, Dolapo Orelaja, said “This joint conference between Diamond Bank and Access Bank has been organised to equip our women with the knowledge and skill that they require to grow their businesses, develop themselves and stay relevant in the fast changing business environment of today. We are very passionate about women and their progress in life.” Panelists at the conference include: Laure Beaufils, Tony Okapanachi, Tosin Durotoye, Omilola Oshikoya , Dr. Omolola Salako, and Audrey Mothupi among others. 