•MAPOLY staff, students allege neglect of road To staff and students of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta, Ogun State, the road leading to the school is a death trap. With huge craters here and there, commuting on the road is a nightmare, they say. TAIWO KAFILAT (ND2 Mass Communication) captures the pains the road inflicts on motorists and passengers. Lecturers, students and commuters are unhappy with the state of the road leading to the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta. They have  described the  road as a death trap. The deplorable state of the Iyana-Oloke Moshood Abiola Polytechnic Road is of great concern to the people. ’ The two-kilometre Panseke to Iyana-Oloke stretch, believed to  have been awarded to a contractor by the state government, has been abandoned by the construction company. There have been many accidents involving members of the polytechnic community as well as those who ply their trade in the institution on the road. Many of the campus shuttle buses are no exception, as their drivers daily lament the amount they spend on vehicle maintenance, and the risk passengers are subjected to. The drivers also bemoaned the waste of time spent before arriving their destination. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the Ogun State Government though had mobilised the construction company to rehabilitate the road up to the school gate, no one could ascertain why the project was suspended halfway. Although MAPOLY management refused to speak on the matter, the government has repeatedly assured that the road would be completed soon. Ogun State Commissioner for Works Lekan Adegbite listed    the road as one of government’s ongoing projects, adding that it would soon be completed. Nonetheless, CAMPUSLIFE has observed that no worker is on site yet. Many students of MAPOLY told CAMPUSLIFE how the road has become a pain in the neck over the years, albeit with successive governments’ indifference, a development that they say, also affects learning. An HND2 Accountancy student Jubril Odebunmi said, “MAPOLY Road being the only road that links the institution from various areas of the city, is really in a bad shape. “The bad condition of the road has made transportation to the school difficult. I have observed that some shuttle drivers now avoid plying the road as they claim their vehicles often get damaged.” Similarly, an HND1 student, who simply identified herself as Afolashade, also lent her voice. Hear her, “Well, the road is not anywhere near the school standard. It is so disheartening that this road has been like that before I got admission into MAPOLY 2014. It’s a pity it has been like this for many years. ‘’There was a day I boarded a bus from Panseke heading to school. A pregnant woman who was also a staff of MAPOLY was on board and she was not comfortable all through. She told me this was the pain she had to go through coming to work everyday. So, I will plead with the government to please help this situation.” Another student who pleaded not to be mentioned recounted an unforgettable experience she had. ‘’I could not forget that day during my first semester in HND 1,” the student began. “My Mum had called me during a lecture period to join her. To make it back to school on time I borrowed a friend’s car key. On my way back to school, the car developed a fault right in the middle of the road in front of Gbokoniyi Church, and I could not make it back to class that day.” In addition, Alayinde Esther another HND 1 Banking and Finance undergraduate said the bad road made her miss lectures. “It (road) has affected me in so many ways,” she lamented. “I miss lectures and test which we may not be able to rewrite. Also, the stress we experience on the road makes me weak before getting to class.” Mrs Tolani Sodiya, a nursing mother who sells stationeries inside the school campus, narrated how she almost lost her pregnancy due to the state of the road. Said Sodiya: “I remember during my pregnancy, I found it difficult to sit comfortably because of my stomach. Most times when I got home, I ended up having pains.” An ND 2 Mass Communication student of the polytechnic, Oluwatobi Odeyinka, said the agony commuters experienced on the road could not be described. Odeyinka said: “The road is indeed a death trap. Injuries have been sustained many times by students and to worsen the situation, some of the drivers overload their vehicles. This has led to accident.” Another ND 2 undergraduate of Mass Communication Bose Akinkunmi, claimed she often gets terrified by the situation of the road. Akinkunmi said: “The road that leads to Mapoly from Iyana-Oloke can best be described as a death trap for the people.” Akinkunmi continued, “The road is so bad to the extent that, sometimes,` I don’t feel like going to school because I’m afraid the bus might summersault one day.” A trader in MAPOLY, Kazeem Kayode, explained how difficult it has been for him to get to his workplace on a daily basis. He said: “We all know that the road is bad because our government abandoned it.” Also, a trader who introduced himself as Bunkand, said he spends so much on car maintenance. “I have a personal car, and oftentimes, I spend more money replacing my shock absorbers. A learner cannot ply this road, otherwise, he will regret it.” In his own reaction, President of MAPOLY Student Union Comrade Owo-iya Rasaq, said the bad road as ‘unbearable’. He said: “You can see that the road is in bad condition. One of our promises before we resumed office was to reduce the stress in transporting our students from their various hostels to campus. “You will agree with me that, the bad road linking Ojere route from Iyana-Oloke is the main problem of transportation in MAPOLY. “Recently, our executives in conjunction with some shuttle and taxi drivers went out to fill the potholes with concrete and sand, just to reduce the stress of drivers. “However, we have been crying to the government to help us construct the road.” However, the Chairman MAPOLY shuttle drivers, Comrade Adesanya Adeshina, insisted that the condition of the road has made them spend large sum of money on maintenance. Adesanya lamented that drivers spend an average of one hour on a journey that would have lasted just  15 minutes, or even less. He said: “The roads are bad, we expect the government to repair the road. Government knows how much they earn yearly from this institution. “Our shuttles have reduced drastically. Most buses have run away due to the bad road. “Most truck that ply the roads struggle with the steering and end up causing accident within the vicinity.” CAMPUSLIFE gathered that drivers who could no longer bear the hardship of the road have moved to other areas, leaving the students with shortage of vehicles. Meanwhile, when approached by CAMPUSLIFE Public Relations Officer of MAPOLY Yemi Ajibola and the institution’s Directorate of Students Affair, Townplanner Luke Adelaja  refused to speak on the state of the road.