THERE is heartache behind the heroics that Alfredo Morelos performs in a Rangers jersey. In a revealing, emotional insight, the Colombian striker has explained how the death of a younger sister drove him to provide a better future for his family. Today, Morelos will seek to become the first Ibrox player in a decade to reach the 30-goal mark in a season when he lines up against Celtic. His importance to Steven Gerrard’s side is well established. So, too, is the adoration he receives from the Rangers support. However, the motivation that took the 22-year-old from his home town of Cerete to Glasgow, via Helsinki, has only been partly understood by those out with the player’s inner circle. At its core is how he responded to the pain of a family tragedy. “My family supports me very unconditionally, they always give me that motivation, that love to do things better every day,” he said. “The love of my parents, my sisters, it makes me proud to be doing what I’ve been doing so far. “I promised my mother. I had a little sister who died and I promised her, too. We’ve gone through some hurdles, we’ve fallen, and thanks to God I’ve been smart and have had a positive attitude. “My little sister was a very big motivation for me. I told my mother that I would take care of them because we were a very poor family in Colombia, in Cerete. “And thanks to God, since my little sister died, I told my mother one day: “I’m going to take care of you and my whole family”. Thanks to God, now we are doing well.’ Morelos was presented with a medal by the mayor of Cerete when he was at home during the winter break. That ceremony preceded a tribute match in which he and his friends, all in Rangers kits, took on local side Aquel Atletico Cordoba. The striker remains proud of his roots and likes to return to the school where he was first set on the path to professional football. Insisting the support of his father — Alfredo snr — was ‘fundamental’, Morelos said: “My career started at Los Fumigadores in Cerete, a very nice school which has brought up many children. “There was the teacher, Astolfo, and the president of the club, Vincente Fernandez. They were the ones that gave me the opportunity to be part of the club, mostly Vincente. It’s been a super-important education for me, they supported me a lot. They are really close to me and I’m thankful. That affection for his hometown is clearly reciprocated. Morelos revealed his old stomping ground was brought to a standstill when he made his debut for the Colombian national team in a friendly against Venezuela last September. “Playing for Colombia was really special,’ said Morelos, who also featured in the recent friendlies against Japan and South Korea.”They closed the whole street in the neighbourhood, there was a massive screen. The neighbours, the kids and my family were all there. It was something incredible. “I am very happy about all these people that support me. Cerete is a very small town and everyone knows each other very well. “They always have a good opinion of me and of who I am. I am very happy to be making Cerete known. I’m very proud of my town and also of Colombia.’ His father and mother, Martha, have been to visit Morelos in Glasgow. “My family is very proud of me —my mother, my father, they cry, they cry watching me play,’ he continued. “My parents were here, they now know how it is — the atmosphere here and more so now seeing it themselves. “They feel proud of their son because I do it with a lot of love for them, too.” Morelos’ ambition was always to follow his idol, Lionel Messi, into European football. But his route was less travelled. After gaining a grounding with Los Fumigadores, Morelos was spotted by Deportivo Independiente Medellin as a teenager. “They gave me the opportunity to prove myself there,’ he explained. ‘And well, thanks to God, I passed the tests.