A member of the Building Collapsed Prevention Guild (BCPG), Mr. Ebenezer Olumide Ologuntoye, yesterday told a Lagos High Court, Igbosere that the test carried out on the foundation and bearing of the collapsed building in Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), did not fail soil test. He said this while being led in evidence by the counsel to the church, Olalekan Ojo (SAN). The witness said BCPG is a non-governmental organisation interested in reducing incidence of collapse building to the barest minimum and that he got to know about the collapse of SCOAN building when he was selected as a member of the committee saddled with the responsibility of investigating possible cause of the collapsed building. The registered trustees of SCOAN are facing 110-count charge of involuntary manslaughter, contrary to Section 222 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2011, filed against them by the Lagos State Government. The defendants, Oladele Ogundeji and Akinbela Fatiregun, are charged alongside their companies, Hardrock Construction and Engineering Company and Jandy Trust Limited. A fifth defendant, the registered trustees of SCOAN, is facing a one-count charge of building without approval. They, however, pleaded not guilty. At the resumed hearing of the matter yesterday, the witness, who testified before Justice Lateef Lawal-Akapo, said when the building collapsed, the BCPG set up a committee and they were asked to look into the possible cause of the collapsed building. He said they carried out an analysis on the soil and foundation and discovered that the foundation and the bearing capacity were adequate. Ologuntoye, a geotechnical engineer, who specialises in soil Investigations, quality and assurance control, also gave an analysis on how the tests were conducted at the site of the collapsed building. The witness said two tests were carried out with Dutch Comb Machine, and the sample was taken to the University of Lagos (UNILAG), laboratory for analysis. ’I carried out geotechnical borehole, and took the sample of the soil from top to bottom. Then the samples taken were taken to UNILAG soil laboratory for analysis.  