NOWADAYS, the children of celebrities grow up in the limelight under the watchful eyes of the public and through photos and videos that their celeb parents share on social media. But many of these sons and daughters of the famous are only known to us because of their parents’ deeds. Without their parents’ accomplishments and names, most of them won’t be known. But some celeb children are popular in their own right. Some of them are now as popular,  if not more popular than their famous star parents. Entertainment is the biggest sector where most of these ‘double celeb’ kids can be found. Some of them act in the biggest movies, walk the red carpet at topnotch awards ceremonies and have huge following. It appears that this famous superstar families have passed the talent on from one generation to the next. Examples include the late cinema icon Ade Love’s actor children; the late entertainment guru, Art Alade’s son Dare Art Alade; Paul Ik Dairo, the son of the late highlife maestro IK Dairo; Femi Adebayo of the Oga Bello clan and several others. So take this journey with us and let us meet these ‘double celebs’ who, in their own, right are as popular as their parents.  Darey Art Alade, son of Art Alade Multi-talented artiste, Dare Art Alade, popularly known as Darey, is the son of the renowned legendary Nigerian entertainer and iconic Nigerian jazz music pioneer Art Alade. Art Alade was a Nigerian television personality and producer, who was the host of The Bar Beach Show, a weekly variety show on NBC-TV that aired during the 1970s. Darey has won many awards like the Headies award for Artist of the Year.  Falz, Femi Falana’s son The multitalented artist is the son of renowned human rights activist parents, Funmi and Femi Falana (SAN). Falz’s rise to stardom is quite remarkable because he is not from a family with deep roots in entertainment. But the artiste, one of the industry’s hardest workers, is now a dominant face in music, movies and the arts.  Kunle, Gabriel, Aremu, Moji Afolayan, Ade Love’s children Kunle, Gabriel, Aremu and Moji Afolayan are the children of the late cinema icon, Ade Love, who dominated the big screen in the 70s and 80s.  His children, Kunle, Moji, Gabriel and Aremu are stars in the movie industry. Kunle, a movie producer and director of note, is known to create blockbuster movies. The highly talented and sought-after four have made the world theirs just as their dad did.  Fred, Zack, Ruke, Mena Amata, children of John Amata The Amata family is like a factory, which has produced some of the country’s biggest producers, actors and directors. The Amata brothers were born into the film industry. Their late, John Amata father was a famous Nigerian filmmaker. The Amata siblings, Fred, Zack, Ruke, Mena, have kept the family’s flag flying.  Samuel Olasehinde, Pa Ajirebi’s (Kayode Olasehinde)’s son Viewers got to know this father-son duo through acting, which the Law graduate from Obafemi Awolowo University first auditioned for when he was just five years old. Clarence Peters, son of Sir Shina Peter Ace music video director, filmmaker and cinematographer, Clarence, definitely has his father’s genes- physical appearance and his mother’s love for directing. Clarence is the son of juju superstar, Sir Shina Peters, and screen goddess, Clarion Chukwura.  Linc, Yul, sons of Pete Edochie Linc and Yul, are the sons of the popular actor and the dominant face in several epic movies, Pete Edochie. The elder Edochie became famous for his perfect translation of the protagonist of Chinua Achebe’s “Things Fall Apart”, which has been adjudged many times as one of Africa’s greatest novels. Linc Edochie, the elder brother of Yul, is a multiple talent- filmmaker, movie producer, actor, and supervisor. Since he became an actor, Linc has played roles in lots of the Nollywood movies and worked on the production of many Nollywood films. Fine-boy Yul, Linc’s younger brother, has starred in many hit movies. In July 2017, Yul Edochie joined politics and ran for governorship in Anambra State.  Dr. Sid, Justus Esiri’s son Justus Esiri had more than 100 TV and film credits before he passed on in 2013. His son, Sidney Onoriode, widely known as Dr. Sid, a singer, songwriter and dentist, is making his mark in the music industry. Dr. Sid has been nominated for and has won several awards; just like his father did years before.  Femi, Tope Adebayo, Adedayo’s Salami’s (Oga Bello’s) sons Femi and Tope followed in their father’s, veteran actor, Adebayo Salami’s footsteps. They are both A-list actors. Oga Bello, as their father is fondly called by many of his admirers, is one of Nigeria’s most successful and accomplished actors. Femi, a lawyer, is an actor, director, producer and Special Adviser to the Governor of Kwara State on Arts, Culture and Tourism. Femi began acting in 1985, the same year he featured in his father’s first movie, titled Ogun Ajaye. While is younger brother, Tope Adebayo, is also a successful movie director,who studied at the University of Ilorin. Sola Kosoko-Abina, Bidemi, Jide Kosoko’s daughters Sola and Bidemi are the daughters of superstar actor, Prince Jide Kosoko. Sola is an actress and director. Bidemi is an actress. Both of them are stars in their own right. The two women, who are both Theatre Arts graduates, have grown into beautiful, mature women and powerhouse actresses.  DJ Cuppy, Femi Otedola’s daughter Businessman, philanthropist, and chairman of Forte Oil, Femi Otedola, wanted to raise his kids far from the world of showbiz but that wasn’t to be. DJ Cuppy schooled in United Kingdom, but that didn’t stop her from performing and later making her way up in the entertainment world. DJ Cuppy is quite popular on the music scene and has a large following on social media.