Elated Pastor (Mrs.) Dolapo Osinbajo,  wife of the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Sunday testified of the goodness of God to her family, saying it is immeasurable. Dolapo said she was particularly grateful to God for his mercy and compassion upon the family, which she stressed, protected her husband and pulled him out from the jaw of death unscathed when he miraculously survived a helicopter crash in Kabba, Kogi State, last February 2. The Vice – President’s wife who rendered her brief testimony in a core Yoruba language during an Interdenominational Service of praise and thanksgiving in Ikenne, Ogun state, also appreciated God for the re – election of President Muhammadu Buhari. The service of praise and thanksgiving was put together by Christian community in the state in conjunction with the Vice – President to express their gratitude to God for the re -election of President Muhammadu  Buhari and Osinbajo. The exciting event where the septuagenarian gospel singer, Dr. Ebenezer Obey entertained guests with many soul lifting songs of praise and worship, was attended by Governor Abiola Ajimobi(Oyo) and Governor Akinwunmi Ambode (Lagos) who reads the bible lesson from Psalm 149. They were also  Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, Senator Godswill Akpabio, Governor – elect in Ogun state, Prince Adedapo Abiodun and ex – Governor Rauf Aregbesola, Sir Kensington Adebutu, the governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the state, Prince Gboyega Isiaka, traditional rulers, community leaders and Christian community. The governor – elect, Dapo Abiodun, who came in the company of his wife, described Osinbajo as a “worthy son of Remo” and “Omoluabi one of Nigeria.” He said the Vice – President is an embodiment of diligence, sincerity intellect, whom he always confidently call a leader. The successful entrepreneur, oil magnate and real estate player, reiterated what had kept him going in the journey of life despite daunting challenges is his absolute and unshakable faith in God. She said such faith was anchored on the message of Christ in Mark 11:23, which assured that an unwavering faith could relocate a mountain from one point to another. He pledged to run an equitable, just, accountable  and a transparent government which would create a public, private partnership for the benefits of Ogun state, the citizens and residents. In his brief sermon, the Archbishop Lagos Ecclesiastical Province, the Anglican Church of Nigeria, Dr. Olusina Fape, said it was the mercy and compassion of God that delivered Osinbajo from death and helped him and his principal, Muhammadu Buhari to emerge victorious in the presidential election. Anchoring his message on Romans 9 : 15 – 16, Fape said it is God that elevates one and not necessarily the product of one’s effort, praying that God in his mercy would also protect and keep the Vice – President safe during his second tenure.