•Banks don’t need them as they boast enough profit to pay every cadre of their staff well THERE is a racket in the Nigerian banking industry. Its euphemism is “contract staff”. But the real scourge is under-employment. That fuels deliberate under-payment, which preserves the perverse earnings of top bank executives.  Both the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and industry unions must partner to fight and banish this scourge. If not promptly arrested, it just might spark the next major crisis in Nigerian banking. Luckily, banking regulators, the CBN and the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), are already raising alarm, although in a rather narrow sense. Both have warned commercial banks (technically, deposit money banks, DMB, the dominant players in a turf of merchant and non-interest banks) to de-emphasise the hiring of contract staff (earning usually below N80, 000 monthly, without other perks available to the banks’ regular staff), to drive down operational exps.That warning is thumbs down for naked exploitation of a class of helpless bank workers, even if the business can conveniently pay fairer wages across the board. Still, that practice is aided and abetted by reportage by the business media, which prefaces almost every banking news story with that cliché: “despite the tough business environment”. The environment is not that tough, to justify such blatant worker exploitation.The proof is coming from the regulators themselves. Aishah Ahmad, CBN deputy governor for economic policy, declared: “Improving financial soundness indicators reflect growing banking resilience. Data provided by bank staff showed that the industry capital adequacy ratio increased considerably from 10.23 per cent in December 2017 to 15.26 per cent in December 2018; marginal improvement in non-performing loans ratio recorded is also expected to strengthen further, on account of the recent promissory notes issued by the Federal Government to settle contractor debts, whilst liquidity ratios, returns on asset and return on equity remained robust.” Adamu Edward Lamtek, another CBN deputy governor (corporate services), volunteered: “The last couple of months have witnessed a sustained improvement in banking sector resilience – industry capital adequacy and liquidity ratios have grown, while the non-performing loans ratio is on the decline.” These are cheery industry news, even if it is still in the context of an economy rebounding from recession, to modest growth.Yet, what is the reaction on the banks’ operations side? From the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) fourth quarter 2018 report, some 45, 238 contract staff constitute 43.2 per cent of Nigeria’s entire banking workforce. In 2018 alone, the banks recruited 12, 879 contract staff. Put starkly, under the veneer of “contract staff”, nearly a half of Nigeria’s entire banking workforce the banks have condemned to systemic under-employment, low pay and low morale; given that most of these workers are tertiary graduates, who should ordinarily get far better pay and perks. That may yet wreak great havoc on the banks’ bottom line, in terms of sleaze. Neither is it showing an industry investing in its future, beyond the greed of the moment.  Indeed NDIC, in its bank examination reports of recent years, has consistently noted the high incidence of forgeries, fraud and allied sleaze had often emanated from the so-called contract staff. Dipo Fatokun, CBN director for banking and payment system, declared: “A temporary staff may not have a stake in the bank, so to say. So, it is encouraged that if they have staff that are not permanent, they should not give them responsibilities; or roles that will expose them to critical functions of the bank.”Still, this would appear to beg the question. Inasmuch as contract staffing is no justification for banking crimes, it strikes at the very root of injustices in the banking system. The industry regulators should stop dubious moral preachments. They should, instead, launch specific policies and actions to halt the racket – and fast. In that, they should seek happy partnership with banks’ industrial unions.