THE request by Nigeria for reforms in the Commonwealth to make it more relevant to member countries is good. But, while we support innovations that will impact on citizens of member countries, we doubt if the proposal by the foreign minister, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, for the removal of visa requirement amongst member countries will fly. The minister, represented by the Director of European Affairs, Oluremi Oluide, made the call at a ceremony to mark the 70th Commonwealth Day celebration. In a paper titled: ‘A connected Commonwealth’, the minister reiterated a request made by Nigeria about 10 years ago, to allow citizens of the 53-member countries to travel amongst member states without visas. According to the report: “Nigeria went to the extent of letting the Commonwealth know that as a common wealth of people, we should begin to think of the possibility of everyone within the Commonwealth community to be able to travel within the community without the use of visas.” Considering Nigeria’s economic challenges, resulting in high unemployment, especially amongst the youths, such a proposal will be a welcomed idea by many Nigerians. Indeed, many would even call it a patriotic idea. But in making the proposal, the minister apparently did not ask himself why the economically advanced members of the Commonwealth should throw their borders open to laggard members to push the burden of their economic mismanagement to them. Of note, in the 1960s when Nigeria got her independence, the country was economically at par with some of the Commonwealth countries which today are close to being referred to as first-world countries. For instance, India, Malaysia and Singapore which are currently huge economic successes had comparatively similar per capita GDP with Nigeria in the 1960s. With GDP of 36.54 USD billion in 1960, India in 2017 had a GDP of 2597.49 USD billion, and with a population of 1.3 billion people, its economy represents 4.19% of the world economy. On its part Nigeria, with an estimated population of 199 million in 2019, had a GDP of 375.77 USD billion in 2017, which represented 0.61% of the world economy. In 1960, Nigeria had a GDP of 4.20 USD billion. So, when Nigeria, with its huge youth population, which is substantially unemployed, makes such a call, the super powers in the Commonwealth will not take her serious. As our diplomats should know, many of the citizens of the countries which operate reciprocal visa-free regime don’t suffer economic disadvantage, and as such their citizens will not need to permanently migrate to the other countries. Unfortunately, that is the challenge Nigeria faces, and, in our view, the solution to the problems lies within. It lies in intensive economic renewals, the type that will create massive employment opportunities. Luckily, the Federal Government is already engaged in such, through the railway renewal programme. In our view, labour intensive projects like railway, roads, dams and similar projects are what we need, more than platitudes as the foreign minister engaged in at the Commonwealth anniversary programme. Our position should however not derogate from the need to make the Commonwealth a more relevant organisation than it currently is. Instead of asking countries to open its borders to stragglers, coordinated exchange programmes on education, skill acquisition, technology transfer and other forms of training programmes to help the citizens of countries in the Commonwealth gain skills will be more acceptable to the economically advanced members. Interestingly, the leader of the Commonwealth, the United Kingdom, is presently struggling to exit the European Union, and here our foreign minister is asking them to open their borders in a relationship her citizens will abhor.