After a global private equity firm, Kupanda Holdings, announced a multimillion dollar investment in  Mavin Records, the latter has unveiled a new  artiste, Rema, signed under Jonzing World, Mavin’s first ever imprint record label. Mavin’s founder, Don Jazzy says this is in response to the growing thirst for Nigerian music globally, as well as the company’s  desire to become a music powerhouse in Africa. Rema, an 18-year old emerging artiste, whose real name is Divine Ikubor was discovered by D’Prince, who is Don Jazzy’s biological brother and one of the vibrant acts off the defunct Mo’Hits crew. As a young rapper in church and school, Rema who grew up in Benin City knew from an early  age of 11 that music was what he wanted to spend his life doing. Rema had performed on several stages in Benin City and created his own live band while still in school. His sound is unique and tilted towards Afrobeat, Trap and Alternative music. Speaking on his signing to Jonzing World, he says, “It still feels like a dream. It is such a blessing for me to be chosen for something great, and given a platform as big as Mavin Global and a team as supportive as Jonzing World to enable me achieve my career objectives in music. I am super excited about what the future holds.” Mavin Global , announcing its first imprint label deal, Jonzing World and in the same vein signing a new artiste under this imprint, demonstrates part of the label’s large-scale plan to infuse fresh talent into its roster, while extending its reach across and beyond Africa. According to Don Jazzy, “Rema is a formidable young artist: with his skill and versatility, he has a unique place in the future of afrobeats. At the same time, we’re excited to launch our first imprint deal with Jonzing World. This model will expand the number of ways the Mavin platform can support artists and entrepreneurship in Africa to grow together, at home and internationally.” “When I first heard Rema’s work I knew this was an artist I wanted the entire world listening to; his talent and artistry are so far beyond his years. By collaborating with Mavin Global, Jonzing World will be able to discover and develop not just Rema but many more exceptional talents like him. This is only the beginning,” said D’Prince, Founder and CEO of Jonzing World.