Few days to the Kano gubernatorial supplementary election, the Centre for Intervention (CFI) has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to make available all necessary materials needed to ensure credible and hitch-free exercise. In a statement signed by CFI Coordinator, Dr. Ibrahim Baba, the group called on INEC to rectify all the anomalies witnessed in the March 11 elections by ensuring that all the materials needed for the rerun election are made available in good time at all the polling units where the rerun will take place. “Late arrival of materials and officials to polling unit should be addressed in this rerun more importantly. INEC should ensure that the smart card readers (SCR) are functional because it remains one of the vital aspects of the elections in Nigeria,” the group said. The group also called on the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Mohammed Wakili to ensure neutrality by carrying all parties involved in the election along as to ensure peaceful conduct of the exercise. The group lamented perceived bickering between the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Mohammed Wakili and the state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, describing it as unhealthy and uncalled for. According to the statement, “we urge the Commissioner of Police to develop much mutual/cordial relationship with the Kano state Governor. The state police Commissioner should cultivate the right attitude to work with the Kano state Governor in order to make sure that the rerun election is free, fair, credible and transparent.” They equally urged the supporters of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to play by the rules of the game so as to avoid any action or inaction that can plunge the state into unnecessary violence. The group, however, hailed the Chairman of Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission (PCACC), Bar. Muhuyi Magaji Rimin Gado for his tireless efforts in fighting the menace of vote-buying, just as the called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) to ensure that culprits of vote-buying are prosecuted according to the law.