•Ogun urged to emulate Lagos on rescue effort, ‘one-way’ driving Motorists and commuters plying Lagos Ibadan Expressway have lamented over the constant gridlocks that most times locked down the road. Those heading out of Lagos spend several hours in the snarling traffic from the Long Bridge to Magboro bus stop, following the narrowing of the road due to the ongoing construction. Also, the incessant breakdown of vehicles on the narrowed road prevents smooth-driving, causing heavy traffic for hours on the road. The motorists and commuters, however, urged the Ogun State government to emulate Lagos State in setting up a rescue plan to remove vehicles on the road. The state law enforcement agents were also urged to be strict in arresting drivers fond of driving against traffic whenever there is a gridlock on the road. A Magboro resident, who works on Lagos Island, Mrs. Yemisi Ayeni, told The Nation that it is now a regular occurrence to be held up in a gridlock when returning from work in the evenings. “I don’t think the Ogun State government knows the importance of the state’s proximity to Lagos State because if they do, they should learn from them in terms of rescue efforts. “Most times, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) is overwhelmed by the gridlock and this is where the Ogun State government needs to assist in reducing the long hours commuters spend on the road each day. We know that construction is ongoing, but the slow pace of work by the contractors has made life difficult for people plying the area, especially when coming back from work in the evenings,” she lamented. A commercial driver, Akeem Jimoh, however, blamed the regular gridlock on indiscipline by commuters, who are fond of taking “one-way”. “I think with patience, the gridlock will ease but most drivers plying the road are just not patient enough and most times, drive against traffic. Long hours are spent on the road every day, but I have made up my mind not to drive against traffic, regardless of the gridlock. “Also, the contractors, Julius Berger should also hasten up the construction on the road to allow for smooth passage for those heading out of Lagos,” he said.   