The Accord Party in Oyo State on Tuesday agreed to work for the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Saturday’s governorship and assembly polls. This alliance, according to the hierarchy of the party, was facilitated by Senator Soji Akanbi representing Oyo South senatorial district. He reunited with the APC from the Action Democratic Congress (ADC) after a high powered meeting with the Vice President, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and other APC stalwarts after the presidential and National Assembly elections. Over 350 members, party leaders and representatives of the Accord Party from all 33 local government areas of Oyo State converged on the Mauve 23 Event Centre in Ring Road, Ibadan to finalise terms of support for the ruling party. Akanbi told the Accord members that his return to help the APC’s recovery process was hinged on recent reconciliation efforts of the APC national leaders. He lauded the virtues of President Muhammadu Buhari and emphasized the need to ensure Oyo state aligns with the ruling party to further bring development to the state. “We are here to cement a relationship that will bring massive development to the state because the ruling party leadership has a mandate to win in Oyo State. “We recognize that we only can win together and that is why we are calling on fellow progressive minded people to join the winning side. “I enjoin you all to align with the APC to win the gubernatorial elections in the state and ensure progressive change in the interest of the masses,” he stated. The chairman of the Accord in Oyo State, Engr. Muda Ogunsola, lauded the senator for placing the masses’ interest first. He explained his party’s decision to support the APC in Saturday’s governorship election has been well accepted by all stakeholders in the party. He informed the national hierarchy of the party had granted the go ahead for the state chapter to assist the APC to realize its mandate in the governorship elections. This marks a major sign of recovery for the party that suffered a shock defeat in the hands of the main opposition party, PDP in the Presidential election held on Feb 23. The APC in the state also surrendered the Oyo South senatorial seat and all four federal constituencies in the district to the PDP. APC’s poor showing in Ibadan metropolis, which affected their overall performance, is largely blamed on the internal crisis that forced Senator Akanbi to seek re-election on the platform of the ADC after Governor Abiola Ajimobi claimed the party’s ticket from the incumbent. 