Aimable Kayigi Habiyambere is the Commissioner for Domestic Taxes at the Rwanda Revenue Authority (RRA). In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf on the sidelines of the just concluded second Media Engagement and Training of African journalists on tax-related matters by the African Tax Administration Forum (ATAF) in Kigali, Rwanda, the taxman shares insights on how the continent can curb donor-dependency and be more self-reliant. Excerpts: One of the hotly debated issues at the week-long conference was the need to achieve effective domestic resource mobilisation for the continent of Africa. Do you see that happening? Yes, I think the issue of domestic resource mobilisation is an idea whose time has come. Yes, the continent is poor in terms of resources but this is because there are lots of gaps and leakages from within and without. For most of the countries today have realised that there is need to harness resources within and ensure that those resources are better managed. The idea of going cap in hand to donor agencies to get funding is no longer tenable. If Africans look inwards, they will realise that once local resources are better managed a lot can be achieved in terms of socioeconomic development for the entire continent. All it takes is a leadership with the right political will. At the mention of Rwanda as a country, what comes to mind is the genocide. But from what we can see a lot has changed. What would you attribute to the successes Rwanda has had in many areas despite the crisis arising from the genocide 25 years ago? I think I agree with you that we came from very far. We fought the genocide crisis. I actually attribute the successes we have had in my understanding to two factors. Good leadership is something that played a very big role because this country has at the highest level a leader that is really a visionary, President Paul Kagame. He did a lot for this country. Secondly, I also believe that even Rwandans themselves played a very big role by virtue of the kind of leadership they have had over the years since the genocide. They knew also that they went through a very bad history, they were the ones that suffered and they are the ones to suffer consequences of the genocide. It was a very strong lesson that they got in their lives they believed that they had to work very hard and listen to their leadership in order to overcome the number of challenges the country was facing and is still facing. So I would attribute as I said the successes thus far to the leadership and the resolve of our people. From the research I have done, your governance process is quite different from what obtains anywhere else in the continent. For instance, I understand 50 per cent of the cabinets are women and they are very many youth population in government positions, which for me is a breath of fresh air… You’re right. As per our constitution, it is very clear in Rwanda that in each and every organ of government, the women have to be represented. There are many government institutions where the women are highly represented. We have worked very hard. Again, I attribute that to the leadership. So it is very helpful. The other one which is also related is the fact that the leadership has helped to build strong institutions, and building healthy principles for the country, such as making the people accountable to their actions. Rwanda Revenue Authority was created eight years ago. By then, we were collecting about just a billion Rwanda Franc. But currently, we are collecting 1.3trillion and the collections that we are having now is more than 15 times what we have had in 10 years. The point I said about accountability is that for instance, at the RRA, each and every institution is audited on an annual basis and the Auditor General himself reports to the Parliament. And within the Parliament, there is a committee called Public Accounting Committee (PAC) and the Head of the institution which is being audited once they realise that there are issues of noncompliant, if you get a qualified report by the Auditor General then you are summoned to the Parliament publicly, both the TV, and other media of communication would beam it live where you have to give justification or otherwise that you are going to address the challenges and issues that were identified. So, if it comes back within two year, within the two years, you are given a timeline to implement the recommendations and you need to give back a report to the Parliament on a quarterly basis by sharing what you have implemented thus far. There are even sanctions fir higher authorities of different institutions where they even sack some of the top shots. So there is no joke when it comes to management of public funds. The value of your currency appears weak, I stand to be corrected. How strong is it compared to other countries within your region? One US dollar now is equal to 100Franc. If you compare it to the region we are in now, it’s a stable currency that really helps investors, visitors and businesses and the economy in general. I’m aware that the government banned the building of churches and mosques and that if you want to be a clergy, you have to get a certificate of theology and what have you. Is this reality or fiction? Maybe before I touch that one, I forgot to mention that our inflation rate is now more than 10 years that our rate has been between 2-5 per cent and our GDP is actually growing from 6-8 per cent. Now we have a growth of 7.6 per cent in the last 16 years now. Now co0ming back to the question that you have asked, it is reality, it is a decision that was reached by the government. Pastors and imams are currently complying with that directive. Otherwise, it was becoming a problem and that is part of the decision we have made. What is the standard of living, especially against the par capital income parity? The standard of living is fair. The government is seriously working on alleviating the sufferings of the less privileged in the society through a number of relief programmes being put in place for their benefits. We have a system of doing things in Rwanda. For instance we group people into different categories and such categories determine where they fall in terms of enjoying benefits from the government. We have got four bands. The first band is where all the poor people fall into. These people are allowed to access a number of services completely free of charge by the government. They are entitled to free health facilities, access to education even those in advance age and no longer receiving pensions; they get monthly cash allowance being paid by the government which ranges from 30000 franc. There is second band for basically those who are not poor but also not categorised as rich. For those ones, they can afford for themselves a number of services but there are other services that are provided for them by the government. However, there is a general insurance for every Rwandan in the second band. They pay about 3,000 Rwanda francs on annual basis. That gives them access to all health facilities. So if you go there you are treated and you have to show your card. So they do access a number of services. The third band is the middle income earners. For those ones, they are the ones considered to be earning some income like those doing business as employees of private or government establishments. So they do pay for their own insurance. The fourth category now is the rich people. These ones are charged a lot. They do contribute even to support the poor. They pay about 15-25 per cent of their earnings. That’s quite a lot? Yes it is. So we classify Rwandans based on those different bands. But you could say the government is actually pro-poor because it provides a number of amenities for the benefit of poor Rwandans. What is your current population figure? We are currently 12 million. What is the mainstay of your economy? The economy before now was relying on agriculture some eight years ago. But we realised that it is not sustainable on its own since many Rwandans were then relying on agriculture. So the government has this plan of moving from agriculture to services. We want like 40 per cent of our economy to be driven by services so we can create jobs. There is a lot of initiative towards helping to achieve that by encouraging investors to bring in foreign direct investments and all that. I also understand Rwandans enjoy 24 hours power supply. How did you achieve that? We did a number of things. For instance, we generate power from hydro and solar facilities. Again, your electricity consumption pattern is determined based on the category you belong. Since I’m categorised to be in a higher band, I do pay high for electricity consumption compared to others. That categorization goes with my electronic ID, since it is an avenue. They use your ID to identify which kind of band you fall within and what you are entitled to. So I end up paying higher but I don’t complain in reality since I earn my salary and I see that as a way of contributing to the socioeconomic development of the country ultimately. That’s how we assist each other. I’m also ware the government provides free housing for the poor? Yes you’re right. This is also based on the bands we have talked about. Now I’m in Rwanda revenue authority, I’m a taxman. I collect taxes. I have been doing this for the past 18 years now. As a taxperson, just given an example of myself, I won’t afford missing my target. If I was given a target of 4.3trillion Rwandan francs to collect this year by the institution, if I miss my target, then I should be ashamed because I denied a Rwandan somewhere from accessing certain facilities and services. That’s how we think as a people. If I miss my target, it’s not only missing my target, I need to really recognise the fact that I denied a Rwandan somewhere first. This is what everybody believes in and there is concerted effort to make sure we are all on the same page when it comes to achieving the set national objective. Currently all the country’s economic managers and the leadership are in a Leadership Retreat. Virtually every head of sector and institutions are all there. They are all in one hotel. That is how they converge every year to discuss and reach decisions on how to make the country progress and move forward in the economic space. This year they are discussing three topics and that is they strategy to develop agriculture, the health and education sectors respectively. You know part of our plan here is that we are trying to get the youths to be self-reliant and we hope to do that using advanced technology. From the statistics that was conducted by the government we realised that the skills that are coming out of the universities are not helpful. So creating their own jobs is not very easy so we are setting up skills in each and every district in order to develop technical skills. That to me is patriotic fervour at the highest order… Yes. So bearing this in mind, then I need to work very hard so that I don’t miss my target otherwise there is a certain Rwanda somewhere who will not access certain facilities, who will not go to school because of that. 