At the Polling Unit 029 Devince, Iba Lagos, where she voted around 1pm, APC scored 172 votes to defeat the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) with 49 votes in the Governorship election. APC had 157 votes, PDP, 34 in the House of Assembly election. Also delivering his Ashabi/ Shonuyi’s Unit in Ijeshatedo, Surulere Lagos for APC is the party’s State Vice-Chairman Hakeem Bamgbola. APC won the governorship election with 117 votes to defeat PDP with 38. The House of Assembly results showed APC with 115 votes, PDP, 43. Chairman of former Lagos State Local Government Areas (2008 – 2014) Abiodun Mafe also won his Ward G South Polling Unit 037 in Alimosho Local Government Area. Mafe, the former Mosan-Okunola LCDA Chairman gave Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s APC 111 votes, PDP had 37. APC also won the House of Assembly with 105 votes to PDP’s 32. Adebule described the results as far better from what was recorded during the Presidential and National Assembly elections. She hailed APC members for ensuring victory at the unit. “We are able to achieve this feat because we listened to those who monitor the last election and reviewed their reports.  ‘’We realised our shortcomings and re-strategised by intensifying more on grass root campaigns. We thank God for the result we achieved today,” she said. According to her, the late arrival of INEC officials affected the turnout of voters “because people returned to their homes due to the absence of INEC officials at the polling unit but as soon as they are informed that they are around, they came out to vote.” She advised INEC to perfect the electoral process and rectify all inadequacies that might have caused the delay in the voting process, adding “no matter how perfect an organisation will be, they are bound to have challenges, but the most important thing is for INEC to learn from their mistakes, perfect the electoral process and rectify all issues that affect smooth and early take off,” she said. Bamgbola said the victory at the unit showed that people still have confidence in APC. “They still have faith in our party to take the state to greater height and that is what we will strive to achieve. I thank all our party members for doubling their efforts,” he said. Mafe dedicated the victory to all hard-working members of the party. “Just like the former election, we all work together to achieve victory for the party despite our differences. It is a victory for collective efforts,” he said.