Thirty- one governorship candidates in Kano, including Governor Abdullahi Ganduje on Wednesday, signed the second round of Peace Accord for violent-free election on Saturday. Addressing reporters shortly after the signing ceremony held at Bayero University Kano, Co-Chairman of the Committee and Kano Catholic Bishop, Rt. Reverend John Namaza Niyiring, appealed to the candidates to see election as a game with sportsmanship and not a do or die affair. The Bishop also called on the youths not to allow themselves to be used by the politicians in disrupting the desired peace for their selfish whims. “Whosoever is not satisfied with the results after the elections should follow the available peaceful channels to seek redress and not to engage in violence,” he stated. Sheikh Nura Manzo, the Chief Imam of Kofar Ruwa Jumaat Mosque in Kano, also appealed to the contestants and the youths to be peaceful and avoid any act that will lead to violence. He said: “Whosoever commits an atom’s weight of good will be rewarded for it by God Almighty and whosoever commits an atom’s weight of evil shall be punished for it in the hereafter.” Emir of Kano Malam Muhammadu Sanusi II, represented by Alhaji Aliyu Maharazu, the Bauren Kano, said the country is in need of political security, which can only be achieved by abiding with regulations. He pointed out peace is very crucial to achieving this while calling on politicians to learn from other nations that have faced instability around the world. Also the former representative of Nigeria at the United Nations, Ibrahim Gambari warned against hate speech, reminding candidates development can only be achieved where there is peace. The Kano Commissioner of political Wakil Muhammad said he will redouble his effort in ensuring peaceful conduct of the election as he did during the presidential election. ‘’I beg you, if any blood has to be shed during the election let it be my blood,” the CP said. In a declaration of commitment to the peace accord, the Kano state governor and candidate for the All Progressive Candidates APC, Ganduje assured the committee he will do all that it takes to ensure peace before, during and after the elections. He asked for a group photo with the other candidates in which the cameras were all on him standing by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP candidate Abba Kabir Yusuf. In a brief address to newsmen after the event, the PDP candidate also assured that he will keep to the terms of the accord.