Twenty year old Abubakar Yusuf has been stabbed to death by political thugs popularly known as “Sara-Suka’ group at Kofar-Gombe area, an outskirt of Bauchi metropolis. It was gathered he met his untimely death while running errand for his mother. The political thugs went on rampage between Thursday and Tuesday morning, injuring residents in protest against conducts of the recent gubernatorial and State Assembly elections. The Nation correspondent, who paid a visit to the deceased parents who lived in a suburb in Nassarawa Dawanki area, behind the Federal Government Girls College along Kofar-Gombe road, spoke with the deceased elder brother, Awwal Yusuf and mother, Suwaiba Yusuf. Awwal Yusuf said the deceased went to buy crayfish for his mother about 9pm on Tuesday night when the incident occurred. “My brother was sent by my mother to buy crayfish as she was preparing yam and stew sauce for dinner. “He was just unlucky to have been in the right place at the wrong time. My mother sent him on an this errand only for us to hear that he has been stabbed to death by the Sara Suka thugs  who have been tormenting us in the area  as there have been series of clashes in this area for the past three weeks. “The cultists mostly come from Doya, Abuja quatres and Temila Dum,” he lamented. The distraught mother, Suwaiba Yusuf, wished she had not sent her son an errand on that day. She however said she had accepted her fate. She also urged the police to prosecute the suspects as early as possible to serve as deterrent to other members of the Sura suka gang. While confirming the incident the Police Public Relations’ Officer, DSP Kamal Datti, said 30 “Sara-suka” suspects have been arrested in connection with the death of the young man. He added that though nine persons were initially arrested, additional arrests were made in the following days. He urged the general public to report activities of the thugs, who have reportedly carried out numerous attacks targeted at members of the public. 