Niger State Governor, Sani Bello, on Thursday said that those pressurising the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar to challenge outcome of the February 23rd Presidential election in court could be doing so to get money from him. He made the remark while speaking with State House correspondents after meeting with President Buhari at the State House. According to him, he was at the Presidential Villa to congratulate Buhari on his victory at the poll. He said that with his victory in Niger State, people of the state should be assured his administration was committed to providing dividends of democracy to them and to complete ongoing projects. The new projects to be embarked upon, he said, will be of benefit to the general public. On the Atiku’s claim that he won the election, governor Bello said: “It is not unusual, when you lose elections, you go to court for so many reasons. “It could be that you think you won or it could be that someone is telling you that you have won or it could be that someone is telling you some miracles can happen. “It could also be that someone wants to get money off you. So there is no reason why after free and fair elections had been conducted and it is clear in the eyes of the world one still believes that there are shoddy dealings. “Anyone who feels dissatisfied is free to approach a court of law. It is a free world. Everyone is entitled to his opinion. But honestly, from what I saw in Niger, this election has been the fairest election we have conducted so far.” Despite the declaration of election inconclusive in some states by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the governor said that the elections were the fairest election so far conducted in the country. He said: “I think INEC did extremely well, the security agencies did very well as well. It is not unusual when you hold elections in a country like Nigeria where you have so many units to have issues with one or two units. “If you look at the number of polling units, compare to the ones that have issues, probably, it’s less two or five percent. But generally, the elections went well.”