The Irepresent International Documentary Film Festival, iREP, scheduled to begin on Thursday will recognize Nigerian born Canadian Professor Pius Adesanmi who until his death aboard the ill-fated Ethiopian Airlines crash of March 10 was Professor of African Studies at Carleton University, Ottawa. iREP will also pay other members of the arts and culture space who passed on recently. They are Film historian-critic, Professor Frank Ukadike; the visual arts curators, Bisi Silva and Okwui Enwenzor and the theatre artiste and prolific TV drama scriptwriter, Paul Emema. The 2019 edition of iREP, with ‘Storylines’ as theme, will hold from Thursday, March 21 to Sunday, March 24, 2019 at the Freedom Park, Broad Street and the Nigerian Film Corporation, Ikoyi, both in Lagos. And in conjunction with co-curating partners; African World Documentary Film Festival (AWDFF), AGDOK, and German Documentaries, iREP will screen over 50 films from over 100 submissions by local and international filmmakers. And more films were submitted this year by Nigerian (Nigeria-based) producers than in past nine years. Some Nigerian filmmakers showcasing in iREP this year are Tam Fiofori, Tunde Kelani, Afolabi Adesanya, Beverly Naya, James Amuta and Aderonke Adeola.  Others are Adeola Osunkojo, Tolulope Itegboje, Ronke Macaulay, Toyin Ibrahim Adekeye and Gbenga Salu. iREP is conceived on the traditional framework of Africa in Self-conversation. Also, the festival features iREP producers’ Roundtable, paper presentations and panel discussions, training and workshop and of course, the iREP cocktail. Dr. Tunji Azeez, of the Department of Theatre and  Music, Lagos State University will take 50 participants on Scripting For Beginnners; Basic Course In Storytelling from Monday, March 18 through Wednesday, March 20. A second class, Advance Directing Masterclass, will be taken by director, Tolu Ajayi, The festival will also honour Mrs Bolanle Austin-Peters, the CEO of Terra Kulture,  a frontline promoter of arts and culture, on occasion of her 50th birthday anniversary because “essentially, she represents the spirit of progress and possibilities in our culture producing community; a major inspiration to many young people.” The honour will be presented to her at the Festival opening Cocktail event on Wednesday, March 20 at the amphitheatre of Freedom Park. Some resource persons are Prof Awam Amkpa, Prof Niyi Coker, Theo Lawson and Dr Paul Ugor. The iREPRESENT International Documentary Film Festival was initiated with the objective of promoting independent documentary filmmaking in Nigeria and Africa.