The Directorate of the Lagos Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) has dismissed rumors of price increase for the issuance of Road Worthiness Certificate. In a statement on Tuesday, the Director of the VIS, Abdul-Hafeez Gbolahan Toriola, told motorists not to nurse any fears over rumoured increment. Such fears, he said, are unfounded and without any substance, reiterating the stance of the government to ensuring that Lagosians are able to process Road Worthiness Certificates (RWC) seamlessly. According to him, in spite of the cost of invested substantially in establishing 10 computerized centres across the state, the government is not considering increasing the price for the processing of Road Worthiness Certificate. Toriola however enjoined motorists wishing to process their RWC to shun touts and visit any of the 45 VIS work stations or the 10 Lagos Computerized Vehicle Inspection Service (LACVIS) centers. The Director equally urged motorists who processed their RWC in VIS Zonal offices without a computerized centre are to visit any of the LACVIS centers across the state with their referral note for a free computerized inspection. He stated after the inspection, they will be issued an Inspection Report. He assured motorists that officers of VIS and LACVIS have been trained and positioned to attend to customers’ enquiries and concerns in a professional manner. The Director equally stated that the CIV will also help vehicle buyers from buying imported vehicles with mechanical faults which are usually hidden by unscrupulous sellers. According to him, a valid safety check is required before a vehicle can be registered. These tests, which include the automobile vehicle inspection number (Autovin), are carried out at the LACVIS centres to know the history of the vehicle and all the modifications and alterations done on the vehicle, if any. He also called on all insurance companies, vehicle documents processing agencies, car dealers/ importers and all safety agencies to cooperate with the government to actualize the objectives of total safety on the roads by insisting that the Autovin exercise is carried out before vehicle purchase and registration is completed. 