Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi has debunked reports credited to the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Sonni Ogbuorji, that he was making plans to defect to the APC. Ogbuoji, at a news conference in Enugu State, rejected the outcome of the election and vowed to challenge Umahi’s victory at the tribunal. Umahi described Ogbuorji’s statement as the ranting of a frustrated person. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Emmanuel Uzor, said the victory of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as a total rejection of his opponent. The statement reads: “As usual, the pain of defeat has started to manifest and so the centre can no longer hold as regards Ogbuorji’s state of mind. Rather than accept the verdict of the people as expressed in their ballots, Ogbuorji has taken his frustration far beyond the shores of the state. “Senator Ogbuorji, rather than defend his lacklustre performance in the governorship election, accused the governor of plans to defect to the APC. His statement smacks of frustration because he was not only trounced by Umahi, but also stripped of the little remaining man in him politically. “Ogbuorji alleged that Governor Umahi was a mole in PDP. Such a statement is unfortunate and irresponsible because he lacks all moral justification to know who is a mole and who is not because he represented what a typical mole is in APC. “How come Senator Ogbuorji never resigned his membership of the PDP, a party on whose platform he was elected a senator twice? How come Senator Ogbuorji, who claimed to be the governorship candidate of APC, compromised the presidential election to the extent of losing his own polling unit and ward to the PDP? “If Ogbuorji was not a mole in APC, how come he won clearly his own governorship election in his polling unit and ward but lost in the presidential election? “Unknown to him, the APC National Working Committee knows the character of Ogbuorji. So they allowed him wallow and ate his own flesh in the governorship election,” he added.  