Ondo State Government Monday commemorated the 2019 World Tuberculosis Day with Road Walk and free screening of the disease. This was part of strategies to reduce the incidences of the epidemic. Stakeholders took off for the Road Walk from the Ondo State Cultural Center Adegbemile through Oja- Oba to Oba Ademulegun hall to sensitise residents on tuberculosis and also distributed educative fliers on TB. TB Programme Officer of the Ondo State Primary Healthcare Board, Mrs Olufunke Adeniyi said the World TB Day is an annual world sensitisation event done to bring people together so that they can know as much as possible about Tuberculosis, its signs, symptoms, causative organisms and how to access care. Mrs Adeniyi said the sensitisation was being done at the three tier of government and residents were being encouraged to immunise their children, live in well ventilated, clean and conducive environment. The Programme Officer said residents should endeavor to present to the health facilities once they have these symptoms of coughing for between two to three weeks, sweating profusely at night, have chest pain associated with coughing, stressing that screening and treatment for TB in all government health facilities across the state is free. The State Monitoring and Evaluation Officer of the State Health Ministry, Alex Akinwunmi, said the State Government was creating awareness and engaging in Community Outreaches where screening and treatment is free. Akinwunmi said the disease is airborne and infectious, not hereditary but curable. She disclosed that some Development Partners have been supporting the expansion of the DOT Clinics so that more people can access TB services. Such Development Partners include; Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis Organisation, Demien Foundation, Belgium (DFB) and Institute of human Virology of Nigeria (IHVN). Representative of the Civil Society Network on Eradication of Tuberculosis, Mathin-Falana said the World TB Day was on Sunday, and the campaign was taken to Churches and NASFAT. Mathin-Mary Falana who opined that Tuberculosis is the 2nd deadliest disease, killing between 1.5 -2 million worldwide annually, said the good news is that it can be cured hence the need to join hands to eradicate the disease by being our brother’s keeper and helping those coughing for one or two weeks get to health facilities.