IT was different strokes yesterday for winners and losers of the supplementary governorship polls in Benue, Kano, Sokoto, Plateau and Bauchi states. As the winners showed appreciation to voters for support, those who suffered defeats said they were heading to the tribunal. It’s God at work, says Ortom Governor Samuel Ortom, who was reelected in Benue, described his victory  as the work of God. He led his supporters to the Redeemed Christian Church of God Mega Parish on Gboko Road, shortly after he was declared winner of the governorship election in Benue by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He dedicated the victory to God, praying Him to take control of the affairs of the state in the next four years of his administration. Ortom, accompanied by his wife, Dr. Eunice, and the his deputy, Benson Abounu, said he was handing over himself and the administration to God, bearing in mind his shortcomings to humanly pilot affairs of the state. Pastor Folashade Folasayo, who received Ortom and his entourage, prayed God to grant the governor his heart’s desires. Lalong: My victory an affirmation of Next Level philosophy. Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong described his re-election victory as the people’s affirmation of the Next Level philosophy and a show of the people’s desire to move to the next level of good governance. He said: “The outcome of the exercise in the state was clearly an amazing show of confidence and trust. It was also referendum on our most cherished principles of unity and peace as well as affirmation of the desire to move to the Next Level in the light of equality and inclusiveness, which are core values fundamentally located in the heart of the Plateau spirit that speak to our sense of communality, diverse ethnicity, mutual respect, tolerance, peace, hospitality, humility and diligence.” Lalong was delivering his acceptance speech immediately he was declared winner by the Returning Officer, Prof Richard Anande Kimbir of the University of Agriculture Markurdi. He said: “On 11th April, 2015 during the gubernatorial election, you came out enthusiastically and voted me as Executive Governor of Plateau State under the platform of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Taking on this mantle of leadership marked a significant milestone in our political and democratic journey as a people. It was also with a clarion call on us to deliver dividends of democracy along the five-point policy thrusts that we had presented. “Fellow citizens, four years down the lane, without prejudice to the just concluded re-run elections of 23rd March 2019, and the results declared by the INEC, you once again came outen masse and voted us to serve a second and final term as Executive Governor of the State, together with my Deputy, Professor Sonni G. Tyoden. “With gratitude to God Almighty, on behalf of myself and the Deputy Governor, I sincerely thank you all. We whole-heartedly accept this mandate to serve for a second and final term with all the humility it deserves. Above all, we accept this mandate by equally soliciting your usual cooperation and partnership as we strive to sustain the execution of our mandate. “The unquantifiable sacrifices and support of the platform on which we stood and won, namely, the Executive Council and state working committee of the APC, the director-general and members of the gubernatorial campaign council, volunteers, canvassers, agents, religious leaders, election observers, family members, women, youth and the less privileged are highly commendable and appreciated. “We see our task as a call to greater service and accountability to you as a people, who rightly represent the voice of God. “To our electoral umpire, security agencies, civil society organisations, stakeholders, and gentlemen of the press, we salute your courage and dexterity in upholding the tenets of your vocation, which contributed immensely to the success and peaceful conduct of this election. May God reward all of you with special graces and blessings. “Let me use this opportunity to urge my fellow citizens to regard this victory at the polls as victory for the whole of Plateau, with no victor, no vanquished. We had a dream, which we collectively and tirelessly worked towards achieving it and succeeded. “To me, this victory is a mark of honour and clarion call for consolidation of our gains and the sustainable peaceful coexistence for the good of the state. “Together, we will do more. I urge all citizens to celebrate in harmony with even the opposition without harassment, intimidation and provocative statements against any person or group. “To my fellow contestants, who not only participated in the historic gubernatorial debate, prior to the elections and also contested with me, I wish to congratulate you for your mature conduct during and after our electioneering campaigns. “I also extend my hands of friendship and urge you to share in the patriotic zeal of building a virile Plateau so that we can bequeath a positive and lasting legacy for the younger generations. “I equally extend my congratulations and hands of friendship to the newly elected and returned members of the Plateau State House of Assembly and indeed the National Assembly. “I look forward to a mutually beneficial and more robust working relationship with all of you. I pledge that government will continue to cooperate with the honourable members-elect at all times.” PDP insists: our candidate won in Kano The PDP yesterday insisted that its candidate, Abba K. Yusuf, won the Kano State governorship election, saying any declaration that does not reflect such cannot stand. According to the party, “the whole world knows that the PDP and its candidate, Abba Yusuf, won the Kano state governorship election since March 9, 2019, having fulfilled the constitutional requirement of securing the highest number of votes and the statutory 25 per cent in two-thirds of the state.” A statement last night by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the governorship supplementary election in Kano was a national disgrace and a mere figure allocating exercise by compromised INEC officials. The statement said: “INEC collaborated with power drunk politicians in the APC to award results to the APC candidate.” The party cautioned INEC against any attempt to import contrived figures from the ‘illegitimate’ March 23 ‘charade’, saying doing so would be a clear recipe for anarchy and serious crisis in the state. “The people of Kano state have a long history of firm resistance against corrupt and oppressive forces. Their will must therefore not be stretched in this election.” The Sokoto State chapter of the APC also rejected the declaration by INEC of Tambuwal as winner of the election. Addressing reporters after the declaration, APC Publicity Secretary Sambo Bello Danchadi said the position of the party was informed by obvious but fundamental reasons deemed contrary to the electoral laws. Danchadi pointed out that the winning margin of 342 was far less than the registered voters in polling units where elections were not held, a contravention of the electoral law. He said: “The APC has since tabled its complains before the Sokoto office of INEC for the breach of the electoral law and outright rigging perpetrated by our opponent during the elections.” The party noted with concern that despite steps taken, the electoral umpire went ahead to declare a winner without considering the earlier complaint lodged. “Our complaints also include the denial of potential voters the opportunity to cast their votes in some polling units within a number of local governments during the rerun.”