The House of Representatives is to investigate the remote and immediate causes of incessant killings in southern part of Kaduna State. Worried by the spate of killings in the area, security agencies have been urged to intensify efforts at stopping the deadly attacks and ensure that peace return to the area. The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has also been asked to urgently provide the affected communities with relief materials to alleviate their sufferings. This followed the adoption of a motion by Yakubu Barde (Kaduna), who regretted relevant authorities have failed to bring the situation under control. Saying activities of armed bandits have taken a strange dimension in the area, he noted, “Recall that a motion was moved on the floor of this honourable House to that effect, calling on the security agencies to leave no stone unturned until the perpetrators of the crime were fished out and made to face the law. “Though, it was reported in the media that the suspects were thereafter apprehended however, nothing has been heard since then about the prosecution of the suspects. “Between the months of February and this month, over hundreds of lives have been lost with properties worth millions of naira destroyed as well as several families displaced and rendered homeless. “These attacks and killings have become a daily activity. On Sunday the 10th of February, 2019; Ungwan Barde village was attacked leaving 11 persons dead. “On Tuesday 26th of February, 2019, Karamai village was attacked and 40 people were killed with over 100 houses burnt down. “Between Sunday the 10th and Wednesday 13th of March, 2019; in Ungwan Barde, Inkirimi, Dogon Noman, Ungwan Gora and Kyamara villages, over 90 people were killed with several people injured and houses burnt down. “This has been the trend until few days ago when state government imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew on the area. “Despite the outcry of the people no significant efforts have been made to bring the situation under control as pockets of killings are still going on in the area. “It will surprise you to know that up to this moment as I speak no arrest of these killers have been made by the security agents, rather over 50 armless youths and opinion leaders of Adara extraction are being reminded in prison without due process of the law for over a month now”. The relevant Committees of the House mandated to carry out the investigation are expected to proffer enduring solutions to the crises. The motion was unanimously adopted after a voice vote.