•Great idea, in the short run. But to be sustainable, banks, not CBN, must drive lending towards palm oil renaissance It is a welcome development that the apex bank has added oil palm to the ever-expanding bouquet of development activism. At a stakeholders’ meeting on the palm oil value chain in Abuja which had in attendance the governors of Akwa Ibom, Edo and Abia, the CBN governor Godwin Emefiele laid out an ambitious programme to launch the country among the top three producers of palm oil globally. He gave these out as establishment – by the Bankers Committee – of a special sub-committee to make recommendations on sustainable financing models for oil palm and four other critical agricultural commodities that include cocoa, sesame seed, shea-butter and cashew. Also, as part of its Anchor Borrowers Program (ABP) and Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS), the apex bank, he said, “will work with large corporate stakeholders and small holder farmers to ensure availability of quality seeds for this year’s planting season”; also on the list are measures to guarantee availability of agro-chemicals to enable improved cultivation of palm oil; encouragement of viable off-taker agreements between farmers and large-scale palm producing companies”. Finally, he also disclosed that state governors in South-south and Southeast had agreed to provide at least 100,000 hectares each for large scale oil palm farming, as part of efforts to boost both domestic needs and exports. Says he: “If we had kept pace with our peers in supporting improved cultivation of palm oil, at the current global market price of $600 per tonne, and an assumed production level of 16m tonnes, Nigeria could have generated close to $10bn worth of foreign exchange for the country”. To begin with, we find nothing overly ambitious that a country that started off with some 40 percent share of the global market in the late 50’s and 60’s is only now clambering to reclaim the top spot nearly five decades after slipping into the abyss. We are talking of a country that had, as far back as 1964, established a flag-ship research institute – the Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR) – to expand the frontiers of research and practice in oil palm production and utilization. A country that has a specialized bank – the Bank of Agriculture established for that purpose – in addition to the one-score plus commercial banks and countless other primary lenders offering a wide range of credit services. The irony is that the apex banking institution, rather than the primary lenders, is the agency leading the charge. Even when seen in the context of the developmental role that apex banks have increasingly come to play in a developing economy such as Nigeria’s, it is still hard to resist the conclusion that the current lending architecture is still largely too feeble to deliver on the scale that the country badly needs. It therefore goes that much as we find nothing fundamentally wrong with the apex bank providing leadership both in terms of setting the goal and putting the necessary financial mechanisms in place; only that this must be appreciated as a necessary guiding hand for the moment until those institutions are enabled to play their roles more effectively. As for the goals, pragmatism is certainly needed. We know for a fact that palm oil importation has been declining in years. From a peak of 506,000 metric tonnes (MTs) in 2014, it went down by about 40 per cent to 302,000 MTs in 2017 only to surge to 330,000MTs in 2018. The obverse side of the coin, perhaps more telling is that the country continues to shell out some $500 million annually on palm oil importation. And the CBN on its part believes that net deficit of $500 can be converted to a revenue haul of $10 billion in few years’ time. That being the crux of the current effort is admittedly a tall order. Be that as it may, the position of the apex bank deserves every support. We however hasten to point out that finance is only one leg of the problem. The other leg is to broaden the opportunities for extension services not only to ensure that improved seedlings reach farmers in far-flung locations but also to ensure that the benefits of simple technologies to aid their productivity are availed them.  This is where the role of NIFOR comes as important. Perhaps far more than what obtained before, the agency deserves support. On its own, it can seek collaboration with those multinationals traditionally relying on importation for their local needs knowing that it can only in the end, be a win-win for everyone.