Africa’s mobile phone giant, itel Mobile in Lagos, has launched a Keke Napep campaign to sensitize the public and commercial tricycle drivers popularly known as Keke Napep on the dangers of texting, answering call with one a hand while driving. The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative tagged “LOVE ALWAYS ON”, is the customer-centric smartphone maker’s drive to prioritize its community’s needs and ensure a safer traffic environment and reduce road-related tragedies. A statement made by Oke Umurhohwo, Marketing Communications Manager, itel mobile, said that the number of road accidents in Nigeria has been on a steady increase with distracted drivers who divert attention from the road, usually to talk or text on their mobile phones, becoming one of the leading causes of road accidents. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), no fewer than 2,598 Nigerians died in road accidents between October 2017 and March 2018. In response to this growing concern, itel Mobile joined hands with LASTMA to sensitize drivers on safe driving and road maintenance through physical demonstrations, interactive courses on driving safety, visual aids, and donations such as reflective jackets and caution stickers. Speaking at the occasion, Umurhohwo, said that itel Mobile position as Africa’s leading customer-centric brand which provided smartphones for everyone has always been in the forefront of raising awareness on social issues that affect everyone, “Irrespective of class, location or any other factor, and road safety is one of them. We aim to engage in activities that ensure safer behavior, especially safe driving, to help drivers understand the intricacies and unpredictability’s of driving as accidents can happen in a brief moment. “The one day campaign which was refreshed by Pepsi Nigeria had over 30 tricycles (Keke napep) drive around Ikeja axis to spread awareness on safety. The event was graced with the presence of notable dignitaries such as AIG of Police, Chris Olakpe; CEO of LASTMA, Hon. Engr. Mojeed Balogun; Executive chairman, Ikeja Local Government, Comrade Joseph Olu-Odunsanya; Lagos state chairman, TOOAN (Tricycle Owners Operators Association of Nigeria), CSP Titilayo Oriyomi Oluwasanmi; State Traffic Officer, Lagos State, and itel mobile management staff. 