Bauchi Governor –Elect Bala Mohammed has pledged to run an all-inclusive and participatory government as soon as he takes over from Governor Mohammed Abubakar and the All Progressive Congress (APC). Mohammad, who made the pledge at a special Broadcast shortly after he was declared the winner of the supplementary poll on Monday night, said he will execute his duties in honour and benefits of all the people of Bauchi State. “As your Governor, I propose to work and earn your respect, I will run an efficient and transparent government and I shall hold them responsible and accountable to my administration. “I promise to run an- inclusive government participatory government and so i hasten to extend a hand of brotherhood and friendship to my fellow contestants because i believe we have everything to gain by working together.” He vowed to transform the state to an economic hub through pragmatic innovations. “We are determined to launch a pro-business, pro-market agricultural and economic revolution within four years. My aim is to win over the majority of the people of Bauchi State to believe in our new ideas and to believe in ourselves. “It is my duty to rapidly pull Bauchi state into the 21st century and I see a world of opportunities and possibilities waiting for us to explore through pragmatic innovations.” He added: “In the coming days and weeks, we shall be engaged with officials of the outgoing government with what would hopefully be a hitch-free transitional exercise. “Once we have a clear picture of the enormity of the task of rebuilding our state, I shall be honest with you about the challenges we would face because i know the road will be long and rough”. He said citizens have been subjected to grave and economic deprivation as well as political persecution and he will consider it his ardent desire to labour for the empowerment of the teeming youths of Bauchi state. The governor -elect added the core of his mandate is the crucial drive to give Bauchi state citizens a better prospect and greater opportunity for a prosperous life. He said reducing poverty and empowering the citizens in the areas of agriculture, education, urban and rural infrastructure. Mohammad thanked members of his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), civil society organisations, women and youth groups who laboured relentless for his victory.