The graduate of psychology from Cal State University, Dominguez Hills, in this interview with OLAITAN GANIU, speaks on her challenge as a female artiste, drug and alcoholism intake, among other issues. TELL us about yourself? My name is Mercy Udechukwu. I am (from) Anambra State, Nigeria, but born and raised in Los Angeles, California and I am the youngest of seven girls. How did you coin your stage name? It is abbreviated from my real name Mercy Udechukwu. So, I shortened it to Mercy U, which is MRCYU. When did you start singing? I started singing from the age of eight at school and church because as a child I was very playful, vibrant and loved to dance and sing. What genre of music do you play? I don’t like to bracket myself in one genre. I like to fuse different genres in my music such as Afrobeat, R&B, jazz, and pop. Musically, tell us about some of your works My debut single, titled “MRCY”, is currently making waves across radio stations. And I have many covers such as Mamma, If, Mad over You, and Fia recorded. I have performed in many big shows including Catchone Nightclub, House of Blues Hollywood, and the Viper Room Hollywood. Which Nigerian male acts would you like to work with? I would love to collaborate with Kizz Daniel, Don Jazzy, 2Baba, Davido, Phyno, and Mr Eazi Where do you see your brand in five years? In five years, I see MRCYU as an international artiste known for uplifting and inspiring people. How would you describe the Nigerian music industry? I would describe the Nigerian music industry as a beautiful industry with lots of potential and I believe soon Nigerian music will be listened to all over the world. What are the challenges you face as a female musician? As a female musician, the main challenge I face is being respected as not only a musician but a business woman. Are you married? No, I am currently single. What’s your take on alcoholism and drug in entertainment industry? My view is ‘to each its own’, but too much of anything is never good.