 Avoiding sex does not improve athletic performance, scientists have claimed, insisting that the routine popular among some sporting greats has no scientific basis. Muhammad Ali used to abstain from sex before his fights and players on England’s 2010 World Cup side were banned from sleeping with their wives. But these rituals may have no scientific basis, according to a small study comparing men’s fitness after sex or no sex. While orgasms were found to reduce blood pressure this did not affect athleticism Researchers led by Georgia State University tested the physical performance of eight people, one of them a woman, to work out whether sex affected them. During the tests they had to work out to get their heart rate up to 170 beats per minute, do as many push-ups as they could, do a vertical jump and a grip strength test, and test their reaction times. They were examined after they had an orgasm during sex the night before, had no sex the night before, or did yoga the night before. ‘Our findings show no significant changes in various measures of physical exercise performance following sexual intercourse 7.6 hours before physical exercise,’ the scientists said. Muhammad Ali, one of the greatest boxers in history, was said to avoid sex for six weeks before a big fight. Other fighters including Lennox Lewis, Mike Tyson and Manny Pacquiao are also believed to have endured dry spells before stepping into the ring. And in the 2010 FIFA World Cup, England manager Fabio Capello famously told his team they must resist their wives and girlfriends and save their energy for the pitch. Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola, however, has the opposite philosophy and encourages his players to be active between the sheets. He said: ‘It’s impossible to play good football if you don’t [have] sex with your partner,’ The Telegraph reported in 2016.’I would never ban that. If you are doing it… better players.’ The scientific study said athletes may avoid sex in the hope of saving their strength and energy, and to help them keep a ‘game face’. But the results, published in the journal Sexual Medicine, showed performance didn’t improve after abstinence.   