The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will resume poll results collation in Rivers State on April 2. While the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has received the news with optimism, the African Action Alliance (AAA), which enjoys the backing of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has expressed reservations and raised some puzzles. Group Political EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the politics of collation in the Southsouth state. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is in the eye of the storm in Rivers State. How will the umpire resolve the electoral logjam? Will the outcome of governorship and House of Assembly elections not spark off a new controversy, judging by the handling of the collation by the electoral agency? Since 2003, elections have never been peaceful in the oil-rich state. The crisis that has always marred the exercise gave the state the acronyn of ‘Rivers of blood.’ A key element of elections is the declaration of bogus figures at the close of polls. Many eminent Nigerians from the state have agonised over the perception. But, at every periodic election, the state has often built on the legacy of horror. Since 2015, Rivers State have become a theatre of electoral battle. Peace seemed to have deserted the state, folowing the split in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the defection of Rotimi Amaechi camp to the defunct  Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), which was the bedrock of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the battle of supremacy that followed.Indeed, the 2015 exercise was bloody. Ahead of 2019 polls, fears were expressed that history was about to repeat itself. Due to protracted crisis in the APC, the party forfeited its right to field Tonye Cole as governorship candidate. But, it threw its weight behind the African Action Congress (AAC). The battle, as usual, became hot. Elections were held, but crisis erupted during collation. The umpire arbruptly suspended collation, claiming that it had been disrupted. PDP, APC and AAC members were enveloped in anxiety. INEC later turned around to claim that it will resume collation of results on April 2 and it will last till April 5. Curiously, the commission’s fact finding committee reported that the polls have been concluded in 21 state constituencies and for governorship, INEC declared that results had been collated in 17 of 23 constituencies. The umpire did not name the constituencies. APC Publicity Secretary Chris Finebone said four INEC officials who were alleged to be PDP card-carrying members were declared unfit to resume collation, but the identity of the officials and the affected local governments are kept secret. Besides, he wondered why the collations they had done were acceptable by the commission. Finebone also alleged that Governor Nyesom Wike had violated the collation by invading the centre at his native Obio/Akpor Council headquarter, Rumuodaya, Port-Harcourt with security agents. “INEC is up to some mischief, clearly pointing to a clear determination to rig the overall results of the March 9 elections,” he added. But, PDP chairman Felix Obuah welcomed the resumed collation with optimism, saying that PDP will win becaue the people voted for the party.  Memory of horror: In 2015, PDP was the ruling party at the centre and the APC was in the opposition. The military was heavily involved in the elections, which took place in Ekiti and Rivers. In spite of the huge military involvement, soldiers were not shot dead by armed thugs  because the APC, unlike the then ruling PDP, did not recruit and arm youths with lethal weapons during the elections to shoot at sight anyone who tried to stop them from snatching election materials . Also, armed militants allegedly recruited by PDP, openly enjoyed the protection of the police and military. They terrorised and chased away both opponents and voters into hiding , hijack sensitive election materials, wrote ghost votes for themselves and got INEC to declare PDP winner. The former Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mrs Gesila Khan and her team were swimming in the pool of controversy. Observers alleged that INEC colluded with the PDP to announce false results with impuMany. Some police officers and EOs are still being investigated, following their roles in the exercis  2019 polls: Four years after, there is a reversal of roles. The APC now controls the Federal Government and the PDP is in opposition. The military is involved in Rivers elections, but as a repelling force against the activities of armed thugs, to create an enabling environment for voters to vote. No fewer than four military personnel were shot dead. Two are lying in critical conditions. In Abonnema, Khana, Obio Akpor, thugs were on the prowl. According to observers, voter turn out increased significantly, compared to 2015 as the military presence provided adequate security and assurance for voters to come out and vote. The recorded votes, though much lower than criminally fabricated results of 2015 reflect the true will of the people. The ghost votes accepted by INEC in 2015, when thugs were used to scare voters away , hijack election materials and generate fabricated results constituted a rape of democracy. In many local governments, the military adequately contained the attempts by the thugs to hijack election materials. Poll suspension: APC has raised some possers. Since INEC’s reason for illegally suspending the elections were widespread violence and disruption of the process in 23 councils, is it possible in such a situation for the same INEC to turn around and claim to mysteriously have in its custody the  results for 17 of 23 LGAs, as announced, following the arrival of the INEC fact finding team? How could the electoral process have overcome the purported  massive violence and  disruption to produce over 70 per cent results from the field?  Does it mean that the claim of violence is false or the claim of concluded election in 17 wards is false? Why, in at least 15 of the 23 councils, many adhoc staff, especially the Collation and Returning Officers, have been identified as card-carrying members of the PDP, who also ran for primaries, only a few months back on the PDP platform? Why did some PDP chieftains publish in their twitter handles the story of concluded elections in 17 LGAs before INEC went public with the incredulous claim? Why did Rivers INEC engage allegedly dismissed or suspended staff of the University of Port Harcourt as adhoc staff to manage very sensitive electoral duties in gross violation of the electoral law? Why did INEC refuse to mention in any of its statements or reports the grievous incident of a serving governor who is on the ballot storming the collation center for his local government? Does INEC Headquarters really believe that the compromised Rivers State INEC officials who stampeded them into suspending  a smooth running election with a false alarm, has the integrity to keep in custody election returns from LGAs for close to two weeks without  tampering or contaminating the results? INEC is yet to acknowledge that, by the time the strange suspension order was released, only election results in seven LGAs-Asari-Toru, Akuku-Toru, Ahoada-West, Eleme, Oyigbo, Ikwerre and Phalga-had been announced at the LGA collation centers. There were also confirmed reports of election cancellations in Abua/Odual and Tai. More disturbing is the fact that the commission has also refused to release the list of the 17 LGAs, whose results mysteriously found their way in spite of the widespread violence to their secure custody. Is this transparent? The idea of a statewide blanket suspension of a smooth election, based on a spurious allegation of widespread violence, undercored a tendency towards fraud. During the presidential election of February the 23, despite recording more cases of violence and deaths in isolated areas , the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Effanga, did not suspend the elections. However, during the last by-election into the House of Assembly for Port-Harcourt 111 Constituency, the poll was suspended when the APC candidate appeared to be leading. Up to now, the constituency has no representative in the state legislature. What is puzzling is that polls were suspended in an election characterised by high voters’ turn out, lack of ballot snatching and lowest cases of casualities. All these were due to the adequate deployment of military personnel, who placed their lives on the line in the discharge of their duties. Finebone said: “The way out is for the INEC to strive to pass the integrity test, re-conduct elections in affected areas and show greater commitment to the sanctity of the ballot box.”