Irate youths in Ilesa, Osun State on Monday brutalised four journalists during their protest against Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) over the disconnection of electricity in Ijesha zone. It was gathered the IBEDC management disconnected electricity in parts of Ilesa when some staff of the company during their official duty were assaulted by the youths in Olomilagbala and Bolorunduro communities of Ilesa East Local Government in Osun state. The youths also allegedly have attacked Ilesa business hub of IBEDC on Thursday March 14 and beat the staffs of the company, accusing the company of poor power distribution, extortion and over billing. The aggrieved youths started their protest on Sunday and continued the unrest on Monday at Isokun area of town, where the IBEDC power station is located when they attacked the journalists covering the demonstration. On sighting the journalists, who came into the town from Osogbo road, the irate youths, armed with cutlasses cudgels and other dangerous weapons, reportedly descended on them to vent their anger. The attacked journalists are Television Continental (TVC) reporter Rafiu Muhammad and his camera man, Taiwo Adu, and the Channels Television reporter, Shittu Abdulfatai and his camera man, Sheu Kadri. It was further gathered that the protesting youths were also on rampage for more than two hours. The protesters also damaged the official car of the General Manager of Uniq Radio F. M. and the crew van of the Freedom Television. They broke the windscreen of the car and destroyed the recording cameras of the two stations. Earlier in the day, the youths were said to have barricaded major roads leading into the town and causing vehicular logjam for many hours. Osun State governor, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, has promised to pay medical bills of the attacked journalists, who are on admission at the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Teaching Hospital, Osogbo. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Adeniyi Adesina, who visited the injured journalists in the hospital, delivered the governor’s message to them, assuring that the state government would offset the bills for their medical treatment. In a related development, the State High Court sitting in Ilesa, Osun State has directed the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) to restore electricity to Ilesa and its environs. In his ruling on Monday, the presiding judge, Justice A. L. Adegoke, directed the IBEDC to restore the supply of electricity with immediate effect. Justice Adegoke stated that the decision of the electricity distribution company of throwing the entire Ijesaland into darkness was an illegality. Also, the Osun State House of Assembly has directed the House Committee on Public Petition to meet with management of the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company and representatives of affected areas in Ijeshaland to look for a way to resolve the dispute between the two parties. The Speaker, Rt. Hon. Najeem Salaam, gave the directive after the Assembly member representing Ilesha West, Hon. Tajudeen Famuyide, raised the issue Under Matter of Public Importance. Hon. Famuyide explained that electricity distribution company had withdrawn it service from Ijesha land leaving the area in total darkness due to faceoff between staff of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company and some youths in Ilesha. The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Osun State Council has condemned the attack on its members at Olomilagbala, Bolorunduro, Ilesa East Local Government, on Monday in totality, describing it as uncivilized and barbaric. In a statement by the Osun State NUJ chairman, Mr. Kehinde Ayantunji, said:  “Four journalists, namely : Shitu Abdulfatai of the Channels TV, his Camera man, Kadri Kabir,  Rafiu Hammed of TV Continental, (TVC) and his Camera man, Taiwo Adu were among those  attacked  by suspected thugs. The newsmen were in Ilesa in the early hours of Monday to cover the protest embarked upon by irate youths over power outage in Ijesaland.” Ayantunji further described the attackers as crude, adding that the union would do everything possible to make sure that the perpetrators face must ice. The chairman, who acknowledged prompt intervention of some good Samaritans in rescuing the journalists, said: “We are shocked and seriously disturbed by the ruthless attack on  four of our members  today in Ilesa. We consider the attack as bestial, barbaric and uncivilized; and a declaration of war against journalists who were performing their constitutional responsibility. “It is indeed regrettable that those who were striving hard to ensure that the legitimate grievances of the people are brought to the attention of concerned authorities now became object of attack. The attack was so brutal to the extent that Taiwo Adu of TVC and Kadir Kabir of Channels could not stand on their feet. They were callously hit with bottle and various dangerous objects and held captive for about an hour with serious humiliation. “They are currently on admission at the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Teaching Hospital, Osogbo. Their Cameras and other gadgets worth millions of naira were completely destroyed. While we recognize right of protest as a fundamental right, it must not be allowed to degenerate to the level of being hijacked by hoodlums in which journalists unfortunately became victims.” Ayantunji called on security agencies to swiftly swing into action and ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book without delay.