Veteran journalist Prince Kanmi Ademiluyi examines the lessons of 2019 general elections and implications of the growing consciousness among voters about their voting rights. There is a lot of undercurrents beneath the O to ge slogan. Whoever coined it has captured the imagination of a startled nation and deserves the copywriter of the decade award if such a thing exists. Having gone beyond reality television it will make a good movie as in a modern epic of the David versus Goliath variety. That sort of genre never ceases to enthrall, there is something in the human condition which longs for the underdog defying the odds like Leicester City Football Club did in unexpectedly winning the premiership. O to ge has defied the conventional wisdom and is the stuff of fairy tales. The nation is fascinated as if its the only election that took place in 2019. It will be a missed opportunity though not to look deeper at causes and effects. In an old fashioned way what we are seeing is a rekindling of an interest in democracy, the concept of mass mobilisation and the very concept of what a political movement should be all about and what it can achieve. The twists and turns of a return to democracy arranged by a military in retreat could not have encouraged the formation of political parties induced by mass movements. Such a framework could inadvertently lead to problems as in Argentina ‘s “The trials of the Generals” in which a succeeding new civilian government put twenty seven generals including three four military presidents on trial, obtaining convictions and long sentences in the process. To mitigate against any such thing happening, the hurried retreat back to the barracks resulted in hastily cobbled together special purpose vehicles, loose shifting alliances for electoral convenience. Within this framework the electorate will in reality be extras in someone else ‘s movie, of course they will have their fifteen minutes of fame every four years at the polling booths after which it is back to the mundanities and routine of everyday existence. Hereinafter the political establishments like mum knows best. The O to ge rallying cry upset the apple cart of cosy arrangements and established ways of doing things, the extras had gate crashed the party. The political party and faction of the establishment that benefited perhaps wasn’t even aware of what it had stirred up. The very nomenclature of the existing party structure got all shook up. The bystanders were not just fed up, they walked the talk. Scalping the Saraki dynasty became a past time of diverse focus groups. Traders clustered around markets in Lagos for example did not wait for a political machine to mobilise them, they did the job for themselves. Financial levies were imposed on members of traders guilds to support the burgeoning movement, people nudged to register at home and buses hired to take members home on D- day to vote. Inadvertently, the hunter became the hunted, for once in living memory the establishment and its apparatchiks were shoved aside. It was a walk back into a time when real political parties were largely funded and directed by a mass membership, when to take part in a “shadow election “ [today’s primaries ] had to show evidence of participation in party activities through the attendance register and be up to date in the payment of monthly dues. Not quite of course but it offered a glimmer of hope. Changing demographics also had a part to play. Observers noticed an unusually high turnout in precints around tertiary institutions. There is no whiff of financial inducements here, just what appears to a forlorn hope that regime change from a No longer believe Saraki dynasty might be helpful for life’s prospects. This must have motivated the high turnout of first-time voters and those returning after national youth service. The times, of course, in the words of the American bard Bob Dylan “they are changing “. The vibrancy of alternative media and independent radio stations caught the Saraki machine off the cuff, the old man Abubakar Olusola Saraki didn’t have to put up with this. The crystalisation of forces into a critical mass confirmed the historical truth that dynasties like humans do have expiry dates. Gibbons in “ The decline and fall of the  Roman Empire “ outlined a host of reasons for the decline of empires and dynasties. Relevant here is over confidence, inability to reinvigorate by incorporating new personnel and vassal, as well as over extending the supply lines. Saraki did over extend his territory. Posing as Director General and presumably chief strategist of a national campaign while his home turf was under siege was a dicey proposition as any military strategist will have admonished. There are a whole load of factors which must be explored in the months and years ahead which is why it shouldn’t be trivalsed. In the film, “The Candidate,“ the winning candidate absurdly asked his minders “what do we do next?”. I am sure that the instigators and beneficiaries of the O To Ge movement are too prepared and savvy to be caught up in this. They have to keep the movement going in government having rekindled so much hope for a real progressive pro – people government. We should all keep our fingers crossed as we wish them the best.