•The Ita-Faji tragedy shows it is time not only to address building quality but the burden on Lagos It is a tragedy too many, and too many tragedies in one. The building in Ita-Faji, Lagos came down, and rubbles later, we started counting our dead. Tears accompanied panic rescue efforts. A city and a nation pondered an avoidable loss and a sad return of an old, painful episode. When the news hit the air, it was not potent for its surprise but for the weary impotence of its familiar threnody. We have seen it happen over and over again. But as a nation, we seem helpless as though in a kind of fatal trance. It is a story of fatalism, as some of the inhabitants probably succumbed to a faith as succour against warnings that that fateful day might come. It is a story of official indolence as state government dilly-dallied on the matter hoping that somehow the residents would either leave on their own or that the tragedy may show mercy by not happening. Of course, we cannot forget its show of impunity so ingrained in our way of life in this generation. A school was illegal and inhabited an illegal structure and, for a while, almost normalised it by getting away with it. Mingled with it is the layer of innocence of kids who know nothing but the directions of parents and teachers who imposed such ominous school life on them. What is also inescapable is the meretricious showiness of landlords who connive with officials and bricklayers and painters to screed and plaster and repaint the structure. It looks new but the physical weakness was buried inside. With the pressure of human weight and inanimate objects with the accretion of time, the building gradually yielded and fell and collapsed, giving a headline we anticipated but we hoped would not happen. But it is also a cheery example of communal fellow-feeling as neighbours and survivors scrambled to rescue those who still breathed or managed to, those whose limbs were fragile but had the zest of life, those crying and those who had cried hoarse, etc. The vista of helpers was comforting even as we witnessed children being removed from the rubble with astonished calm of faces. The Lagos StateEmergency Management Agency (LASEMA)was on hand and did a good job. It had challenges of access though. It underpinned one of the flaws of building approval in the country. Every approved house ought to enjoy access in case of emergencies of fire, health of even structural collapse. This is constant in all the civilised countries in the world. A house or building is not only to comfortable to live in but easy to leave. Barely a week after the collapse, another building collapsed at 57, Egerton Square, Oke Arin, Lagos Island. It happened in the course of demolition of other buildings marked for demolition. Now the stark reality of danger and looming deaths over the buildings standing with unknown expiration dates, many who inhabit the quaveringly erect buildings now are volunteering to leave. Those whose homes have been demolished now realise it is better to live than expire in a pile of rubble. Now with about 20 dead and many injured, we may have a case of displaced Nigerians in the city who have homes that have to go as they too have to choose ironically the refugee life as a luxury. This is time for the Lagos State Government to do what it has been carefully avoiding: bring down the structures and find homes for the displaced. The tragedy also highlights the burden on housing and infrastructure on the megacity as many people from outside the state come daily not just to visit or do business but to reside. Each time such things happen we wonder when the centre can understand that Lagos needs a special status.