The outcomes of the supplementary polls are still generating reactions in different states, report Kolade Adeyemi, Kano; Uja Emmanuel, Makurdi; and Adamu Suleiman, Sokoto. Kano govt: no death, violence in supplementary poll  The Kano State government has said there was no death and violence during last Saturday’s supplementary election. Addressing reporters in his office yesterday, Commissioner of Information, Youth and Culture Malam Muhammad Garba challenged anyone with proofs of death and violence to produce them. Garba, who expressed disgust at what he described as concoction of lies and falsehood on the social media by enemies of the state, said gory pictures of Jos crises and violence in parts of Ghana were presented as scenes from the Kano supplementary election. He said: “The increasing negative side of the social media is gradually outweighing its usefulness. As many of you are aware, the supplementary election was very peaceful, despite two incidents at polling units in Dallas and Nassarawa local government areas, which were immediately resolved by security agents.” Garba accused the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the Kwankwassiyya Movement of spreading falsehood in their bid to discredit the rerun election which he described as peaceful and credible. According to him, “the PDP claimed two people were killed in Nassarawa, we went to Nassarawa and asked questions, and there was no trace of such incident.” Garba also noted that contrary to rumours that there was protest in Kano after the announcement of the results, “what we witnessed in Kano was jubilations as thousands of people trooped to Government House to identify with Governor Ganduje over his well-deserved victory. “Even the so called members of the Conference of Political Parties are all members of the Kwankwasiyya PDP. The day they gathered, we all saw that they wore red caps and red cap as we know is the symbol of Kwankwassiyya PDP.” He added: “Kano is peaceful, shops are open, the markets are open. People are going about their business without molestation. We have asked our supporters to remain calm and peaceful. By God’s grace, this government will continue to ensure peace, no matter how hard they try to provoke our supporters and party members.”  ‘Violence, intimidation, thuggery mar Kano rerun’  Contrary to the claim of the Kano State government, a foreign observer from South Africa, the Pan African Women Projects, has said the supplementary election conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Kano was marred by violence, intimidation and partisanship on the part of the security operatives. The Publicity Secretary of the group, Madam Mphoentle Keitseng, at a news conference yesterday in Kano, said the rerun was conducted with cases of loss of lives and other malpractices. “It is evidence that INEC and security agencies were compromised,” the group said. “The observed regulated violence and sponsored thuggery in Nassarawa, Madobi, Dala, Kura, Rimin-Gado and Kibiya local government areas. Women were not found queuing in most polling units we visited. We also observed that the two major political parties APC and PDP tried to undo each other for swift electoral victory, hence the palpable eruption of spontaneous crisis with some loss of human lives. “There is a visible lacuna in the Electoral Act with regards to the role and responsibilities of the INEC. We call for immediate review of the Act to strengthen the functionalities of the INEC for effective, responsive and coordinating activities in any type of subsequent election”. The group, however, hailed the umpire for conducting the supplementary election across the nation despite numerous challenges.  My victory based on hardwork, says Ganduje  Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje yesterday said his victory at the Kano supplementary election was as a result of hardwork by his team and not through violence. Ganduje, who contested under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), spoke when the chairmen of the 44 local government areas of the state visited him at the Government House, Kano. “It was not breach of peace that gave me the victory but hard work and prayers. We prayed and we worked hard. Peace is paramount,” he said. Ganduje urged supporters of the APC not to engage in any form of violence or intimidation of the opposition in the course of their jubilation, saying his government and party is not in conflict with the opposition. “We want peace and peace must be given a chance to thrive,” he said. “We will come up with new strategy in governance. All as an effort to consolidate this victory and continue with the good things we started. We will continue to do what our people voted us for. That is to further develop all structures of the society. “This victory shows that Kano people repose confidence in us since from day one. We will, therefore, not let them down,” Ganduje added. He also said he would work with other opposition groups that supported him before the elections. “We have other opposition parties that came and worked with us before this election. For the development of our state, we are planning to work with them.”  Benue APC heads for tribunal, confident of victory  The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State has headed for the Election Petition Tribunal to challenge the results of the elections won by Governor Samuel Ortom and other candidates of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Members of the party reached this resolution during an emergency meeting at the Makurdi residence of their Leader, Senator George Akume. The APC said the elections were not transparent and did not reflect the will of the Benue electorate. The party said: “It is the party’s position that the victories of its governorship candidate, Emmanuel Jime and many other candidates of the party were brazenly upturned through massive rigging, ballot stuffing, vote buying, intimidation of voters and alteration of results, with abounding evidence. Benue APC once again congratulates President Muhammadu Buhari on his re-election and hopes that his second term will be of immense benefits to the state; beginning with the speedy rehabilitation of Makurdi- Gboko road, Makurdi- Naka- Adoka road, Makurdi- Otukpo- Enugu- Road and the Makurdi- Lafia- Akwanga- Keffi- Abuja road, as well as appointment of Benue sons and daughters into key positions at the Federal level. “The party has overwhelmingly passed vote of confidence on Senator George Akume for effectively leading with huge success the APC Presidential Campaign Council in the whole of Northern Nigeria, providing quality leadership and holding the party together even in turbulent moments at the state level. The party equally commends its National Secretariat under the amiable leadership of the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the National Leader of the party, Chief Ahmed Bola Tinubu and other leaders of the party who gave both financial and moral support to the Benue chapter of the party during the electoral period. “The party commiserates with those who lost their loved ones during the election and condemns all violent acts that were visited on the voters while they exercised their civic rights, pointing out that the attack on the Gboko Local Government Electoral Returning Officer, Prof. Mrs Dooshima Tuleun was most unfortunate, barbaric and inhuman. “Benue APC commends the efforts of Rev. Pastor Frederick Ikyaan, Dr. Stephen Hwande, Hon. Hingah Biem, Ambassador Dr Dickson Akoh, Bishop Sam Zuga, Dr. Stephen Akuma and many other great sons and daughters of Benue who either joined or formed alliances with us to rescue Benue from its current poor state of leadership which has become a textbook example of misgovernance.” The party urged its supporters to be steadfast, committed and not be distracted as their “stolen mandates would be in their firm grips within the count of 180 days”.  Sokoto: Coalition of political parties reject results  A coalition of 28 registered political parties in Sokoto State has rejected the outcome of the  governorship election. A statement by the coalition said: “The coalition hereby rejects the results and dissociates itself with whatever is related to it.” Addressing a news conference in Sokoto yesterday, the Leader of the Coalition and Chairman, Nigerian Elementary Democratic Party, Alhaji Musa Aliyu, said the conduct of the supplementary polls was evidently characterised by violence and contravened the nation’s electoral laws and the constitution. Aliyu said: “To say the fact, the exercise was undoubtedly characterised by votes buying, intimidation, non-use of the smart card reader device as well perfected duplication of voting in polling units where the polls were earlier conducted. Also certain polling units were left out  as elections were not conducted”, Aliyu pointed out while calling he attention of lovers and protectors of democracy, both home and abroad as well as International Observer Groups and defenders of democracy to what he described as ‘obnoxious’ development which has rendered  the exercise ineffective thus appealing for peace and calm by its supporters and other law abiding citizens of Sokoto State while awaiting the outcome of the litigation on the polls.”  PDP governorship candidate congratulates Yobe  governor-elect  The governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Yobe State, Umar Iliya Damagum, has congratulated Mai Mala Buni of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for emerging the governor-elect. The PDP candidate, who spoke with reporters after his party’s review meeting of their performance in the last election, called on the governor-elect to be fair and just to every Yobe indigene irrespective of his or her party affiliation. Damagum said the time for politics was over and the business of governance should be put in the front burner instead of petty politics of victimisation. He also disclosed that his party would not challenge the APC victory at the tribunal. “Even though, there are so many things that have bedevilled the elections but winner has been announced.  We have no option but to accept the will of God, and move forward to do what is important for me and my supporters,” he said. Damagum, who though expressed reservation with the electoral body, however, noted that such issues would not stop him from congratulating the winner, and urged the governor-elect to use their mandate for the good of those who elected them. “I congratulated our governor-elect, Mai Mala Buni with his deputy, Idi Barde Gubana.  I call on him to look at Yobe as his entire constituency. Knowing that God has given him this opportunity that every other person living in Yobe is his responsibility. He should be just and fair to everyone and should mix petty politics with governance. The time for politics is over. It is now the time to build Yobe.  I wish him all the best. “I cannot go into what I am uncertain about. I can’t go to the tribunal. All I know is that I had a good running battle but with what is happening in the country and the judiciary itself, I don’t think I would go into an uncertain venture. I accept the will of God and the wishes of Yobe people.”  Atiku congratulates Bala Mohammed  The presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar yesterday congratulated Bala Mohammed on his declaration as the governor-elect of Bauchi State. “Your victory is a deeply satisfying one. In you, the good people of Bauchi state have rightly reposed their confidence for four years of good governance,” he said. Atiku expressed confidence that the state would do well under Mohammed considering his achievements as the minister of the Federal Capital Territory. Atiku said: “PDP is now poised to bring progress to Bauchi through him and thereby extend the frontiers of democracy, peace, progress and prosperity. Bala Mohammed’s efforts to provide potable water in the FCT remain unmatched today, and the former Vice President believes that such will be replicated in Bauchi state. “By virtue of Bala Mohammed’s election, the Pearl of Tourism in Nigeria, is now poised to be the bastion of good governance in Nigeria and for this, he is grateful to almighty Allah for what he has done for him and the good people of Bauchi State.”  25 elected Kebbi lawmakers get certificates of return  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has presented Certificates of Return to the 25 newly-elected House of Assembly members in the concluded general elections in Kebbi State. The certificates were presented by the state Resident Electoral Commission (REC), Alhaji Muhammad Mahamud, in Birinin Kebbi yesteray. Mahamud urged elected law makers to provide  dividends of democracy to the electorate in the state. The members Alhaji Isa Rukubalo representing Yauri constituency and Alhaji Samaila Bui representing Arewa constituency, who spoke on behalf of the others, promised to provide dividend of democracy for their constituencies. Rukubalo noted that the victory would provide opportunity to consolidate on the social economic development of Kebbi State. The All Progressives Congress (APC) won all the 25 constituencies in the state.  Tribunal orders inspection of election materials in Nasarawa  The Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Lafia has ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to allow the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) and  Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) to inspect electoral materials used in the March 9 election. Musa Nagogo, Governorship Candidate of the  PDM, is challenging the victory of Abdullahi Sule of the All Progressives Congress (APC), citing the omission of his name and party logo in the election. Also, David Ombugadu, of the PDP is challenging the March 9 governorship election in the state. They also prayed the court for an order compelling INEC to allow them to inspect the register and other vital documents used in the conduct of the election unhindered. Ruling in the ‘Motion Ex-parte,’ filed by the two candidates , Abba Mohammed, Chairman of the Tribunal, ordered INEC to avail them access to all the materials used in the election.  Election Tribunal receives 12 petitions in Nasarawa  The National and State Houses of Assembly Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Lafia has received 12 petitions from different candidates in Nasarawa State. Mr Bello Mukhtar, Secretary of the tribunal, made the disclosure to newsmen in Lafia yesterday. He said the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) filed five petitions, All Progressives Congress (APC) filed two petitions and the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) filed three petitions. He said the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) each filed one petition. Mukhtar stated that the tribunal was still expecting petition from the re-run elections that were conducted on March 23. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that PDP is challenging the three senatorial seats, Lafia/Obi and Awe/Doma/Keana Federal Constituencies, while APC was challenging Akwanga/Nassarawa-Eggon/Wamba Federal Constituencies. PDM is challenging Nasarawa South and Northern Senatorial seats, Akwanga/Nasarawa-Eggon/Wamba Federal Constituencies. ZLP and APGA are challenging Awe/Doma/Keana Federal Constituencies and Nasarawa West Senatorial seats respectively. 