•NEITI’s decision to work with security agencies will facilitate its job The plan by the Nigerian Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) to collaborate with security agencies to fight the scourge of fraudulent activities in the oil and gas industry is commendable. NEITI was created by act number 36 in 2007, and for many years it has annually published audit reports that suggest massive corruption in the oil and gas sector, without any consequences. Thus, while NEITI was established to be a fearsome watchdog in the extractive industry, it turned a toothless bulldog. So, the effort to collaborate with the police, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Federal Ministry of Justice, Code of Conduct Bureau, the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit, and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) may provide it with the capacity to live its statutory functions. The functions include: to ensure due process and transparency in payments due to the Federal Government and statutory agencies; monitor and ensure accountability in revenue receipts due to the Federal Government; eliminate all forms of corrupt practices in payments, receipts and postings of revenue due to the government; and ensure transparency and accountability by government of the resources received from the sector. Without the capacity to bring those indicted by its report to account, NEITI has been unsuccessful in curbing corruption in the oil and gas industry. We hope this collaboration will change the paradigm. At the meeting with the security agencies, NEITI’s executive secretary, Waziri Adio, expressed that sentiment, when he said: “so we think that if we produce our work and you take it up from there, you can say what we can investigate from this, who we can prosecute from this and what we can recover.” He lamented the failures: “because all the time we talk about monies that have not been paid and things that have not been done.” Going forward, we take it that the time for action has come to end the disturbing opacity in the oil and gas sector. Because of corruption, instead of being the investment destination in oil and gas in Africa, the sector lags behind new entrants across the continent. Just like in oil and gas, other aspects of the extractive industries are even more opaque. In summing the need for collaboration, Mr Adio said: “we need to pull the different knowledge and powers that we have together to make sure that we are able to do this across the value chain.” He went on: “our (NEITI’s) work, as important as it is, if it is not useful to you or if you don’t use it, then it is useless. So how do you take our output as an input for your own work? I say this because we don’t have the power to prosecute.” We agree with the summation. The collaboration between NEITI and the security agencies will provide the pedestal to bring to account those who have stolen so much from the oil and gas industry, in the past years. It will also help to stop the hemorrhaging in the sector. Furthermore, the effort will help to resolve the lingering disputes between the Federal Government and states about the absence of proper accounting for resources due to the federation account from the oil and gas sector. Achieving transparency and accountability in the extractive industry, which is the core function of NEITI, will also aid the growth of indigenous technology, even as the revenue base of the federal and state governments will be enhanced. Indeed, there is so much to gain from the proposed collaboration and we urge all the agencies to work with NEITI in the overall interest of our national economy. 