Years ago, Mrs. Chidinma Obasi was bubbling over with good health. But in 2013, she fell ill and her condition changed. She started experiencing health challenges. Initially, she did not know what was happening to her, but it was later confirmed in hospital that she’s suffering from adhesion; her intestine has joined like a glue. To her, it was as if the world has come to an end, considering the complications that followed the disease. Disturbingly, she had been told she would need about N5million to overcome the ailment. Miss Sandra Obasi, her daughter, told The Nation that her mother became ill in 2013 and did her first operation in 2014 for hysterectomy. Through the process, her bladder was damaged, but was later corrected in Ebonyi State. According to her, her mother has done multiple surgeries to set the adhesion free, but to no avail. Sandra said she had gone through hell trying to save her mum since the illness began. She added: “A consultant at the Imo State University Teaching Hospital (IMSUTH), Orlu, Dr. Orjiako Sunday, confirmed the disease and recommended that a transplant be carried out to solve the problem. We, therefore, made an inquiry on how to go about it and they told us that it could only be done successfully in India and the treatment would cost about N5million.” Mrs. Obasi, the 46-year-old widow mother of two, from Ehime Mbanno Local Government Area of Imo State, told The Nation that since the confirmation of the disease and recommendation for an urgent treatment in India, she has been living on drugs. “Drugs have become my food. I neither eat nor drink water. I take drugs every hour and it costs me about N20,000 per week. My fear is that if I fail to do that, it will spell doom for me. That may be the end of my life.” She said the weekly drugs have rendered her family bankrupt and appealed to the government, corporate bodies, non-governmental organisations, religious groups and individuals to assist her raise the money for a successful treatment in India. “I am a widow. My family has exhausted the money they have in taking care of me. We are left with nothing. Because I don’t want to die now and leave my children to suffer, I decided to cry out for help, so that people can rescue me,” Mrs. Obasi said. She can be reached on 08036796936 or 08060418013. Account details: Sandra Chinasa Obasi, Account No 2092090358, United Bank for Africa (UBA).