A pro-democracy fighter, social commentator and National Convener, Campaign for Dignity in Governance (CDG) Comrade Razaq Olokoba, has taken a critical look at the build up towards the next Saturday 9 governorship poll in Lagos and given the victory to the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu.
Olokoba, who is also a political analyst, hinged his assertion on the consistent socio-political development, economic progress, secured environment and peaceful co-existence under the progressive platform in Lagos State since 1999. In addition to that, the vocal civil society leader perused through the credentials of the duo of Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Kadir Femi Hamzat and told Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, that, “They are tested and trusted hands to take the state to the Next Level.” WHAT is your view on the coming governorship race in Lagos?  Without mincing words, it will be a one way traffic election as the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), will carry the day. The party will walk over the opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), because the standard the state has attained, no reasonable person would want to experiment with toddlers in governance. It is not a gainsaying that the state has been consistently witnessing rapid and all round development socially, politically and economically since the advent of this nascent democracy in 1999 under a progressive government. And the feat has never been a one-man show. It has been a collective responsibility of all and sundry since the time of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu who is the arrow head of the progressive tendencies in the state as well as in the whole country. Tinubu has been adopting the style of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo in executing people’s oriented programmes. I am a member of the Civil Society. Tinubu used to consult us and is still consulting us till date on how to move the state to the next level. And during the time of Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), the avenue for consulation was still very much open for effective interaction and engagement. And thank God for Tinubu’s foresight, Fashola came out to be the best candidate to succeed Asiwaju Tinubu at that time. Can you say same thing about Sanwo-Olu’s emergence to fly the party’s flag? Yes of course. Sanwo-Olu’s emergence was direct response to the demand of Lagosians guided by the principle of party supremacy. And in Lagos, residents are faithful voters who can differentiate between good and bad governments. And President Muhammadu Buhari’s landslide victory on February 23, was a clear testimony that Nigerians are aware that the PDP lack the capacity to handle sophisticated states like Lagos State. Remember that in the whole of the continent of Africa, Lagos is one of the only three metropolitan cities. The other two are Cairo in Egypt and Johannesburg in South Africa. Nigeria should have attained that status as a nation if not for the misrule of the PDP for 16 years. So Lagos voters should not be derailed. They should rise up against the PDP to give the APC’s Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat ticket a resounding victory for the sake of more dividends of democracy for all and sundry. Lagos will fail and fall if we give it to the PDP and we must not allow that to happen. What gives you the assurance that Sanwo-Olu will perform? Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat, are highly competent to take the state to the Next Level going by their landmarks achievements as Commissioners for Establishment and Training and Works and Infrastructure Development respectively under Fashola. They will not only replicate that but step it up to take Lagos State to the enviable standard befitting any Mega City in the whole world. I can make bold to say that nobody, no Nigerian, either in Lagos or anywhere in the country that would give his vote to the PDP because they know the atrocities the party committed during its 16 year’s misrule during the period they drained the nation’s economy. The PDP can never get the nod of the good people of Lagos state to come and rule the state. So, Sanwoolu will win. What contributions your group is planning for the election? As an organization that comprises of 70 civil society groups to be joined by hundreds of other pro-democracy societies, we are working seriously round the clock to make sure that Sanwo-Olu is democratically elected next Saturday and sworn-in along with his deputy, Hamzat, on May 29 this year God willing. Lagos, with its complexity should not be given to a political green horn and toddler in governance. And from all proven indications, Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat have passed our integrity test and have been given clean slate of health as the duo capable of taking the state to the Next Level. And we seize this medium to appeal to the people to troop out en masse to vote for the APC flagbearers in peaceful and orderly manner devoid of any rancour. Violence, we must remember, breeds nothing but chaos.