Assistant Editor JIDE BABALOLA examines the struggle among the six geo-political zones for National Assembly leadership positions. S the permutations and horse-trading for the position of Senate President gather steam, internal disagreement over the zoning of the key National Assembly positions could become a test for the All Progressives Congress (APC) – just as it was in 2015 – if decisive action is not taken immediately to restore equity and balance in power-sharing arrangement in the country. The APC leadership and indeed, the Presidency should have sufficiently learnt from the errors of baffling indecision that left the door wide open for a Senator Bukola Saraki and his mostly Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) allies in the Senate to actualise a daring bid for Senate leadership which has survived till date, with implications for the Buhari Presidency. However, there is no certainty that the ruling party which has now secured majority in the both houses of the National Assembly has really learnt any lesson from its experience in the last four years. While APC is yet to zone the leadership positions of the National Assembly, some leaders of the party are pushing for the undiluted implementation of the 2015 power-sharing formula, which zoned the Senate President position to the North East geopolitical zone. Senators Ahmed Lawan ( APC Yobe North), Ali Ndume (APC Borno South) and Danjuma Goje (APC Gombe Central) from the North East are reported to have indicated interest to contest for the position of Senate President. However, other leaders are insisting that the 2015 zoning formulae must be tinkered with and aligned with the political realities of today. They argue that it is abundantly glaring that a trend of genuine equity and balance is lacking in the way and manner the Senate has constituted its leadership. Neither gender sensitivity nor the imperatives of geographical spread have been adequately reflected in the leadership of Nigeria’s Upper House. Today, it is already a somewhat negative historical fact. Provisions of section 53 of the nation’s Constitution and relevant rules in the two legislative houses makes the the Senate President  the Presiding Officer in the Senate as well as Chairman of the National Assembly and by implication, the head of the legislative arm of government. The North Central zone has produced Senate Presidents for a total of 12 years. David Mark from Benue state was Senate President from June, 2007 till June, 2015. Also, Bukola Saraki from Kwara state held the position from June, 2015 till 2019. This has created a huge concentration of power in the North. Prior to the emergence of the All Progressives Congress as the nation’s ruling party, the leadership of the three arms of government – Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary had been shared in such a way that neither the North nor the South had all three positions at any given time. But in the period between May 29, 2015 when President Muhammadu Buhari was sworn in as President and March 6, 2017 when Justice Walter Samuel Nkanu Onnoghen became the Chief Justice of Nigeria, the heads of all arms government were from the North. With Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad from North East as the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, the entire Federal Government will now be seen as being in control of the North and the APC could be playing itself into the hands of critics. Moreover, this could be a clear violation of Nigeria’s Constitution. section 14 ( 3) of the 1999 Constitution describes the Nigeria’s Federal Character Principle as follows: The composition of the government of the federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect the federal character of Nigeria and the need to promote national unity, and also to command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few states or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that government in any or its agencies. Such imbalance in the power-sharing arrangement never happened during the 16 years of the Peoples Democratic Party rule. And for APC that wants make further in-roads into the South ahead of 2023, the implementation of its 2015 zoning formulae for the election of the principal officers of the National Assembly could be damaging politically. Senators from the South are kicking against this obvious marginalisation and this creates great opportunity for PDP to steal the Senate Presidency from APC. Political pundits argue that APC has to seriously re-examine its formula if it wishes to avoid a repeat of the Saraki saga. Of the 102 Senate seats declared so far by INEC, APC has 63, PDP has 38 Senators and the Young Progressives Party (YPP) has one. Of the seven undecided seats, five are leaning PDP. This means PDP could end up with 43 senators – just 12 short of the simple majority required to clinch the Senate Presidency! Should PDP decide to back Southeast for the Senate President position, there are three potential candidates – Dr Orji Uzor Kalu (APC), Senator Ben Uwajimogu (APC), Ifeanyi Uba (YPP).  Kalu and Uwajimogu are ranking senators-elect and have also indicated interest in the position. Anyone who thinks outgoing Senate President Saraki will not be able to recruit nine more Senators from within APC for PDP to determine who succeeds him surely needs to think again, especially as this phase of the political game may mean far much more to Saraki than a cursory glance indicates. Change/next level Presently, it is being argued that a necessary and corrective paradigm shift that entails having an experienced and competent Senator in the position of Senate President from the South may reflect the APC government’s Change Agenda. As a consequence, the party has to seriously re-examine its formula if it wishes to avoid the situation that led to the emergence of Saraki as Senate President as PDP Senators have not given up on the Senate Presidency for the 9th Senate. It would also be historically interesting for Nigerians  to see  a true reflection of ‘Next Level’ – the ruling APC’s new mantra – in the constitution of the leadership of Nigeria’s Senate, if gender considerations are carefully weighed in the zoning of the principal officers of the Senate. Electing a woman as Senate President or Deputy Senate President would be a historical landmark, but ironically, it won’t even amount to gender balancing. This is because since 1960, the under-representation of women has included a near-complete non-involvement of female lawmakers in the Senate’s top hierarchy, except for committee level assignments and a single appointment of one woman as Deputy Minority Whip. Perhaps, the new  Senate may  consider an eminently qualified ranking female Senator, Senator Oluremi Tinubu who will be serving her third term, this time around. On the basis of personal merit and antecedents, Tinubu, as Nigeria’s first-ever third term female Senator could be part of APC’s trump card for impactful change of historical proportions. Power rotation: Southsouth locked out? However, it is surprising that since 1999, none of those holding the positions of either Senate President or Deputy Senate President came from the Southsouth geopolitical zone.  A similar trend obtains in the House of Representatives, as no one from the Southsouth zone has become either Speaker or Deputy Speaker since 1999. For 12 years now, the North-Central zone has produced the Senate President. From 2015 to 2019, the North East held the position of  Speaker  with Yakubu Dogara from Bauchi state. The Northwest geopolitical zone held the position of  Speaker  for twelve years with Salisu Buhari (Kano  state) as Speaker from June, 1999 to July, 1999. Ghali Umar Na’Abba, also from Kano state succeeded him, staying on the seat from July, 1999 till June 2003 when Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina state) became Speaker from June 2003 till June, 2007 when Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina state) became Speaker. As for the Southeast, which had the position of Senate President for a cumulative period of eight years, five of its sons were on the seat. These were: Evans Enwerem (June, 1999 – November, 1999), Chuba Okadigbo (November, 1999 – September, 2000), Anyim Pius Anyim (September, 2000 – June, 2003), Adolphus Wabara (June 2003 – March, 2005) and Ken Nnamani who was Senate President from March, 2005 to June, 2007. The Southwest had the Speakership position in the lower house for four years with Ms Patricia Etteh (June, 2007 – August, 2007) and Dimeji Bankole (August, 2007 – June, 2011). As for the South-South geopolitical zone, it appears to have been locked out of the top leadership positions in both the Senate and the House of Representatives through by an unusual combination of factors. Prospects for Southsouth As it is, the South-South geopolitical zone has some APC senators who could be given the responsibility to lead the Senate. Those elected as Senators from the zone are: Degi Wangagra, a first-timer from ex-President Goodluck Jonathan’s Bayelsa East District constituency, Francis Alimikhena,  from Edo state and Ovie Omo-Agege, a pronounced pro-Buhari Senator from Delta Central Senatorial Constituency. A few days ago, an APC chieftain from the Southsouth, Mr Paul Odili urged President Muhammadu Buhari, APC leaders and members of the yet-to-be inaugurated 9th Senate to consider honouring  Delta state with the position of the President of the Senate or Deputy President of the Senate, emphasising that Omo-Agege has all it takes to serve the nation and his party as Senate President.