Hosted by music mogul DJ Khaled, the unpredictable and always messy awards show was aired fresh from USC’s Galen Center in Los Angeles, where kids celebrated their favorites in pop culture, television, music, social media and movies. The Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards 2019 were simulcast on Nickelodeon (DStv channel 305) and Nick Toons (DStv channel 308) on Sunday, 24 March 2019. The Fela in Versace, AKA, who travelled independently to the awards, walked the orange carpet at the Los Angeles event and won the award for Favourite South African Star. Ghanaian reggae dancehall artiste Stonebwoy, scooped the coveted orange blimp for Favourite African Star. Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director for VIMN Africa and BET International said: “Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards 2019 unites children across the globe by providing them with a powerful platform to vote for and celebrate their favourite personalities. Congratulations to Stonebwoy and AKA for their respective wins and for representing Africa.” Showing his appreciation for his award, Stonebwoy said: “I feel so good and grateful for winning the Favourite Africa Star category of the Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards 2019. Guess what? I couldn’t have done it without your votes, so thank you very much for voting for me and I hope you guys enjoy the rest of the slime at the Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards 2019.” AKA also thanked those who voted for him after his win, saying: “I would like to thank Nickelodeon Africa andNickelodeon International for honouring me with this award. Thank you to the fans who voted and of course thank you to the kids. The kids are the most important thing we have right now in the planet because the kids are the future, the kids keep me relevant and the kids keep me on top of my game. Thank you very much and I am very happy to bring this award back to South Africa” This year’s party kicked off with DJ Khaled making his way to the Kids’ Choice Awards in style, with an assist from friendsKylie Jenner and the Jonas Brothers. His next-level arrival began with a ride in a Rolls Royce Phantom, followed by a cruise on a luxury yacht, and a trip on board the “Kids’ Force One” helicopter before landing at the Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards 2019. The awards also saw some winners including Chris Pratt, Taylor Swift, Ariana Grande, Ellen DeGeneres, Adam Sandler, Robert Downey Jr., Shawn Mendes, Zendaya, Noah Centineo, Selena Gomez, Joey King, Jace Norman, JoJo Siwa, David Dobrik, Avengers: Infinity War, Riverdale and DJ Khaled.