A chieftain of the Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) has said victory for governorship candidate Babajide Sanwo-Olu in Saturday’s election will fast track socio-economic transformation. Chief Lanre Razak, Grand Patron of Buhari/Osinbajo Mandate Group, said Sanwo-Olu’s  victory would be an impetus for APC to consolidate on its developmental strides for the greater welfare of the people. In an interview at the weekend,  Razak, a former Commissioner for Public Transportation, hailed the Lagos electorate for voting  for President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and other APC candidates in the February 23 elections. Buhari’s re-election, he said,  showed that Nigerians were appreciative of the people-oriented achievements of the APC-led Federal Government in the last four years. He urged voters to ensure victory for Sanwo-Olu and all APC candidates during the governorship and House of Assembly elections on Saturday, saying having an APC government at the federal and state levels would promote good governance and accelerate socio-economic development. Razak attributed Buhari’s victory in the February 23 polls to the President’s’ sterling performance since May 29, 2015, and the commitment of  the Presidential Campaign Council co-chaired by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. According to him,  given Sanwo-Olu’s track record as a banker and in public service, the APC candidate has the capacity, experience and integrity to consolidate on the legacies of former governors Tinubu, Babatunde Fashola and Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. The former commissioner  urged the people to shun  thuggery, rigging, snatching of ballot boxes and violence during Saturday’s election. He implored voters across the 20 local government areas to troop out and vote for Sanwo-Olu and other APC candidates without fear of intimidation, as security has been tightened to forestall a breakdown of law and order. Razak said: “All Nigerians should embrace peaceful co-existence before, during and after the elections because good governance and meaningful socio-economic development can only be achieved in an atmosphere devoid of violence and disharmony. “Those aggrieved over the polls outcome should not take the law into their hands but seek legal redress, in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act. Winners and losers should shun any act or utterances capable of further heating up the polity and threatening the unity and peaceful co-existence.”