Suzzie Odeniyi, known with the brand name Suzzie D, is the CEO Luxury Model Management. In this interview with Omolara Akintoye, the Irish/Nigerian model manager reveals how she was able to overcome racism in Ireland and the changes she is making in the industry. She also talks about her passion, competing for Miss Nigeria Ireland, working for Elite Model Look where she emerged as a semi finalist, as well as grooming young models. AS a fashion entrepreneur, what businesses do you currently manage? My background is in fashion, beauty and industry. I have been managing models and beauty queens for about eight years now. Initially, I started in Ireland, where I grew up. I was born in Ibadan but I moved to Dublin, Ireland, when I was five years old. I have been there all my life. My modelling agency is Suzzie D Model Management. I am also the owner of the Most Beautiful Girl in Ireland Beauty Pageant Competition and Most Beautiful Girl in the World Beauty Competition. Every year, we take international winners from all around the world and we organise competitions in countries like Dubai and Korea. I came to Nigeria because my mum lives here and she kept on telling me I must come home and do something for my people. If you said to me last year that I will be in Nigeria this year organising this competition, I won’t have believed because I am always in Europe, Korea and Dubai. However, I had to come to Nigeria to give girls the opportunity because I want to inspire them and let them know that they can make it here in Nigeria; it is not only about travelling out of the country. If you have a specific plan and the strategy behind it, with the help of God, it can be possible. One of the strategies for this competition, which is Luxury Model Search, Nigeria, is to find a female entrepreneur; someone with an entrepreneurship spirit. Looking at all the super models we have today, apart from being models, majority are also business-oriented. This is to give the girls a platform to advance themselves. We are not specifically saying to you that you must become a model. Although modelling is part of it, but after a year of doing modelling, you can decide to go into acting and our job will be to lead you into that; to help you, support you, push you and give you the guidance you require. So, it is open to a lot of people. The reason I am doing this is to really create opportunities for girls and open the doors for them to advance in life. During my modelling years, I always knew I would have my own business in the industry. This is my calling in life and I also have an eye for spotting beautiful and unique faces. I was also told I was good at motivating people. But I am more than just an agent, I am also a catwalk coach, teaching all models how to bring out their best in front of the camera and on the runway. This is done by building their confidence and empowering them with my own industry knowledge and experience. How are you able to manage the numerous portfolios you currently manage? When we get jobs, we get them booked in advance and I have people who work for me there. I always monitor what is going on. To manage all these things, you don’t have to be specifically in one place. I can be in Canada and still be running my business here in Nigeria. We have the internet. So, for me, it’s not hard. If I need to be in a meeting I can’t attend physically, my representative will go there and give me the feedback. We also Skype, this way they can see me and we can talk. I can only be in one place at one particular time but it doesn’t really affect my work. If a client wants to meet a girl, I can email her and tell her where she has to be at a particular time and the job is done. So, the power of the internet is very important in the field. What is it like being your own boss? The best thing about being your own boss has to be the power to create a change in the fashion and modelling industry. It’s something I really value in my work. I refuse to take no for an answer in anything I do or what I believe in. What’s been your greatest moment since setting up your company? Providing models for the largest exhibition in Ireland, which was held in the RDS Simmonscourt, Womans World 2015, it boasted an audience of more than 37000 people over the three-day event. I have also been featured on Xpose as a fashion judge and was asked to contribute to an Online magazine as a fashion and style columnist. What was your background before setting up the company? I was a freelance model with over 10 years experience in both the model and fashion industry. When I started modelling it was impossible to get signed with an agency. I thought there was something wrong with me then. I wondered why no agency would take me on, but this empowered me and I took the initiative to work for myself and market myself as a freelance professional. A lot of people think modelling is easy and that all we do is stand in front of the camera and our photo gets taken. There is so much hard work and dedication that go into what we do. I wanted a new career path, and I was also working part time, saving every cent that I earned to start my business. I wanted to start my business with my own hard-earned money rather than going to the bank. Were there times you competed in any beauty competition? I competed in the Miss Nigeria Ireland, where I came as the top five, and also competed in Elite Model Look Ireland, of which I was a semi-finalist. I was not the real winner but this platform gave me the confidence and the experience behind that I needed. Tell us a bit about your educational background and growing up I moved out of Nigeria when I was five years old. I hail from Oluyole, Oyo State. My mum is a renowned politician at the moment. She went from business to politics. My dad, Olu Odeniyi, is retired now but he still manages his own oil company. My mom’s name is Aderonke Hassan. The most I learnt was from my mom because my dad was always in and out of Ireland but I still learnt a bit of business skills from my dad. I went to primary school, secondary school and college in Ireland and I am still studying. I started studying fashion and business. I am always travelling, managing girls. I am a Nigerian by root, even though I have lived there for 19 years. I am Irish but I am more of a Nigerian than Irish. Nigeria is my root and it is always important not to forget about your home and always give back to the society. How long have you been in the industry, and what was your experience like? I have been in the industry for over 12 years now. In Ireland, it is tough, especially being a black woman in business. Most businesses are white-dominated so when they see a black woman enter the market, it is a threat to them. They will rather give a job to one of their own. Even though I am Irish, they will rather give a job to one of their own than give me because they feel more connected to the other person because of the skin colour. So racism still exits and it is part of life. However, I do like challenges and I say to God make a way for me where there seems to be no way. I do not give up easily as I just really push myself. My mom was saying to me that if I had started a modelling industry here in Nigeria, it will have been well advanced than it is now. But because it is in Ireland, it’s a bit tough because of politics of skin-colour. I did not let the politics over there stop me, and here I am today. What is the Luxury Model Search Nigeria all about? The competition is in search of not just looking for beautiful girls, but girls  who we can go partner with because at the end of the day, modelling, fashion and beauty is a business, apart from the glamour that comes with it. If I speak to a potential model, in one minute, I can easily know if the person will be successful or not. I always can tell by the way they speak and what is going up in their heads. If I ask a model, where do you see yourself in two years time? If she says she does not know, I know that she actually does not know. But if I ask another model the same question and she outlines what she wants to achieve and how she will go about it. I certainly know that she has entrepreneurship mind-set. So I am more drawn to those with entrepreneurship spirit than just beauty. What will the winners of the competition get? The winner will get to sign an international modelling contract with me and winner also gets one million naira cash prize. The first runner up gets N500,000 and get signed to an international modelling contract, while the second runner up gets N250,000 and get signed to modelling contract as well. What makes the Luxury Model Search Nigeria, concept different from other pageant? A beauty pageant only concentrates on beauty and modelling. There might be other things like supports here and there but what differentiates us is that we are saying to you that you can use this platform to build or pursue whatever you want to become. Do you want to become a human right advocate, to use the platform to protect women’s rights, or women empowerment; or you want to open up your own organisation or if you want to do something that is modelling-related, we are here to support you. This gives people a platform, it is unique. It is not something you see every day because not everyone is blessed with an entrepreneurship mind-set. It is something that is given to you by God and that is why it is different. The pageant will be a yearly affair. But the process is on for seven months and the final will hold in August. The age bracket for the contestants will be between 18 years and 25years. Why the interest in entrepreneurship, modelling and fashion? My mum and my dad were business owners. So, I grew up in a household where both parents were in business. My mum had a fashion line; she sells cloths, gold, bags and shoes and my dad had an oil company. These two businesses, fashion and manufacturing, are different but it still came down to business. I always listened to them while I was growing and these impacted on me. What is your assessment of the industry in Nigeria? In Ireland, only a small percentage of people are open to change but here in Nigeria, they want change because they are tired of doing the same old things. It is more refreshing to be around your own people and doing what you love. Tell us about your journey into modelling While I was growing up, I was very tall but I lost my heights as I grew older. The people encouraged me to go to London and do my modelling work because Ireland is a small market. But my mum refused on the ground that it will affect my education, and it was extremely tough to get signed to a modelling agency because of my colour. But now things are changing as they are now taking in black girls. Then there was no demand for black girls in Ireland. So, then, in Ireland I made up my mind that if no modelling agency will sign me in then I must learn how to get myself signed in and how to manage myself. I decided to go into freelance modelling where I contacted managers, photographers, brands and companies, sent them my images pictures and all my details. With that, I was able to push my way into the modelling market and I was able to get more contacts than if I were to be signed into agencies. I love modelling because I love challenges, but I made up my mind not to get a loan but rather use my hard-earned money to start my business. I was doing freelance modelling and also going to school. I later developed my confidence and could remember when I participated in the Elite Model Look Ireland, a lot of the girls came up to me for advice and I was able to encourage and build their confidence. That was how I started my own modelling agency. Have you had many mentors, any words of advice from them? No, I’ve had more like a role model – which would be my mum. She always tells me “without a story, there is no glory”, meaning we all have a story to share. What we have been through before we actually reach our destination of what we call success. I also admire Norah Casey – she is an incredible business woman who can take on any task. For me, this is what makes her a strong unique leading woman in her field. They would be my two motivators. What would you have been if you weren’t a model manager? I love investigative work, solving issues and crimes. I would have become a police detective in Ireland but my mum said, no, that it’s too dangerous. But if I had my way I would have been a detective saving other people. Your beauty routine? I am trying to make sure I drink water. I take care of my skin, I wash my face every single night before I go to bed. I always use the naturals, steam my face, I don’t use any cream..