Following a court order restraining the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from conducting the supplementary governorship election in Adamawa State on Saturday, all eyes will be on two state constituencies for Assembly members. Election either did not take place or was cancelled when governorship and state assembly elections were conducted on March 9 in the constituencies. They are: Nasarawo/Biyeri in Mayo-Belwa LGA where State Assembly election was put off on March 9 because a candidate entered for the election died days before thee exercise and Uba/Gaya State Assembly Constituency in Hong LGA where voting was cancelled in some polling units. The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Nasarawo/Binyeri state constituency, Adamu Kwanate, had collapsed while campaigning and died in a hospital three days to the election, prompting INEC to hold off the House of Assembly election in the constituency for necessary adjustments. The Commission also later announced after the March 9 election, that the House of Assembly election in Uba/Gaya was inconclusive following irregularities in certain polling units. Supplementary election in Uba/Gaya would take place in three polling units namely Guw 1, Kumatai and Kurmi Mayolope; while the election in Nasarawo/Binyeri would be conducted in all the 92 polling units of the constituency. The head of information and education unit of INEC in the state, Mrs. Rifkatu Duku, affirmed in a telephone interview Thursday night that supplementary election would be held in two state constituencies. “Only state assembly supplementary election will hold in Nasarawo/Biyeri state constituency in Mayo Belwa LGA and Uba/Gaya state constituency in Hong LGA,” she said. Twenty-three members of the House of Assembly had been elected in the March 9 with ruling APC and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) having 11 members each. One member was elected on the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC). The state assembly has a total of 25 seats.