Mr Emeka Ojukwu jnr, Son of late Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to be magnanimous in victory and appoint Igbos in strategic positions during his second term. Ojukwu jnr made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Onitsha while speaking on the re-election of President Buhari. Ojukwu jnr had in November 2017 dumped the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) which was founded by his father for the All Progressives Congress (APC), citing Igbo interest as his decision. He said the Igbos supported President Buhari more in the 2019 elections than in 2015 with over 25 per cent votes in three states of the South East because of his achievements in office. “Buhari won Aba North Local Government Area based on his performance; he gave the business men and women in Ariaria market an independent power plant to boost their industries. “The votes also doubled in Anambra and Ebonyi. We have Senators and Federal Representatives elected on the platform of APC in the South East. “The Igbos are moving on to the Next level with the APC-led government,” he said. Ojukwu jnr commended Buhari for committing N33 billion to the second Niger Bridge and for rehabilitating federal roads in the zone. He however, urged the President to use his second term to address the perception that the South East and South-South were being marginalised. “We look forward to a better spread in terms of appointments and inclusiveness as he has promised. “We hope to see greater investment in the different sectors including power, roads and agriculture,” he said. He urged the president to ensure fairness and equity and to see that the country outgrows the old divides based on ethnicity in the interest of national development. “Mr President has served the nation in various high level positions and has reached the pinnacle; all that is left is his legacy. “What will he do in these next four years for the benefit of the entire nation and how will he be remembered? “The answer to these questions lies solely in his hands,” Ojukwu jnr said. NAN