The people of oil-rich Kula Kingdom in Akuku-Toru Local Government Area of Rivers State have urged the Federal Government to approve operatorship licence of more Oil Mining Leases (OMLs) to indigenous oil company, Belemaoil Producing Ltd. The Paramount Ruler of Kula Kingdom,  King Kroma Amabibi Eleki (JP) (Sara XIV), made the call at a one-day  Special Prayer and Thanksgiving event in the community organised by Kula Council of Chiefs in honour of their illustrious son, Jack-Rich Tein Jr, an engineer, who is the founder and president of Belemaoil Producing Limited. Kula Kingdom is one of the core island communities of Rivers State, located right behind the sea, sharing boarders with their neighbouring Bayelsa State. Kula, like other riverine communities, has no access road, hence their only means of transportation remains boat ride but the area is rich in oil and gas, and plays host to Anglo-Dutch multinational company, SHELL, for over 50 years. However, the area is grossly neglected, with the land and people highly impoverished.This was evident in the absence of government presence in any part of the communities. The young and old, chiefs, men, women, youths and children came out in their numbers to give thanks to God for the gift of  a son like Tein Jr. and to also pray to God to  continue to bless and protect him, his family and business from all evil and enlarge his business coast. Speaking at the event, King Eleki said the special prayer was a way to express profound thanks and appreciation to God for the unprecedented developmental projects Belemaoil has carried out in the area within a short period of operation in the area. The monarch said of Tein Jr: “I am filled with joy and laughter because God has answered our prayers of many years as our illustrious son, Engr Jack-Rich Tein Jr. has wiped off tears from our eyes. For that we thank him and we thank the Almighty Father who has blessed him to bless us. “Even in the bible the parable of the talents, those who were given five, they turned it to ten, those who were unable to do something to what they had, even what was given to them was taken away from them.and added to the other person that prove resourcesfulness, going by this bible principle, I think since he (Tein Jr) has been able to double what was given to him, the government should give him more OMLs to operate in the Niger Delta so that he will do more for oil bearing communities in the region.” He approved the requests by the company to renovate and upgrade some of the existing health facilities in the area as he declared, “I grant you permission to renovate people’s dispensary hospital where you can develop and it will serve you people and they were negotiating for land for this project, we have all agreed to provide land for Belema oil to execute this project and for that we have signed papers for them for this project. “In addition he will provide two giant generators for the community and also wire the whole community that  should have been done by Jan 31st both because the equipment are not available they have to be ordered from abroad… I thank you very much may God continue to bless and protect your founder.” he informed the crowd. He further called for unity and cohesion among the people and appealed for more support and the cooperation of the Host Community for Belemaoil for better improved lives in the communities. Corroborating the monarch, another Paramount Ruler, in the area, His Highness, King Boudillon Ekine Oko, (OKO XXVIII), equally admitted that the Tein Jr. has greatly improved the wellbeing of the people of Kula with meaningful projects that have direct bearing on the lives of the people. King Oko added that host communities of other oil blocks in Kula Kingdom should be given the right of first refusal by the federal government in the divestment or approval of operatorship licence of oil assets in the area. “Every kingdom that has the privilege and the honour to enjoy such opportunities as have given us by Belemaoil will want that the presence of such company to remain in the area, and we are not exception, hence if there are other presence of such opportunity that need to come to the territory we will still want Belem oil to inherit that opportunity,” he said. King Oko went on: “Belemoil is not just a son but a  Messiah sent to us by God to make the men happy, make the kings happy,  make the chiefs happy, make the women happy, even the politicians are happy, everybody in the communities are happy.” He agreed with the otjer speakers that Tein Jr.  is a gift to the body of the kula people and prayed against anything, person or group that would want to bring to a halt the good things that has begun to come to the community through Belemaoil, and those that are yet to come, “we will all in a perfect match rise up to say no,” he assured. The Manager, External Affairs of the company, Samuel Abel Jumbo, called on the Kingdom to eschew bitterness and rancor among themselves for the prosperity of the community. He said the company has provided over 1,000 jobs to youths across the host communities. He outlined some projects which Belemaoil is currently carrying out and those it intends to carry out in the near future to include; the 85KM Kula Road to Port-Harcourt, the Belema Atlantic Island, Belema Industrial Base, Belema Atlantic Office, Billionaire Atlantic Island, Belema Trading Island, amongst others. “We cannot imagine the thousands of employments which these projects will generate for our people in Kula. We also cannot imagine the jobs and contracts that will be available for our business men and women who will be huge beneficiaries of this projects.All these shall happen in our life time. “And so, our dear fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters, at this time in our history, I will implore you all on behalf of Belemaoil Producing Ltd., to eschew bitterness and rancor, and embrace peaceful coexistence and togetherness which has kept us together and made us the envy of our neighbours,”he said. He hinted the community about the passion of their son to open up the Island area for investment and tourism, ”As a very young company with a little over two years in operations, and, with a very strong filial bond with our host communities- Kula being one of them, our determination to radically develop our host communities is of very paramount interest to us given the fact that these communities are the basis upon which our operations are successfully carried out. “Indeed, our relationship with our communities can only be compared to that of a Siamese twin. And this reinforces the reason  in our very short history, we are grateful to God Almighty for using us as a vessel to impact very positively in the lives of our communities in such a way that has led to this Farthering. “In collaboration with the Federal Government, we have commenced preliminary work and approvals for the commencement of the construction of the 85Km Kula-Port Harcourt Road, which will link up all our satellite communities and settlements of Belema, Robertkiri, Luckyland, Boro, through Idama Kingdom and Degema. This multi-billion-naira project shall, when completed, not only guarantee the security of our lives and properties as we will no longer be preys to marauding pirates on our seas and water ways. “Through our investment and development affiliates: J+G Global Gas and Oilfield Ltd and Jack-Rich Tein Aid Foundation the Belema Industrial zone has already taken off the drawing board with the on-going reclamation work at Roberkiri for the citing of a world class Airport which will stimulate the attendant developments and additional projects and business opportunities that will be attracted to the Community, which shall include amongst others.” among other projects mapped out by the firm. In his sermon, the pastor of one of the Pentecostal churches in the community, Revd. Victor Iyaye, lauded Tein Jr. for being kind to the poor and the people of under developed oil bearing communities, and assured him that he will be rewarded by God, he appealed to him not to relent in the good job. He prayed for rapid growth and expansion of investment for Belemaoil in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry. The President Kula Youth Organisation, Christian Eleki, assured of the support of the youths for the success of the firm’s presence in the area, noting that youths of Kula have benefited immensely from the company, especially in the area of employment and empowerment.