•Equities drop by N58b Access Bank Plc was the most active stock and the third highest gainer yesterday at the Nigerian equities market as investors sought to lock in into the first tier commercial bank, which consummated its merger with Diamond Bank Plc on Tuesday. The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) had on Wednesday placed full suspension on Diamond Bank, after the Federal High Court sealed the merger between Access Bank and Diamond Bank on Tuesday. This makes Access Bank, the post-merger entity, the only available vehicle for investors to benefit from the expected synergies from the merger. Investors rushed in buy orders for Access Bank and turn the stock into a seller’s market in the five-hour trading session yesterday, pushing up the share price and the momentum of activities. Access Bank was the toast of the investing public with a turnover of 93.47 million shares valued at N638.54 million, representing about 37.4 per cent of total turnover volume yesterday. With more demand than supply, its share price rose by 40 kobo or 6.15 per cent to close at N6.90 per share. Under the terms of the merger, Diamond Bank will transfer all its assets, liabilities and undertakings to Access Bank and the entire issued share capital of Diamond Bank shall be cancelled and Diamond Bank shall be dissolved without being wound up. In exchange, Diamond Bank’s shareholders shall receive a cash consideration of N1 per share and two ordinary shares of the enlarged Access Bank for every seven ordinary shares of Diamond Bank held as at the effective date. Access Bank will be the post-merger entity while its Group Managing Director, Herbert Wigwe will continue to lead the post-merger management as chief executive. The business combination is expected to leapfrog post-merger Access Bank as Nigeria’s largest bank by total assets and one of Africa’s largest retail banks. Meanwhile, share price depreciation suffered by many large-cap stocks dragged the overall market situation to its fourth consecutive negative closing. While there were more gainers than losers, losses suffered by influential stocks such as Dangote Cement, Zenith Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank and Seplat Petroleum Development Company overshadowed the overall market position. The benchmark index at the NSE, the All Share Index (ASI), declined by 0.50 per cent to close at 30,885.31 points as against its opening index of 31,040.84 points. Aggregate market value of all quoted equities at the NSE dropped by N58 billion from its opening value of N11.576 trillion to close at N11.518 trillion. This depressed the average –year-to-date return to -1.73 per cent. Sectoral indices showed mixed performance. The NSE Consumer Goods Index rose by 0.13 per cent. The NSE Industrial Goods Index appreciated by 1/13 per cent while the NSE Insurance Index rallied by 0.43 per cent. However, the NSE Oil & Gas Index depreciated by 3.28 per cent while the NSE Banking Index slipped by 0.35 per cent. There were 24 gainers against 16 losers. Cement Company of Northern Nigeria led the gainers with a gain of N1 to close at N20. PZ Cussons Nigeria followed with a gain of 75 kobo. Eterna rose by 40 kobo to close at N4.80. Custodian Investment added 30 kobo to close at N6.30 while Oando and NASCON Allied Industries chalked up 20 kobo to close at N5.80 and N20.90 respectively. On the losers’ list, Seplat led the decliners with a drop of N31.60 to close at N550. Dangote Cement followed with a loss of N1.30 to close at N188.10. Guaranty Trust Bank declined by 65 kobo to close at N36.15. Stanbic IBTC Holdings dropped by 50 kobo to close at N45 while Zenith Bank lost 20 kobo to close at N22. Total turnover stood at 250.03 million shares valued at N2.43 billion in 3,869 deals. Zenith Bank was the second most active stock with 30.75 million shares worth N678.71 million while United Bank for Africa ranked third with 24.59 million shares worth N192.83 million. Market analysts advised investors to stick to stocks with good fundamentals to minimise the risks in the bearish market. “We continue to observe sell pressures within the equities market. However, we opine that the mixed performance of the sectors under our coverage presents an evidence of investor bargain hunting on some counters. Tomorrow, the last trading session for the week, we expect to see sustained investor interest in some fundamentally sound stocks which may drive a positive performance for the overall market,” Afrinvest Securities stated. Analysts at Cordros Capital noted that in the absence of a positive catalyst, investors should trade cautiously in the short term. “However, stable macroeconomic fundamentals and compelling valuation remain supportive of recovery in the mid-to-long term,” Cordros Capital reiterated.  