Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Thursday said the proposed creation of Local Council Development Areas (LCDA) was not driven by politics but socio-economic well- being of the people. It will be recalled Akeredolu constituted an 11-member committee on LCDA for the creation of more Local Government Areas in the state. Akeredolu made this known in Akure, the state capital during the inauguration of the committee for the creation of LCDA in Ondo State. He explained the decision was not conceived or designed to whittle the influence of anyone, or to elevate any individual above his peers. According to him: “It is far from the so-called recognition extended to political leaders. It is for the ultimate benefit of the people. “It is our expectation that this exercise will restore their dignity and pride as prime producers, and not as incurable consumers of other people’s ideas and products. “We remember our promise during electioneering campaigns on the issue of the creation of more local governments from the existing ones. “We are aware that the agitation for representation is becoming more strident. Our people are speaking loudly but it’s our responsibility to guide them. “We shall take decisions which are going to be in the ultimate benefit of the people. The people themselves will be allowed to elect their representatives in due course,” he said. Akeredolu affirmed that elections would soon take place in all the 18 Local Governments and the LCDAs to be created. The governor also expressed hope the exercise would further deepen the existing interactions between and among our people, and also bring out the potentials of the people. He solicited the cooperation of all local leaders and their people, and enjoined the committee members to approach the assignment with courage and equanimity. Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Deaconess Lola Fagbemi stated that a vibrant and effective Local Government system that would ensure a government of inclusion, where everybody has a choice will go a long way to deepening democratic values and good governance at the grassroots. Responding on behalf of members of the committee, its Chairman, Lanke Odogiyan, appreciated the Governor for counting them worthy of the assignment.   