Huawei Technologies has unveiled its latest Y series device that combines quality technology and stylish design at an affordable price to help Nigerians realise their true potential . The phone has major features of 6.26 inch Huawei Dewdrop display, 13MP Al Camera with a f/1.8 wide aperture lens, two-day battery power and an octa-core Quaicomm SoC Snapdragon 450. Huawei added that the phone supports master Artificial Intelligence (AI) that recognises 22 categories of objects and scenes. “Whether the user wants to take a portrait with clear separation between the primary object and background, or a landscape photo where every object in its field of view is clean and crisp, the Y7 Prime 2019 delivers with great efficacy,” the firm said. According to the firm, the HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 is made for today’s dynamic Nigerians that have imbibed the video-centric social media culture. It added that the HUAWEI Dewdrop Display debuted its top class screen-to-body ratio of 86.7 per cent with the flagship HUAWEI Mate 20 Series in October. Huawei said it will boost video viewing experiences. “With a vertically aligned camera system, HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 shares a striking resemblance with a compact digital camera. It was designed to offer the best smartphone photography experience among devices of its class. “At the back, enclosed in a durable ceramic-Iike back cover and metallic chassis is a 13+2MP Al Camera. “The primary 13MP camera has a wide aperture of f/1.8 with 16 virtual f-stops (supporting f/1.8-6) to provide granular controls over depth of field effects,” the firm noted. The improved camera in the new HUAWEI Y7  Prime 2019 captures 50 per cent more light information compared to its predecessor. In night mode, HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 combines the light information of four photos taken in quick succession to produce a final image that is bright, clean, and full of details. Similarly, in HDR mode, it puts together three images taken at different exposures to create a final image with better dynamic range. One of the scenarios HDR mode excels in is taking photos of objects lit by backlight-the digital combination allows the camera to capture the details of objects that are placed in darker parts of an image. HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 comes with EMUI 8.2. Alongside background optimisations that enhance system operational smoothness, EMUI 8.2 features a range of battery saving measures that help the users make the most out of their device. HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 is powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 450 octa-core SOC. The 14nm SOC features eight ARM Cortex-A53 high efficiency cores clocked at 1.86Hz to deliver great muitimre performance at superb battery efficiency.