Sprinter Rosemary Chukwuma who has represented Nigeria in the 100m, 200m and relays answers five key questions in an interview with Olubunmi Omoogun. What  are your memories of your first  competition for Nigeria? My first competition was in Australia and I competed with my senior colleagues. I was scared because they had more experience and exposure than me. We came third in the relay race and I was the anchor athlete. Everybody was happy as we came home with the Bronze. I was the youngest athlete there. What have you learned from the senior athletes? I will say senior Blessing Okagbare-Ighoteguonor has been great. I will like to perform like her in a bigger stage. I want to clock 10.45secs. She is my mother in the sprint and I like to train with her. We were in Australia together, we ran together in Asaba. We sat and chatted together during the recently held National Sports Festival in Abuja. It’s always a good experience speaking with her. She likes me so much and I like her too. And thank God I have secured a scholarship where she trains. And I have also spoken to her Coach. She is encouraging me to run even faster than her. She is my second mother. Why did you choose track and field; you could be mistaken for a footballer because of your physique? I actually played football when I was in secondary school but because I have so much speed, the coach advised me to change sport and try the sprints. There was a school invitational competition in Abuja that competed and came second. My Coach saw me and guided me. I thank him for spotting me and training me. How supportive has your family been? When I started athletics in 2016. My Mum was the one giving me money for transport and other things. She almost exhausted her money on my transport. Until I went to Ilorin, Kwara state for a competition and thank God they paid us and things started to change  for the better. What I’m become today is a reflection of how much my family has helped me. Which country would you like to visit ? I would like to go to United States of America. I told you that I have a scholarship in Texas Tech University, America. I would  be leaving very soon.