Stanley Osifo was one of the presidential aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for 2019 General Elections. In this encounter with Daniel Adeleye, the Edo State born politician spoke on why he defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress a week before February 16 Presidential Election, amongst other issues. Excerpts YOU are essentially known as a businessman. At what point did you take the decision to go into politics? I’ve always been in politics. I started with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and as everybody is aware of, I came out as one of the presidential hopefuls in the party. I strongly believe there will be more of it and eventually someday a young Nigerian will become the President of Federal Republic of Nigeria so as to bring in youthfulness and vibrancy into governance. So what then influenced your decision to quit the party that gave you platform to indicate your presidential ambition? Before you can think of aspiring to be a president, you must belong to a political party and you must be sure that there are number of things the party could do to ensure that all aspirants are supported and given level playing field to participate. But along the line, there were a lot of issues here and there with the party that necessitated such a decision. There were things that led to the decision that it was better to be in a place where things are done better. Before the primaries there were issues but being a loyal party member, I stayed put to see if the party could look into those issues, but along the line the party was not interested in really addressing the issues within the party especially among aggrieved members, particularly in reference to my own self. So I did all I could with the help of other members of the party but at the end of the day the party was not willing to address the issues, so I had to move. The movement did not just happen because of those issues; there were other points like looking at the country right now and looking at what the candidate will offer Nigerians. In Nigeria we have the two major political parties, the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). So when you look at the candidates, you’ll discover that there is one that has integrity and one that many could attest to his uprightness to a large extent. I think I’ve asked a lot of people about President Muhammadu Buhari on their perceptions about him and everybody is saying that the man is upright, he doesn’t steal. And when you hear all that from people, what do you think? How do you feel? You have no option than to support the one that everybody says is doing the right thing; that is living and giving the good example for other people. So that’s what actually prompted my move  to the ruling APC. Many people think you should have started small, probably by contesting for legislative seat; do you agree with them? I think that’s their perception, everybody has his views about things. What I decided to do was to lead the country. And when you say you want to lead a country it’s not just about getting up someday and saying you want to do that; there are plans, projections, guidelines and steps that you want to follow. There are things I want to do. So, I don’t know why people are insinuating that, probably because I am young. Maybe if I was like 65 years old and I just came up nobody will be saying that. So it’s appalling in our society; we don’t believe in young people. There are a lot of young Nigerians that are doing well right now both individually and collectively and I am telling Nigerians too that when you give young Nigerians opportunity, especially those that are dedicated and those that have what it takes, they can do more than you can ever think of. I’m young; nobody told me to aspire for the office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I am the one that took that decision, nobody sponsored me. I was convinced that this is what I can do for the country. I was convinced that I can do it regardless of age. I’ve passed through processes that have trained me for leadership. It’s not about going there to accumulate wealth and all that, no. It’s all about going there to do the right things. Now 2019 General Elections had been won and lost, what lessons do you think the political gladiators across divides should learn from the just concluded elections? There are lessons to be learned. I will tell you that Nigeria is getting better, and that’s the truth. What do you make of the violence that characterised the polls in some parts of the country? When I say Nigeria is getting better, I mean the system is really getting better. But you cannot rule out human intrusion in terms of political process. If you watch, most areas where there were pockets of violence are areas where people are trying to win the elections at all costs. And the killings that also happened during the polls were associated with those that wanted to win at any expense. They had put up mercenary in place to ensure that their candidates emerged winner of the election and that’s why we saw the killings. Many Nigerians assess President Muhammadu Buhari as being sectional in his appointment in the last four years; do you agree with them and would you want him to improve on this in his second term? We are Nigerians irrespective of tribe and religion. I think what’s important for us is to get the right set of people to do what is expected of them; talking about sectionalisation of public service and all that has been on for a while, most times you hear Nigerians saying when are we going to develop to a stage whereby we don’t look at where someone comes from, rather we look at what he or she can do. That’s the kind of mentality I have; what can you offer? So how would you assess the president on the way he handles the issue of insecurity in the last four years, especially the herders which many accused him of shielding? Well the Fulani herdsmen is one part of it, the insurgence that has been in the north east is another part. We have had issues in the southern part before, though it’s calm now. We had killings in the Middle Belt, Plateau. We have the one going on right now in Kaduna State and in different parts of the country. The truth is that, the government is doing its best; it’s doing everything within its power to ensure the activities of terrorists in the country are clipped. And coming to the issue of herdsmen, from every indication, I know that many Nigerians would have one or two contact with elders before. When most of us were growing up, we did see herders moving from location to the other peacefully doing their things and all that, until suddenly when the issue of Boko Haram came up. When this administration came on board, the first decision, if we could recall, was that President Muhammadu Buhari moved military high command from Abuja to the North-east on the day of his inauguration. That portended that he was going to fight insurgence headlong. And not too long in period, we heard that most of the areas covered by the terrorist group had been recovered by the military forces. So it’s also strongly believed that most of these people that are called herdsmen today that armed themselves and moved about, might be elements of Boko Haram that were dislodged from the North-east, because if you watch, some of them have been intercepted at different locations, such as Lagos and some other states. So that tells you that most of the people we refer to as herdsmen are just members of Boko Haram that were dispersed by the military that now came up with a clout of herdsmen unleashing mayhem on Nigerians. So the government has tried.