The lawmaker representing Owan West constituency in the Edo State House of Assembly, Hon. Ojo Asein, has been detained by men of the Department for State Security. It was learnt that Hon Asein has been transferred to Abuja for further interrogation. Hon Asein lawyer, Barr. Folorunsho Bamidele, who confirmed the arrest to newsmen, said his client has been held incommunicado against his fundamental human rights. Bamidele alleged the DSS prevented anybody from seeing him. “They prevented us from accessing him. We have written letters to explain the position of the law to them as to why they need to allow somebody who has been arrested access to his lawyer. “The first day we went there, we were there till 10.30 pm because they told us they were not going to detain him, that it was just for mere invitation. That was the initial language they used. “We are left with no option than to prepare to file a suit for the entrapment of his fundamental human right because as constitutionally provided, they have exceeded the number of hours as in our constitution that if you arrest anybody, within 24 hours, you should present charges or free him. “This country is not a banana Republic. Within 24 hours, you ought to arraign the person, inform the person the nature of the offence, allow the person have access to his legal representative but they are just telling is that they are making him comfortable but we know those things are just gimmick.” On the possibility of political link to the arrest, Bamidele said “Of-course, I am suspecting political victimisation, smoke does not just come without fire. ‘’Then they say where the eagles are gathered, there the   carcass lies. You know the kind of person they have arrested; he is a very strong person politically in that place and I think that is why they are very reluctant in allowing his lawyer see him and know what is going on.” Speaker of the Edo Assembly, Kabiro Adjoto, said he was still confused about the development “But the leadership of the house will meet soonest to review the situation and make our position known,” he stated.