A lawyer, Uloma Ulo, yesterday told an Ikeja Special Offences Court that a self-styled prophetess, Linda Mhabi-Praise, duped her of N134 million in 2017. Mhabi-Praise, Prophetess of Temple of Praise Church, Adeniran Ogunsanya Street, Surulere Lagos, and her company Mutano Energy Ltd, are  standing trial on an eight-count charge of stealing, obtaining money by false pretence and issuance of dud cheques. They were arraigned before Justice Sherifat Solebo on March 6 by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Led in evidence by EFCC counsel Mr. Frank Ofoma, Ulo said she met the prophetess through a friend, Sandra Mbujakero. She quoted Mbujakero as  the defendant as her pastor with whom she had done  business. “I met Linda Mhabi-Praise formally in October 2015 and in the course of discussions, she told me that she was into oil business and she needed investors “After discussions, I gave her N6 million in October 2015 and she made it clear that all investors would get a return on their investment. “Between October and December, I got a return of between N520, 000 and N750, 000,” she said. Ulo said she gave Mhabi-Praise N38 million and received a return on investment of N2.8 million monthly. She alleged that the defendant approached her again in April 2017 to reinvest in her business. “I asked her to approach her bank for a loan, but she said she does not have any collateral. “I asked if she had a Local Purchase Order (LPO) to give her bank, she said the bank needed more than LPO. “She convinced me to get her some money. l approached my bank and got her a loan of N100 million. I added the money to what I had and gave her N134 million. “After I gave her the money, she vanished. She had made it clear to me that whoever invests with her will leave the money for three months.” The witness said she travelled abroad for four months, adding that  she told the defendant to “roll-over” her return on investment because she wanted her money by the end of November 2017. “When I got back in October 2017, I made several attempts to see her. I made calls which were never returned. “I finally met her at Ikoyi Club, Lagos and she told me that the money went missing. I asked how the money went missing and, as I stand here, she hasn’t told me,” Ulo said. The lawyer said she petitioned the EFCC in November 2017 where it was revealed that Mhabi-Praise was a suspected serial fraudster. 