The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has cautioned the Attorney General and Minister of Justice (AGF) Abubakar Malami SAN, against attempts to scuttle the collation of results of the March 9 governorship election in Rivers State. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had suspended collation of the results as a result of the violence that characterised the election. The commission has fixed April 2-5 for the resumption of collation and declaration of winner. But in a statement, Sunday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the main opposition party said Malami must exercise restraint and should not allow himself to be used to foist any unconstitutional act regarding the Rivers election. The party hinged its caution to Malami on alleged statement by the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, to the effect that AGF Malami was working on how to write to the INEC chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu directing him to stop the collation of the Rivers election results. The PDP reminded Malami that there is no provision of the 1999 Constitution (as Amended) or any part of the Electoral Act 2010 (as Amended) that, in anyway, empowers the AGF to interfere or stop the process of election until declaration of result is made. “It is imperative for the AGF to note that Rotimi Amaechi, in his desperation, will want to rope him in and use him to cause a constitutional crisis that has the capacity to derail our democracy. “The constitution and laws of our nation are clear on the powers and statutory functions of the Attorney General and that he has no powers to interfere in the conduct of elections or direct the stoppage of an electoral process. “The AGF should, therefore, distance himself from the ignoble scheme by Rotimi Amaechi to cause trouble in Rivers state by attempting to scuttle the collation of results in the Rivers governorship election, which has been clearly won by the PDP and Governor Nyesom Wike”, the statement added. The PDP also charged INEC to save the nation any constitutional crisis by asserting its independence in concluding the collation process as well as respecting the will of the people.