Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) President, Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye has urged women to identify their strengths and weaknesses, notwithstanding the restrictions placed by culture. Olasanoye said women should work towards appraising how far they have fared in the bid to realise their dreams. Olasanoye, who spoke with The Nation, said: “I must say that it is indeed nice to have a day set aside to celebrate the political, social and economic achievements of women, which is a rare privilege the menfolk do not have.’’ She explained that women should flayed the notion that women are  incapable of doing most reasonable things. She said the perception held by most people is very wrong, and enthused that women are good managers and multipliers of resources. She added: “We are global peace makers, mothers and housewives, doing vacation-less jobs. Our gender is our strength, so we must not allow anyone put us down. ‘’Ostensibly interpreting the theme of the international day dedicated to all women across the world, she explained that Balance is not women’s issue alone, saying that it is a business issue. “The race is on for the gender-balanced boardroom, a gender-balanced government, gender-balanced media coverage, a gender-balance of employees, more gender-balance in wealth, gender-balanced sports coverage.’’ She emphasised that gender balance was essential for economies and communities to thrive, noting that the 1995 Beijing Conference’s  blueprint was the best for achieving gender equality. She said gender bias exists in every social stratum, even in the most developed societies but it will take our commitment to address it. “Though we have fought countless wars out there alongside the menfolk, and even more daring wars in our bedrooms but it is the menfolk only that take the glory – the kids bear their name. This is the time to take advantage of our population is now. “Truly, significant progress has been made in terms of the number of women that have been elected to public office – but the World Economic Forum’s Annual Global Gender Gap Report has stated, sometime in 2017, that men held about 80 percent of key elected and appointed positions,” she said.