The MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) Portal, the digital hub conceived as the premier destination for connecting Africa’s creative industries, went live on Tuesday after its launch in Lagos. The MTF Portal, www.multichoicetalentfactory.com, is the third touchpoint of the MultiChoice Talent Factory, the company’s shared-value initiative. Its launch follows that of the MTF Academy, a 12-month film training programme aimed at upskilling the next generation of young film creatives, last October; and the MTF Masterclasses, launched in January, to upskill industry professionals. The interactive online portal is aimed at profiling and connecting Africa’s creatives as well as bringing pan-African talents and opportunities together in one place. The digital portal will allow filmmakers across the continent to network, find talent and showcase their work. Access to the portal is through registration on www.multichoicetalentfactory.com, which will serve as an authoritative source of industry news, supported by MultiChoice’s position as Africa’s leading storyteller. Users of the portal, up and coming creative talents, can also connect and collaborate. The MTF Portal will also provide information on the MTF Academies and Masterclasses. The portal forms part of the investment MultiChoice is making to improve quality and support the production of local content and storytelling across the continent. It will serve both seasoned professionals and aspiring talent in Africa’s film and TV industry. Femi Odugbemi, MTF Academy West Africa Director, believes that the networking portal will be yet another important tool that will play a key role in strengthening the credibility of Nigeria’s creative film and television industry. “For a long time, professionals within our industry have gone to great lengths to prove that what we do is credible enough to be treated as an important economic player in our economy,” he said. “The MTF portal will prove that not only is our industry just as structured, but most importantly, that it can compete on a global scale.” Users wishing to connect with other creatives across Africa are directed to register and create a profile to have an exclusive avenue to showcase their talents, connect and network with other industry individuals, scout for skills and stay informed about the latest opportunities in the continent’s  creative industries.