•They deserve protection and prompt payment of their stipends One of the harrowing and dispiriting images after the early morning postponement of the February 16, presidential and National Assembly elections by one week were thousands of stranded National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members forced to sleep on dirty floors, vehicles and open fields as they could no longer proceed to their places of assignment. These young men and women, who had volunteered to serve their nation in this most crucial assignment as ad hoc officers for the elections were thus forced to pass the night in compromising positions that made them vulnerable to all kinds of criminal elements, many in areas of chronic insecurity. It is true that the postponement of the election was an unanticipated event that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) could not be blamed for. But then, going forward, the commission has now learnt the lesson that elections can be postponed at any time and so should make ample provision for contingency or miscellaneous costs to take care of such emergency postponements, particularly as it concerns ad hoc staff who are essentially youth corps members. Just as the electoral commission cannot be blamed for the sudden postponement of the polls, in the face of emerging realities, the youth corps members too cannot be denied their entitlements as a result of the sudden postponement. The unpleasant experiences of many corps members who participated in the exercise suggest that even without the necessity to shift the election forward, the process of recruiting and catering for the welfare of the NYSC members was not tidy enough. For, corps members in various states complained of assorted irregularities in the payment of their training and transport allowances. Some participants were not paid their promised allowances of N4,500 before their deployment to the various wards to undertake their electoral assignments. While some of those who received theirs were allegedly shortchanged, there were others who received credit alerts of double payment. In one instance, corps members were directed to their various local government inspectors to receive a token of N2,800 in lieu of the feeding and transportation allowances. Many of them were exposed to various dangers, including road accidents, criminal attacks, and, most dangerously, lethal violence in our elections that are often difficult to distinguish from warfare. It is indeed ironical that while addressing a group of the prospective corps members who volunteered to participate in the exercise, the Director-General of the NYSC, Major-General Suleiman Kazaure, sternly warned them against partisanship or accepting financial gratification from politicians in the course of their assignment. But, in a situation where the ad hoc electoral officers are not paid promptly, will they not be vulnerable to exactly such temptation to receive bribes and compromise the integrity of elections? In any case, is it not likely that many of them volunteered to participate in the exercise because of the pecuniary reward, given the parlous state of our economy? Given the violent, despicable and desperate behaviour of some of our politicians and their army of thugs during elections, will any rational youth want to expose themselves to such danger out of patriotic love for the nation? It is instructive that the NYSC boss advised the volunteer corps members that “It is not compulsory that you must participate. It is voluntary. But during the election, you are the number one security of yourself. If they want to snatch ballot boxes, secure your life. Your life means a lot to us; never again may we lose any corps member. The people here today are future governors, ministers and we won’t like to waste you”. It is bad enough that some of these young ones had been killed during elections in the past, and needlessly so.  Sure, we can do more to protect our future leaders from the antics of some of our barbaric politicians. It is gratifying that the corps members’ stipends were eventually sorted out, but INEC would still have to look inwards to be sure that some of its staff are not deliberately holding on to these stipends for personal gains.