The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, has said female entrepreneurs with focus to build shopping empires will be considered for credit facilities in the bank. Akinwuntan spoke during the unveiling of a new initiative tagged: “Ecobank Female Entrepreneurs Initiative” which recently held in Lagos. Some of the benefits include access to credit facilities with little or no collateral, network opportunities across Africa, financial advisory services, wealth management resources and loyalty schemes. The initiative was designed to provide women with the necessary support to help them excel in their endeavours, promote and grow their businesses and generally position them for increased participation in the economy of the nation. It was also part of activities of the commercial bank to mark this year’s International Women’s Day and also  recognise women as special and unique customers who require tailor-made service offerings. He said: “Increasingly, we are seeing the change in the attitudes of women, and their economic viability as individuals and leaders in their fields. Their banking and financial services as a whole therefore present vast opportunities, if properly understood and managed.” According to Akinwuntan, the launch is a charge to the society in line with the theme of the International Women’s Day 2019, to challenge the status quo and strive for a balance by empowering females in their immediate environments and subsequently, on a macro level. In his words: “Our female customers will become our flagship ambassadors and we have created this platform for them in line with the sustainability requirements of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). These women will be provided with free health checks, training and empowerment sessions and other support tools from Ecobank. The Ecobank Female Entrepreneurs Initiative aims at empowering women by helping them build capacity to grow their businesses.” The  Executive Director, Commercial Banking, Mrs. Carol Oyedeji, stated that Ecobank was proud to join the rest of the world to commemorate the Day with the special theme #BalanceforBetter. She remarked: “This year’s theme leaves no one in doubt as to the dire need to raise more awareness that gender balance is not a women’s issue but a human issue that must be tackled for us to have a better society and that it should not be mistaken for a battle between the sexes.” She called on corporate bodies to ensure women attain their full potential in all areas of society, including the workplace, which she said is vital to the communities and economies to thrive. “A balanced world is a better world. We must help forge a more gender-balanced world by celebrating and recognising women’s achievements, raising awareness against bias and taking action for equality,” she added.  