A facility management consultant, Mrs. Ibitola Kadiri, has urged state governments to be more proactive in infrastructure development to decongest overpopulated cities. Kadiri, a lecturer at the Estate Management Department of the University of Lagos, gave the advice in Lagos. She said the plea became necessary because overpopulation in cities like Lagos needed to be curtailed for efficient utilisation of funds and sustenance of infrastructure facilities. According to her, a reduction in population will help to prevent existing infrastructure from being over-stretched Mrs. Kadiri said overpopulation was a major hindrance to Lagos State’s dream of becoming a megacity. She said development and provision of social amenities in other states would motivate migration of people to the states, noting that relocation of citizens to cities was in search of improved facilities for a better living. The consultant said the exodus of people from Lagos during festive seasons was an indication that many Nigerians migrated to urban areas in search of greener pastures. “Slums are created by these immigrants, who ordinarily live in their own houses in their home town, but due to the high cost of living in Lagos settled down in unhealthy environments. “It is only when other governors beautify their states that Lagos will begin to feel relief from the population burden it currently faces. “For Lagos to effectively decongest, other states must be encouraged to provide the basic necessities of life to their indigenes,’’ she said. Apart from migration from other states, Kadiri identified the lack of a good road/transit network as a hindrance to the state’s development. She said some areas in Lagos do not have link roads, thus making it cumbersome for residents to commute easily within the state. Kadiri said: “Though, Lagos is experiencing infrastructure boom, it is not enough to cater for the teeming population of the state. “Along with infrastructure development taking place in Lagos, the state government should come up with the policies aimed at reducing the population to preserve new and existing infrastructure.” She, however, urged the state government to be more proactive in improving on its infrastructure to cater for the teeming population.