The police in Lagos have arrested a soldier, Lance Corporal Shedrack Christopher for allegedly stealing two mobile phones at a hotel in Ijanikin. Christopher was arrested on March 19, around 6am at Express View Hotel following complaints from the management of the facility on the alleged theft. Parading the suspect Wednesday, Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu said he stole two mobile phones worth N86,000 from the bar and hotel, adding that the phones, an axe, a cutlass and knife were recovered from the suspect. “We also recovered Nigerian Army Warrant Card, a Honda accord car with registration number Lagos SMK846 and army uniform. He confessed to have deserted from the Nigerian Army in 2017 at Maiduguri that he participated in killings at Igando Lagos and Edo State in 2017 after deserting the army. We have written the military to verify his claims and are awaiting response on.” But Christopher denied he was a dismissed soldier, refuting police claim that he confessed to being a cultist. The suspect also denied stealing the phones, insisting that he only took them from the bar where he saw them for safekeeping. “I did not steal the phones. I went to the hotel to meet my friend who lodged there. I got into the hotel around 11pm and as I was walking in, I saw two phones at the bar. There was no one there and so, I took the phones and kept them in case the owners looked for them. “I did not steal the phones. My plan was to return them once anyone started looking for them. I am still a soldier. I have not been dismissed and I am not a cultist. I never admitted to killing anyone. “The dagger was what I used in Maiduguri. I collected the cutlass from a group of boys who were fighting and put it inside my car. I collected the axe from hoodlums under the Mile Two Bridge. “The police people at Ijanikin Division tortured me. They said they’ll use the knife to cut my ear. They beat me but still I did not admit to any of those things they are claiming.” The suspect whose Driver’s license had another name from his army identity card, said he changed his name to Shedrack John when he joined the military. He said he stayed back in Lagos and was engaged in frozen turkey smuggling from Benin Republic into Lagos in order to feed his family. Similarly, the police arrested 45-year-old vigilante member, Johnson Abolo for allegedly impersonating the police and possessing prohibited firearms. Abolo was said to have had in his possession, rifles and police vest, which he used to fleece residents of Ijanikin. According to the Commissioner, the suspect belonged to a three-man armed robbery gang, two of who fled when detectives swooped on them. “Three guns namely, one pump action rifle, one locally made rifle and one English rifle were recovered from him. Effort is on to arrest the fleeing members,” said Muazu. However, Abolo said he was arrested with just one if the rifles claiming that the other two were abandoned by his colleagues who fled. He claimed he was a member of the National Community Policing group and they were employed by the community to provide security against armed robbers. The suspect claimed his group was trained by the police and that whenever they arrested criminals, they usually handed same to the police. Asked why he was in possession of firearms, Abolo said they used the rifles to guard the community and protect themselves from armed robbers. “The operatives of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) came and arrested us where we were on duty.
However the two of my colleagues escaped and I was the only one brought here. It was the two that own the two rifles while I own only one. “I am married with two children and I am from Isoko in Delta State. “Police saw us on duty and arrested me while two of my colleagues ran away while we were at an estate in Ijanikin. I don’t remember the name of the estate. I am paid N20, 000 monthly. I am not an armed robber and I didn’t impersonate police.”