HJ CLAIROOWEN Medical Centre and Maternity in Egbeda where 15-month-old Taye died on Sunday during a blood transfusion is not registered, The Nation learnt on Wednesday. Officials at the State Ministry of Health told our Correspondent that the details of the hospital could not be found in the Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA). HJ CLAIROOWEN situated at 10, Busari Street became embroiled in scandal following the death of the twin girl, whose parents alleged that she was infused blood without screening. The child’s father, Adeola Adetunji had accused a paediatrician at Igando General Hospital identified simply as Dr. Joy of luring his wife from the government hospital to her private clinic on Sunday night where his daughter died due to negligence. At the state secretariat Alausa, it was gathered that Health Commissioner Dr. Jide Idris had directed HEFAMAA, the Hospital Service Commission (HSC) and the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Health to get to the root of the case. It was gathered that the doctor might be dismissed for breaching the rules of engagement at the government hospital since it was unacceptable to refer a patient from public to private hospital. “There are too many issues involved here. It was an offence for the doctor to refer the patient to a private clinic. What the rule says is that if there is need for referral, such patient should be referred to another government facility that had the ability to manage the particular case. “I am a civil servant and cannot speak to you officially but I can tell you that heads will roll over this issue. The report will be submitted to the Commissioner and he is the one to talk to you on it,” said a source who craved anonymity. An official of the agency who contacted our Correspondent for details on the issue said HEFAMAA agents were already deployed to the area for investigation. She stated that there were certain standards that must be met before any hospital or clinic is approved by the agency, adding that if the logo or symbol of HEFEMAA was not engraved in the hospital, then it was not a recognised place. “I can tell you that serious investigation is going on. The Honourable Commissioner is interested in this case and has directed comprehensive findings. Be assured that nothing will be covered. “When you first told me the name of the hospital, I went to HEFAMAA office and they checked their system but it is not there. Now that we have the correct spelling, I have also given it to them. They are investigating. “One thing is certain, if it is a registered or approved centre, it will have HEFAMAA logo. Once the logo isn’t there, then, it is not a registered or recognised place,” she said. The woman also requested for the mobile number of the bereaved family so that they could be contacted, which our Correspondent availed her. Already, the Child Protection Network (CPN) and the Public Advice Centre (PAC) have reached out to the bereaved family and pledged to help them get justice. Similarly, the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) had commiserated with the bereaved family, empathising with them in their moment of grieve. NMA President Franscis Fadule stated this during a phone conversation with our Correspondent Wednesday evening. Asked what the association was doing in respect of the issue, Fadule said NMA would await the outcome of the findings by the Lagos State Government which would be forwarded to the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN). According to him, the allegations against the doctor were not just on alleged professional misconduct, as two of them fell within the purview of the state government to probe. He said: “If the doctor had erred, it could either be professional misconduct or that she treated wrongly. The doctor is employed by the state and the state has its own process of dealing with anyone who has gone against their rules of engagement. I know the state has set up an investigative panel to deal with that. “If she transfused a blood that is not cross-matched, then, that is against professional ethics and the NMA will take action after the investigation by the state government. “Thirdly is the registration of the private clinic. That one is totally within the purview of the Lagos State Government under the HEFAMAA and they have a process to deal with that. “Two of the processes have the state government to look into. After the findings by the government, it will go to the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria and once the doctor is found culpable, she will face the disciplinary tribunal which is at the stage of a Federal High Court and pronouncement will be made. Those are the ways the medical professional checks practitioners. “I want to use this opportunity to commiserate with the family of the deceased. As NMA, we feel pained that one of the twins has died. NMA stands for professionalism. We shall make our stand known and we shall proffer ways of dealing with such situations after receiving the report of the investigation that has been set up.” Contacted, Dr. Idris told our Correspondent he would revert back today (Thursday) after he must have seen the report of the investigation.