Insecticides may kill pests but they are also harmful to humans, plants and animals, says Professor of Storage Entomology, Olufemi Ashamo, who also warned against their indiscriminate use. He called for the development of eco-friendly alternatives for insect and pest management in agriculture, animal husbandry and post-harvest technology during the 104th inaugural lecture of the Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA) recently. Speaking on the lecture titled: “Man’s Weapons of Warfare against the Hexapods”, Ashamo said advancement in the development of insecticides had not addressed the problem of high mammalian toxicity, adverse effects on non-target organisms, pest resistance and pronounced effects on aquatic life they cause. However, Ashamo said advances in biotechnology could be used to address challenges posed by pests. He said biotechnology could be used to develop improved insect resistant plants, saying long before the advent of synthetic insecticides, plant parts like leaves, fruits seeds, roots etc. were used to protect agricultural crops and stored products from attack by insects and non-insect pests. Ashamo said natural insecticides, which include powders made from seeds, flowers, leaves, shoots, barks and roots of local medicinal plants have been demonstrated to be effective against pests of field and stored crops and also insects of medical and veterinary importance. He sought for the deliberate cultivation of medicinal plants in plantations which have been found that they are effective in controlling pests just as they are in treating human diseases. He also stated that agencies or bodies concerned with the management and control of pests and household insects should come under the umbrella of the Entomological Society of Nigeria (ESN) for proper coordination. This, he said, will enable government consult and patronise Nigerian Scientists for solutions to the nation’s problems instead of seeking the assistance of foreign experts. In his remarks, the Chairman of the occasion and Vice Chancellor, Prof Joseph Fuwape, praised the lecturer for his contribution to knowledge.