A LEADER from Ogun West and an advocate of its unity, Gbenga Akinwande, yesterday revealed that the zone knew a month ago that neither Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) nor Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) would win the last Saturday governorship election in Ogun State. Both Isiaka and Akinlade, Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s preferred candidate, hailed from Ogun West. Puzzling enough, the zone is yet to produce a governor since the state’s creation in 1976 despite several attempts by people from the area. Prince Adedapo Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Ogun East was declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), having defeated his two main rivals – the ADC and APM governorship candidates. But appraising the election and its outcome, Akinwande, who is the President Gbenga Akinwande Foundation, said Ogun West compromised its governorship ambition because of the bad leadership and governance of Amosun. Akinwande, who rooted for Isiaka to succeed Amosun as the governor, said it became clear to many of them about a month to the election that Isiaka won’t win the election but were unable convince him to drop his ambition for Akinlade. He added that his people also saw Akinlade as a more viable option for Ogun West based on the financial strength and the backing from Governor Amosun, but deemed Akinlade’s governorship as what could lead to an unbroken “continuity of impunity, militarised governance and bad leadership philosophy of Amosun.” According to him, Amosun’s philosophy of governance shredded the once harmonious Ogun State into pieces “along ethnic nationalities and senatorial sentiments over the last seven years and nine months”. The philanthropist advised the governor-elect to consider uniting Ogun people as one of his most pressing tasks. He said what the good people of the state want to see and hear henceforth is Ogun State agenda and not ethnic or tribal based cleavages.