•What they have done is illegal, says Apeh The Tricycles Owners Association of Nigeria (TOAN) has impeached its President, Comrade Augustine Agbo Apeh, over what it described as anti-union activities. In a communiqué, signed by the Secretary-General of the committee set up by the union, Sunny Ennag, the union said the decision was taken to rebuild a virile and trailblazing trade union that would be the pride of tricycle workers and owners in Nigeria. The union has, however, chosen Comrade Babatunde Ayenogun , the former Deputy President  as the substantive President. “Findings revealed that Augustine Apeh has been involved in a lot of anti-union activities, thereby truncating the union’s operations in so many states apart from Abia, Bayelsa, Edo and other states where his role, as contained in the catalogue of accusations, acted as a clog in the wheel of the union’s progress. “With the above proven fact and in consonance with the constitution of the union best practice, Augustine Apeh lacks the competence, mental capacity and the moral justification to continue leading the union. Therefore, the committee affirms his suspension,” the communiqué said. The council also approved the first national  delegates’ congress to hold within six months and the Central Working Committee (CWC) has been mandated to  work out modalities towards realising this. In addition, TOAN pledged its commitment to the onerous task of ensuring a proper organisation of tricycle operators in the country and ensuring partnering government and relevant agencies to uplift the economic and wellbeing of the hapless and vulnerable masses. Responding to his suspension, Comrade Augustine said what the union did was illegal, adding that the so call executives are not recognised. “What they are doing is illegal and I want to assure that they are not recognised. And the so-called executive, led by the so-called President has a questionable character. Not only that, he has a criminal case on ground. I am still the president of TOAN,” he said.