Georgia Oboh returned to South Africa where she started her first professional season after competing in two Ladies European Tour (LET) tournaments in Australia to continue her quest for glory at the Investec 2019 South African Women’s Open at the Westlake Golf Club in Cape Town. The tournament tees off today. At her last outing in Australia, the 18-year-old finished tied 113 out of 137 players on the New South Wales Ladies Open, which was a big improvement from her previous tournament but missing the cut nevertheless. However, Oboh is pleased with her improved performance and playing 78/78 over the two days and this was not enough to make the cut of +3, she played +14 over the two days. Having witnessed some improvement in her shot making where she had two difficult holes on each day that attributed to +10 in total and that would have put her within striking distance of the cut but she is positive that lessons have been learned on her part. According to the Edo State-born golfer, one of such lessons would be to arrive earlier and get acquainted with the golf courses as well as the environment well in advance of the tournaments, admitting that this was not easy for her this year due to funding deficit. She alluded that she and her team would aim to seek the required funds from other sources as the promises they had this year were not fulfilled in enough time to get the necessary preparatory work done
For now, Oboh is still the only Nigerian member of the Ladies European Tour in its 41 year history to date and is hoping that this will attract interested parties to support her funding requirements. For the South African Women’s Open, Oboh was invited by the organizers based on her exploits in the last two years. Being the biggest ladies golf professional event on the African continent and co-sanctioned with the Ladies European Tour, Oboh said she is excited to be invited for the top class tournament. “I am very happy to have been invited to the three Ladies European Tour events so early in my career and this is awesome. This has given me the opportunity to learn from the more experienced seasoned professionals,” Oboh said. Defending champion – South Africa’s Ashleigh Buhai will be gunning for a fourth trophy as she returns to Westlake Golf Club in Cape Town to defend the title in the co-sanctioned event between the LET and Sunshine Ladies Tour.