•An armed robber who attacked his 90-year-old mother with a machete got a death sentence in a shocking case that prompts reflections on crime and punishment Akeem Lawal was arraigned on 3 May 2016. The Lagos State Government accused him of conspiracy to commit robbery and armed robbery. On March 18, Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye of a Lagos State High Court, sitting in Igbosere on Lagos Island, found Lawal guilty on both counts. The judge also found the defendant guilty of attacking his stepsister, Sherifat Olanipekun, with a machete and a gun. “You shall be hanged by your neck until you die,” Justice Ipaye pronounced in her judgement, saying the prosecution had proved that the armed robbery happened. According to the prosecution, the crime occurred on 30 November 2013, at 2.00a.m, at No.12, Lawal St., Akowonjo in Egbeda area of Lagos State. Lawal and two others were said to have broken into his stepsister’s room and robbed her.  A report said: “Olanipekun, in her testimony, said that on the day of the incident she was working on some decorations for her church when she heard a loud sound. She said the sound woke her son, Abiodun Olanipekun, adding that she went to block the door to prevent the armed robbers from entering the house, but they broke down the door with an axe. She also stated that immediately the three masked men entered the house, they demanded N8million, supposedly received from a sold property.” The report continued: “Olanipekun said she told the robbers that there was no such money with her, which infuriated one of the armed robbers, Lawal, to remove his mask. Olanipekun said “Lawal ordered me to lay face down, he macheted my head with the axe, shot me at the back. He went to the room and tried to strangle my aged mother.” The robbers stole her laptop, phones and jewelry, she had told the court.  Lawal, who had pleaded not guilty, claimed that he was not in Lagos when the robbery happened. But the judge said she had no reason to doubt the testimonies of the victims. Understandably, armed robbery attracts a harsher penalty than robbery. So Lawal and his partners had compounded their crime by using weapons. Indeed, Olanipekun’s testimony showed that the robbers went beyond robbery and had posed a serious threat to the lives of the victims by the use of weapons. The depravity is deepened by the son-attacks-mother angle. Lawal’s murderous moves against his mother were not the natural expressions of a loving child.  It is a shame that Lawal prized material possessions above maternal connection, and also exhibited contempt for familial ties. By resorting to robbery, the robbers betrayed their desperation. The judgment makes an unambiguous statement that armed robbery is unacceptable.  However, it is unclear why Lawal’s partners are not in this picture of punishment. The report didn’t provide information on them. Death by hanging is a huge price to pay, but it is noteworthy that Lawal’s sentencing followed a proper trial. The prosecution had said that the offence contravened Section 297, 295 (2) (a), of the Criminal Law of Lagos, 2011. Lawal’s death sentence further highlights congestion on death row. Two years ago,   the Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Adeniji Kazeem, said at a press conference that the Lagos State Government would soon take action on 202 condemned prisoners. Definitely, there is a problem when prisoners lawfully sentenced to death remain endlessly on death row because of the tentativeness of the political authorities. A  Nigerian Prisons Service spokesman was quoted as saying at the time that there were no fewer than 1,639 inmates awaiting execution across the country, which contributed to prison congestion. As long as the country’s criminal justice system accommodates the death penalty, there is no justification for delaying action on condemned convicts.