The building was derelict. It used to house the Edo State Printing Press. But for many years, the place was locked. Edo government had to look elsewhere for its printing job. Today the building located inside the Edo Magistrate Court’s complex on Sapele Road is wearing a new look. It was renovated not to be used as a printing press but to be the first production and processing centre for artisans, micro, small and medium enterprises as envisioned by Governor Godwin Obaseki. The Edo Production Centre would be a multipurpose, one-stop-shop for small businesses. share support infrastructure such as 24 hours electricity, security and low-cost financing to help boost economic growth in the state. The centre is being built in partnership with the Market Development for the Niger Delta (MADE) II programme, Benson Idahosa University (BIU) and the Des Moines Area Community College in Iowa, the United States of America. The 24-hour electricity supply will be provided from the Ossiomo power plant following the power purchase agreement with the Edo State government. Already, over 200 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have written letters of interest to establish their businesses at the Edo Production Centre. This was disclosed by the Commissioner for Physical Plan-ning and Urban  Development, Edorodion Oye Erimona, at a stakeholders meeting with MSME operators in the state. Erimona assured interested business owners that the centre would be a one-stop-shop for MSMEs to enjoy economies of scale and low cost of production. Those that have indicated interested in the centre, according to Erimona, are furniture makers, cobblers, welders, bakers, polythene makers and a number of other interested small business owners. According to him, “This centre will accommodate MSMEs while the Benin Industrial Park will host big industries. The electricity for the center will be drawn from the Ossiomo Power Purchase Arrangement. Pollution in the environment will be minimal as the businesses will be MSMEs.” Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the governor on Skills Development and Job Creation, Mrs. Ukinebo Dare, said major renovation work has been done ate centre which necessitated the meeting with stakeholder to keep them abreast of the progress on the project so that they can key into it. She said there would be live-in desks for relevant government agencies to engage, support and provide services to small businesses at the centre, noting that the agencies to be hosted are the Bank of Industry (BoI), Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Edo Internal Revenue Service (EIRS), among others. According to her, “A month ago, the governor came to inspect this facility, which will be used as a multi-purpose production centre. We have commenced renovation of the facility. We have done the electrical work and we are working to make this place habitable. The idea is to make sure that by the time the project is completed, it will be used by everyone in the target group. “The Edo Production Centre is a space where small manufacturing and production businesses can take advantage of constant power supply, advanced training facilities and a space to do their business. “We realised that typical skills acquisition programmes need to be revamped to create lasting impact and provide viable paths to prosperity for youths. So, skills acquisition in Edo is currently delivered alongside entrepreneurship and business management, start-up acceleration, digital marketing and branding programmes. “Artisan groups to benefit from the project include welders, furniture makers, tailors, aluminium fabricators, shoe manufacturers, wood processors and so on,” she added. A member of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Comrade Valentine Asuen, said the incentives which the Edo Production Centre offers will enable businesses run at minimal cost adding that what discourages small business operators in most cases is the cost of rent and power. “We are confident that when the centre starts taking in people in the next few weeks, things will turn for the better for entrepreneurs in the state. The centre will run on power that is independent of the national grid. The stable power will spur expansion of businesses. “At the last meeting we held with the representatives of the state government, we were assured that the centre will host different businesses such as furniture makers, cobblers, welders, bakers, polythene makers and a number of other interested small business owners. In a matter of weeks, it will become easier for customers to have access to different products to be manufactured at the centre.” Governor Obaseki on his part said several production and processing centres would be set up across the state. He said the second processing centre which is located inside the Government Science and Technical College, formerly Benin Technical College (BTC), would be launch in September. Obaseki explained that arrangements have been completed to get uninterrupted power supply to the facility while the Magistrate Court within the premises would be relocated. “The power contractor has assured that within the next fortnight, they will provide electricity for the Production Centre.  We should be relocating the court houses to the various local government councils,” he said. “I am looking for other facilities in Irrua and Auchi to create more processing centres. The centre will have facilities that artisans and small and medium scale enterprises will utilise to grow their businesses. “We are reviewing the companies and we are making arrangement on how people from the state can be trained to provide the needed skills for the companies that will operate at the park. “We are encouraging people to invest in the state so that your skills will be in high demand.” Obaseki further assured that efforts are being made to “expand opportunities for micro-credit of single-digit interest rate for women to encourage entrepreneurship and boost disposable income while improving the quality of lives of the beneficiaries.”