The 2019 general elections will reach a denouement this Saturday after the gubernatorial and state assembly elections. With tension ricocheting across the country in the past few weeks, I earnestly hope it will be an anti-climax to the palpable fear that the 2019 general elections will ferryArmageddon to our country. Except for few states where local warlords are raising the stakes, the tension associated with the general elections has dimmed. It is also heart-warming that President Muhammadu Buhari who won the presidential election has set an agenda to win the peace. His conciliatory statement, while visiting his re-election campaign team and after receiving his certificate of return, shows he may have realised the best essence of public power: doing public good. In his first incarnation, after the 2015 election, the president spoke about paying each according to the measure of votes given to him during the election. While he was fairer in his conduct than in his words, the president would have realised that perception is as important as reality. Many opposed to his re-election bid, relied more on what he reportedly said in the past, than what he did with his powerssince 2015.   As he would also have realised, four years is a short time in the life of a nation, such that before he could really settle down after winning the 2015 elections, he was faced with preparing for the 2019 election. The same scenario could play out going forward unless he ignores the merchants of rancour and face the task of doing public good. The ancient wisdom says: time waits for no one; make hay while the sun shines. If he wants to be remembered positively, he must speak and act statesmanlike going forward. While he may have a lot of power to make mountains move, he cannot compel people to love and respect him. But by his words and action, he can make any reasonable person love and respect him. Of course, there will be those who are adamant at hating him. But he can gain the respect of the majority if he acts fairly to all persons in all circumstance. As a guide, he can borrow the famous four-way-test of the rotary club. That indomitable redoubt for doing public good will help him rebuild our country which is badly fractured along ethnic and religious lines. This fracture has been assuming a dangerous proportion in statesthat have non-homogenous populations. Feeding on the mood of the nation, some misguided persons are trying to set Lagos on the part of tribal recriminations in the name of politics. Those who lost the national election of penultimate Saturday are trying to push Ndigbo to fight their hosts in Lagos, as if the national election was a tribal contest between Igbo and Yoruba.While majority of Igbo may have supported the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which lost the election, there are sizeable members of All Progressive Congress (APC), who are Igbo. So those stoking ethnic agenda to advance their failed political interest, must not be allowed to foist crisis on the foremost cosmopolitan city in Nigeria. Lagos has been welcoming to all comers regardless of tribe or religion. Indeed, it has been more rewarding since the past 20 years,because Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu created a template that has made the city the sixth biggest economy in Africa. Those opposed to the political tendency in Lagos, must seek to wrestle power through the ballot box, and not by making Ndigbo their cannon fodder. The coming governorship election in Lagos State is between experience and experimentation. While the candidate of PDP, Jimi Agbaje,who has no experience of working in the public service is an experiment, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of the APC, who has served as a commissioner and also headed vital state agencies in the state is overwhelmingly experienced to continue the trajectory that made the Lagos economy one of the biggest in Africa. Sanwo-Olu’s credentials and experience would no doubt be a gain for Lagos. At the presidential election, the political leadership of Ndigbo made the wrong call by supporting PDP, which eventually lost to APC. While they are entitled to their choice, they must accept they miscalculated. Agreed that Peter Obi,the PDP vice presidential candidate may be an attraction to support Atiku, many discerning commentators knew that the project would not fly. So, it was a huge mistake to corral the south-east zone to vote PDP, when the zone that produced the presidential candidate overwhelmingly supported his opponent. An Igbo adage says: you cannot cry more that the bereaved, otherwise you will asked if you know what killed the dead. No doubt, in the failed Atiku’s presidential project, the political leadership of Ndigbo cried more than the bereaved, despite words of caution from several quarters. This column maintained that the PDP project was an emotional gambit, and not a referendum on the public service records of the two leading presidential candidates. It pleaded with limited success that the chaff should be separated from the grains. Next Saturday, the governorship and state assembly elections would hold in Lagos. As I have argued above, the candidate of the APC is miles ahead of the PDP candidate in terms of experience and public service records. Also, the dominant political tendency in the state is sagacious and entrenched and will prevail. It also has a record of performance and capacity to take the state to the next level. So on a fair assessment, the candidate of APC deserves to be re-elected, and is most likely going to be re-elected. Ndigbo should support the candidature of Sanwo-Olu, because he is not only a better candidate, he has the brightest chance to win. Politics is a game of the possible, not the ideal. Talking of ideal, Sanwo-Olu fits into the ideal candidate more than any other contestant. So on what basis would anyone advise Ndigbo to cast their net in a famished river, with a promise they will make a haul. This column has preached the need for a strategic alliance across the Niger for nearly a decade, and the time to actualise that has come. The Igbo has nothing to gain by posturing as political antagonists of their host in Lagos. It will not be a sign of weakness, if they work with APC in Lagos State. Many arguably view the Yoruba and Igbo as the major competitors in the Nigerian project, and some on both sides mistake the competition as war. While agreeably each competitor will always want to win, common sense dictates that a gamely competition should never be a do-or-die affair, otherwise there would no game the next time. This column urge Lagosians from all divides to overwhelmingly vote for APC at the governorship and state assembly elections on Saturday, for continuous progress.