REACTING to the collapse of the Lagos Island building which killed and injured some primary school pupils on Wednesday, comedian Alibaba has condoled with the family of the victims, adding, regrettably that, Nigerians create problems for each other. Posting a picture of a collapsed building on his Instagram account, Alibaba said he ignored saying anything about the incident till he was prodded by someone. He then went into a litany of ways whereby fellow Nigerians condone bad behaviour to the eventual detriment of each other. “Someone sent me a message asking why I have not said anything about this Lagos Island building collapse, since yesterday… I ignored it,” he wrote. “My condolences to all the families who lost loved ones and properties. God will console you. But just to avoid being considered insensitive, let me say this, we are our own problems. If Lagos State Government marked that building for demolition and actually went through with the demolition, many of the people going emotional and getting angry about the non-demolition now would have been the same persons calling out the government for being insensitive to the plight of the poor. “How can they break down a school because they believe the integrity of the structure is suspect? Close a road for repairs, you will hear people shout. Clamp down on commercial drivers without prerequisite certification, NURTW will go on strike. Try to weed out the teachers in our schools who need to be taught, NUT will go on strike. Query a Chief Judge who cannot explain the source of monies that cannot be from his salary, it is called a witch hunt. Arrest buses for indiscriminate parking anywhere but the bus stop, it’s oppression of the masses. “People will throw dirt and refuse into drainage and complain of flooding. Ask a young man with no means of livelihood driving a range rover, it’s oppression of the youths. Stop a man who is driving with a child in the front seat, they will ask you is it your job? Stop someone driving against one way, they will say, just let him go. Posted a video of 2 Soldiers riding an okada without helmets, and the question some were asking was how much do the soldiers paid? “How many times have we complained of tankers on the bridge? How many engineers have been punished and licenses withdrawn? How many properties have Been seized? How much compensation has been paid? How many of such structures are insured? What is the Institute of Quantity surveyors doing about these issues? What do I know Sef? Shebi I am just a comedian?”