In this interview with Paul Ukpabio, Dr. Johnson Edosomwan, a candidate in the just concluded Presidential Election, opens up on how he saw the exercise. Excerpts THE election has come and gone, foreign observers have spoken their minds and the U.S and U.K have congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari having certified the election as credible. What do you have to say? U.S and U.K can congratulate him but I will not congratulate him because he killed my people and stole the votes. How will I be congratulating someone that killed people? The US interest is different from mine. My interest is in the Nigerian people and the U.S or U.K interest is different from mine because they may be interested in oil; they may be interested in gas, but I am interested in the lives of Nigerians to make sure they have quality life and protected but killing them is nothing to congratulate anybody for. But if the same international communities we were banking on certified the election as credible, why do you still feel otherwise? We have to be very careful because, I didn’t see a single one of those supposed election observers that I heard were coming to observe the election. I have traveled all over the country; I didn’t see them anywhere. Some of them were probably here on vacation or some just sitting down in a conference room to write the report because I didn’t see any of them. May be two or three have done whatever they are supposed to do but I didn’t see a single one of them. How can you say this is a credible election when people were killed, ballot boxes snatched and you were not there to see them? It is just a laughing stock as far as I am concerned. Are you also aware APC accused PDP of some of these things? I am not saying this to condemn APC or PDP but the environment that was set by APC created all of the violence. It was wrong and I stand by that statement. There is no way you can explain the killing and shedding of blood to preserve somebody to the world; it is totally unspeakable.  If we must practice democracy, we have to move away from vote buying, using thugs and the killing of people. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of PDP is going to court to challenge the result of the election. Are you doing anything similar? The press has to be very objective because you are like the fourth arm of the government so; you have to get the true story out there. When I saw this (displaying images of dead people from a newspaper) I was impressed that somebody was there to show the world the truth so, how can you say the U.K and so on endorsed it? This is a situation that will never happen in the United States where armed policemen and the military will be shooting people; the whole place will go up in fire. It can’t happen in the United States. If you look very well, you will discover people have moved on. How do you feel? Nigerians are not paying attention, day by day their democracy is going down the drain. They are not paying attention; if they were paying attention, there would be massive peaceful demonstration across the country. This is your first taste of election in Nigeria; would you want to partake next time? First of all, the dream will never die. Just the fact that we have somebody doing some crazy things doesn’t mean that we should be scared or not do whatever we need to do. My heart goes to a lot of Nigerians; they have been suffering, no jobs, some of them graduated from school for years and they are still looking for jobs. What I have come to do is to use my expertise to help advance Nigeria.  Not minding how the election went, what God has called me to do, I will still do it, because I have the capability; I have the contacts in the world to make things work, so, I am not going to let some of these things distract me. let some of these things distract me. If President Buhari offers you an appointment will you accept it? I will not accept an appointment because it will not be easy for anybody to work for anybody using this system of government. If I wanted a position, I would have gone to the United Nations and so on. I have been through all of that, I have been to about 62 countries; I am not doing this to get a ministerial position or any other one at that. I am doing this to change the system of government. Can you put a tag to how much your presidential ambition has cost you? It’s enormous. You can’t quantify it but it is a sacrifice that was worth it to come and fight for my father and mother land; so I can’t quantify it in dollars and so forth. From the picture you painted, do you think Nigerians are ready to give a chance to people like you that are relatively unknown in the system? I think you are right. When we speak everywhere we have been, people will stand up and say, yea! We need all these now. But on the day of election, somebody is down there with two hundred naira and it ends there. So the problem is not just the leadership but the electorate also. What the leaders have done is to make these people so poor and thirsty that they would want to die for peanut and some of them do not even think they are selling the future of their children and their yet unborn children. However, what I am going to continue to do is to give them the true message because vote buying is not democracy. It is wrong. Don’t you think it will be a futile effort if you think of running for election again in about four years? I will hope that with this election that a lot of them have learnt hard lessons. That is what my hope is.