I am young, very young – depending on who I am talking to. But to Opemipo and Toluwanimi, daddy is old, in fact very old. The fact is I belong to a generation whose first choice of schools was public schools. I could count the number of private schools around at the time I had my elementary education. Now, the situation has changed. Private schools are now the first choice, not just at primary and secondary levels, but also for higher education. Public universities are taking the back seats. However, huge fees are the main reason public universities are not empty. I am reflecting because barring any last minute bad luck, we will have ‘new’ leaders tomorrow. Some of them will be re-elected and some are being elected for the first time as governors and lawmakers. And I have requests to make of them. As I once noted, I doubt if there is anyone who honestly can say he or she is not troubled by the state of our nation. To the best of my knowledge, there is discontentment in the land. Some have even predicted a bleaker future if something drastic is not done. The economy is struggling; and security challenges are refusing to give way. These new leaders must give us a Nigeria where the migration of Nigerians through the Sahara desert, a development which is akin to walking with eyes open into enslavement, will become history. The exodus is to escape the Animal Farm we currently inhabit. Most of the men and women who take this route are educated but hopeless. The sad migration tale was well-captured in Nze Sylva Ifedigbo’s debut novel My Mind is No Longer Here. Their displeasure with Nigeria leads young men to a cheat called Yinka and a bigger cheat called Otunba. Otunba says to the guys: “You see, eyin boys, let me tell you something nobody else will tell you. Hunger is a very good thing. Our people do not know this. That is why they remain poor. They think hunger is a bad thing. No, Hunger is a blessing, I tell you. There is no motivator like hunger. It is only hunger that can make you do anything without fear. You see, when I see young men like you wallowing aimlessly about, I tell myself they have not yet tasted hunger. Because when you taste hunger, nobody will tell you to get serious and do something about it.” In another instance, he says: “I tell people I am rich today because I was hungry yesterday.” But he adds the icing on it all, when he says: “But I was not just hungry, I did something about it. Today, see where I am? All those mouths that were running like watery toilet, talking nonsense against me back then, where are they today? The ones that are not dead yet are well on their way there. Every day they are on my phone, begging me for pocket money. These are the same people who said I was doing boy-boy for the military and that I was a friend of killers.” The situation at home for many Nigerians have made sense of this quote from Ifedigbo’s book: “When your home cannot offer you a bed to sleep peacefully on, a neigbour’s home becomes appealing.” Our health facilities must improve. Governors and lawmakers have a lot to do about this. Not a few have died this week because what we call medical centres are consulting rooms that they have been since the military era. Even the private clinics where we pay through our noses cannot compete outside of our shores. Nigeria can reap from medical tourism instead of the current situation where we are the major loser to this trend. Aside the health sector, the new leaders must ensure our schools can compete with others in the advanced world. This way we will make our way out of the Third World. What is wrong with being a First World? The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) only recently called off its strike over the poor state of university education.  It went on strike to protest the government’s inability to implement an agreement on funding the university system. By studies conducted by ASUU in 2010, the cost of training undergraduates to full accreditation status is $3,364. With student population put at no less than 800,000, close to N2 trillion is needed to fund the education system. Our current budget is N9.12 trillion. Of this, capital expenditure has 31.5 per cent, which comes to N2.87 trillion. Recurrent non-debt spending has N3.51 trillion earmarked for it in 2018. N2.01 trillion is meant for debt servicing. The entire sum meant for the Ministry of Education is N542 billion. If everything is given to universities, it still will not achieve the aim. We will need to add the N55.15 billion meant for health, the N300 million for National Health Act, the N25.1 billion for promotion and development of value chain, the N5.30 billion for National Grazing Reserve Development, the N109 billion for Universal Basic Education Commission, and many, more for university education to be what it really should be. Our new leaders, who will emerge after tomorrow’s poll, must give serious thought to making our education sector the envy of all. There is a special assignment I wish the governors and lawmakers in the Niger Delta can do. There is graveyard silence in the Niger Delta. Boys have become used to free cash and they use every available excuse to demand cash from contractors handling development projects and so on. Leaders must find a way to end this sad situation. I am sick and tired of the current situation where everything but national interest seems to take the first position. The leaders that will emerge after tomorrow’s polls must make the difference. Even the old ones who will be re-elected must have a new direction. Their direction must be such that will find solution to the bad picture of Nigeria painted by Chigozie Obioma in his sophomore An Orchestra of Minorities. The Nigeria of today is captured in these words: “But he thought even more that these people were happy because they had been lifted from places where they were suffering into this new country. The plane had lifted out of the land of lack, of man-pass-man, the land in which a man’s greatest enemies are members of his household; a land of kidnappers, of ritual killers, of policemen who bully those they encounter on the road and shoot those who don’t bribe them, of leaders who treat those they lead with contempt and rob them of their commonwealth, of frequent riots and crisis, of long strikes, of petrol shortages, of joblessness, of clogged gutters, of potholed roads…and of constant power outages.” My final take: We must get out of the hell we have collectively made our dear country. Heaven is sweet and that is where we belong. Our leaders must show us the right way there.