Former governorship aspirant in Ekiti state, Mr. Kayode Ojo, has said the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari in the just- concluded presidential election reflected the Nigerians’ will. Kayode described the re-election as well- deserved victory for the President, saying the clear cut difference in governance gave him the resounding victory. He disclosed another four years of Buhari’s leadership will provide the much-desired impetus for good governance, the ongoing war on corruption, completion of ongoing infrastructural projects and boost our new image in the comity of nations. In a statement he personally signed in Ado Ekiti on Thursday, Ojo said Buhari’s victory was a demonstration of the confidence Nigerians have in his leadership. “The reelection of President Buhari and his vice, Prof., Osinbajo is well deserved victory and confirmed the trust Nigerians have in the President in particular and APC in general. “The results of the elections showed that Nigerians recognized the contributions of the APC controlled government to the development of the country within the past four years,” Ojo said. The APC chieftain saluted the relentless doggedness and tenacious gestures demonstrated by the APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for standing against all forces in ensuring the electoral victory of President Buhari. He also hailed Governor Kayode Fayemi for successfully delivering the three Senatorial Districts and the six seats of the House of Representatives for the APC. Ojo urged Ekiti people to maintain the tempo in the forthcoming State Assembly election in the State schedule to hold on March 9. Similarly, a House of Representatives member-elect in Ekiti South Federal Constituency II, Hon. Femi Bamisile, also said the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari is as a result of the love and trust of Nigerian masses for the President. Bamisile, who also congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said: “The victory of President Buhari at the just concluded presidential election was a true reflection of the masses love for him against the notion of few elites. “Therefore, Nigerian democracy has grown beyond what it used to be, especially in the areas of transparency, fairness and credibility of the electoral process. “Many big names couldn’t make it during the poll whereas unknown names won. “The latest development has proved pessimists wrong on the Nigerian electoral process. Nigerians are now having more confidence in the Independent National Electoral Commision INEC ability to deliver acceptable polls”. The former Ekiti State House of Assembly Speaker noted that his experience during the on-going general elections had further broadened his knowledge on the value and importance of the electorate as the major players in democracy. He said: “Politicians can now look down on voters at their own peril, but accord them the desired values and recognition through performance will surely guarantee you their votes to serve them. “The beauty of the just concluded elections is that it will afford both politicians and electorate the opportunity to be more cordial and sincere in relationship in the game of politics,” he said. According to him, his major priority at the lower chamber of the National Assembly will be, to contribute on bills and motions that will develop the country especially his constituency and Ekiti State in general. “Many Nigerian laws are long over- due for a revisit inorder for them to have meaningful impacts on the lives of all Citizenry, hence all hands will be on deck to do the needful in this regard,” Bamisile said.