FORMER Governor Victor Attah of Akwa Ibom State has described the 2019 general elections and the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari as the triumph of the will of the common man and a death knell for the three power blocs that have constantly exerted their manipulative influence on the country. This, he added, would provide the opportunity for the President to set the stage for the much-talked about restructuring. Obong Attah, who spoke at a press conference in Lagos yesterday, said Buhari’s second term would bring to an end the influence of the two major parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as well as that of retired military officers that have been directing the political game from behind the scene. The former governor said Nigerians would not have been able to withstand the arrogance and the orgy of excesses that the PDP would unleash on the country, if its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, had won the election. He said it took Atiku’s candidature in 2019 to galvanise the party to give Buhari a run for his money and that with the former vice president not likely to run in 2023, the party’s fortune is going to change for the worse. For the APC, Attah said it is President Buhari that has been holding the party together and that in the no distant future Nigerians are going to be singing its dirge. He said in the last four years nobody can say that the President was a truly party man in the conventional sense and that in his second term “it is my conviction that he is going to pay even less attention to the party”. He added: “There was yet a third group – the military block. They did not hide their support for Atiku and the PDP. They openly showed their hand and have been spanked. Their influence therefore is bound to wane. It is my prediction that from now on we are going to witness less and less of those pilgrimages to Abeokuta and Minna.  With this loss of influence, it is also safe to say that the military oligarchy is dead. “These were the three power blocks that constantly exerted their manipulative wiles on the country. If they did not approve of you, be as wise as Solomon, as brave as David, as strong as Sampson, you will not get anywhere and that is what has kept Nigeria down. The system has never allowed us to put forward our most capable. “Buhari’s victory is the death knell to these power blocks. It has started the process of dismembering these menacing Behemoths, pulling out their fangs, blunting the ir claws and neutralising their sting. Buhari’s victory has returned power to the common man. Positions negotiated in Abuja and Lagos over the heads of the people can no longer be guaranteed. His victory has therefore given Nigeria a long- delayed but much needed opportunity for a new life; an opportunity to chart a new course. That is why for me his victory represents not only the triumph of the common man, but indeed also a great blessing for Nigeria.” With this state of affairs, Attah said an opportunity has now been created for fresh hands to take over the leadership of the country. He said: “Nigeria can now look forward to a new birth. The phoenix can now rise out of the ashes and attain its destined glory. “If Atiku had won, it is possible that he would have atikulated this country to the next level – to borrow from the slogan of both parties. But I also had the fear that if Atiku wins and the PDP gets back in the saddle, this country would be plunged into an orgy of intolerable excesses.” The elder statesman said now that Buhari has won, he must take steps to put a stop to all agitations to split up the country, by restructuring the polity. He said: “He must see to it that we re-enact and reinstate the terms and conditions of the agreement that caused all the various peoples of this country, at independence, to agree to come together and form one country – federalism. Anything short of this is to court a disaster of unimaginable magnitude. The popular word today that describes this is restructuring. My prediction is that unless this is done, by the end of his tenure in the next four years, there may not be a country called Nigeria as we know it today.” Attah was categorical that there would be no Nigeria without restructuring. He added: “What is going to happen is that agitation for break up is going to get more violent, more virulent and the country will scatter. Certainly, Buhari would not allow that to happen.” The former governor said the entire process of restructuring may not happen within the next four years, because it would a lot of negotiation to arrive at an agreement. He added: “It would be like the quest for independence, some said we were ready, while others insisted we were not ready. But we must agree that restructuring is something we can do, so that there will be a Nigeria.” Attah said an effort was made before the general elections to convince President Buhari that it had become absolutely necessary to restructure the country. He said as interim chairman of the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), he led a delegation that presented a 16-point agenda to the President, which centred on the Niger Delta and restructuring at the national level. Nevertheless, he admitted that the group committed a blunder by identifying itself with a candidate. He said: “We made the same mistake that the military bloc made; we identified ourselves with a candidate. So, we were seen as a party, even though we are not a political party. We would have been in a better position if we had asked each of the candidates to restructure after they win the election.” Secondly, former Governor Attah said the Buhari-led administration must work relentlessly to see that in the shortest possible time every hamlet, every corner of the country enjoys 24 hours constant supply of electric power. He added: “In today’s world, it is not a luxury but an absolute necessity.” He also urged the President to forge ahead with his fight against corruption. His words: “The fact still remains that if we do not kill corruption, corruption will kill us. This time the fight must be total and unsparing.” The elder statesman urged President Buhari to put a stop to all the killings, “whether by herdsmen, Libyan mercenaries, marauders, cattle rustlers or whoever”. Attah also wants Buhari to facilitate the release of the abducted Dapchi school girl, Leah Sharibu, and totally annihilate Boko Haram. 