Leaders of Bakassi local government area of Cross River State have condemned the suspected attempt on the life of the State Security Adviser (South), Mr Ani Esin, who is from the area. In a statement by the member representing Bakassi in the House of Assembly, Ekpo Ekpo Bassey; Former Chairman, Bakassi, Emmanuel Etene,; Dr Senior Special Assistant on Communication, Eneyo Eyo; Special Adviser on Inter-Party Affairs, Austin Ibok; Community Leader/Permanent Secretary, Mr. Aye Henshaw, and seven others, they expressed gratitude to God that the assassination attempt was not successful. Esin, also a former local government chairman, was abducted by unknown gunmen in his residence last Tuesday and dragged away in one of his vehicles after being manhandled. But the suspected assassination attempt was foiled by the police who intercepted them as they were getting away following distress calls. The leaders said: “It is now public knowledge that in the wee hours of March 12th, 2019, an evil plan made from the pit of Hell and executed by criminals and their sponsors to assassinate Hon. Ani Esin was carried out at his residence in the Akai Efa area of Calabar Municipality. “This blood-thirsty gang broke into the home of our brother; subjected him to untold brutality, with severe machete cuts and gun shots, all intended to put an end to his life. “But the Almighty God prevailed and ensured that their evil plan was defeated. “We, as leaders of the Bakassi people strongly condemn this gruesome attack and the criminal attempt to take the life of a Community Leader and Public Servant with a rich pedigree of service and positive interventions for the cause of Bakassi and indeed the state. “There is no doubt in our minds that this dastardly act was designed to silence Hon. Ani Esin for his principled stand for truth on issues concerning Bakassi and the politics of Cross River State.” They continued: “After working tirelessly and around the clock to deliver his Party’s candidates in the just-concluded elections, it would have amounted to the greatest injustice to deprive him of the fruits of his labour, through an organized termination of his life. God forbid! “The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria clearly guarantees her citizens the right to freedom of association, the right to hold opinion and canvas them in the public space. “We believe that this attack was intended to deny him these rights and must therefore be condemned in the strongest terms by all men of goodwill and Democrats in our land. “Whatever the motive of these criminals, we call on the security agencies to spare no effort in bringing the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice. “We have already embarked on a debriefing exercise to calm down frayed nerves of our people back home, assuring them that the security forces have launched a full throttle operation to fish out the criminals. “If someone of the stature of Hon. Ani Esin, who is the State Security Adviser can be so traumatized at home by a criminal gang; then who is safe? “We commend the prompt intervention of His Excellency, Governor Ben Ayade and that gives us confidence there is light at the end of the tunnel of this investigation. God protect us all.”