In the build-up to the 2019 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) held confidence-building sessions and consultations with many stakeholders. It interfaced with leaders of the political parties, civil society groups, security forces and legislators, at the end of which it confidently declared that all was set for the election. The commission assured Nigerians that it had put in place measures to tackle logistics challenges that had been the bane of previous elections. In liaison with the police and other  security forces, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said no one would be able to tamper with the process as they had all learnt lessons from a thorough review of previous elections. The first indication that the commission might not be right came when it had to postpone the federal elections by seven days, on the excuse that it could not get the logistics right. Then came February 23 when the presidential and National Assembly elections were held in the 36 states of the federation. As usual, ballot box snatching, shootings, attacks on opponents, arson and maiming were the order of the day, in Lagos, Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Abia and Oyo states, among others. We agree with Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), that electoral malpractices will continue to mar our elections until offenders know that they will be apprehended, arraigned and duly sentenced. So far, they are encouraged to perpetrate the nefarious activities because they are shielded from justice by their godfathers. Where they are arrested, investigated and arraigned, shameless state attorneys-general succumb to pressures by the godfathers to set the offenders free. However, we do not agree with the learned silk that the way out is to saddle the already overburdened INEC with this task. While Mr. Falana is right in pointing out that the commission has the power to prosecute such offenders under section 150 of the Electoral Act 2010, the commission has argued that it lacked the capacity to undertake the task. Every election year, the commission is slammed with pre and post-election cases, to which it is joined. This year, about 600 such cases were filed and the commission was expected to be represented in court. It is distracted from performing its primary duty of organising so many elections at once, as some of the cases are not determined until a few days to the election. In some cases, courts of coordinate jurisdiction gave conflicting verdicts. Some bind INEC, others unbind, leaving the commission in a quandary on what to do. In 2011, widespread violence greeted the general elections and 943 Nigerians were killed, while 838 others sustained varying degrees of injury. The police succeeded in apprehending 626 suspected hoodlums, but nothing came out of it. This must have emboldened them to continue in 2015. Four years after, they are everywhere again, visiting terror on neighbourhoods and making the country a laughing stock before the international community. This might have informed President Muhammadu Buhari’s exasperation on the eve of the presidential election that made him warn that would-be snatchers of ballot boxes must be prepared to pay with their lives. Cutting corners has never paid. So, we call on the President and the 9th National Assembly to give full effect to recommendations of the Lawal Uwais, Ahmed Lemu and Ken Nnamani’s electoral reform panels. The panels have recommended the unbundling of INEC to allow it concentrate on its core duty of organising elections. Other ancillary duties such as registration and monitoring of political parties’ finances, as well as prosecution of election offenders should be the responsibility of other bodies. We associate, therefore, with the recommendation that an Electoral Offences Commission be established to handle the plethora of cases that arise from elections. Violence is a crime, not just against the individual, but the state. If those who stole from the public treasury could be prosecuted, all those who conspired to subvert the general will should also be brought to book. If we have an Electoral Offences Commission, it becomes easier to monitor the cases it is handling and would-be offenders at subsequent elections are dissuaded. Besides, the rough necks recruited by politicians to visit mayhem at polling units and collation centres have been known to turn their arms against other innocent citizens in-between elections. The trend must be arrested now. The responsibility of sanitising the electoral system rests on the federal executive, the National Assembly, INEC, civil society and law enforcement agencies. This is a point when far-reaching actions must be taken to save the nation from this perennial heartache. The Nigerian Bar Association should rise above petty and narrow interests to participate in this patriotic duty. Nigeria must be saved from the clutches of those who have held her hostage over the years, arresting her development and unleashing abject poverty on the people. Everything must be done to ensure that only those who have the people’s mandate at all levels are voted into power. This will reinforce the maxim that power belongs to the people.