•’We’re closer to arresting other suspects’ POLICE in Oyo State said yesterday they are getting closer to arresting those involved in the gruesome killing of House of Representatives member Temitope Olatoye (a.k.a Sugar) on Saturday. Commissioner of Police Shina Olukolu said a team of police investigators, led by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), has succeeded in arresting one person (names withheld) in connection with the killing of the federal lawmaker. The state police command had on Sunday vowed to ensure that the killers of Olatoye during the Saturday’s polls were arrested and made to face the law The Commissioner of Police, who spoke through the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Superintendent of Police, said the police have arrested one of the killers, who has made confessional statement linking him to the killing of the lawmaker. According to the state police boss, the police are closer to arresting all those involved in the Saturday’s killing. Confirming the suspect’s arrest, Olukolu said others were being sought for, expressing assurance that there would be other developments. “We have arrested one person in connection with the killing of the lawmaker and he is helping the police with useful information that will eventually lead to the arrest of all those that have hands in the dastardly act. I can tell you that we are getting closer to the killers,” he said. The police said aside the suspect linked with Sugar’s case, about 18 persons, six guns, nine live cartridges, axe, knives and other miscellaneous items were recovered. Stating that Sugar’s death was in no way connected with the elections that took place on the day he was killed, the police commissioner said there were enough facts and evidences available to the police that would lead to the arrest of the other culprits. Temitope (a.k.a. Sugar), before his demise, was a member of the Federal House of Representatives representing Lagelu/ Akinyele Federal Constituency and the Chairman, House Committee on Urban Development and Regional Planning. Olatoye was a member of the Action Democratic Party (ADP). He was allegedly shot during the governorship election. He was 47 years.  