Former House of Representatives member and All Progressives Congress (APC) party candidate for Etinan Federal Constituency, Dan Akpan, who was defeated by the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Onofiok Luke in the just concluded elections has defected to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Akpan who defected with Etido Ibekwe, former majority leader in the State House of Assembly from Essien Udim local government area alongside others returned to the PDP during the PDP governorship grand rally in Uyo Township stadium. Speaking yesterday in Uyo, Governor Udom Emmanuel commended the people for casting their votes for the PDP on February 23, and welcomed the decampees, stating that the umbrella of the PDP is big enough to accommodate them. He advised the people not to be deceived by the blackmailed and lies of the people from Abuja noting that they don’t have followers. He challenged the opposition to an option A4 voting pattern, noting that if it was effected in Akwa Ibom State, the PDP will win overwhelmingly. He alleged that the electorates were harassed and brutalized on 23 February, that was why many people were not able to vote, adding that he has video proofs to that effect. He encouraged the people to go out and vote on Saturday, defend their votes and assured decampees of their political freedom. Emmanuel cautioned security agencies against working against the people on Saturday, noting that they were equipped and empowered with taxpayers money to defend the people and not fight them. “Akwa Ibom State is a peaceful land. Today I am here to appreciate the Akwa Ibom people. I am here today telling Akwa Ibom people that I salute you for standing firm, for your resilience in letting the world know the truth between light and darkness, God and man. “If Akwa Ibom is a land named after God, the wicked man will continue to fall; Akwa Ibom shall be liberated. Let me also thank all of you for voting PDP on the 23rd of February. “Let me thank all those who have completely collapsed their stature for the PDP. Let me also thank all those people who have defeated to PDP. I want to assure them that we have many mansions in PDP. “The PDP is big enough to cover them; PDP is the only party that can bring unity, development, bring infrastructure and preach righteousness. “I challenge the Abuja people, let them proof something to the centre, let them come down, let the Akwa Ibom people queue, if they have 20 percent, whenever we tell you that Akwa Ibom is PDP, don’t believe us,” he said. The Director-General, Divine Mandate Organisation, Commodore Idongesit Nkanga (rtd) called on Senator Godswill Akpabio to accept defeat and congratulate Chris Ekpenyong who defeated him at the elections, adding that it is the most honourable thing for him to do. He cautioned the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to be guarded on his statements on the state, stating that Akwa Ibom people have chosen PDP and will remain so. “I can only advise that once the people have spoken, the sign of liberty is that we go by the wishes of the people. We pay tax so that the security operatives will protect the people of Nigeria, please don’t turn their guns against the people of Nigeria. “The people of Akwa Ibom state want PDP. For anyone to bring violence into a peaceful community means that they don’t mean well for Nigeria,” he said. 