Nigeria’s U-19 cricket team are on the verge of history as the first Nigeria team to feature in an ICC World Cup after the Sylvester Okpe-captained side recorded their fourth win over Tanzania at the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup, Africa Qualifier holding in Namibia. From the opening day of the competition on Sunday, the Nigerian team described as the surprise package of the competition had overcome host – Namibia, Kenya and highly-rated Uganda and yesterday continued their good run with another win over Tanzania. With four victories from four matches, the Nigeria side beat their Tanzania counterparts by 151 runs to remain the only unbeaten team in the six-nation qualifiers. Also, the ICC Tournament Director, Kuben Pillay yesterday confirmed to NationSport that one team that emerged as the overall champion will pick the sole slot from the region to the World Cup holding in South Africa. Pillay described the Nigeria’s win over Uganda on Wednesday as a big step towards the 2020 World Cup in South Africa. In his reports, the ICC official said the West Africans recovered for a parlous 12 for four, and built up their total slowly with Samuel Mba scoring a priceless half-century, while skipper Syvester Okpe also grinding to a gritty 26. That was after Trevor Bukenya (four for 24) had ripped through the top-order, putting Uganda in a commanding position. As it was, Nigeria could only score 110 all out, and Uganda made their way to 62 for two, before the wheels fell off spectacularly. Their last eight wickets crashed for just 18 runs, as the pressure exerted by Nigeria proved too much. Mohamed Taiwo’s left-arm swing struck two blows at the top and the end of the innings, as Nigeria fielded tenaciously, and didn’t allow Uganda any room to breathe. When the final wicket fell, Uganda still had half their innings still to bat, but simply melted under the pressure. Nigeria’s 30-run victory now puts them in the pound seats to qualify, as they have an easier run-in on the weekend. In the final group match, Nigeria will face Sierra Leone tomorrow in their bid to finally confirm their qualification for the global tournament next year.