What caused the collapse of the Ita Faji Lagos building collapse? This is the puzzle to be unrravelled by a panel constituted by the government to probe the incident. Inaugurating the committee yesterday at Alausa, Ikeja, Physical Planning and Urban Development Commissioner Prince Rotimi Ogunleye said 149 distressed buildings would be demolished in the state to curb the collapse of houses. Ogunleye said 40 of the structures were demolished last year under the first phase of the exercise. He said 51 buildings would be demolised in the ongoing second phase, adding that 16 had been demolished as at yesterday. The demolition, he said, would continue until the state is rid den of distressed buildings, adding that none of the structures is occupied, “so there is no issue of rendering people homeless.” Should there be any such issue  the government, he said, had made provisions at Igando and Agbowa to take care of those rendered homeless. Ogunleye said his ministry had invited the owner of the collapsed Ita Faji building for interview. The ministry, he said, was still waiting for the owner to appear, noting that failure to show up will attract sanctions. Ogunleye said the committee, which comprises professionals in the building industry, would proffer solution to building collapse. The committee is chaired by a civil and structural engineer, Olatunde Wasiu Olokunola. Other members are:  Fitzgerald Umar, Bayo Owojori, Ayo Adediran and Kunle Awobodu. The panel’s terms of reference are: to determine the remote and immediate causes of the collapse of the building; proffer remedial measures to stem recurrence of the incident; examine the operations of the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) and make recommendations to ensure effective and efficient service delivery. Others are: any other recommendation to be considered for implementation and determine the level of negligence by the owner or developer. The commissioner advised builders and developers to ensure they comply with town planning regulations, engage professionals and obtain approvals from the ministry before building, to avoid incidence of building collapse. 