IRKED and threatened by the wanton and unprovoked attacks on its supporters across the state, the Sokoto state chapter of the All Progressives Congress has called on the security agencies to take necessary steps to instantly halt the heinous attacks and bring perpetrators to justice to serve as deterrent. ” Unless the security agencies do the needful, they will be putting public confidence in them to jeopardy”, it pointed out. In the same vein, the opposition APC in the state also said it had chosen to seek redress for the injustices meted the party in the rerun governorship polls through democratic and legal means. While it was watching and expecting that culprits and perpetrators of the attacks were unravelled and made to the full wrath of the law, the party said:” We are aware that security agencies have made some arrests in Tambuwal, Goronyo, Sokoto and other places.” In a release signed and issued to reporters in Sokoto Thursday by the state chairman of the party, Alhaji Sadiq Isa Achida, the party also stated that it was compelled to sound caution to the perpetrators and their sponsors that “enough is enough.” The party according to the release titled” Enough of the PDP Atrocities in Sokoto” said its desire for peace to reign in the state should not and must not be misconstrued as a sign of weakness. ” PDP thugs attacked and killed Sani Aliyu, an APC supporter in Giyawa village of Goronyo local government. Another APC supporter was also attacked in Sifawa, Bodinga local government, now lying unconscious in UDUTH as a result of the physical assault on him. ” Highly placed religious clerics were also attacked and their families maimed and injured. Our supporters have become easy targets in their homes, markets, mosques and business premises almost on a daily basis since the declaration of the rerun elections results by INEC. ” Our opponents of the PDP should note that they do not have monopoly of the ability to perpetrate violence”, Achida cautioned. However, the opposition party in the state which urged its supporters not to react in any way and should continue to be law-abiding citizens, added” we hope that our state will be saved from the danger that could befall our people should those responsible for maintaining peace in our state fail in their duty as we assure our supporters in the state that the party is working assiduously to defend our interest and we are confident of being victorious soon “, the release concluded.