The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday issued certificates of return to Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State and his Cross River State counterpart, Ben Ayade as well as the governor of Katsina State, Alhaji Aminu Masari. The three were among the sitting governors re-elected together with their deputies in the just concluded governorship and state house of assembly elections across the country. Kano State governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and his deputy, Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, are also billed to be issued their return certificates on Wednesday next week. Presenting certificates of return to Lalong, his deputy and 23 Plateau State House of Assembly members-elect in Jos yesterday, the INEC national commissioner supervising Abuja, Niger and Plateau State, Prof Antonia Okoosi-Simbine, encouraged Gov Lalong to ensure that he fulfilled his campaign promises to the people of the state who elected him. He also urged the lawmakers to initiate laws that would benefit the people. The commission applauded the Plateau State electorates for their peaceful conduct during the elections. She, however, urged all candidates and political parties who are not certified with the results of the elections to seek legal means to address their issues. Lalong, in an address, thanked the people of Plateau State for giving him a second term to serve the state as governor. Speaking on behalf of the elected leaders, Lalong assured that his administration would consolidate on the achievements, adding that every citizen would be carried along in the incoming administration. Earlier, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Plateau State, Mallam Hussaini Halilu Pai, had commended all the stakeholders for ensuring the success of the entire process. Presenting the certificates of return to the 23 House of Assembly members-elect, the state REC paid tributes to the late Ezekiel Afon, the member-elect who died shortly after he was pronounced winner of the Pengana state constituency elections. “It is unfortunate that one of you, Mr. Ezekiel Afon, could not make it because he died shortly after he was declared as the winner of the Pengana state assembly constituency election. May his soul rest in peace,” he said. Addressing Governor Ayade, his deputy, Prof Ivara Esu, and the 25 members-elect of the state House of Assembly who also received their certificates of return in Calabar yesterday, the Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmud Yakubu, represented by the National Commissioner in charge of Cross River, Akwa Ibom and Delta states, Dr. Mustapha Mohammed, said the presentation of the certificates was in compliance with the law that established the commission. The State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Frankland Briyai, attributed the success of the election in the state to the contributions of all relevant stakeholders. Speaking afterwards, Ayade extended the olive branch to the opposition in the state, saying, “Let us put an end to enmity. Whether you are in PDP, APC, or SDP, we are all Cross Riverians.” He said in spite of the meagre resources the state gets, he would continue to improve the welfare of the people of the state and sustain the industrialization drive he began in his first term. “I will do much more in my second term. We must show what is called governance,” he said. Speaking at the award of certificates of return to Masari and 34 newly elected members of the Katsina State House of Assembly yesterday, the National Electoral Commissioner for Katsina, Kano and Jigawa states, Engr Abubakar Nahuche, charged elected officers to justify their victor by rendering quality service to the electorate. He said: “The 2019 general election has generated a lot of interests and debate particularly on declaring election inconclusive requiring supplementary election. “It shows improvement in the quality of election in recent times. “It has reduced the margin between the winner and the runner up during the election.” Citing Adamawa and Sokoto states as examples of states where elections were declared inconclusive, Nahuche said: “In Adamawa, the margin between the winner and the runner up was over 32,000 votes and the cancelled votes were about 40,900. “The runner up needed  over 60 per cent of the cancelled votes to win the election  while in Sokoto state, the margin was over 3,400 votes while the cancelled votes were over 75,000, so, the election could  go both ways, both of them could  win the election as we have seen.” Also speaking, the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Katsina State Alhaji Jibrin Zarewa, restated that the commission kept faith with the provisions of its core values and the Nigerian Constitution and other electoral laws during the conduct of the just concluded elections in the state The commission, according to him, carried along relevant stakeholders in the process. In Kano State, INEC Director of Voters Education and Publicity, Muhammad Garba Lawal, hinted one of our correspondents yesterday that Ganduje, his deputy Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna and 40 members of the Kano State House of Assembly will be handed their certificate of returns on Wednesday. Lawal said that INEC national commissioner in charge of Kano, Jigawa and Katsina states, Engr. Abubakar Nauche, is expected to present the certificates of return to the elected officers.