•’It’s all lies’ Some residents of Orimedu community in Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos, yesterday protested against what they called the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Muslim Folami’s plan to impose a monarch on them. But in a swift reaction, Folami said he was shocked by the allegations, saying it is impossible to impose anyone as monarch because of the tough process. The protesters stormed the House of Assembly at Alausa, Ikeja, with placards with inscriptions such as: “Hon. Folami, stop bribing our kings, no room for imposition”, “Hon. Muslim Folami betrayed APC”, “Accord Party leader cannot install a king in Lagos State” and “Folami, stop bastardising our traditional institution”.  The protesters’ leader, Issa Olayinka, accused Folami of attempting to impose Ibrahim Akodu as the Oba of the community. He said: “We are here concerning attempt by the commissioner to impose a king on us at Orimedu. “The Onimedu of Orimedu died about four months ago and we have about seven months to perform traditional rites before another person can mount the throne and this has procedures and protocols, which have to be followed. “There is a declaration that it is the turn of Oke Oshodi quarters out of the six quarters to produce the next king. “The issue now is that the people in Oke Oshodi quarters will have to come together and discuss with the ‘afobaje’ (kingmakers).” Olayinka said the commissioner is not from Oke Oshodi quarters, although he is from Orimedu. According to him, what the elders of Oke Oshodi quarters said was that each of the 11 families in the quarters should bring one candidate, including the family of Ibrahim Akodu, who is the Chief Akinrogun of the community and Folami’s candidate. “Akodu is even supposed to relinquish his position if he wants to contest the kingship, but the commissioner is saying he should retain the seat. “We were told that Folami has the approval of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to do this, which was why we wrote a letter to the governor.” Addressing the protesters, Mr. Jude Idimogu representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 2 thanked them for the peaceful action. Folami denied knowing Akodu, wondering why the man was being linked to him.” He said the process of appointing, upgrading or installing an Oba was long and tedious adding that it is spelt out in the chieftaincy laws. 