An educationist, Mrs Abosede Oloyede, has said Physical Education (PE) is important in identifying the gifts of pupils. Speaking during the third inter-house sports competition of the Hubert Ogunde Memorial Primary School, Akute, Mrs Oloyede urged parents to allow their wards plenty of physical exercise. The educationist lamented the little time allotted for PE, saying: “Physical education builds our bones and muscles; it helps to reduce the risk of having chronic diseases; it provides a healthy style of living. School and parents have reduced the time allocated for PE, forgetting that PE  is one of the core subjects and that is why it is one of the three domains in education namely Cognitive domain, Affective domain and Psychomotive domain which is the movement of the body where PE comes under” The Director of Studies of the school also spoke of how PE could lead some pupils to their careers. “I would implore schools and parents to allow their children to participate in physical education. By so doing, the school can identify the gifts in these children and work towards achieving their future ambition.  They can be like Mikel Obi, Jayjay Okocha, etc. We cannot all become doctors and lawyers. By so doing they become what God has destined them to be,” she said. Chairman of the event, Mr. Muyiwa Kupoluyi, who is also the CEO of Allied Gas Limited, said PE is important for building a profession in sports. “Physical Education development is important because at this age and time, sport is becoming a profession and we never can tell which one of the students is going to make it through sports; hence it is good to catch them early and give them an early exposure to sporting activities.. “I think all the parents now are enlightened, they see the amount of fortune people are making in sports so they should allow children to discover themselves as they can be international sportmen in future,” he said. The sporting fiesta was all fun and excitement as the pupils grouped by their houses –Blue, Yellow, Red and Green showed strength and vigour during the march past as the ‘queens’ tried to ‘outshine’ each other to the entertainment of the spectators. The competitive events included races, march-past, wheel barrow race, bursting the balloon, jumping the hurdle, sack race, egg and spoon race etc. in which Blue House emerged as the overall winner. The parents and staff were not left out in the excitement as there was parents’ race, staff race and proprietress race. Winners were given trophies, medals, and other prizes; prizes were also given to parents and invited schools.