•It’s good Lagos is set to get violated women swifter justice.  But what of violated men? The effort by Lagos state government for courts to expeditiously hear cases of domestic violence and sexual offences have begun to bear fruit. Justice Abiola Soladoye, of the Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court, is set to deliver her first judgment since joining the court. The judgment is with respect to a charge of sexual assault against one Yusuf Quadri, a teacher, who allegedly raped his colleague on September 4, 2017. Justice Soladoye assumed responsibility as a Judge of the court in September 2018 and is set to deliver a judgment on May 9, 2019. In 2015, a new Criminal Law of Lagos State came into force. The law provides for hitherto un-coded aspects of sexual offences and domestic violence, and the result was that offenders who had taken advantage of the gap before then, have their days in court. To further make the law beneficial for Lagosians, the government created a special court, to deal with the peculiar challenges of domestic violence and sexual offences. Justice Soladoye is the first judge of the Ikeja division. We recall that in January 2018, the Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Olunfumilayo Opeyemi-Oke, while receiving the then Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal, announced the creation of the special sexual offences court to curb the increase in rape incidents. Significantly, the CJ reminded courts that under the new law, rape was punishable by life imprisonment, as such granting bail is a luxury. She said: “the sentence for this type of offence has been increased to life imprisonment and no magistrate should grant such suspect bail. This is why we are setting up special sexual offences courts.” No doubt the Lagos State government has championed the protection of women’s right, with laws and administrative policies to protect especially vulnerable women. Its Ministry of Women Affairs has a department equipped to save molested women. They also have temporary shelters for such women. As part of protecting the vulnerable, there is the Office of Public Defender, which defends the poor, pro bono. While we commend the efforts, what about the cause of vulnerable men?  In making a call for vulnerable men, we nevertheless acknowledge that women are the more vulnerable to domestic violence and should get the greater attention. On the international scene, a popular music act Koffi Olomide, was recently handed a two-year suspended sentence for raping a minor, who was his stage dancer. The 62-year old Koffi, whose real name is Antoine Christopher Agbepa Mumbam, raped the 15-year old victim between 2002 and 2006, partly in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and partly in France. When he feared arrest, he ran to DRC and was sentenced in absentia. Significantly, the victim and two other women accusing Koffi of rape have stayed away from DRC, afraid of reprisal attacks, if they go home. Their fear is not different from most victims in Third World countries. Indeed, if the victims had pursued justice in DRC, perhaps the music star would have used his influence and money to circumvent justice. Also, the raped women appealed that their cases be tried in camera, apparently because of the stigma attached to rape and domestic violence. One strain of rape, gaining notoriety in Nigeria, is incestuous rape. It has become ordinary for father and step-fathers to rape their daughters and step-daughters. There are also cases of brothers raping sisters. Also common is battering of wives by husbands, and vice versa; amongst other forms of abuse. No doubt, the vulnerability of women requires that appropriate laws and policies be put in place to protect them, and we believe Lagos State is on the right track.