The Executive Director of National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), Mr. Adedayo Thomas, has said that the board would introduce seal that would authenticate classified films, and further curb unwholesome distribution of unclassified and pirated films and videos. Thomas disclosed this while delivering a speech at a conference on Film and Video Distribution and Regulation in Emerging New Markets, organised by the NFVCB in Abuja, last Friday. The one-day event with the theme, “Institutional  Collaboration to Improve Standards”, brought together filmmakers, distributors, relevant government functionaries, investors and members of the various guilds in the  Nigerian movie industry. According to the NFVCB boss, there were emerging trends in film and video distribution which has necessitated measures, including introduction of the authentication label in line with global best practices. “The NFVCB is in the process of acquiring film/video authentication labels which are meant to distinguish film and video work that are classified by the board from the ones that are not classified and approved. “It will have several security features which cannot be forged or manipulated, which will aid the board to reduce the incidents of piracy to a large extent. “When a film is classified and approved, the owner or distributor will apply for the authentication label for the number of copies to be replicated as ascertained by the NFVCB. “We therefore need the buy-in of all stakeholders on this laudable project which hopefully will clear the market of unclassified, unapproved and of course, pirated films/videos,” he said. Thomas explained that NFVCB, in its effort to serving the fast-growing Nigerian film and video industry better, has drastically reduced the period it takes to censor and classify a film. He added that the board was also working towards changing her certificates and licenses by printing new set of the documents with special security features to make them difficult to forge. In her address, Mrs Grace Gekpe, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of  Information and Culture, commended the NFVCB for organising the conference, adding that  stakeholders needed to cooperate with the board towards strengthening  the industry. “Movie business or any business for that matter thrives in an atmosphere of strict compliance to laid rules or regulations governing the operations of such business,” she said. “The NFVCB  was set up specifically to regulate the film and video business in Nigeria, it is therefore an offence to distribute a movie that has not been classified and approved by the board.”