Following the declaration by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal as winner of the Sokoto state governorship elections, Chairman of the Northern Senators Forum and Coordinator, North West, Presidential Campaign Council, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, has urged the faithful of the All Progressives Congress ( APC ), in the state to remain peaceful , resolute and calm . This is contained in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, to Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, Bashir Rabe Mani and issued to newsmen in Sokoto, on Sunday. Senator Wamakko was reacting to the outcome of the 2019 Gubernatorial elections in the state , which were capped by supplementary elections conducted on March 23,2019. The lawmaker said,” the party’s leadership, membership and the entire electorate in the State would not despair , in anyway . “We have jointly struggled, fought and won. We are never losers. All and sundry have done their possible best , by coming out en masse and massively cast their invaluable votes for our candidates, at all levels . ” In this direction, we are really appreciating and cherishing the immense sustained support of the members of the party to beat, the APC, as well as the electorate, in general. “These laudable gestures of the electorate were kick-started with the Presidential and National Assembly polls, then during the first Gubernatorial and State Assembly elections and climaxed with the supplementary polls on March 23 .” Wamakko who is a Member of the World Muslim League and represents Sokoto North Senatorial District noted that, the candidates of the party had recorded myriad of landslide victories during the 2019 general polls sequel to the unflinching loyalty and unshakeable devotion by its supporters and the electorate. The Marafan Hausasun further promised that, the APC and its leaders , at all levels, would remain religiously committed to the welfare, security and general comfort of Nigerians . These, he noted, form part of the cardinal ideals and objectives of the party , vowing that, Nigerians would never regret bestowing their mandates to the APC . ” Our Leader , President Muhammadu Buhari was just given a second term by Nigerians and he will surely take the entire country to the NEXT LEVEL. ” The leaders of the party , at all levels , most especially the ninth Senate , would relentlessly strive to fully complement the efforts of the President to better the lives of Nigerians, in all ramifications. ” The leadership and membership of the party, as well as entire Nigerians should continue to be peaceful and united .