Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha has exonerated President Muhammadu Buhari in what he called the “acts of lawlessness perpetrated by the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole”. The governor, who was apparently referring to his suspension and that of his Ogun State counterpart, Ibikunle Amosun, by the APC National Working Committee, noted that “President Buhari is too decent and cannot be part of Mr. Oshiomhole’s appetite for lawlessness, especially in running the affairs of the APC”. Okorocha said: “Adams Oshiomhole has done so many strange things with the party and it would be wrong for anybody to think that President Buhari known for his penchant for decency, honesty and forthrightness would be on the same page with the National Chairman. “The National Chairman has told the world that he wants to ensure party’s supremacy and he has been doing so to the best of his ability, because from all indications, he has his own idea of party’s supremacy. “Oshiomhole’s idea of party’s supremacy could be the purported suspension of two governors on the platform of the party few days after the presidential and National Assembly elections in which the party did well without any contribution from him. “The President was voted by Nigerians across the geo-political zones because he has proved to be real and can be trusted. When he said I am fighting corruption, you see it happening. It cannot be the same thing with someone who sold the tickets of the party to the highest bidders. “We are yet to see any Nigerian living, who would have defeated President Buhari in that election. He has earned the confidence and trust of most Nigerians, and in states where he lost, you could see traces of wanton manipulation and mutilation of election figures like in the case of Imo. “In other words, the President has nothing to do with Oshiomhole’s disdain for the right actions and the chairman’s penchant for lawlessness and total disregard for the party’s constitution.”