The avalanche of congratulatory messages being poured on the Oyo State Governor-elect, Mr Seyi Makinde continued on Thursday with the latest of such coming from the Ibadan Obas-in-Council in which the new governor was admonished to walk his talk in terms of electoral promises. Rising from their meeting which held at Mapo Hall, Ibadan, the Obas-in-Council consisting the promoted members of Olubadan-in-Council and the promoted Baales in Ibadanland, they rejoiced with Makinde over his victory at the polls held across the state last Saturday. Makinde of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) defeated his closest rival, Mr Adebayo Adelabu of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the election, a development that has elicited jubilation across the state. In a message signed by the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba (Dr.) Lekan Balogun, on behalf of the Council, the governor-elect was asked to run an all-inclusive government that would reflect the combined efforts of the forces that saw him through the excruciating election. According to the Ibadan Obas, “We are happy for the governor-elect that at last, the Almighty creator crowned his efforts of many years back with this victory. We enjoin him to be magnanimous in victory, seeing the entire state as his constituency without any form of discrimination. “We equally note his utterances since he was declared winner of the election and we are happy to observe his continuous emphasis on socio-economic development of the state and we can only urge him not to leave any stone unturned to bring his dream into reality.” Asking the residents of the state to give the incoming government their maximum cooperation towards reaping dividends of democracy, the monarchs maintained that “it is only under a conducive environment devoid of brigandage and all forms of security threat that any government can perform optimally. “The pockets of violence recorded during or after the last Saturday’s elections coupled with the rumours of killing of different people in the state did not portray the state in a good light. We urge our people to please shun violence and desist from rumour mongering which are only capable of creating unnecessary tension in the state.” While praying for a successful tenure for the governor-elect, they urged the residents of the state to always remember him in their prayers, saying, “our leaders need our prayers at all times so as to succeed because it is in their success that the subjects can find peace and joy”.