It was a Class of Four – Dr. Bukola Saraki, Godswill Akpabio, George Akume and Abiola Ajimobi – these four political leaders fell a fortnight ago. But going by the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to delist outgoing Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, from the list of elected senators, the class has increased by one. It actually ought to have been a class of five! I welcome Okorocha, the apostle of Iberiberism, to the unenviable class of giants whose bid to be in the ninth National Assembly failed. Not long after Okorocha was declared winner, the man who declared him duly elected, cried out that he did so under duress. INEC later came out with a statement that any candidate declared winner at gun point would not be recognised. The threat became real earlier this week when the commission published the list of senators-elect and His Excellency’s name was omitted. This interesting development came at a time Okorocha’s son-in-law and his preferred successor, Uche Nwosu, was duly defeated by former Deputy Speaker Emeka Ihedioha. Ihedioha, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, was Okorocha’s closest rival in the 2015 election. For His Excellency, it was double jeopardy. He was missing in action yesterday when certificates of return were presented to real senators-elect. The jeopardy of  Senate President  Saraki  also became double with the loss of the governorship election by Razak Atunwa, former Kwara State House of Assembly Speaker, whom he sacrificed a lot to install as governor. Before Atunwa’s defeat, the ex-Kwara State two-term governor fell to YahayaOloriegbe, who is now senator-elect for Kwara Central senatorial district. Like Saraki and Okorocha, Akpabio, who a fortnight ago was beaten hands down by Chris Ekpeyong, a former deputy governor to Obong Victor Attah, also suffered a second jeopardy. He had boasted that with his might, NsimaEkere, his deputy when he was Akwa Ibom State governor, would be the next governor of their state. But last Saturday, Ekere suffered a resounding defeat. He lost terribly to Governor Udom Emmanuel. Akume, an ex-governor of Benue and All Progressives Congress (APC) leader in Benue State, appears to also be heading a similar path. First, he was defeated by Orker Jev. Though the governorship election, in which he supported Emmanuel Jime, is inconclusive, it will take some miracle for Samuel Ortom of the PDP to be defeated. While Akume’s second ‘loss’ may yet be averted, Abiola Ajimobi, Oyo State governor, does not have this luxury. He lost his senatorial bid to Kola Balogun. Last weekend, his bid to have BayoAdelabu succeed him failed when PDP’s Seyi Makinde was elected. Saraki, Akpabio and Akume are sitting senators. Ajimobi was a senator before becoming governor, and was cocksure he would become senator once more, contrary to a prayer he once said that there was no position he craved again after leading Oyo. Like I noted on this space a fortnight ago, Saraki’s fall is the loudest. He was the undisputed leader of Kwara politics—a position he hijacked from his father, the late Olusola Saraki, who was Senate Leader in the Second Republic. While Saraki was serving out his second term, his father wanted his younger sister, Gbemi, to succeed him. The younger Saraki would have none of it. He stood up to his father. Not a few saw sense in his position that the position should not be made a family affair. So fierce was the battle that his father had to abandon the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for him and tried to install his daughter through a lesser known party. As it turned out, the younger Saraki triumphed by installing outgoing Governor Abdulfatai Ahmed. The political feud was settled thereafter. But it was clear to all  that son had displaced father as the new strongman of Kwara politics. The Second Republic Senate Leader joined his ancestors not long after. As senator and later as senate president, all knew where power was in Kwara. Ahmed never failed to acknowledge Saraki as his leader. House of Assembly members from the state knew who to pay allegiance to, and House of Representatives members worshipped the ground on which the ex-bank top gun walked. Like Saraki, Akpabio was lord in Akwa Ibom. When he sneezed, many caught cold in Akwa Ibom. But his fall began not long after he installed Udom Emmanuel as his successor. It was completed last weekend with Ekere’s defeat. He is blaming it all on INEC. My response: I just dey laugh! Undoubtedly, the uncommon governor, as Akpabio liked to address himself when he was in charge in Akwa Ibom, has had an uncommon fall. We were expecting he would help President Muhammadu Buhari win Akwa Ibom, but he could not help himself not to talk of helping the president. Akume, like Akpabio and Saraki, was governor. He was governor from 1999 to 2007 and has been in the Senate since then. He installed Samuel Ortom as Benue State governor. Some months back, Ortom dumped APC for PDP. Akume remained and vowed to deal with his estranged godson. In his heydays, anybody who wanted political power in Benue sought him out. If not for Jev, he would have been in the Senate for the fourth time. As a sitting governor, many thought Ajimobi should have easily been able to win election in one senatorial district. But he lost and certainly life after May 29 will never be the same again. The pain of the losses will have its political effect on Ajimobi, who may now have to battle Communications Minister Adebayo Shittu for the state’s ministerial slot. Both have never been on the same page. Shittu wanted to be governor, but was screened out by the national secretariat of the party for skipping National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme. He became a minister despite Ajimobi’s objection. I must touch a bit on Ogun State Governor IbikunleAmosun, who, though succeeded in his bid to become a senator, lost his gamble to have AdekunleAkinlade as Ogun State’s next governor. DapoAbiodun, the man he fought tooth and nail to thwart his bid to be governor, will be the new landlord in Oke-Mosan from May 29 —which also will mark his 59th birthday. My final take: It gladdens my heart that Okorocha and Amosun did not succeed in their bid to prove that they were more popular than their party— the vehicle, which took them to the government houses. If the duo had gotten away with their anti-party activities and install candidates who ran on parties other than APC, they would have started seeing themselves as tin-gods. Now, they know they are lost gods! And to that I say to the people and God be the glory.