The acting Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu spoke tough Thursday ahead of the Saturday polls. Adam warned those whose only interest is to disrupt the peaceful conduct of the Saturday governorship and State House of Assembly elections to stay clear of polling units. The security agencies he said are ready to deal with them. Adamu gave the warning at the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) meeting held at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Abuja. He said that security agencies were ready for the Saturday elections. He encouraged every Nigerian to come out and cast his or her vote on the election day, while also assuring domestic and international observers and journalists adequate security during the elections. “The INEC staff and ad hoc staff are also encouraged to carry out their process without fear or any molestation. “For those that disrupted the process in some of the states during the presidential election this time is going to be tough for you. You will never get opportunity to disrupt the process again. “If you attempt to do that there will be consequences. It is better for you not to come out because we have seen what you done before, we have seen your mode of operandi and we are ready for it,’’ Adamu said The acting IGP, who described the Feb. 23 national election to be largely peaceful, said it was achieved as a result of effective collaboration among security agencies and INEC. He said that the collaboration would be improved on for the success of the Saturday state elections. “The security arrangement we provided for presidential and NASS elections are still in place. “We have reviewed what we did and we have seen areas that needed improvement. We have sat down with other security agencies and we have agreed and already put in place adequate security for the next election,’’ he said. On his part, the National Security Adviser (NSA), retired Maj.-Gen. Mohammed Monguno, commended the INEC Chairman and members of the commission for the successful conduct of the just concluded national elections. Monguno, who was represented by Sanusi Galadima, also commended security personnel for their conduct in the last elections, while expressing optimism that Saturday’s election would also be peaceful. Monguno disclosed that a room for the election situated in his office would open from Friday to Wednesday, with representative from all security agencies in attendance. All security agencies, including military and paramilitary agencies were represented at the meeting. In his remark, INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu assured Nigerians that the Commission “will work closely with the Police to ensure the diligent prosecution of all violators of our electoral laws. Citizens are asking for effective but non-intrusive protection before, during and immediately after the elections in which their rights are respected and their choices safeguarded.” He also said that the commission is looking forward to the same kind cooperation exhibited in the last elections with the security agencies. “I am confident that lessons learnt from the Presidential and National Assembly elections will help us to more effectively secure the environment for the elections this weekend.” He however noted that the ” Commission is concerned that many of our materials, including ballot boxes, voting cubicles, voters’ registers and Smart Card Readers were lost to acts of hooliganism and thuggery in the elections held two weeks ago. “Most worrisome is the attack on electoral officials. Some of our staff were abducted and taken hostage in an attempt to disrupt elections or influence the outcome. In fact, some of the supplementary elections I referred to earlier were caused by such acts of thuggery. I am confident that working together with the security agencies, we will consolidate on the largely peaceful conduct of the Presidential and National Assembly elections while also taking decisive steps to deal with the minority of violators’ intent on disrupting the conduct of peaceful elections. However, the Commission will not tolerate the act of holding our officials hostage and forcing them to declare winners under duress. Where such occurs, the Commission will not reward bad behaviour by issuing them Certificates of Return.”