Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha, Thursday said that the outcome of the governorship election in the state has justified his position on Senator Hope Uzodinma, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Imo governor, stated that his earlier warning that the Uzodimma who came in a distant fourth in the election was a member of the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP), who was planted as mole to destroy the chances of the APC in the governorship election. According to Okorocha, the fact that Uzodinma was among the first set of people to rush to the home of the PDP candidate shortly after he was declared winner, confirmed the pact he has with the PDP. The APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole gave the party’s ticket to Uzodinma, a new entrant to the party, instead of the governor’s preferred candidate, Uche Nwosu, who won the governorship primary. A statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Sam Onwuemeodo, read thus, “we have been vindicated over our repeated claim that Chief Hope Uzodinma has remained a member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) both in spirit and in body and that, it was not only wrong but totally unacceptable for the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Adams Oshiomhole to have handed over the governorship ticket of the party in the State to him, no matter the deal. “We had maintained that Chief Uzodinma was just a mole in the APC. Today, the governorship election in the State and its outcome has obviously vindicated us. Aside the fact that Chief Uzodinma worked for the PDP in the Presidential/National Assembly elections and also in the governorship/House of Assembly elections, he was one of the first set of people to celebrate with the PDP Candidate, Chief Emeka Ihedioha the moment he was announced the winner of the election. The video of Chief Uzodinma’s celebration with Ihedioha has gone virile on the social media”. The statement continued that, “Chief Uzodinma succeeded through Adams Oshiomhole to ensure that the list he sent from Abuja which he gave to INEC, only his supporters were made agents of the Party and the Resident Electoral Commissioner in the State (REC) Prof. Francis Ezeonu insisted on the list, just to ensure the success of their conspiracy. “Unfortunately, none of the Uzodinma/Oshiomhole’s approved agents was seen either at the ward level, or Local Government level or at the State level. They didn’t care about the election and its outcome. At the end of the day, the APC Candidate came fourth. And he has been celebrating with the PDP Candidate. “Their target as it has shown now is to totally destroy APC in the Southeast and in Imo in particular, thereby authenticating the claim in some quarters that it is all about 2023. One therefore wonders how Oshiomhole feels today, seeing the only APC State in the South-East that was there before he came as Chairman, been taken over by the PDP. “We had equally sustained the contention that Imo people would not vote for Uzodinma because they know him very well, but Oshiomhole refused to listen. He came fourth and never showed that he took part in the election. Posterity and history will Judge Oshiomhole and Uzodinma over the fate of APC in the South-East especially in Imo State”.