A youth Corps member, Aliu Illiasu with Registration number KT/18A/1492 and serving in Zamfarawa Community, Funtua Local Government Area of the state, on Thursday installed two boreholes to give portable water to the people of the community Mr. Illiasu told the villagers at the commissioning ceremony he observed that the people of Zamfarawa were always going to their neighboring community, a distance away from the area during the early mornings and evenings in search of water for their domestic activities. He further noted that the lack of good sources of water has infested the community with different kinds of skin diseases and other severe health conditions He said ‘’Skin Rashes is the major health challenges of the people especially their children which is as a result of lack of good sources of water for them to use’’. Also speaking, the State Coordinator NYSC Katsina State, Hajiya Ramatu Sanda called on the rest Corps Members to follow the footsteps of Mr. Iliyasu to also execute  similar community oriented projects and makes their host communities look better than they met them. In a related development, the Katsina State Coordinator NYSC, Hajiya Ramatu Sanda, represented by the NYSC CDS Officer Alhaji Sanusi Ahmad has commanded a Corps Member Sakinah Bello with Registration number KT/18A/7, for locally fabricated Bio fuel Stoves to 100 households in different communities in Funtua Local Government Area of the state. The Coordinator commended the corps ember for executing the project and requested the Community to join hands and encourage the corps members serving in their domain to do more for the benefit of the host community. Sakinah said she converted animal waste to sustainable energy to produce source of power for the locally fabricated stoves. She said that the aim was to reduce cost of some households incurred when looking for energy especially kerosene and cooking gas to cook food for the family. She explained that with the bio fuel stoves the people can cook their food easily without spending money for cooking gas or kerosene provided the animal waste will be available for them to always use.