ONE year after incorporation as an association, cinema owners and operators in Nigeria, otherwise called Cinema Exhibitors Association of Nigeria (CEAN) have begun to represent its members on issues of common interest. A recent meeting of the association with the Executive Director of National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), Mr. Adedayo Thomas, reveals some issues of standard and restructuring they considered necessary, not just for their personal businesses, but for enhanced revenue streams to filmmakers, and to the federal government through relevant taxation. Led by CEAN Chairman, Mr. Patrick Lee of Ozone Cinemas Ltd, the meeting which held at the NFVCB Ikoyi office on Tuesday March 28, 2019, had other members, including Mr. Kene Okwuosa, CEO Filmhouse Cinemas; Mr. Michael Ndiomu, MD/CEO Marturion Cinemas and Chioma Eboh, Film Booking Team Lead at Genesis Cinemas, among others. Lee who tabled some of the concerns of CEAN seeks the association’s partnership with NFVCB and relevant agencies of government for the benefit of all. According to him, there was the need for an appropriate definition of cinema in the proposed amendment act, ‘so that people will not use the opportunity of not properly defining what a standard cinema should be to open exhibition centers and call them cinemas.’ This was just as members touched on piracy, in the context of individuals who buy DVD contents on the street only to show same at their viewing centers without the consent of the film owners and assigned distributors. While expressing gratitude to the NFVCB boss, saying its members have not, in the last two years, had any problem with Censors Board, CEAN says it feels more comfortable with the word Classification than Censorship as the agency’s name appears to indicate. They also urged the Thomas to look into the issue of multiple taxations on exhibited contents. This was against the backdrop of the fact that states like Lagos and Kano maintain a Censorship Board or Film Office through which they tax cinema operators. There was also the issue of online piracy which according to CEAN is a revenue drain for the federal government as well. Members say they desire to work with the NFVCB and the Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) on the possibility of blocking some sites, notorious for enabling free movie downloads. The cited an example of how such internet restrictive measure has worked in China. CEAN also seeks a media information partnership with NFVCB, NCC and relevant agencies on film literacy and campaign against piracy and other vices, using the theatre screens to disseminate such information. It was an interactive session whereby Thomas, in his usual camaraderie disclosed some of the challenges of working in a civil service setting, but assured the visitors of his utmost cooperation, saying the Board was established to serve stakeholders and not to boss over them. He said the word Censorship in the Board’s name was a harmless semantic, but as a way of putting the role of the NFVCB in perspective; efforts are already ongoing to change the word to Classification in the amendment bill. “We’re only working to create an enabling environment for the film industry,” said Thomas who requested that the CEAN articulate its position on the variances between Standard Cinema and Exhibition Center, as well as the blockage of sites known to promote online piracy, promising to introduce same in the proposed amendment bill. On piracy, he disclosed that the agency is working towards introducing security seal to curb unwholesome movie contents, saying, “We also need community policing of our works for which I will rely on stakeholders for relevant information. We are presently working with all security agencies in the country to checkmate the activities of pirates through unlicensed and unclassified movies.” Recall that in January this year, the need by the NFVCB to sanitise the film industry of unclassified film and video works was driven through a three-day workshop of about 156 participants, including security agencies such as the Nigeria Police, Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Nigerian Immigrations Service (NIS), Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Department of State Services (DSS), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). Thomas, who said the issue of double taxations will be looked into, decried the incidents of proliferation of guilds and associations in the film industry, urging CEAN to remain united and ensure it resolves internal crisis that may arise, rather than having aggrieved members form parallel association. Incorporated by CAC on February 13, 2018, CEAN which boasts of 170 screens across the country currently, is registered with the Global Cinema Federation, and is on their advisory committee. The association is also a member of National Association of Theatre Owners (NATO).