The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has dominated the Bayelsa State House of Assembly winning 17 seats out of 24 following results so far declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). But INEC declared elections in Brass 1, Ogbia 2 and Southern Ijaw 4 constituencies inconclusive because of hijack of electoral materials, over voting and other irregularities. Former President Goodluck Jonathan hails from Ogbia constituency 2 where election was declared inconclusive. But the APC, which prior to the election, had only one seat in the Assembly, won four seats after the poll. The APC candidates declared winners are Wilson Ayakpo, Ekeremor constituency 2; Edward Irigha, Nembe constituency 2; Douglas Samson, Nembe constituency 3 and Ominous Ayonatimiyo, Brass 2. However, PDP candidates, won most of the constituencies in each of the eight local government areas. For instance in Kolokuma-Opokuma, the PDP won all the constituencies with Tonye Isenah winning a third term in Kolokuma-Opokuma constituency 2. In Kolokuma-Opokuma 2, PDP’s Wisdom Fafi, a former Caretaker Chairman of the council was declared the winner. In Brass Local Government Area, the PDP’s Abraham Ngobere, an incumbent Deputy Speaker was returned for a third term. PDP clinched all the three seats in Yenagoa Local Government Area with Oforji Oborku winning Constituency 1 while constituencies 2 and three were won by Koku Obiyal and Elemefuro Teddy. The state ruling party further showed strong presence in Sagbama, the Local Government Area of Governor Seriake Dickson. In Sagbama constituencies 1, 2 and 3 the PDP’s Onyinke Godbless, Kenebai Benard and Adikumo Salo were declared winners. In Nembe Local Government, the PDP’s Ben Ololo won the constituency 1 while the APC candidates clinched the remaining two. In Ekeremor Local Government Area, the the PDP candidate and Central Zone Chairman, Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, Tare Porri was declared the winner of constituency 1 while the party’s Ogbere Michael won the Constituency 3. In Southern Ijaw, the largest local government area in the state, the PDP has so far won constituencies 1, Bonny Ayah; 2, Obolo Bubou and 3 Malon Moses while 4 was declared inconclusive. In Ogbia, the Local Government Area of former President Goodluck Jonathan, the PDP won constituencies 1, Obordor Mitema and 3, Ogoli Naomi while the constituency 2 was still under contention. INEC Head of Department, Voter Education and Publicity in the state Mr Wilfred Ifogah, said elections in Brass 1, Ogbia 2 and Southern Ijaw 4 constituencies were declared inconclusive because they failed the test of the commission’s regulations and guidelines. He said: “21 results were fully declared and winners returned while three were declared inconclusive with due reference to INEC regulations and guidelines for the conduct of 2019 general elections. “Clause 10 (10), mandatory use of smart card readers. Clause 28 (b) collation at ward level and clause 43 (b), careful review of activities by the Management Team informed by the reports as stated by the collation Officers and Returning Officers duly appointed”. He noted the commission would in due time inform stakeholders in the state of the new date to conduct supplementary elections in the three affected constituencies.