Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has urged security agencies to track, arrest and prosecute syndicates of irregular migrations in the country. The governor stated this yesterday when the Director-General of National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Dame Julie Okah-Donli paid him a courtesy visit in Asaba. He said that the way to stem the surge in irregular migration and human trafficking was for the security agencies to go after those who spread deceitful stories to lure innocent Nigerians. “We are very disturbed with the number of persons involved in irregular migration; most of them travel oversea because they have been told stories how rosy it is out there. “In most cases, these persons find themselves in countries where their economies are not better than that of Nigeria. “Security agencies should look out for those who are carrying out the deceitful messages. They may be operating as cartels or what do you call it? “When they stop deceiving people, irregular migration will reduce,” he said. Okowa said: “As a state government, we will carry out enlightenment campaigns because if you do not take enough time to get our people properly informed, they will enter wrong hands. “We have a lot of youth engagement programmes, training and empowering our youths but it is unfortunate that the number of people who want to seek greener pastures abroad is still high. “We want to appreciate you, NAPTIP for what you are doing. We want to assure you of our cooperation for irregular migration to be reduced.’’ Earlier, Okah-Donli said that the problem of human trafficking and irregular migration had become of great national concern to the government. She said that the particular concern was with the large number of Nigerians trapped in sexual and labour exploitation in various African and European countries. Okah-Donli said that hundreds of them continued to die in the Sahara desert and the Mediterranean Sea. She said her visit was to solicit assistance of the Delta Government to curb the twin menace of human trafficking and irregular migration.