Popular comedian actor Samuel Perry has been unveiled as  brand ambassador of Tradefada with a brand new 2016 SUV Honda pilot model. The entertainer, who is widely known as Brodashaggi for his oya hit me comedy skit inked the deal with the cryptocurrency exchange company in Lagos. Speaking at the event, Perry said he was delighted that more privately owned companies have begun investing in creativity by empowering the practitioners. Aside been an ambassador for the number one digital currency platform in Africa, Perry said he was also an investor in cryptocurrency trade, adding that Tradefada is legitimate and promises return on investment. According to Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Tradefada Mr. Seun Dania the deal will see the actor as the face of the brand for the next five years with an option to renew the contract upon the expiration of the endorsement deal. Dania said that Tradefada, which is registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission supports hard working individuals who are creative,  adding that trading with Tradefada comes with assurances such as asset, price, and quantity among others.  “We buy and sell at the best rate in Nigeria,” he said. He said that Tradefada supports a lot of organizations such as block chain user group in Nigeria which organizes other conferences that educate individuals on the value of digital currency exchange, banking and stock exchange. “Countries like China, Venezuela and Japan are already adopting cryptocurrency. We had eras when we traded in cowries and paper which we are now, but that is shifting now as we are involving into E-banking. The next phase in the nearest future is the cryptocurrency space which is inevitable. Right now, the cryptocurrency is worldwide and it is a multi-billion dollar industry. You see banks like JP Morgan who have come up with their own currency. It is a credible institution. We strongly believe that cryptocurrency is the future and it is high time we tapped into it,” he said. Dania who is also the executive producer of a movie titled Nimbe, which campaigns against the use of drug, took journalists and guests on a painting exercise to express something that says no to drugs on canvass. The painting on canvass was part of Tradefada company’s way to campaign against the use of drug among youths in Nigeria. The movie, which is scheduled to premiere on March 29 in Cinemas nationwide features Nollywood best such as Toyin Abraham, Brodashaggi, Sani Musa Danja and Rachel Okonkwo among others.