After some shocking revelation by Iyanya on how he was frustrated out of TripleMG, a company he supposedly co-owned with his estranged friend and business partner, Ubi Franklin, there appears to be more to this issue, as Franklin is set to appear on Cool FM, Lagos, the same station that granted Iyanya audience on Monday night. In an interview he granted last week, the ‘No Drama’ crooner said that he was shocked when he discovered that his name was not in the registration documents filed at the Corporate Affairs Commission as co-owner of Made Men Music Group, also known as TripleMG. Not wanting to let the accusation slide, Ubi Franklin took to Instagram to dispel the allegations, uploading a document that states that Iyanya had been settled for his contribution to the company. Displaying a Corporate Affairs Commission  7 Form detailing particulars of the directors of Made Men Music Group, Iyanya’s name (Mbuk Iyanya Onoyom) appears as number one on the list, followed by Ubi Franklin (Ofem Ubi Ekapong) and Ekapong Ofem Ubi. This is against claim by Iyanya that his name had been dubiously removed from the CAC registration. Ubi Franklin also posted photo of documents purportedly showing a ‘settlement agreement’ between Iyanya, Ubi Franklin and Made Men Music Group. Dated July 26, 2016, the agreement stated in part that: ‘The Parties are now desirous of the settlement of the dispute between Iyanya and Ubi in an amicable manner through this agreement and out of any courts located within or outside the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the terms and conditions contained herein.’ According to the agreement, Iyanya purportedly transferred 400, 000 ordinary shares to Ubi Franklin and also resigned as a director of the company. “It’s very unfortunate that A person I took as my brother had to lie to the world to make himself look good,” wrote Ubi Franklin on his account. “Always wait for both sides of the story to call people names. Here is to prove that Iyanya lied to make himself look good.” Ubi has promised to be on Cool FM 11am to share his side of the story.