A physiotherapist, Rachael Godwin, yesterday narrated how her lover, Olumide, allegedly hypnotised her and attempted to kill her after defrauding her of over N2million. The 32-year-old woman, who works with the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Yaba, Lagos Mainland, claimed that the suspect executed the plan after giving her charmed pants to wear. Godwin, who was at the Command Headquaters to lodge a complaint, alleged that Olumide conspired with her neighbour and others at large to perpetrate the act. She told reporters that she met Olumide in January, last year, inside a Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) vehicle she boarded at Ikorodu en route Ikeja. Said she: “On that day, he directed me on how to get to the police headquarters and we exchanged contacts. We kept in touch for a while and he later told me he had an infection (gonorrhoea). I treated him. “We became close and then lovers.  I guess he must have hypnotised me such that I really didn’t know what I was doing then. I gave him my entire savings. He even lodged in a hotel at Ketu, Kosofe, for four months and I paid a bill of N185,000. “He later took me to his father at Ikosi. They live in an unhealthy environment. I pitied them and offered to help. I rented a house in November last year and he visited me in the house that same month. “On December 12, when he visited me, he said he wanted to buy a Venza, I asked him how much and when he googled it, he said it was N11.8 million. I asked him how he expected me to raise such money and he said we should open a joint account. I agreed and took my house document to get a loan and even promised to gather all I had from my cooperative account. Even the money I was saving for my master’s degree programme in Canada, I gave it to him because he said he knows an agent and that they can get genuine visas for us.” Godwin alleged that the suspect and Helen, her neighbour, forced her to wear the charmed pants last December 14. “Initially I told him I didn’t want to wear the pants because I was not comfortable in it. But he called my neighbour, Helen, and they both forced the pants on me. “After wearing the pants, I was no longer myself. I was acting abnormally and was taken to my mother’s house. They took me to Ibadan in Oyo State for treatment and I became better. I did not suspect him then. “I kept relating with him. On December 31, I went to a church for thanksgiving and was given some prayer points to pray with every midnight. He came back to me and was living with me. “While I was praying in January, Olumide started shouting, ‘stop praying, they have wired the money, it is only $2000 from Alaska in the USA.’ That was how I knew he was into yahoo yahoo.” Olumide has reportedly confessed that he is a fraudster.