Customers may experience hitches in e-transactions, including Point of Sales Machine (POS) and USSD transfer and issues with bank agents. Representative of the Nigeria Inter-bank settlement system Plc, NIBBS, Lilian Phido who disclosed this to The Nation over the weekend, assured customers that failed transactions would however be reversed. Explaining why customers who paid for goods or  services through the available e-payment platforms  may get their transaction reversed after parting with the goods causing losses to companies should customer fail to notice payment reversal or fails to make another payment or never realises the error. Phido refuted the rumor that most companies and customers are skeptical of using the electronic transfers or payments, saying that the volume of usage is increasing by the day. “People still use e-banking and we know this for a fact because on a daily basis that the volume is increasing. We have a website where you can see live data about this. You can see what is going on by the day. By minutes, by seconds the volume is growing. On the website, you can see what happened last year and what is going on today. They still use it because, they know that the benefits are endless and outweigh the problems,” she stressed. Emphasizing the benefits of the payment platforms, she took this reporter back to the past where she said some years ago, women couldn’t go to the market without carrying cash but today “many of us are comfortable going to the market without cash in our pockets as they have confidence that they can buy and pay either through the USSD platform or the POS machine so it is growing on a daily basis.” Speaking on why transactions can fail on the platforms, she said “because it is a machine, one way or the other at some point there might be hitches coming from the machine but that doesn’t mean that people are not using the platform or embracing electronic payments anymore.” Concerning failed transactions, she stated that on many occasions the money is almost immediately reversed, adding that the person has to return the goods or make another payment if he or she is honest. She emphasised that subsequent transactions done immediately after that may be successful. She attributed other cause be from the account holder, or the bank; saying that a machine must experience hitches sometimes. She said that the failure can happen to anyone, no matter who it is because the machine does not recognise anyone or give anyone a special transaction. Speaking on what the industry is doing to ensure the reduction of these failed transactions, she said every day the industry is putting measures in place to perfect the transactions and find solutions to all issues with the e-transaction in Nigeria. “This is so that we can increases people’s confidence and trust in us.” “If I bank with bank A and you bank with bank B and you want to send me money, you initiate the transaction and I get the money, but if during the process there is a hitch, the transaction may not be successful. What we do at NIBBS is to make sure that the transaction is successful. At NIBBS we have put in place modern world-class infrastructures for handling inter-bank payments in order to remove potential bottlenecks associated with inter-bank funds transfer and settlement,” explained Phido. Advising people on what to do when their transaction fails, she said the first place to visit is your bank when your transaction fails, stressing that in rural areas or places where you don’t have banks, that you can contact the bank agents present or you reach your bank through social media or placing a call to your account officer. She said that why it takes time in most cases to reverse a failed transaction is if the banks are not the same, adding that there are so many fraudulent people, hence the issues have to be well investigated by the other bank before the money is sent back to the person’s account. “We are doing everything in our power to curtail fraud that may arise from using this platform. All the industry players including the banks are all doing so much to reduce fraud every day. “In the future the story will be more interesting “because five years ago we didn’t know that we could pay for vegetables through e-transaction so five years from now, it will also be different but may be easier and faster.”