The Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) has connected Omozogie quarters in Uteh community, Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area to the national grid. It is the first time the residents are getting electricity after many years of waiting. They, therefore, set up an Electricity Committee to watch against energy theft. At a town hall meeting before the inauguration of a sub-station, BEDC’s Head of Community Relations, Mrs. Virginia Osineme, urged the people to see the substation as a collective responsibility that should be protected against vandalism and other forms of energy theft. Mrs. Osineme educated residents on basic safety tips on proper earthing of their premises, importance of engaging licensed electricians to wire their houses, and the need to avoid substandard electrical accessories. She said: “The protection of the substation is everybody’s business. If there is no light, you know who to meet and talk to. If you see anybody in the substation that is not authorised by BEDC and the electricity committee, he or she is a vandal and should be arrested.” The Ikpoba Hill Business Manager, Mrs. Ekaete Ntukidem, praised the residents for their patience during the process of connecting them to the national grid. “Meters have been properly installed and functional to provide you with fair and transparent billing. Please, ensure no new wire is connected illegally to the network. We will know because of the check meter attached to the transformer, vend as at when due and don’t allow electricians to tamper with the transformer.” Spokesman for the community Mr. Iyoha Omozogie said the sub-station would boost business in the community. “We thank the management and staff of BEDC for their direction in ensuring that our community is connected to the national grid. We also thank members of the community for their selfless donations and doggedness in ensuring the yearning of the people becomes a reality. We now have light in Omozogie. “The community has set up an electricity committee which will work with BEDC in ensuring meters were not bypassed to mitigate energy losses, ensure quick response to faults and protection of the substation.”