President Muhammadu Buhari has paid tribute to womenfolk on the occasion of the International Women’s Day. He highlighted the invaluable roles they play in building homes, and by extension, the nation, just as he applauded their lofty contributions in both the public and private sectors of national life. In a statement by the Special Adviser on Media and publicity, Femi Adesina, the President said “This election season we are in has brought out in bold relief once again the crucial role women play in our lives as a people. “They have stood up to be counted as aspirants, candidates, mobilizers, and voters. Indeed, what can we ever do without our women in all phases of our lives,” the President said He recalled diverse positions being held by women as Ministers, Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, chief executives of agencies, permanent secretaries, directors-general, special advisers, senior special assistants, special assistants, and many others, and reiterates that things can only get better at the Next Level. “Hand in hand with our women, we will build the country of our dreams, where there will be equal opportunity for all,” he said. President Buhari noted the fact that some of government’s most important policies and programmes like straightening of the hitherto dysfunctional pensions system, Africa’s largest Social Investment Programme (SIP), diaspora engagements, energy solutions, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), ports authority, foods and drugs administration and control, debt management, prohibition of trafficking in persons, and many others, are headed by women, is indicative of the worth and value the government places on them. “On a day like this, I hereby extol and appreciate them, on behalf of all other Nigerians,” the President affirmed. International Women’s Day is designed to celebrate the potential, progress, and accomplishments of women, and to highlight the utmost importance of creating a world that presents equal opportunities for women and men. Theme for this year’s celebration is Balance For Better. 