A day after some women urged President Muhammadu Buhari to suspend elections in Nembe-Bassambiri, Nembe Local Government Area citing violence, scores of residents on Tuesday held a counter protest, declaring the community as peaceful. Women agitating for suspension of elections told Buhari and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that their place was no longer safe for polls. Spokesperson of the Women, Mrs. Sotonye Samuel-Johnson, said that the call to postpone the election in the community was to safeguard the lives and properties of women and children in the area. Samuel-Johnson said that women and children, who fled the community to nearby Ogbolomabiri and Yenagoa had not been able to return to their homes following activities of political thugs. But on Tuesday scores of women, elders and youths marched the streets of Nembe- Bassambiri and said there was no violence in their community. They described all the reports of violence as propaganda orchestrated by the state government to intimidate and stop them from voting for their preferred candidates. The protesters carried placards with inscriptions such as: “Seven years in office no single project in Nembe-Bassambiri “and “Toru-Orua for PDP while Nembe- Bassambiri is for APC”, said there was no truth in the reports that thugs had sacked the community. A woman leader in the area, Ingoebiye Braid, alleged the state government was persecuting them because of their political differences. Also, the Secretary, Community Development Committee (CDC) Kombonimi Awo, debunked insinuations the community was deserted following alleged violence that occurred in the area during and after the presidential elections. He further said the last elections held peacefully in the community contrary to claims by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said: “People are carrying rumours and are being sponsored by the Bayelsa Government that the community has been deserted but all these are false. “Nobody is running out of the community. The elders, chiefs, women and youths are going about their businesses without fears and molestations. “There is no fight or crisis in the community during and after the National Assembly and Presidential elections. “The only people that are out of the community are those hired with fake uniforms and thugs. “The rumours that the whole community has vacated is a pure lie. Those paid to stage protest in the state capital are paid agents of destabilisation. The call for the cancellation of the last election is wicked and should not be honoured by INEC. We voted peacefully without intimidation.”