The Rivers State Governorship Candidate of Accord Party has declared his support for the re-election of Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike. Addressing journalists in Port Harcourt on Thursday, Sir Precious Baridoo said his support for Governor Wike is because he has performed exceptionally during his first term. He said: “We have a Governor in Rivers State who has done exceptionally well for our State and our people for the last four years or so. “A great, peace-loving and democrat per excellence, River State has never had it so good in education, healthcare, road infrastructure, rural development, sports and security under the watch and direction of His Excellency Nyesom Ezenwo Wike CON, GSSRS, POS as Governor. “Fortunately, His Excellency Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has again offered to serve the people of Rivers State for a second term as Governor under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)” “As a political realist, I believe in continuity, especially when the performance of an incumbent is widely applauded by the generality of our people.  Furthermore, Governance is a serious business; it is not for pretenders or infantile and jobless political predators. “Taking all the circumstances into consideration I have come to the conclusion that the interest of our dear Rivers State will best be served with the re-election of His Excellency Ezenwo Nyesom Wike as Governor for the next four years. “Therefore, it is with all sense of patriotism and responsibility that I, Mr. Precious Baridoo hereby declare my total support for the re-election bid of His Excellency Ezenwo Nyesom Wike CON, GSSRS, POS as the next Governor of Rivers State” He urged all members of Accord Party across Rivers State to vote for Governor Wike. He also condemned the clampdown on PDP members in the state by security forces. “I call on members of the Accord Party and all my teeming supporters across the State to vote for His Excellency Ezenwo Neysom Wike and all other candidates of the PDP during the Governorship and House of Assembly elections on Saturday 9th March 2019. “I join well-meaning Nigerians to condemn the ongoing security clampdown and harassment of political leaders of the PDP in the run-up to the elections and call on the law enforcement agencies to provide adequate security for Rivers people to peacefully vote for the candidates of their choice before, during and after the Governorship and House of Assembly election”, he said. He further explained that he remains the authentic Governorship Candidate of the Accord Party following the Federal High Court judgment. “Recall that the Federal High Court, Port Harcourt on the 27th of February 2019 nullified the nomination of Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs as the Rivers State Governorship Candidate for Accord Party and in his place declared me as the duly nominated Governorship candidate of the party having contested and emerged victorious from the party’s primary. “As at today 7th March 2019, that judgment is still subsisting and effective having not been set aside or stayed by any superior Court of law. Consequently, I remain the authentic and lawful Rivers State Gubernatorial candidate of the Accord Party for next Saturday’s rescheduled Governorship elections”.