The Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF) has named a 12-man team that will represent the country at the ITTF World Junior Circuit (WJC) and African Junior and Cadet Championship (AJCC) holding in Accra, Ghana from April 1 to 13. The team is made up of seven boys and five girls competing in WJC and AJCC. The AJCC serves as qualification for the 2019 World Junior Championship holding later in the year. National junior champion, Azeez Solanke will be leading the team alongside, Augustine Emmanuel, Jamiu Ayanwale, Abayomi Animashaun, Taiwo Matti, Musa Mustapha and Mustapha Mustapha completed the boys’ team. The girls’ team has Vivian Oku, Roafiat Jimoh, Iyanuoluwa Falana, Sukurat Aiyelabegan and Sadiat Akeem and they will be accompanied by three coaches. After missing the last two AJCC, Nigeria will be making a return to the continental showpiece as the team will be aiming to dethrone defending champion – Egypt in Accra next week. Already, the organizers of the tournament, Ghana Table Tennis Association (GTTA) has promised an exciting tournament being the first time the West Africa will be staging an international table tennis tournament in the last 16 years. According to Ghana Minister of Youth and Sports, Isaac Asiamah, Ghana would host a befitting tournament. “We are grateful to ITTF and ATTF for choosing Ghana as host of these important competitions and for us we are excited that this is in line with our ideals of growing all sports from grassroots levels. We have been working hard to revive our school sports because we know we have the potential to be among the best in sports. I am also using this opportunity to charge the Ghana Table Tennis Association to focus on schools across the country to be able to discover new talents that will make our country proud at the 2023 African Games which we are hosting,” Isaac Asiamah said. However, the President of African Table Tennis Federation (ATTF), Khaled El-Salhy has expressed optimism on Ghana’s readiness to host the world and Africa for 13 days.