As Nigerians have risen to the cry of comedian Babatunde Omidina, aka Baba Suwe, who appears set for medical treatment abroad, fans of another veteran Yoruba actor, Ojo Arowosafe, aka Fadeyi Oloro can’t wait for the same gesture, as the latter lies critically ill in a Lagos hospital. The actor who has been off the screen for a while is well-known for his brilliant portrayal of a dreaded movie character in the 80s and early 90s. Actor Ibrahim Chatta posted a video of the ailing actor on Instagram few days back, urging the public to donate money to save the actor’s life. He wrote: “I am beginning to be scared right now. Posting this really breaks my heart. This is the legendary Fadeyi Oloro, down with kidney illness and needs urgent attention. I learnt is in a general hospital somewhere around Ile epo, I haven’t gone to see him yet. I will post his account details as soon as it’s made available. Nothing is too small, God bless you.” The Nation can confirm that the actor is currently on admission at Orile Agege General Hospital (OAGH), even though the hospital management would not let our reporter in on Tuesday. His wife, simply known as Alhaja, who would not disclose the nature of his ailment, said to us on telephone: “Something happened, which led to some sort of problem.  So if you want to speak to him, you have to involve the management of the hospital, because he is not allowed to speak to anyone now. “His manager is also one person you can speak to, but he is not around. He is being sent on errand by baba,” she added. The Nation had earlier called to speak with the actor on Monday, and his daughter said at the receiving end that, although he was being attended to, he would require more medical care and funds. “He has been attended to and taken to the ward. But it will be nice if you can come over and see him. He cannot say much, but whoever is with him can be of assistance with any question you may want to ask,” she said. Sources reveal that the actor is presently being isolated in the hospital due to the nature of his ailment.