The Presidential Campaign Council has congratulated the senator representing Ondo North, Ajayi Boroffice, on his re-election into the National Assembly. It also congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives members-elect in Odigbo/Ileoluji-Oke-Igbo, Mayo Akinfolarin, Owo/Ose, Otunba Timehin Adelegbe, Akoko South-West/South-East, Ade Adeogun, and Akoko North-West/North-East, Bunmi Tunji-Ojo, for their victory at the polls. The council said they withstood anti-party activities of aggrieved members. In a statement by a member of the council, Abayomi Adesanya, it said: “It is so unfortunate that we lost two of our Senatorial seats to the opposition, especially, Ondo South. “Senator, Yele Omogunwa and some notuable leaders did everything humanly possible to dismantle the evil scourge of Anti-Party activity on the directives of the Governor and his Deputy given to all his political appointees, especially the Local Government Area Councils Caretaker Committee, Commissioners and Advisers to work for the candidate of the Action Alliance(AA), as against the party’s candidate, Senator Yele Omogunwa. “Even, in several units Governor,  Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and  his deputy, Agboola Ajayi, worked against the party and members who refused to carryout their order. “This sacrilegious directive, was the major reason we lost the Presidential Election in Ondo State. Our people were confused. No Campaign structure or itinerary by the Party for its candidates. The Party Executives at all levels were helpless, docile and moribund. “On behalf of the major stakeholders,  loyal Party men and women, we sincerely want to appreciate the rescue mission of Engr. IfeOluwa Oyedele, Chief Olusola Oke (SAN), Amb. Sola Iji, H.E. Ali Olanusi and a host of others who worked tirelessly for our Party, but for them, it would have been a ‘tsunami’ defeat. “We therefore, call on the National Leadership of the Party to investigate this Anti-Party activities by some members/leaders in Ondo State – APC, and sanction accordingly any erring member, no matter his status.