The Partners for Peace (P4P) was created in 2013 by the Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND Foundation) to work with communities’ stakeholders to identify issues that can escalate into full-blown intra and inter-communal clashes and nip them in the bud. Ssouthsouth Regional Editor Shola O’Neil and Deborah Sunday report on how the ordinary Niger Deltans are making the region safer The Partners for Peace (P4P) is a community of from different background in the Niger delta, which came together to address the root causes of conflict in the region. They build peace and engender understanding in communities. With thousands of members from all parts of the region, P4P is everywhere. In the creeks, they meet with militants, and talk them off violence, preach on need for peaceful environment, non-violent elections where people are allowed to freely choose their leaders, live in peace and resolve conflicts peacefully. Since its foundation nearly six years ago in 2013, as an arm of the PIND Foundation, the initiative has become a household name in the region. P4P is making impact from Apoi, Ese-Odo local government of Ondo state, through Edo to Opuama, Gbokoda in riverside and upland Ekpan in Delta. From Bayelsa to Rumuelumeni, Asari Toru in Rivers and other parts, the P4P is creating landmarks of peace and convivial relationships among people. Recently, amidst reports that some ex-militants in Arogbo and Ese-Edo LGAs of Ondo state were preparing to return to the creeks, ostensibly as a result of unfulfilled promises made to them by governments, P4P Network Coordinator, High Chief Lawal Africas and other members of the initiative made timely mediation and ensured that the agitators including Gen Kosoko and others not only stayed the course of peace. In Arogbo, one of the aggrieved ex-agitators (militants) told our reporter that more organs as P4P are needed to drive peace and address grievances because the people no longer trust the government. “We are tired of failed promises, the only language that governments understand is violence. When we strike they will hurry and arrange people to come and preach; they make lots of promises but once the issue dies down so also their promises. But with P4P, we know what we are getting, no plenty promises, but genuine re-orientation of our members. Some politicians wanted to recruit our members for this election to cause trouble, but those who have been reoriented by P$P said no,” our source who asked not to be named said. In Imo state, P4P helped restore peace to Awarra Court in Ohaji/Egbema LGA, where armed gangs held sway for many years, forcing inhabitants to flee in search of safe havens elsewhere. Residents of the area told our reporter that normalcy only returned after the P4P members gained access to the enclaves of the armed cultists, who styled themselves militants. “The P4P was able to penetrate and created an avenue for peace. They reached out to the state governor, brought the two sides together and worked towards granting amnesty to the gangs. This brought about the peace that we now enjoyed,” an indigene that spoke on condition of anonymity because of his relationship with some government officials told our reporter. Comrade Sheriff Mulade, Coordinator of the Centre for Peace and Environmental Justice (CEPEJ), is a partner for peace in Delta state. The indigene of Kokodiagbene, Warri Southwest LGA of Delta state, told NDR, “You may not see the impact as a visible object, but they are there. In Gbokoda (Warri North) for instance, we were able to nip a brewing crisis between the people involved in a leadership tussle.” Mulade revealed that P4P members in the area taught the people to respect their leaders, and also admonished leaders to treat their people fairly. In the volatile Ekpan, an Urhobo community where youths often settle the minutest of disputes with shootouts, Mulade said P4P brought the two contending sides to a roundtable, leading to considerable peace in the community. Explaining what sets P4P apart from other peace initiatives, Africas explained: “P4P is grassroots-oriented and founded for communities. Partners for Peace in the Niger Delta is a network of peace actors: individuals, organizations, diverse groups of people, ranging from young people to women, old people, academicians, civil servants and everyone who are interested in peace building activities. “Our mission is for sustainable peace and we do a lot of capacity building to organizations and individuals who can actually go back to their communities where they can use these skills in peace building interventions.” He disclosed that with just about 130 members in 2013, the group now has over 7,000 members in different communities in the region. With this number in the grassroots, P4P gets firsthand information on issues that could lead to crisis and they take step to defuse them. Sobebe Princewill, Chairman, Conflict Prevention Committee, told us how his team averted what could have led to destruction of lives and property in Rumuelumeni Community of Obio/Akpor LGA of the state, by using local contacts to identify issues that could lead to crisis. “The community (Rumuelumeni) could be called peaceful to an average individual, but there are accumulated issues that have not been settled over time. It’s something that was going on. (One day) I saw a group of people in a meeting and when I got close and asked questions, I realized that they are an NGO trying to mobilize youths against the traditional institution and some other structures that controls the community resources.” Rumuelumeni community was the scene of a bloody crisis in 2007; several persons lost their lives, houses were burnt down and many families were forced to relocate in search of peace that eluded the community. Princewill noted that this time, an NGO (names withheld) “wanted to turn the youths against the community because the youths believed that they have been deserted and that their opinions no longer holds water in the society. The crisis that goes with this kind of gathering that involves the youths does not die down until everyone involved is down.” “I called them and talked to them about what I heard and how to organize and settle their issues without resulting to violence,” he said, adding that the issues was peacefully resolved without recourse to violence or confrontation. The intervention of this organ can best be appreciated against the backdrop of similar incidents in the region, when youths accuse traditional leaders of their communities of sidelining them in the administration and sharing of the largess accruing to their communities, especially from oil companies in their areas. In late 1999, a seeming harmless face-off between youths and traditional leaders of Evwreni Kingdom in Ughelli, Delta state, escalated quickly, leading to the deaths of scores of youths and ultimately the beheading of the traditional ruler, His Royal Highness Ovie Owin Kumani in January 2000. Several reports would later indicate that all the warning signs of seething anger were visible before the crisis escalated into that disaster. Stakeholders told our reporter that various studies have shown that government efforts to restore peace in the wake of the various crises in the region, from the Ijaw/Itsekiri war and the Niger Delta uprising, focused on the key players and armed gangs who went on destruction of oil facilities. “While some of the big names have benefited from all forms of intervention, such as the amnesty programme of the federal and state governments and other patronages from oil firm those who have silently worked for peace and justice remained on the sideline.” Africas explained that P4P has “identified those voices that are not popular”, noting, “for example, if you look at the case of Niger Delta today, you will see that there are people that are popular, people like Ateke Tom (now a traditional ruler) and Asari Dokubo, because they are people known to be ex-militants – the voices of war in the Niger Delta. “The partners for peace have been able to bring in the silent voices, the voices of people that are doing the work of peace building, peace advocates and ambassadors, where we can now bring them together and everybody can now tell their stories and build their capacity on how to continue to work for peace in the Niger Delta.” In Rivers state, these peace advocates have be carried out a lot of activities, from preaching the gospel of peace in the Ogoni axis to intervention in court related issues; they have reached Kalabari and other parts of the state. Livingstone Membere, the Rivers State Coordinator P4P, explained that the team work through an early warning and early response system. He said the forum provide safe channels for local peace advocates and those with vital information that help nip crisis in the bud and also identify masterminds of violence. “We have trained volunteers in all the 23 local government areas in Rivers state to pick up early warning signs because we know that reporting to the security (agencies) has its own implications, and citizens are now afraid that when they see signs of impending dangers they would prefer to keep it to themselves instead of reporting to the security agencies, they feel threatened and most times, their identities will not be concealed.” “(But P4P) platform is SMS-based where volunteers can share their experiences and we take it down to necessary stakeholders that will swing into action to either prevent or mitigate it if it had already happened,” Membere stated. “We have also done a lot of capacity building on different topics and different parts of the state. We recently did a training on community-based peacebuilding, we taught them what to do when the professionals are not there, how to identify conflicts, how to intervene so as not to get involved in the crossfire.” Beyond the communities, P4P is also setting up chapters in tertiary institutions and secondary schools in Rivers state, to inculcate the mentality of peace on students to make it easy for them to balance themselves when they come out in the wider society. “We have done a lot and enough and people have decided also not to get involved in electoral violence. So P4P permit me to say, has done good to Rivers State.”