•Command to prosecute suspected ballot box snatcher  •We’ve tightened security’ Lagos Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu said yesterday that no ethnic group was under threat. He urged people to disregard fake and provocative posts on social media alleging that Igbo traders were being prevented from going about their businesses. Muazu assured Lagosians that the state was peaceful. He briefed reporters that security arrangements had been reviewed following few cases of violence recorded during and after the Presidential and National Assembly elections. The police boss warned those circulating provocative posts on social media to desist, stressing that the command would identify, isolate and bring them to justice. “One serious issue the command is contending with is the fake news being circulated on social media, alleging that there is a plan by hoodlums to attack Igbo traders in Lagos, especially at Oshodi and other prominent markets. “We are not only debunking such rumours, we are also taking steps to reassure the Igbo community and other residents of their safety. We have deployed our special force in streets, markets and volatile areas. “We have convened town hall meetings in the last few days. Yesterday (Wednesday), we met Igbo trading community led by Eze Ndi Igbo of Oshodi, Hausa community, Yoruba community and others. “Let me restate that Lagos is peaceful. Lagosians are peace loving people. There is no ethnic group or community under threat. Our patrol and surveillance have been intensified. We have reviewed and redoubled our strategies to ensure a peaceful conduct of the governorship and house of assembly elections on March 9. “I urge Lagosians to go about their lawful activities peacefully. They should support the police to serve them better by being vigilant and reporting any suspicious movement or person to the police through our emergency numbers. “Let me use this medium to sound a big warning to initiators and distributors of fake news. We will identify you, isolate you and bring you to justice,” he said. Muazu said the principal suspect in the Okota election disruption, Demola, who was pelted with stones by a mob, would be prosecuted. He confirmed that the suspect had been discharged from hospital and was being treated as the principal suspect, saying the police would get the names of other suspects from him. “He was the principal suspect in that incident. He sustained injury and has been treated.” The police commissioner said the command had learnt lessons from the way the hoodlums, who disrupted elections at Okota, operated, adding: “We will not allow such incident again.” He said the restriction of movement during the governorship and house of assembly elections would be total, noting that motorcycles and tricycles would not be allowed near polling units. Muazu said the command would hold meetings with members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and members of motorcyclists association today to ensure they do not allow themselves to be used by any troublemaker.