A young man, Micheal Abedinigo, from Upatabo, was Saturday morning stabbed to death in Akinima, the headquarters of Ahoada West Local Government Area of Rivers State by thugs hired by a top politician (name withheld) from the area, to rig the governorship and House of Assembly elections. Voters in some LGAs of Rivers were also scared of coming out to exercise their franchise, in view of sporadic gunshots and sounds of bombs and dynamites, especially in Buguma-Kalabari, the headquarters of Asari-Toru LGA and Isiokpo, the seat of Ikwerre council. The Rivers Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ojukaye Flag-Amachree, and a former militant “General,” Alhaji Mujahid Dokubo-Asari, an ex-President of Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), are from Buguma. Transportation minister, Rotimi Amaechi, a former Rivers governor, who is the leader of APC in Rivers state and South-south zone, as well as another ex-governor of the state, Sir Celestine Omehia (of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP), hail from Ikwerre LGA, but they are indigenes of Ubima. Persons behind the gunshots and throwing of dynamites and bombs into private and public places in Buguma and Isiokpo were yet to be identified and apprehended as at press time, but the insecurity made the voters jittery, as they were scampering to safety, to avoid being hit by stray bullets. The polls in Rivers were also marred by voter apathy and snatching of electoral materials. The electorate attributed the voter apathy in most of the 23 LGAs of Rivers visited to fear of possible violence, considering the gunshots and killings associated with the February 23 presidential and National Assembly polls in the state. Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike, of PDP, also corroborated the low turnout of voters, after casting his ballot in his Rumueprikom-Port Harcourt hometown in Obio/Akpor LGA of the state, stressing that the heavy presence of security personnel in Rivers was responsible. APC members in Rivers, however, voted for the governorship candidate of African Action Congress (AAC), Biokpomabo Awara, an engineer and a riverine man from Kula-Kalabari in Akuku-Toru LGA of the state, as well as other candidates of AAC, in view of the court orders, which prevented Pastor Tonye Cole and other APC’s candidates from vying in the elections. The Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC’s) Presiding officer (PO) in Orogbum-Port Harcourt, Ward 2, Unit 21, Mr. Okenagba Franklin, equally decried the poor turnout of the electorate. Franklin noted that the voters, who massively came out to exercise their franchise during the presidential and National Assembly elections, refused to show up yesterday. A resident of Orogbum-Port Harcourt, Mrs. Joy Chukwudi, however, noted that the voter apathy was as a result of fear of likely violence, as it happened across Rivers state during the presidential and National Assembly elections, leading to death and injury of many innocent persons, as well as destruction of valuable property. APC Chairman in Ward 2 of Port Harcourt City LGA, Evans Azundah, stated that he and other members of the party (APC) were confident that the governorship candidate of AAC in Rivers would emerge victorious. Another APC stalwart, Henry Omolaye, noted that as loyal members of the party (APC), he and others decided to back Awara of AAC, in order not to be disenfranchised.