Some youths are promoting entrepreneurship with their career, DANIEL ESSIET reports. SOME youths are eager to be successful as job creators. One of them is Nichole Yembra, the founder and managing director of the Chrysalis Company. She began her career at Ernst & Young LLP, Atlanta, United States, where she specialised in risk and process transformation across several sectors, including oil and gas, consumer products, manufacturing, quick service restaurants, and financial services. Later, she founded the Garden Women’s Network, which promotes the recruitment, retention, and advancement of women, and GreenHouse Lab, the country’s first female-focused tech accelerator. The first of its kind, GreenHouse Lab is a three-month accelerator focused on early-stage, women-led technology start-ups in sub-Saharan Africa, as well as African run start-ups  in the US or United Kingdom (UK) with products from African markets. GreenHouse Lab equips women entrepreneurs with skills and resources. It affords youths the opportunity to participate in a programme where they receive world-class tech entrepreneurship training, a minimum of $100,000 and access to a global network of mentors and investors. During the programme, each start- up has the opportunity to meet with investors prior to Demo and Investment Day. At the end of the programme, each start-up will pitch in front of an audience of key entrepreneurs, investors, corporates and institutions from the global tech ecosystem. Another social entrepreneur is Abigail Alabi-Michael. She founded Recy World, a company that enhances cassava processing in Ogun State. Recy World was established in 2016 to process and package cassava products, such as garri and starch, faster than the manual and inefficient process, among others. Since inception, 100 cassava farmers in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, have been received the company’s services and about 1,000 individuals benefitted from its training. The organisation has recovered two tonnes of cassava peel waste which may have otherwise been disposed of and burnt. The company has co-designed an innovative, low-cost “Smart Tractor” specifically for small farmers’ unique needs. Equipped with various attachments, owners can tailor its use for a variety of crops and stages of the production cycle, allowing them to serve their customers throughout the year. The “Smart Tractors” has data analytics capabilities that track, use and gather data on location, market trends and uptake. It offers Smart Tractor Financing without collateral but with flexible repayment schedules. Alabi-Michael also runs Health Accord, a health micro-insurance programme, which uses trash as monetary asset in enabling poor slum residents without medical insurance to pay for health coverage, medications and other clinical services. With Health Accord, the communities, especially women, pay for healthcare,  using trash as an insurance fund. This way, Health Accord empowers the community to enhance environmental sustainability and the local sanitation by shifting from conventional methods to innovative solid waste disposal solution. Her long-term goal is to, through an incentive system of healthcare rewards to communities, encourage ruralities to engage in recycling in exchange for healthcare and education. Country Director, Nigeria, Andela, Omowale David-Ashiru, is building high-performing engineering teams by investing in Africa’s most talented software developers. She joined Andela last September. Her organisation is investing in Africa’s most talented software engineers to help companies solve the technical talent shortage and build high-performing distributed engineering teams. Over the past four years, Andela has hired the top seven per cent of over 75,000 applicants to work as full-time distributed team members from its tech campuses in Lagos, Nairobi, and Kampala.