Hundreds of indigenes of Kaduna State gathered in Abuja last week for a peaceful procession to bring to the attention of President Muhammadu Buhari and the international community what they called the horrendous attacks by herdsmen militia on many Adara communities in Kajuru Local Government Area of the state. Convener, Coalition Against Kajuru Killings, Rev. Fr Williams Abba said, “The latest death toll of this mindless carnage has already surpassed 130, with several communities reduced to rubbles, and setting the stage for a major humanitarian crisis that has so far displaced no fewer than 10,000 persons now living in four camps.” Dressed in black and displaying various inscriptions like “stop the Kajuru massacre now,” “why kill children?”, “Southern Kaduna needs freedom”, “end the bloodshed”, “Sanga lives matter”, “where is your humanity?” and “enough of the killings in southern Kaduna”. Addressing the crowd Rev. Fr Williams Abba said: “This peaceful procession today reveals our commitment to the restoration of peace in not only Adara communities, but other areas of Southern Kaduna and indeed Birnin Gwari now under siege by these criminal elements. We call on fellow Nigerians and the international community to mount pressure on the Nigerian government to come to our aid by ending the genocide that is rippling across Adara communities and other areas of Southern Kaduna where there is a resurgence of violence, such as Gerti and Sanga where no fewer than 12 persons have been killed by these rampaging herdsmen. Most disturbingly is the fact that while Adara Nation mourns, Governor El-Rufai rounded up and put in jail Adara leaders and elder statesmen, including the Waziri Adara who’s next in the line of seniority in Adara chiefdom on phantom charges.” He expressed sadness that the governor’s allegations over killings of Fulani is still an allegation that is yet to be proven, as he has neither shown the world the pictures of recovered Fulani corpses nor commenced investigation to prove his allegation. Abba said: “The Kaduna State Police commissioner recently debunked the death toll as announced by the governor, insisting that investigation into Fulani killings is still at “embryonic stage.” “The allegation by El-Rufai over killings of our brothers of Fulani extraction set the stage for reprisal killings and weaved the labyrinth of insecurity over the besieged Adara communities such as we are currently witnessing. Within the space of one month, we have been horror-stricken at the barbaric attacks carried out by these merchants of death against children, men, women, including the aged. Communities have been reduced to rubbles and insecurity now stalks these towns and villages unchallenged. “The present spate of killings started on Sunday February 10, 2019 when herdsmen militia, without any form of provocation, attacked Ungwar Barde in Maro ward of Kajuru LGA. In that blistering attack, 10 persons, including a pregnant woman, were killed. To our shock and consternation, not a single word over the killing was issued by the Kaduna State Government. Five days after the attack, exactly on February 15, 2019, Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai, on National Television disclosed that security agencies had recovered bodies of 66 Fulani killed by Adara natives. He was later to increase the death toll to 130. “We cannot remain silent in the face of these gruesome killings and deliberate agenda to annihilate Adara people whose only crime is being natives. The bourgeoning human carnage has the propensity of spreading to other areas of the state if not effectively checkmated. If we must save our shared humanity and salvage what is left of humankind, we need to close ranks and insist on relevant organs of government to perform their obligations without fear or favour.” The gathering prayed that Government should, as a matter of urgency, deploy more security forces into these hinterlands, including consistent aerial surveillance to track down the terrorists and consequently end the carnage. They said government at both Federal and state levels must muster courage and the political will to halt the incursion of these non-state actors adding that: “It is our firm belief that powerful retrogressive forces are funding and supporting these well-coordinated militia who come in and strike at our sleepy and peaceful communities and retreat without consequences.