Residents of Kubwa, one of the satellite towns in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), are calling on the Bwari Area Council, and the Federal Government to do something about the deplorable roads in the town. The Bwari Area Council is one of the largest Area Councils in the FCT. Kubwa alone is very large and has so many link roads. But for the past six to 10 years, no major roadwork has been done in Kubwa town, leaving the roads in terrible condition. There is no road whatsoever in Kubwa presently that is good enough for motorists. Residents are speculating that a lot of the bad roads are used for robbery attacks at nights. Gado Nasko Road from the Federal Housing down to the NNPC is quite scary at night, there are areas there where the potholes are really deep making the driver to slow down completely or risk damaging the car. It had been speculated that armed robbers take advantage of such areas to snatch cars from their owners. Sample the potholes. There is one at Gado Nasko Road, another before Nandrem Supermarket, and yet another death trap before the Chemzo Supermarket. Driving towards the Kubwa High Court there is another very bad pothole. There are still others on your way to NNPC before Expressway. By the Kubwa Federal Housing is the greatest shame of Kubwa where there is this very bad road. If it rains that area is terrible and messy. There is no way motorists can avoid that road because it is very strategic. As you approach the federal housing to turn into Kubwa before the Nandrem eatery you hit the very rough road. Once in a while some good Samaritans will look for stones and sand to pour on the road, making it better for a few weeks and then it goes back to its very deplorable state. The federal government did a very good work on Kubwa Expressway down to the very doorpost of some houses in Kubwa, but expectedly they cut Kubwa Federal Housing Junction out, because it is not in their plan. It is the duty of the Bwari Area Council to do the job which of course they have turned their eyes away from. The road from the federal housing down to Total petrol station is manageable though, but the road opposite Zenith Bank linking the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) is a terrible eyesore. In dry season it is terrible, in rainy season it is worse. Let’s not forget the fact that these roads have residential areas around them, so we are also looking at the health hazard it is causing. The question on the lips of residents is do we really have area councils, do we have chairman and councilors in these area councils? It is understandable that they generate revenue, have budgets for the area council, what are they using the money for? The Nation spoke with business owners in Kubwa and other parts. Mallam Aliyu Dutse, a tailor, said the untarred road with potholes everywhere really affects their business. He said, “Most of my customers don’t like coming to the shop, it is even better now during the rainy season. As you can see, we are even trying to clear the gutter to create passage for water, the drainage is full with all kinds of dirt, but our major concern is for the area council to come and repair the roads. “We shop owners come together to ensure the drainage is clean, if we do not do it when the rain starts you cannot pass the road at all, in fact residents are the worst hit because the rainwater will start entering people’s apartments. With this kind of roads no customer will want to patronise us on this street. “We expect the Bwari local government to come and repair the road because they collect revenue from all shop owners on these roads. They collect ten thousand naira from us every year. I want to categorically say that no work has been done on the roads in the past five to ten years. The most annoying part is we are put under intense pressure to pay this revenue money. “Once in a while we come together as shop owners, task ourselves and clean up the place just for it to be habitable, we empty our dustbins ourselves, there was a time the local government council people came to say we should be paying one thousand every month so they can be emptying our dustbins, they started it quite okay but after a month they stopped and that was the end.” A pub owner, who gave his name as Ezenwa Okwudili, said the road has been this bad for over five years now. He said, “The Area Council staff came here last year 2018 to inspect the road, after inspection they did not come back again. I pay twenty thousand every year for revenue, ten thousand for liquor license and ten thousand for revenue, yet nothing has been done on the road. “To me I see it as high level corruption from the local government operators. We are in the month of March, by next month now no vehicle can pass this road again, it is that bad. All businesses on this road are put on hold until after the rainy season. My appeal to the local government council is for them to try and work on the road before the rain starts. We really do need help on this roads, there is no way we can continue paying such revenue if the road still remains like this , the local government chairman should please look seriously into this issue and do the road for us. The Bwari Area Council Chairman, Musa Dikko while presenting the 2018 proposal of over N4.7 billion budget, earmarked N2.4billion for capital expenditure in the council with works and housing gaining the highest amount of N1,046,311,952 Dikko in his presentation tagged this budget, “budget of consolidation” calling it the people’s budget pointing that his administration placed more emphasis on capital projects to meet the needs of the people. The Nation had on two occasions put a call to the Chairman who said “Go ahead and write anything you want to write; can’t you see the work we are doing around the area council, all you people do is carry the negative part of news, please don’t call my line again.” The question is if money has been earmarked for capital projects like working on roads within the area council, where are the roads that have been worked on, what did the council use the money for, obviously there was no work done. In most parts of Kubwa the roads are really bad yet the Chairman is not doing anything or saying anything about it. The so much money collected for revenue what is it used for?  In his swearing in speech, he assured the people of Bwari Area Council that by the mandate given to him to represent them, he and his team will d do their best to fulfill all the promises made by their councilors during their campaign.  Are the promises fulfilled?