Getting the mandate of Nigerians and the runner-up in the 2015 presidential elections to concede defeat appeared to be easier for President Muhammadu Buhari four years ago. Then, the incumbent, former President Goodluck Jonathan didn’t waste any time to call and congratulate Buhari on telephone, when he knew what direction the votes were going. That singular act by Jonathan immediately suppressed the tension in the country and enthroned environment of peace and tranquility across the country. Prior to Jonathan’s telephone call conceding defeat, there was fear among Nigerians that the country was heading for a major crisis and going to split into segments. The breakup evil prophesies of some parts of the international community in 2015 also did not help matters. The prophesies then created fears in the minds of many Nigerians, which led to their deaths in motor accidents on the highways and other tragedies while running from the cities to their villages. Some of them wholeheartedly believed the reports that Nigeria was going to break into North and South and had to start running even before the elections started. So, Jonathan putting action to his words that his ambition was not worth the blood of any Nigerian immediately brought calmness to the country and ended all hostilities. But that is missing in the current dispensation as the major opposition candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, who came second according to the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has not conceded defeat over ten days after Buhari was declared winner of the 2019 Presidential election. Atiku, not only felt that he has been robbed of his mandate by incumbency powers, he had also been threatening to head to the court over the issue. In a statement issued after the elections results were released, Atiku said “I thank the Nigerian people who trooped out in their millions to perform their civic duty this past Saturday. The patriotism of Nigerians is heartwarming and affirms my oft-repeated statement that we are brothers and sisters born from the womb of one mother Nigeria. “With regards to the Presidential elections that took place on February 23, 2019, it is clear that there were manifest and premeditated malpractices in many states which negate the results announced. “One obvious red flag is the statistical impossibility of states ravaged by the war on terror generating much higher voter turnouts than peaceful states. The suppressed votes in my strongholds are so apparent and amateurish, that I am ashamed as a Nigerian that such could be allowed to happen. How can total votes in Akwa-Ibom, for instance, be 50% less than what they were in 2015? “Another glaring anomaly is the disruption of voting in strongholds of the Peoples Democratic Party in Lagos, Akwa-Ibom, Rivers and diverse other states, with the authorities doing little or nothing and in some cases facilitating these unfortunate situations. “The militarization of the electoral process is a disservice to our democracy and a throwback to the jackboot era of military dictatorship. In some areas of the country, such as, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Imo states, troops deployed for the elections turned their guns on the very citizens they were meant to protect. This is condemnable and should not be associated with our electoral process in the future. “I am a democrat and there are democratic avenues available to present the truth to the nation and the watching world. Already, many international observers have given their verdicts, which corroborate our observations. I am sure more will come in the coming hours and days. “If I had lost in a free and fair election, I would have called the victor within seconds of my being aware of his victory to offer not just my congratulations, but my services to help unite Nigeria by being a bridge between the North and the South. “However, in my democratic struggles for the past three decades, I have never seen our democracy so debased as it was on Saturday, February 23, 2019. 2007 was a challenge, but President Yar’Adua was remorseful. In 2019, it is sad to see those who trampled on democracy thumping their noses down on the Nigerian people. “Consequently, I hereby reject the result of the February 23, 2019 sham election and will be challenging it in court. “I want to assure my supporters and the entire Nigerian people that together, we will not allow democracy to be emasculated. “I hope and pray Nigerians will someday summon the courage to defend democracy. That is the only way we can move away from being the world headquarters for extreme poverty,” he said Atiku’s efforts to investigate and discover the ‘real’ result of the election led the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal headed by Justice Abdul Aboki to only grant him permission to inspect electoral materials used for the elections last Wednesday. Atiku was barred from carrying out forensic analysis and scanning on them. Carrying out forensic analysis and scanning by experts, of computers, card reader machines, server deployed for the election, the Tribunal noted was beyond the scope of the provisions of Section 151(1) & (2) of the Electoral Act (as amended), which permits the inspection of election materials. “After a careful examination of the reliefs sought on the motion paper and a perusal of Section 151 of the Electoral Act (as amended), and the decision of this court in cases of Aregbesola v. Oyinlola, Akintayo v. Jolaoye, Senator Hope Uzodinma v. Senator Osita Izunaso, it is hereby ordered as follows. “Leave is granted to the applicants to bring this application at this stage. “The first respondent (INEC) shall forthwith, allow the applicants and or their representatives to inspect polling documents and obtained certified true copies of all polling documents in the custody of the first respondent, used for the just-concluded presidential election, to enable the applicants institute and maintain an election petition. “Prayers three, four, five and six on the motion paper are hereby refused. “Forensic audit, examination and analysis by forensic experts cannot be regarded as an inspection of those documents within the ambit of Section 151 of the Electoral Act (as amended),” Justice Aboki stated. Some Nigerians, however, have noted that the path being followed by Atiku would in the long run heat up the polity and hamper development in the country. To them, Atiku should just sacrifice his personal ambition for the national interest. The National Traditional Rulers Council were among the latest groups and Nigerians that urged Atiku and other presidential candidate to see the final election result as the will of God. In a congratulatory visit to President Buhari at the Presidential Villa last Tuesday, the Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III, who led the group, said: “The National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria is here to felicitate with you on your re-election as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We join all Nigerians and the International community in praying and wishing you very big success in your tenure. “As traditional rulers, we are not only custodians of our people’s cultures, values and traditions but also the custodians of the religious beliefs and conscience of our people. “We are therefore, fully aware that it is only God almighty who owns power and authority and who bestows this on whom He will, when He wills and how He wills. “Therefore your election as President for a second tenure should be seen as what God has destined and no one could have changed that. “This result is the will of the almighty God and therefore we call on all to give you maximum support for the achievement of peace, development and progress of our dear nation,” he stated. On the other hand, other Nigerians felt that it was good Atiku was taking his grievances to court rather than resorting to violent self-help. It will be a good thing for Nigeria if these issues can urgently be addressed and put behind the giant of Africa for it to forge ahead. Moreso, if the INEC’s declaration was the will of God.