The Rivers state chapter of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to declare governor Nyesom Wike the winner of the March 9, 2019 governorship election in the state. The state chairman of the party, Bro. Felix Obuah made the call at the expanded news briefing of the party executives in Port Harcourt, the state capital on Wednesday. Relying on the results from the unites, wards and Local Governments where the exercise was successfully held Obuah said, “With the available result from the field, I want to assure you that His Excellency (Wike) has won overwhelmingly and INEC should not  waste time in declaring Governor Nyesom Wike the winner and governor-elect of Rivers State. “We are not worried about what some people are saying; the truth is that with the results from the field, the incumbent governor should be declared governor-elect.” He claimed that already, INEC has declared PDP legislative candidates winners in the 26 state constituencies and 14 national assembly seats while the African Action Congress (AAC), got no seat, where the election matters have been concluded. This counter claim is coming, barely four days after the governorship candidate of the AAC, Biokpamobo Awara had also urged the electoral umpire to declare him winner, claiming also that information from his agents in the field during the election showed that he was coasting to victory having clearly won in 15 out of the 23 LGAs of the state. But in his speech Obuah said, “Anyone can go on air and say they have won, but we are speaking based on evidence, the results INEC had already declared at the grassroots level. Addressing the party faithful, Obuah thanked residents of the state for demonstrating great faith in Governor Wike by defending their votes and assured them of better and more infrastructural and human capital developments in the 2nd tenure in office. He said, “The outcome of the governorship and State Assembly Elections of March 9, 2019 proved the love the good people of Rivers State have for our beloved party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). “You showed unparalleled love for our party by voting all the way for Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike and all our candidates for the National and State Houses of Assembly elections. “The results from all polling units and constituencies where the elections were concluded have confirmed and reaffirmed to us that Rivers State is PDP; that PDP is our way of life in Rivers State. You have once again, reposed your total confidence in our party. “As the Chairman of the PDP, I wish to express and convey the gratitude of our party to the people of Rivers State for this wonderful show of love and support for our Governorship Candidate, Governor Nyesom Wike and the State Assembly Candidates,” he said.  