•Sokoto’s decision to send 50 indigenes to Ukraine to study medicine is commendable.  But the state should develop the capacity to train even more at home A post-inauguration speech of Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State in 2015 was remarkable in one sense. He had promised to declare a state of emergency in the education sector of the state. This he did, given Sokoto’s high illiteracy level. He started off in his first term by sending a bill to the state House of Assembly making education compulsory and a punishable offence for parents that err in this regard. He also surpassed the UNESCO benchmark of 26 per cent budgetary allocation to the education sector in 2016. He invested in teachers by retraining and recruiting qualified ones to reduce the high student/teacher ratio, thereby improving learning. He equally invested in incentives to encourage more girls to go to school, at some point offering cash rewards to those who sustain the idea of going and staying in school. He had partnered with some development partners like United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID) and the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF). However, the governor’s attempts at improving education in his state with investments in school infrastructure and human development seem not to be enough to give the state the trained manpower it needs. No news from the state validates this assertion more than the recent news that 50 students of the state origin would be sent to Ukraine to study various aspects of medical sciences. According to the Chairman of the Sokoto State Scholarship Board, Altine Shehu Kajiji, sponsoring the 50 students is part of the 200 scholarships that Governor Tambuwal promised the people. He said that some other students had gone to India, Ghana and Sudan. While the acquisition of education is a laudable venture, we feel that given the education challenges in the Northern region, especially Sokoto, the foreign exchange being spent in other countries can actually be used to equip more schools or even build some modern ones to serve more people in the state. Sending 200 people to foreign universities is not really a bad idea, but given the little resources available to the state, it might have been more economically valuable to improve the infrastructure in Sokoto and hire some good hands to train the students, thus making it a more sustainable project. However, we still commend the governor’s efforts to train more students in the medical sciences because of the dire need of such professionals in that part of the country. The socio-religious leaning of the people makes it difficult for the men to allow male doctors to attend to their female children and wives. We therefore hope that this guides the selection of those being sent abroad to study so that they can come back and contribute to the very needy health sector in the state, especially as it concerns women’s health. It is also important for the government to ensure that merit be the criterion for selection because there had been instances where children of politicians and other influential people that can afford the fees are still the ones selected for scholarships. We also advise that while the foreign scholarships are commendable, more emphasis should be on getting children to acquire the basic education in the state. The almajiri education system must be quickly overhauled and better funded to make it more impactful. Even though in comparative terms, girl-child education in Sokoto is seemingly better than most other northern states, it is still below average. We therefore advise the government to intensify campaigns on girl-child education. The idea of sending a few students of medical sciences abroad should not be seen as a great leap in the education sector of any state because the number is too negligible in comparative terms when put side by side the educational needs of any state. We therefore hope that the government is not embarking on this for any temporary political capital, as has been seen in some other states and even at the federal level, where many students so sent are left without the needed financial support, in ways that often force them to depend on the benevolence of either unprepared relations or even the host countries. Let their needs be met so that they can be motivated enough to achieve their aim and come back and contribute to the development of the state.