As the queens and kings of schools in Lagos State, Queens and Kings Colleges were the first teams to secure their places in the semifinal of season eight of the annual 2019 GTB Masters Cup. In the quarterfinal matches played at the Campos Mini Stadium in Lagos Island, Queens College showed their prowess on the field of play with a 6-0 thrashing of Anwar-Ul-Islam Girls High School to be sure of their spot in the last four of the girls’ event. After playing goalless draw at full time, Corona School and Atlantic Hall had to settle their encounter through penalty. With both sides finding the back of the net in the shootout, it was the Epe-based Atlantic Hall that carried the day with a 4-3 win. Itire-based Ansar-Ud-Deen Girls High beat their counterparts from Isolo 3-0 to join the list of teams in the last four of the competition. Unlike Queens College which had an easy win over their opponent in the quarterfinal, Kings College was made to work harder for their victory with a hard-fought 4-3 win over Jibril Martins Memorial Grammar School, Whitesand School overcame Baptist Academy 2-0. CMS Grammar School was 1-0 better than Federal Science and Technical College in the boys’ event. For the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Guaranty Trust Bank plc, Segun Agbaje, staging the tournament would produce stars for the country. “We are delighted to organize this tournament for the eighth edition, not only because of the platform it provides for the emergence of amazing football talents, but also because we see firsthand its impact in helping young people build a healthier lifestyle at this critical stage in their lives,” Agbaje said. He added: “At GTBank, we will continue to create and invest in initiatives that bring the values of sports to school compounds to ensure that young people that are passionate about sports have the opportunity to hone their talents and build character whilst still very focused on their academics.” The financial institution is a leading advocate of sports education as a major way of promoting the values of excellence and fair play whilst laying a solid foundation for the emergence of sporting talents. Alongside the GTBank Masters Cup, the Bank organizes and sponsors several other football programs, such as the GTBank Principals Cup tournaments in Lagos and Ogun States, the GTBank Super Cup and the Players Development Programme.