Twenty-five per cent of organisations in Nigeria, Middle East and other African countries lack cyber security personnel, one of the biggest obstacles to cyber security, a new Cisco cyber security report has said. According to the report, 23 per cent of companies in the Middle East and Africa manage more than 21 vendors, while only 58 per cent of cyber security alerts in the Middle East and Africa are investigated. Of those, 39 per cent are legitimate, but only 53 per cent of legitimate alerts are remediated. For more than a decade, Cisco’s cyber security reports have been a definitive source of intelligence for cyber security professionals interested in the state of the global industry. These comprehensive reports provide detailed accounts of the threat landscape and organisational implications. “In February, the Cisco 2019 Threat Report was published. Our cyber security experts analysed prominent threats of 2018 for clues to new attack strategies and targets. It’s as close as we can get to anticipating future trends without a crystal ball. “Cisco has picked out five key stories from the last year or so, not just because they were big events, but because the company thinks these threats, or something similar, could very well appear again in the near future. They include: Emotet, a Trojan involved in malware distribution; VPNFilter, a modular internet of things (IoT) threat; unauthorised mobile device management; cryptomining and Olympic Destroyer, as an example of destructive cyber-attack campaigns,” the firm explained. It said Olympic Destroyer was created with the pure intention to watch the world burn. “We saw a number of threats like this in the last year, but none grabbed the headlines like an a ttack whose sole purpose appears to have been to disrupt the Winter Olympics while VPNFilter was an IoT-specific attack, hitting a vast number of routers and devices riddled with known vulnerabilities. E-mail remains a key delivery method for attackers and users continue to be the weakest link; education is therefore, paramount. “Revenue generation is the key motivation for attackers: malware follows the money. Crypto-mining threats are laser-focused on this goal. They have grown to become the most common threat in this category, due to the repeat revenue they offer and the low risk if caught spreading it. “As we prepare for major events across the region and as businesses continue to digitally transform, adopt the cloud and Internet of things (IoT), we’re prioritising cyber security above everything. “It’s impossible to predict everything that will occur, but the safest bets are usually the ones you most often come up against. Addressing those early can free up time to deal with the unexpected and zero-day attacks,” Cisco said in the report. Since coming onboard, Cisco has become a leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Enterprise Firewall. “Gartner specifically recognised the strength of our threat intelligence team, Talos, the largest threat research team in the world.” In addition, Cisco said it continues to enhance its integrated portfolio via acquisition.