Ahead of the commencement of distribution of relief items including: rice and other household items to orphanage homes and Internally Displace Persons (IDPs) in Zone B (North West), the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has begun due diligence and verification of the homes. The Public Relations Officer, Mr. Joseph Attah, disclosed this to The Nation in the service headquarters in Abuja Thursday. He said that having concluded the distribution of such items to the orphanages in the South West, the sub-committee that is saddled with the responsibility will now continue from the North West, starting from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) next week. The spokesman said that: “We are now set to move to the North Western states. In Customs, we call that side Zone B. Next week, we will focus on FCT. “We do know that there are a number of IDPs in FCT, and orphanages either run by religious organizations, NGOs or private religious houses.  We have identified a number of them. Some have also sent letters to tell us that they are there, their number of children and other information. “Just as we have done in the South West, we will subject this to a very thorough verification and by next week we will distribute the items to them. After that we will go to Sokoto, Zamfara, Kano, Katsina and others.” Attah disclosed to The Nation that the NCS has already drafted its operatives to identify the orphanage homes, stressing that it is still difficult to state the exact number of people that will benefit from the next week distribution exercise. According to him, “those that have not been identified will come up and we will still verify them and once we see that they are properly registered, we will extend it to them. It is the number of orphanages and the number of children we are able to confirm in them that we will give to. But we know that it will run into hundreds of thousands.” On the challenges that associate with the distribution of the items, Attah said that due diligence is compulsory, especially as some of the homes are in difficult terrain. He recalled that the mandate that the Comptroller-General Col. Hameed Ali (retired) gave to the committee was that the items must not pass through any intermediary. Attah said based on the instruction, the committee will not hand over the items to any local government chairman, director or permanent secretary in the states. He insisted that “we are under strict directive to handover these items directly to the end users, to the operators of these orphanages in their homes.” Meeting up with the directive, according to him, puts a lot of stress on the logistic of the committee that starts from identification, verification, allocation, loading and escorting and ensuring that they get to the intended recipients. He explained that once the items are loaded, an officer gets a landing certificate to escort it, on arrival at the premises, the operator of the orphanage or IDP signs the certificate to show receipt.