The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State has alleged the killing of several of its members, who refused to be compromised, during the Governorship and State House of Assembly elections by agents of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) led state government. The party, which made the accusation in a statement by its acting chairman, Sir John Ochala, rejected the results of the election, which saw the PDP emerge winners. The statement, made available to The Nation in Calabar read, “The All Progressives Congress Cross River State hereby informs the General Public that we dissociate ourselves from this rape of democracy in the name of Governorship and State House of Assembly  Elections. We are all witnesses to the day light robbery of our collective will and mandate, led by the PDP state government in active connivance with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security operatives. Despite the very responsible manner in which our teeming party faithful and supporters went about their civic responsibility, the PDP in desperation to perpetuate their evil agenda killed several of our members who refused to compromise and resisted the vote stuffing carried out by the PDP. “We call on all APC members and well-wishers to remain calm and go about their lawful duties without let or hindrance while the party leadership explores all avenues within legal limits to correct this aberration.” Also addressing reporters in Calabar, the governorship candidate of the Young Democratic Party (YDP), Emmanuel Undie, rejected the results saying there were no elections in the state. Undie accused the security agencies and INEC of colluding with agents of the PDP to rig the elections. He vowed to pursue all constitutional means to ensure the exercise is cancelled. “There were no elections in Cross River State. It was not free and fair, a lot of people were disenfranchised and there was no safety and security for the people. I personally saw SUVs filled with thugs with automatic weapons moving freely with government number plate numbers. “We witnessed carting away materials by thugs, multiple thumb printing. There were also swapping of result sheets; hence whatever happened in the field was an exercise in futility. People only went out to waste their time. The police, supposed to protect law abiding citizens, were aiding thugs against the citizens. The results were cooked up,” he alleged.