Ibadan Distribution Company (IBEDC) said it has upgraded its services and substantially improved service delivery. In a statement by Head Branding & Corporate Communication, IBEDC, Mrs Angela Olanrewaju, the firm asked customers to take advantage of the various complaint channels, which it had provided, adding it had fulfilled promises to customers in its franchise area for quality and improved service delivery. It urges customers to reciprocate the firm’s effort by paying their bills promptly and lodge complaints in a civil way whenever the need arises. According to her, IBEDC has just upgraded two distribution substations at Awujale and GRA distribution substations in Ijebu-Ode business hub under Ogun region of its franchise. It said the company upgraded the overloaded 200KVA 11/0.415KV transformer of GRA substation to 500KVA 11/0.415KV distribution Transformer. The firm said customers at Oke -Aje market, Igbo Electronic market,  JDPC & Lekan Bello  Avenue, Heritage Estate, Stadium road & Ijebu-Ode Club road had been experiencing incessant power outages as a result of the overloaded 200KVA transformer, adding that the upgrading has brought improved and quality supply to the community. Similarly, the company said it replaced the old and burnt 200KVA 11/0.415KV transformer, which plunged the residents of Igbeba under Awujale substation into darkness with a new one. “IBEDC, in fulfillment of her promises to all the company’s esteemed customers, ensured the replacement of the community’s transformer. “Also, in a bid to ensure that our esteemed customers get quality services the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) in Osun region have resolved the prolonged issue of irregular power supply in Ile-Ife and its environs. “For some years, Orile –Owu, Ikire, Wasimi and Sekona were experiencing erratic power supply due to some challenges with the indoor circuit-breakers at TCN Substation in Ile-Ife. However, with the collaborative efforts from both TCN and IBEDC, the troubled indoor circuit-breakers were successfully converted to outdoor circuit breakers, and regular power supply and even quality services are presently being restored to these localities and their environs. “With the commissioning of three newly installed out-door circuit-breakers on each of the six 33KV out-going feeders, namely: OAU, Iron and Steel, Ikire/ Wasimi, Orile –Owu, Ife- Township and Sekona will be having its separate and respective out-door circuit breaker. The latching of one feeder to the other is now a thing of the past,” the company added. The company urged its customers to reciprocate the good gesture through prompt and regular bills settlement to encourage the company do more, warning the communities to desist from tampering with the company’s installations but to always report faults promptly to its offices around them for prompt rectification. The company further appealed to the communities to always be vigilant and protect its installations from vandals.