The free medical programme of the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has revealed the state of health of the people. The medical programme designed to reach market women in all the 20 local government areas also attracted men in large numbers. Organisers said it is evident through the statewide programme that several people have no access to medical services or nonchalant about checking or monitoring their health status. According to reports of the medical programme, there has been increase in the number of people having high blood pressure, cervical issues and breast ailments in the state. The outreach also showed that thousands also have poor sights as free eye glasses were distributed after undergoing comprehensive eye examination at all the designated centers. The medical outreach, which offered free medical consultations, dental care, eye tests and free glasses, cervical and breast cancer, was jointly organised by the Prime Group, BOS Eko Forum and LMC for the Lagos APC governorship hopeful. The programme, tagged: Sanwo-Olu Cares Medical Outreach, targeted the poor in Lagos markets. According to the organisers, the essence of carrying out the outreach in the markets is due to their strategic locations as points of convergence for everyone living in particular locations. They added that the aim of the medical outreach is to fill the gaps in healthcare access and delivery the state. The medical team leader, Dr. Tunde  Ajayi, said the medical outreach is also designed to reach those who barely have time to visit the hospital and also those who cannot afford the cost of medical treatment. He advised that Lagosians should visit hospitals often to monitor their health status because the outcome of the programme revealed that most Lagosians do not focus attention on their health. The team comprised doctors, nurses, pharmacists, laboratory personnel and non-clinical health workers. The cervical screening showed that there is an increase in women with cervical issues, with a huge number of women having referrals to public medical centres across the local governments. Records of the outreach showed that Epe had the highest cases for referrals on cervical issues. Just as there were more cases of women who had issues with their breast after undergoing the breast cancer screening, it was also evident that most of the people who participated in the programme had issues with their eyesight. Over 2,500 people were provided with free eye glasses after undergoing eye screening and tests by ophthalmologists. The outreach also showed that there are high cases of many people battling with high blood pressure crisis, while the dental surgery witnessed hundreds of people having tooth extraction. 