The Professionals for Humanity (PROFOH), a group of doctors, nurses, microbiologists and other volunteers from Houston, Texas, United States, has partnered the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on free medical care to indigent Lagos. The medical mission which provides free surgeries, is done under BOSKOH – Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dr. Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat (his running mate) – platform At the flag-off ceremony, at the Shomolu General Hospital where experts will spend a week before moving to another, Sanwo-Olu said it was not a political mission as the welfare of Lagosians had nothing to do with politics. “We are not asking for their PVCs before they can be attended to; anybody who needs help will be attended to. This is all about service to humanity,” he said. Sanwo-Olu’s wife Dr. Ibijoke, a former chief medical director of Shomolu Primary Health Centre, enjoined those who need surgery to present their cases, assuring that they would be attended to. Hamzat lauded the mission, saying it would restore hope and life to the sick. “A woman came to me in Epe Local Government Area of Lagos State and asked me to thank the BOSKOH medical team for taking care of her 20 years’ ailment,” he said. Gbimieotor Daniel Kama, who is the head of PFOFOH, affirmed that the team had been carrying out free medical treatment over the years, adding it had performed thousands of surgeries in and outside the country over the years. “The surgical operations we have embarked on include hernia, tumours, different kinds of surgeries, and fibroids, among others. We’ve been taking in as many people as possible until the medical team is tired and can not take in any people any longer. Sometimes we do up to 20 types of surgeries in a day. “You never know until you get inside the theatr; there may be a lot of complicationes you’ll find there. The surgeries we can’t handle are heart and liver related; we do more of general surgeries including glaucoma, thyroid, hernia, fibroids, tumour, gad bladder,” he said. Cliff Jarrell Director, the head of PROFOH in Nigeria, observed that there is a long list of people with different kinds of surgical operations such as cancers, malignant and non-malignant tumors, orthopedic cases and classes of plastic surgeries. The team has solved many medical challenges. Coordinator of the mission, Nike Osa, a microbiologist, stressed that the group wanted to see how it could reduce the number of surgeries available; hence the group is doing its bit to improve the healthcare system. “The hospitals where the surgeries take place are:  Hernias, fibroids glaucomas and plastic surgeries are being handled at the Onikan General Hospital; the Lagos General Hospital is mostly for paediatric cases, while Gynaecology and Obstetrics cases are done at Shomolu General Hospital.”  Our plastic surgeon, when available, is about the third best on earth and so we have the capacity to handle these cases,” she said. According to Osa, the major aim of the team is to ensure that people who are not able to afford this expense will get these services for free and it is an immediate intervention for them. In a community like this and with the volume of emergencies you find, if they can’t access healthcare and instead of leaving them in a state where they can’t help themselves, we have brought this to them totally free. We have doctors from the UK, Australia, Spain and USA. We have all the capacity because we have brought in the best. We also welcome volunteers to join the team to bring wellness to Lagosians,” she said, while promising that the free medical surgeries will be replicated in all the local government areas in the state