A Federal High Court in Lagos, on Thursday, further adjourned until June 20, the trial of two Chinese nationals, Tao Shen and Jing Yau, charged with importation of sub-standard tyres. Shen, 36, and Yau, 22, are charged alongside a Nigerian, Chinedu Madubuike and two companies, Sino Nig. Import and Export Ltd. and Nedeca International Ltd. The accused are standing trial on four counts bordering on importation of substandard products. The case which was earlier fixed for continuation of trial was stalled on Thursday, following the absence of Justice Mojisola Olatoregun who is said to be on official assignment. Trial will now resume on June 20. At the last adjourned date of Feb. 5, Mr Oluwafemi Olabisi from the law firm of Festus Keyamo, had announced appearance for the prosecution. He had informed the court that he was appearing as prosecutor for the first time in the case, since his chambers (Festus Keyamo and co) had just been briefed on the suit. The court had consequently adjourned the case for trial. The defendants were arraigned on March 20, 2018, and had each pleaded not guilty to the charges. The court had granted them bail in the sum of N10million each, with two sureties each in like sum, and had ordered the companies to submit a bond in the sum of N10million. According to the charge, the defendants committed the offences in February 2017, by conspiring to import tyres which did not meet the relevant Nigerian industrial standard. They are alleged to have stuffed various sizes of tyres into one, knowing same to be in a dangerous state, or being injurious to human life. The defendants are said to have imported the tyres which did not comply with the mandatory Nigerian standard, on account of their stuffing different sizes into one. According to prosecution, this made the tyres to be unfit for their purpose, as they failed to meet the relevant Nigerian industrial standard and likely to endanger human lives. The defendants were also alleged to have failed to furnish returns on the conditions of the imported tyres as required by law. The offences contravene the provisions of sections 320 and 510 of the Criminal Code Act, Cap C38, Laws of the Federation, 2004. It also contravenes the provisions of sections 26 and 32 of the Standard Organisation of Nigeria Act, No 14, Laws of the Federation, 2004.