Leading global Information and Communications Technology company, Huawei, has reiterated its commitment towards achieving a fully connected and digitally inclusive Nigeria. The Managing Director, Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited, Zhang Lulu, disclosed this at a media parley in Lagos, stating that the company is focused on enhancing availability, assessability and affordability of ICT services by boosting ICT infrastructure with quality and innovative solutions tailored to local needs and equipping the youth with ICT knowledge and skills. Discussing the theme, ‘Connecting the Unconnected’, Mr. Zhang said exploring talents among Nigerians with great potential leads to development in Nigeria, as the ICT industry contributes more than 10 percent to the total Gross Domestic Product of the Africa’s largest economy. “As a leading global ICT solutions provider, Huawei has been witnessing, participating and being a part of what has happened in the ICT development in Nigeria. Since starting operations in Nigeria in 1999, Huawei has been working with local operators to provide safe, stable and high-quality communication networks in the country; currently covering about half of the population,” Mr. Zhang said. Apart from increased connectivity, Huawei is also committed to building skills at all levels of the society by working with universities and other partners to foster ICT talents and training ICT practitioners.  The company has trained more than 20,000 ICT engineers who have become the main work force to guarantee the network running of this country. Huawei is currently working with more than 40 universities in Nigeria in establishing its Huawei Authorized Information and Network Academy (HAINA) and providing industrially recognized ICT certification in subjects including networks, routing and switching. Sharing his experience at the event, Muhammad Maihaja, one of the three students who won the first prize in Huawei ICT competition and will be representing Nigeria at the global finals in China, described the competition as a life changer which has given him a great opportunity to learn cutting-edge technologies. “The Huawei ICT competition has made me go beyond what I knew. This platform has given Nigerian youths opportunities to showcase their talents in ICT on a continental and global level, which is good for the future of the development of ICT in Nigeria. “said Maihaja. Reports show that the adoption of communication technology has grown all over Nigeria, with over 80 per cent of the citizens already covered by communication networks, thereby facilitating better lives and giving rise to broader economic activities. Mr. Zhang concluded that upholding its mission and vision “to bring digital to every person, home and organization for a fully connected, intelligent world”, Huawei remains committed to working with carriers and local partners to reach the remaining unconnected areas, especially remote rural areas in the coming years. 