Oyo State tradesmen and artisans have appealed to the contending factions of the state National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), headed by the Acting Chairman, Mr. Abideen Ejiogbe and a former Acting Chairman, Mr. Lamidi Mukaila (Auxiliary), to eschew violence. Chairman of the tradesmen and artisans Mr. Hamzat Kolayode stated this when he led members of his executive on a solidarity visit to Mukaila at his office in Alakia, Ibadan. Kolayode urged the factions to ensure smooth transition of power. In the last few weeks, tensions have increased among the NURTW members  following the preparation of Mukaila’s camp to assume the union’s leadership, following the victory of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the March 9 gubernatorial election. But, the current acting chairman of the NURTW, Olajide (a.k.a Ejiogbe), who succeeded the late chairman, Taofeek Oyerinde (a.k.a Fele), following his death last year, has asserted that the tenure of the current state executive lapses in October. However, Kolayode, during the visit, said the two strong men of the union should explore available means of peaceful transition to resolve the leadership tussle amicably and not jeopardise the existing peace in the state in the last seven years. He said: “I urge Alhaji Abideen Olajide Ejiogbe to, in his capacity, not to allow himself to be used to cause crisis within the union. NURTW has its own methodology and ways of operation, which is known to every member of the union, even beyond the shores of the state. I am appealing to him not to heat up the polity, though he should consult in the spirit of oneness and take the part of honour.” Kolayode, who also appealed to Mukaila, thanked him for his patience over the matter. He advised that he should prevail on his camp to exhibit caution and allow peace to reign while the transition lapses. “I want to appreciate Alhaji Mukaila for his understanding and calmness over the issue. All of you in the union know your operations and we appeal to you to implement it without causing trouble.” Also, another stalwart, Mr. Ahmed Raheem (a.k.a Lagansh) admonished the two camps to ensure sustenance of peace. In his response, Mukaila thanked the artisans for their support and solidarity, but was quick to say that there was nothing to warrant panic ahead of the incoming NURTW administration. He stated that the change of guard in the union would not affect the peace of the state in whatever capacity. Mukaila assured his visitors the incoming administration “will dance their way to office when the time comes”.