In search of a lighter and healthy breakfast idea? Plantain frittata is the ultimate plantain and egg breakfast recipe you should try. It is different, easy to prepare and of course very delicious. Don’t just fry your plantain and eggs separately, try this recipe! It includes chicken sausage which gives it a meaty texture and it also includes a fair share of veggies. Ingredients
2-3 very ripe plantains
7 eggs
1/2 cup chopped onion
3 cloves garlic – minced
1 large roma tomato – chopped
1 cup chopped bell pepper I chopped one green bell pepper
2 tablespoons oil
1 1/2 cup chopped sausage I used chicken sausage
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon bouillon powder substitute with 1 4g stock cube (e.g Maggi)
1/4 teaspoon ground white or black pepper
Oil for deep frying the plantains
1/2 teaspoon oil (for greasing pie plate)
Parsley for garnishing (optional)  Method
1. Peel plantains then cut into 1/4 inch slices. Place oil in a pan up to 2-3 inches and heat up to 325 degrees Fahrenheit. Gently place the plantain slices into the oil one at a time then fry on one side for about 2 minutes. Flip to the other side and cook for another 2 minutes Remove and place on paper towel to absorb excess oil. 2. Place the two tablespoons of oil in a skillet and heat up on medium heat. Add the onions and garlic and saute until fragrant. Add the chopped tomato and cook for about 2 minutes. Add the sausage and stir for about 2 minutes. Add the bell peppers and salt, black pepper then stir for about 2 minutes. Turn off the heat. 3. In a large bowl, crack in all the eggs. Add the bouillon powder and whisk to combine. Add the sausage-bell pepper mixture into the eggs then mix. Preheat oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. 4. Rub a pie place with about a teaspoon of oil. Pour the egg mixture into the pie plate. Arrange the fried plantains on top of the egg mixture. Note that some of the plantains may shrink – that is totally okay. 5. Place the pie plate in the preheated oven and bake for 35 minutes. Now remove and check to make sure the egg is set in the middle. If it is set then take it out. If it isn’t set, place it bake in the oven and turn of the heat. Let it stay in the oven for about 5-10 minutes then take it out. 6. Garnish with chopped parsley if desired then cut up into triangles and serve warm. So so good!