…Considers new date for UTME The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has rescheduled its mock examination for Saturday, 23rd March 2019. The board disclosed this in a statement issued by its Head of Media, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, on Monday night, in Abuja. The statement urged candidates to begin the printing of their mock examination slips from Wednesday 6th, March. It enjoined all candidates to jealously guard all their details pertaining to the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and (UTME/DE) Direct Entry. Meanwhile, it was learnt last night that the board was considering a new date for this year’s UTME. The examination, which was slated to begin on March 16th and end of 23rd March, had been shifted because of the Presidential and National Assembly Elections which held on February 23rd. A new date for the UTME is being considered by the board. The statement reads: “Mock examination was introduced in 2017 to give candidates the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the conduct of Computer Based Test, particularly, candidates who are not conversant with the use of computers. “The Board would not want any candidate to be at a disadvantage position, hence the introduction of mock examination and other processes that would help the candidates during the examination. “The Board equally introduced the nine (9) keys without a mouse for candidates to use the computer with ease. “The Board also uses the mock exercise to ascertain the readiness of its system and to appraise the candidates’ preparedness for the main examination “This clarification becomes necessary because of insinuations from some quarters that marks from the mock examination would be added to scores obtained in the main examination. “The public should, therefore, note that, therefore, examination as its name implies, would not be used for any assessment process. “This year’s exercise is the third in the series of mock examinations conducted by the Board under the leadership of Prof. Is-haq Oloyede.”