The Bauchi state gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Bala Mohammed, is at a comfortable lead over his close rival, the incumbent Governor, Mohammed Abubakar of the All Progressives Party, (APC), at the supplementary governorship election held on the 23rd of March in Bauchi state. Sen. Bala Mohammed PDP, garnered a total of 6376 votes against his main opponent, incumbent Governor Mohammed Abubakar who polled 5117 votes at the rerun, with a vote margin of 1259 between both parties. The result of the re-run was announced in Bauchi on Sunday by the governorship election Returning Officer, Prof. Mohammed Kyari, who is a Vice Chancellor of the Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola. Earlier, during the March 9 inconclusive election, Mohammed was credited with 469,512 votes and Abubakar 465,453, with a vote margin of 4059 but the election was declared inconclusive after a Federal High Court in Abuja halted the collation and announcement of result for Tafawa Balewa Local Government. Governor Abubakar got a court injunction restraining INEC from continuing with the collation and announcement of election results in the State. Judgement on the matter had been fixed for Monday, March 25. The total votes scored so far by Mohammed in the 19 out of 20 LGAs has increased to 475,888 votes, while that of Abubakar is 470, 570 votes, with a difference of 5,318 votes. The total no of registered voters at the rerun was 22,759. Accredited voters are 12, 109, Valid votes ,11, 568 while total votes cast are 11, 979 . Rejected votes, 403. The rerun election was held in 36 Polling covering 29 registration areas (wards) in the 15 affected local government areas. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party has urged the Incumbent Governor to concede defeat and work together with the party for the progress of the state Speaking in a telephone interview with the Nation Correspondent, the PDP Chairman in the State, Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam , said the “right thing for the Governor to do is to surrender in the face of an imminent defeat ” Sen.Bala Mohammed has also expressed gratitude to the people of Bauchi state for their immense support. “We owe our victory to the people of Bauchi who have stood very firm on the threshold of freedom and liberty and have shown that they are the icons of democracy and liberty. Words alone cannot express my appreciation to them all.” He said while addressing a press conference at the Command Guest House,Bauchi immediately the result of the rerun election was announced.