An elder in The Apostolic Church and a newspaper distributor, Mr. Effiong Etukudoh, has predicted that the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Obong Nsima Ekere, will win Saturday’s election in Akwa Ibom State, “based on the word of God”. Etukudoh said in an interview with The Nation in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital that the Lord revealed to him as far back as 2017 that Ekere will emerge as the governor of the state in 2019, a time the former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) was not even in contention for the position. He said: “What I want to tell you is that when God says this is what is going to happen, nobody can stop it. The PDP in Akwa Ibom plays politics of blindness, because they close their eyes to the realities of the day. “I got this revelation in 2017 and I told people here that Nsima Ekere would become governor of Akwa Ibom State on 2019. By that time, he had not even mentioned that he was going to contest in 2019. “So, when the primary came last year, everybody expected Senator John Udoedehe to win the ticket, because he is somebody that is well known. But, I told them that the person that would emerge as the APC flag bearer is Nsima Ekere.” The prophet said the APC candidate in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, will carry the day, just as his Sokoto State counterpart, Ahmed Aliyu, will triumph in the Northwest state. His words: “In Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu will win. This because Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is the godfather of Lagos politics. Tinubu is the only man that has played politics according to the rules of the game; hence he has succeeded so far. In Sokoto, APC will win, but Delta State is a battleground. In Imo State, Governor Rochas Okorocha is insisting that his son in law, Uche Nwosu, will win, but I don’t know about that, because it is not even certain that elections will hold in Imo on Saturday. “The problem that will rear its head will be like that of Akwa Ibom State: the election will not be hitch-free like the presidential and National Assembly elections.” Etukudoh said when he predicted in 2018 that former President Olusegun Obasanjo would be retired from politics in 2019, because his candidate will not win, people did not believe him, because he is a commoner. “Nobody believed me, but it has come to pass,” he added.