The name Chioma Grace Ifemeludike might not ring a bell. But the skilled actress reigned online with her skits, Corpers Heaven, which was mostly posted by popular comedian AY. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, Chioma, who made her debut as a producer last year, speaks about herself and career. HOW did the online skit Corpers Heaven begin? The idea came to me while undergoing my NYSC service at popular comedian’s company Ayo Makun, known as AY. While I was there, it was a new environment and I was challenged to take advantage of the resources around me. I said to myself, I can shoot stories. So I started with different story ideas to the entertainment of people and also enlighten them. I began the skits and was promoting them on AY’s social media platform and see how far it will go. What is the idea behind it? Because I have always been the type that believes that what is worth doing should be done well and I also love to motivate young people. So when the idea came, I knew I did not want to do the everyday comedy skits that we see online. I knew it had to stand out and with plan that when it is played back in decades to come, it will still be worth watching and be proud it was my job. That was how the idea of every short story that comes up has to have a positive message to the public. That was the trademark for me, which became a passion as the skits keep coming up. Do you have plans to become a fulltime actor? (Laughs) you know, it is quite funny, It will shock you. I have been in the industry for more than eight years. I started acting when I was young and I can say that I have featured in almost a 100 movies. And right now, I am a producer. Corpers Heaven made me realise that I can be a producer and spread my kind of content to the society. Because I believe that the media is a very strong tool to spread any message, especially entertainment. It is a strong tool that helps to orientate the young minds. So I decided that after the success of Corpers Heaven, that I was going to produce my own movie. I am not a stranger in this industry, but I started with Corpers Heaven. I have a movie I produced last year, Shape Of You. And I intend to produce another and also the second season of Corpers Heaven. What was the challenge you faced as a producer? I had challenge because when I started off, it was not well coordinated, because I did not have money. Though, someone along the line came in through social media and wanted to sponsor and see if it will go far. And we partnered and he invested in like seven episodes, we had 15 and we had already done like eight before he came on board. Before his coming aboard, I had challenges with finance, management, making sure we shoot at the time we had to shoot, controlling of people to be on set, calling people, begging for favour; because at that time it was favours. The director of photography is also the person who edits it and he works with AY, so he’s my colleague. And I will always talk to him, and beg him even when he is not happy, he will just do it. So as a corper, I think that was the challenge coordinating and managing the production as well and making sure the idea that I had from when I started initially was not changed. I did not let anybody say try to make it funny, because I was not a comedian. If it is funny good, but my motive is to educate, and that motive was not truncated. Because when people are doing you favours, they think they can dictate to you. So it was not easy. How long are the skits expected to be on? I am not in the country presently. But I think immediately I am back, we will be shooting the second season because a lot of people have been asking. They think it is a good one and I need to do it in a bigger way and make it come out better than the first season. How did you start off? It was tough because I was brought up in Plateau, and then I came all the way to Lagos to pursue what I have passion for, which is acting. Also, the complexity of the entertainment industry in Nigeria was not encouraging. When you come on board nobody is really looking at your talent. It is either what they want to get from you before they can give you that platform. It was quite difficult because I am someone who is very principled; quite disciplined. So, it was quite challenging having to get a movie role without having to sleep with every producer. That was a huge challenge and if you want to bring in discipline and decency, it makes you spend longer time. Like some girls are ready to sleep with producers, why are you not going to do the same? Do you think your skit is different from others? I have seen a lot of skits online, but I have not seen anyone that has come to beat mine because of the standard that I place on my works. It is difficult to come across what I give out. Because what I give out is more like a ministration. It is not what you can understand with a carnal mind, because it is a movement. Corpers Heaven, from beginning to the last of the first season is what every mother should have in their home. When you kids are growing from one stage to the other, they need to see how the progression of life happens. It is a unique programme that stands out. That is why I said I have not seen anything that can beat it. These days’ people are not eager about morals; people just want to laugh and see what will excite them at the moment. But that is not what Corpers Heaven brand is about. We are about values, morals and longevity. Why did you take a break? I took time off because we were done with season one. When I started, it was not about money. But now that my partner came is on board, we have been trying to see if we can recoup our money. Trust me, it has not been easy. It is only on the YouTube platform that we were being paid. And because money also not coming out of it, I had to move on to something else. The second season is coming bigger and better. What are your plans for the year? My ambition is very positive and I love to create new things. So I see this year as a great year of innovation and creativity. I became a producer last, and this year even it is just two movies that I am going to produce, they are going to be strong movies and will be on the best platform. It is in plan and hoping for the best. Has your career in any way interfered with your relationship? First of all, I am careful with the kind of people I allow into my life. I am someone who is well-exposed, so I cannot have a relationship with someone who says ‘I cannot date an actress’. Such person cannot even come close. Actresses are like every other normal human being. Even the things they say we actresses do, every normal woman do these things too and even worse. Why should you judge me because of my career; what I do for a living. That aside, I have had several relationships with issues, but not because I am an actress. It is probably with issues of incompatibility; normal things that happens. Not because of career issues. Like I said earlier, I am a very decent woman and principled and disciplined woman. And I am very careful the way I carry myself in and out of a relationship. So it has never been a problem and if I have been with a man, I give him quality time; because I am a very committed woman in a relationship. When do you plan to walk down the aisle? Madam this one tough o. I can’t say when I am going to settle down. I just know when the time is right, it is going to happen. No pressure from my parents or family, because I am not gonna take it. What do you look out for in a man? I look out for an honest man; one with character, he does not have to be rich; when you see those that are focus. I look out for the heart of a man who fears God, respect, love, kindness. These are the core values I look for out for. And he has to be cute. (Laughs)