As the world marks the 2019 World Consumers Rights’ Day today, Lagos State Government has said it is set to ensure that consumers enjoy full benefits of smart products This is in line with the theme of this year’s celebration tagged: “Trusted Smart Products”. Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives Commissioner Mrs. Olayinka Oladunjoye, who spoke yesterday in Alausa, Ikeja, at a news briefing to commemorate the World Consumer Rights’ Day, said: “We realise that owing to the incorporation of smarter products into people’s lives, issues such as lack of security, safety and transparency, limited data privacy and protection, limited connectivity and lack of Internet access due to high data charges have become prevalent and worrisome to consumers and stakeholders.” She added: “These issues have brought to the fore, the need to develop consumer protection framework that promote trust, starting from consumer education. “It is our belief that manufacturers will take cognisance of the rights and interests of consumers of smart products from the point of production up to the point of purchase. In this wise, warranties and other safety valves for consumers must be put in place and also respected by manufacturers.” The commissioner identified smart products as smartphones, games consoles, smart TVs, wearable health trackers, thermostats, toys and connected cars. She said the theme underscored the importance of ensuring that consumers were at ease with the use of smart gadgets in everyday living. Oladunjoye said the International Consumer Movement was mobilising action to ensure that companies and manufacturers had consumers at the heart of their production and marketing decisions, especially in terms of affordability, convenience, safety, security and privacy in the use of smart devices. She said the government, through the Lagos State Consumer Protection Agency (LASCOPA), would advocate responsible Internet of Things (IoT) education, governance and regulation. “We shall be kick-starting this year’s celebration with a ‘sensitisation walk and business meeting’ with relevant stakeholders at the Computer Village, Ikeja because it has an array of products from small accessories to big or giant computer items…. and there are a lot of things going on there that we want to correct,” the commissioner said. 