The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency ( LASEMA ) on Tuesday morning rescued two accident victims along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway. It was gathered that an overspending diesel-laden tanker had rammed into a stationary trailer around Cele Bus Stop, trapping two persons underneath. Although three persons were said to have sustained injuries in the accident, LASEMA General Manager Adesina Tiamiyu said the agency’s responders met two victims trapped in the affected vehicles and rescued them.
He advised motorists to always adhere to approved speed limits, noting that the accident was avoidable. “Motorists should always ensure they drive within the approved speed limit, obey all road signs as well as be vigilant. They should look out for obstruction and activities of other road users to avoid any unfortunate incident that may lead to unnecessary injuries and loss of lives on Lagos roads. “That accident was avoidable. It was caused by overspending of the articulated gas truck which rammed into another stationary containerised truck. “When we received distress call on the accident, we activated emergency response team and moved to the scene. “Preliminary investigation at the scene of the incident revealed that the driver of the gas truck lost control while on high speed and rammed into a containerised truck parked by the side of the road. “No life was lost but three persons sustained different degrees of injuries. One of the victims was rushed to an unknown hospital before the arrival of the LRT at the scene, while the other two who were trapped, were rescued with the aid of the agency’s extrication equipment. “They were thereafter attended to by the agency’s paramedic and LASAMBUS before being moved to the Trauma Centre for further medical treatment. The articulated trucks involved in the incident were immediately recovered to restore normalcy and free vehicular movement around the axis. “The police and other security agencies will carry out further investigations to ascertain the remote caus of the incident.” Agencies that took part in the rescue included Lagos State Fire Service, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and Policemen from Okota Division.