The Adamawa State High Court, which last week granted an injunction against the supplementary governorship election in Adamawa State, has extended the order, effectively foreclosing the election initially scheduled for Saturday, March 23. The court, presided over by Justice Abdul-Aziz Waziri, adjourned the case to March 26 for ruling after taking arguments from the contending parties at the Thursday sitting. Justice Waziri said the earlier order restraining INEC from the conduct of the poll in the 44 polling units in the state is pending the determination of the suit. The suit in contention had been instituted by the governorship candidate of the Movement for the Restoration and Defence of Democracy (MRDD), Rev Eric Theman, who said he was deprived of his right to be voted for in the March 9 governorship election because INEC omitted the logo of his party from the ballot paper. Arguing the case for INEC at the Thursday court session, INEC’s counsel, Tanimu Inuwa (SAN) said the Movement for the Restoration and Defence of Democracy had not been duly nominated as the party governorship candidate in the state. He said INEC form CF002 does not contain the name of the MRDD candidate, for which reason the candidate was not validly nominated. He said that, in any case, Election Petition Tribunal would be the proper court to entertain the case, as election had commenced before the suit was brought to the court. “When election processes starts, even with casting of one vote, the matter arising from the election should be referred to Election Petition Tribunal,” he said. He added INEC is a federal agency and if the case were to go to court, it ought to have been filed at the federal high court. “We would abide by court order pending the determination of the suit,” he concluded. Arguing against the INEC’s counsel on jurisdiction, the counsel to the MRDD, Bar Yemi Pitan, said state and federal high courts have concurrent jurisdiction to entertain the case. He prayed the court to order INEC to conduct fresh polls as INEC has no power to disqualify Theman from the governorship elections. The court is expected to rule on the arguments at its adjourned sitting of Tuesday, March 26. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has once again dismissed insinuation that it is sponsoring the MRDD candidate to get the court to annul the March 9 governorship election in the state. The Organising Secretary of the party, Ahmad Lawal, told newsmen after the Thursday court session the MRDD candidate is an independent individual seeking the fulfilment of his right and the APC had nothing to do with it. On his part, the state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bar Tahir Shehu, who fielded questions from newsmen, said the party was patiently following the case because victory would still be for the PDP candidate in the March 9 election, Rt Hon Umaru Fintiri. “They are just delaying the inevitable. Victory will be ours,” the PDP chairman said. PDP’s Umaru Fintiri had polled 367,471 votes against the 334,995 votes by APC’s Mohammed Jibrilla Bindow when the election was declared inconclusive and supplementary election announced for 44 polling units.