SIR: Trafficking of girl-child is the illegal coercion, transport and sales of girls for the purpose of all kind of exploitation and to make money. The girl-child is most vulnerable to high rate of sexual violence, physical violence which includes homicide, torture, psychological anguish, horrifying work, poor living conditions and extreme deprivation of all right and privileges. Between March 1999 and April 2000, 1,126 Nigerian victims of female trafficking were deported to Nigeria.  A lot are still stranded in another man’s land begging to survive. Efosah, a 17year old girl who lived with her mother in Lagos was invited to Italy by a neighbour for a holiday. When she got to Italy, she was told she owed N700, 000 to the unmentioned person that covered her travel expenses. She was forced into prostitution and was severely beaten when she attempted to escape. She eventually became very sick and could not make much money for the traffickers. She was dropped at the road side and was caught in a police sweep operation. In the sweep, 88 other girls were deported along with her, and she arrived home battered and humiliated. What a painful abject neglect our girls are facing? In 2003, The Punch reported the discovery of seven slave colonies in Ogun, Oyo and Osun states where 400 children between the ages of four and 13 were trafficked, 13 of them died within three months of being trafficked to Nigeria from Benin Republic. Yet, there are no vivid steps taken to curtail this mess the girl child is forced into. The major cause of girl trafficking is the problem we have been battling with and that is female gender discrimination. Other causes are lack of education, divorced parents not caring for their children, ignorance of one’s legal right, poverty, inordinate desire for wealth etc. Nigerians have to rise and save these girls from physical and mental extinction. Orientating girl child who are susceptible to vices on how it can be prevented and formal education of girl-child can be a magnificent bearing to reduce or eradicate this menace. Government can also make and implement strict policies against girl trafficking, they can also partner with NGOs in fighting this menace. Awareness against the menace needs to be put in place, else we will have to tell stories to our future generations of a time when females were once mentally and socially stable, and I can bet you, those you tell the stories to will ask, when it was happening, what action did you take however small?  Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo.