The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) on Monday scored President Muhammadu Buhari high on his economic policies. APGA said Nigerians with the result of Buhari’s economic initiative will soon begin to enjoy stable economy and better living standard. Briefing reporters in Abuja, its chairman, Victor Oye, said the President deserves complete eight years as provided by the Constitution. He lamented some Nigerians spend their time criticising the President, warning politics is not a do- or- die affair. Oye charged Nigerians to learn how to cooperate with those in leadership positions, saying it is by this understanding that the unity and peace of the country can be promoted irrespective of race and religion. He further emphasised the needs for Nigerians to offer valuable advice to the President to enable him succeed in office. Commenting on the 2019 general elections, Oye said the party believes that the election was generally free, fair and credible, noting that even the international community adjudged the process as such. He said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was not given such benefit of the doubts by Nigerians to conduct credible general elections. “We have our own misgivings but in our own thinking, the outcome of the election was fair. Nobody gave INEC the chance to perform the little it has done. “INEC showed immeasurable courage by ensuring that the elections went the way they did, especially the Presidential elections. In our own estimation, the election was free and fair and APGA is happy with the outcome of the elections,” he said. Oye further said that APGA has made in-route into the north by winning three House of Representatives in Benue state, one House of Representatives seats in Taraba state and another House of Representatives seat in Imo state. While pointing out the party has done very well, the APGA chairman said the party had won the Gwagwalada Area council election, three seats in Taraba House of Assembly and another three seats in Bayelsa House of Assembly, among others.