Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Thursday advised the Oyo State Governor-elect, Seyi Makinde, not to run a Democratic system that would put the government of the state in his pocket. Obasanjo said Makinde has the onerous task of striving to transform the capital of former old Western Region, urging the people to keep supporting him to succeed when eventually sworn-in. The elder statesman gave the advice when he received the Governor-elect, his Deputy, Rauf Olaniyan, Oyo state chairman of PDP, Kunmi Mustapha, Bose Adedibu, wife of late Lamidi Adedibu, Lagos state PDP chairman, Dominic Agboola among others at his Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta, Ogun state. The ex-Head of States described such government that serves narrow interest as “democratic so sa po”, meaning pocketing democratic system for personal gains against true democratic system. He also advised Makinde to shun corruption. “Be transparent and embark on developmental projects, which would be a delight to the people of Oyo state. Please run a government that will be making them ask, where have this type of government been all these years in Oyo state. “You must give them something (positive), you must give them good democracy and not that one my younger brothers will call democratic so sa po’ (pocketing democracy). “Where there is misunderstanding, call yourselves( your people) together and make peace in the overall interest of Oyo state. “He cannot do it alone and since you have supported him now, you should continue to be together. You should be mindful that Oyo people are fearless and they don’t mind, whose oars is gored, that is why you are there now,” Obasanjo stated. He promised to support the incoming new government and be available anytime his service is needed. In his response, Makinde said the visit was meant to appreciate Baba Obasanjo and seeks wisdom from the elder statesman. The Governor-elect admitted that Oyo state was “in a bad shape but pledged to apply wisdom to make things better. “He had warned against corruption and transparency. We are very much aware of this too. With God, Oyo state will never be the same again. This is the type of visit that will give us the needed tonic to forge ahead positively in Oyo state,” he said. The former Deputy Chairman (South) of the People’s Democratic Party, Chief Olabode George who facilitated the visit, said he called Obasanjo barely 24hours ago to fix the appointment. “I want to thank him for granting us audience within the short notice,” George said.