Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited, operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport 2 (MMA2) has called on stakeholders in the aviation industry to prevail on the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to close the gap in its abysmal management of airport infrastructure. In a statement issued by the firm’s spokesperson, Eniola Ade-Solanke,BiCourtney alleged that FAAN, through its actions, has consistently breached its obligations in the concession agreement and has caused her huge loss of over N250 billion. This is coming as the private terminal  operator debunked reports that MMA2’s 12-year term was about to expire and government planning to take over the facility. The statement said Bi-Courtney remains a key employer of labour in the aviation industry and committed to providing an environment for strong corporate health without fear, pressure or prejudice. “MMA2’s concession has had to contend with seemingly intractable controversies shortly after the expiration of Obasanjo’s  tenure. While the BASL argues that by the concession agreement, all domestic flights emanating from Lagos airport, including the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) where Arik Air operates from would be handled by the company, the authorities resisted the move,” the statement read. For over a decade, the BASL and FAAN have engaged in a running battle over the concession. Several court cases, up to 30, were filed and the crises have dragged on. Bi- Courtney also went ahead to invest in regional operations, but up till now, the terminal was never allowed to operate regional flights, even though some of the airlines operating from the terminal fly to Ghana and other West African countries.” Setting the records straight, Ade-Solanke disclosed that it entered into a concession agreement with the Federal Republic of Nigeria, for the Build, Operate and Transfer of the MMA2 for 36 years, describing the terminal as the most well designed and run terminal in the country operating on very limited revenue. She stated that the clear provision of the concession agreement between Bi-Courtney and the government upholds the operation of the MMA2 terminal for an undisputed period of 36 years. She disclosed that since inception, FAAN has not complied with the agreement to handover the GAT which is a property of Bi-Courtney. Her words, : “The erroneous claims against the Chairman of Bi-Courtney in making frantic efforts in the Presidency to frustrate a takeover of the terminal is not unconnected with purported attempts to stir up a false sense of alarm and acrimony against the concession.”