The  Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment has called for synergy between the government and the private sector in promoting labour-friendly policies. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, William Nwankwo Alo, made the call in Abuja when the Director-General, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), Timothy Olawale, visited him. He described NECA as a critical and dependable partner in maintaining industrial harmony in Nigeria, and therefore encouraged the association to join hands with government to move the country forward. The Permanent Secretary pledged government’s continued support to NECA, and appreciated the association’s outstanding performance in providing the platform for private sector employers to interact with government. The Permanent Secretary was optimistic that Federal Government and NECA would continue to have a robust relationship, which would bring peace and tranquillity in the work environment. Earlier, the Director-General, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association, Timothy Olawale, said the association would continue to partner with government to deepen the nation’s industrial relation’s system and ensure industrial harmony. In a related development, Alo has called for a more comprehensive identification of risks associated with the Labour sector, for inclusion in the National Risk Register. The Permanent Secretary spoke at the flag-off of a workshop on the Development of National Risk Register (NRR) for Nigeria, organised for the staff of the ministry. He described as narrow, the risk proposed by the Risk Assessment Working Group (RAWG) for ownership by the Ministry – Industrial Action Affecting Key Industries and Government-run Services. He said: “It, therefore, became necessary to develop in-house capacities on the subject for more comprehensive identification of risks associated with the Labour sector”. Represented by Director, Human Resources and Management, Mr Ajibola Ibrahim, the Permanent Secretary said: “Any unidentified risk in this sector would not appear on the Risk Register, and would not be taken into cognisance while planning for avoidance of occurrence or reduction of impact on the nation’s economy.” According to him, the National Risk Register is developed and maintained by countries to serve as information and planning tool on risk identification and management, and Nigeria is adopting the process as a best practice. Director, Special Duties/Projects, Dr Martina Nwordu said the training was aimed at building staff capacity in-house to enable optimal contribution to the development of the NRR, with the labour sector adequately covered; and to acquire sufficient knowledge to develop Local Risk Register (LRR) for the ministry at various levels.