The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm ahead of the rerun election on Saturday that All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwarts have moved into Otuokpoti in Ogbia Local Government Area with over 125 soldiers. The State Chairman of the PDP, Chief Moses Cleopas, accused them of making surreptitious moves to perfect vote buying and voter intimidation ahead of the election. Cleopas called on the authorities of the Army to monitor the activities of its men on deployment in large numbers purportedly to protect APC politicians in the state. He urged the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, to be conscious of the allegations of murder and rights violation against troops of the Army during the Presidential/National Assembly elections of March 9, 2019. Cleopas said that a leader of the PDP, Mr. Seidougha Taribi and a Government House Photographer, Reginald Dei, were killed by soldiers while waiting for results of the election in Oweikorogha, Southern Ijaw Local Government Area òf the state. He added that while it was a cheering development the Army authorities had taken a decision to probe the soldiers’ complicity in the brazen acts of violence during the elections in Bayelsa, it was important that the ugly trend was not repeated.  Cleopas also called on the Indepedent National Electoral Commission to ensure that its guidelines for the conduct of elections in the country are not violated by unscrupulous politicians. He said: “The PDP in Bayelsa cannot forget in hurry the complicity of soldiers in the brazen acts of violence, murder, kidnap of electoral officers which marred the elections in Nembe Bassambiri, Brass and part of Southern Ijaw Local Government Area. “The murder of our ward leader  Mr. Seidougha Taribi and the Government House Photographer, Reginald Dei, in Oweikorogha by soldiers is still fresh in our memory. “We therefore condemn without equivocation the militarisation of the election in Bayelsa. “We are using this medium to call on the Chief òf Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, to ensure that the brazen act of rights violation and intimidation by soldiers is not repeated in the rerun elections. “Bayelsans are making preparations to elect their representatives and not representatives of the Army and should be allowed to exercise their civil responsibility. “The PDP in Bayelsa is also calling on the Independent National Electoral Commission to guide its guidelines from violations by unscrupulous politicians in collusion with security agents.”