Set to premiere his maiden film, ‘Stones’, film editor turned producer Effiong Akan, is confident of his new venture. The filmmaker who has worked for many years as an editor, in this interview with JOE AGBRO JR., talks about why he made the movie, why he thinks he has what it takes to do movies and what to expect from him. Excerpts So, who is Effiong Akan? First, I’m a film editor. I started as a film editor. I’ve worked on several projects like Zahra. I edited Cougars, the series. I’ve done Baby Daddy. In fact, most times, I can’t even remember them because they are much. And then, I decided to do production myself, so, I started my company, Oceanmark Studios. This is my first production from Oceanmark Studios. Why did you decide to do this particular film? The title is Stones. Why I did so was because I wanted to provoke some sensitive thoughts in the society. I wanted people to think before they leap. Sometimes, you see things and you think you should take them for their face value. But no, I want people to think before they leap. Like in the story, there was this girl who looks helpless. It’s easy to help such a person but unknown to you, you might actually be falling into a trap. It happens in everyday life. It could come in form of friends. It could come like family members. You’ll think it’s harmless and you dive into it. In the end, you just discover that it was just a scam. So, what is the story about? Actually, in the case of this story, it’s about a girl who is the epicentre of the story. She wanted to steal some diamonds from her lover who deals in diamonds. So, she wanted a way she could do this without getting attention to herself, making people to think it was actually her who did it. So, she looked for everyday guys, normal looking guys, who she could actually convince to do the work for her. They fell for her, stole the diamonds. In the end, she ran away with the diamonds. The guys were arrested. And then, the only they could do to save themselves was to bring back the diamond and the girl. How was the experience of shooting this movie, as you’re just starting out as a producer? Like the story, don’t take people for their face value. I learnt a lot from the course of this production. The people who I worked with, because of the production, I knew who they really were. I’ve also come to realise that it’s easy to criticise producers, Hollywood producers, but when you’re involved in those things, you will know there is not much you can do. Before, you were at the back-end of the film-making chain. How does it feel now getting involved in the making of this film? Well, I’m an editor and you know we’re always on the back seat. You’re hardy mentioned. So, being involved in the production has brought me out, which ordinarily I’m the kind of person who does not want to be seen. I love my behind-the-scene. But what would I do? If you have to progress, you will need to do something that you’re not usually used to. So, what were some of the major challenges you encountered? Finances, first and foremost. It’s not very easy to get finance when you’re not the well-known name. Sometimes, people need to see what you can do first before they can actually trust you with their money. I think my biggest problem was finance. I’ve worked with several of the actors. Having them on board wasn’t actually a problem. What’s your plan for Stones? This is the first of many to come. Stones is like a franchise. We will have another instalment. I think we’ll go to location by September for the second instalment. So, I’m looking at a large portal. I’m looking at something that in the end, we’ll go international with the title. So when would the movie be out? It will premiere in cinemas on the 29th of March. In terms of preparations, what prepared you to transit from a film editor to a producer? I’ve been long in the industry. I’ve spent several years as an editor. I’ve worked with several producers. Before producing Stones, I’ve worked with Royal Arts Academy. I was the chief editor for a very long time. So, I understand the business. I think my experience has actually prepared me for this. Would you say the fact that you’re an editor gave you a pass? Somehow, it did. Because we editors, we see the end picture, which is an advantage. Two, because it allows me to connect with some of these actors. As an editor, you just take the work that has been done. But as a producer, it’s a different ball game. Because I’m an editor, I usually am part of the production team because I know how I want the feel of the film to be like. Most times, director will seek advice from me – how do you want the picture to look like? As an editor, you can actually help. So, if as a director, you want a particular feel, I think the best person to call is the editor. How long did the project take? On set, we spent ten days. That’s for production. For post-production, about three months. From then to now, it’s about a year. So, what are the plans going forward? For me as a person and my company, something big is coming; something Nollywood has not experienced at all, something we will all be proud of.