Capital market leaders and experts at the weekend were unanimous on the agenda for the Buhari administration. The government, they said, should focus on infrastructural development, the anti-corruption campaign and effective balancing of fiscal and monetary policies to hasten economic growth. In reactions to the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second and final term of four years, capital market regulators, operators, investors and analysts said the political stability indicated by the re-election should translate into greater economic development through re-evaluation and consolidation of existing policies and programmes. Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) President, Mr. Adedapo Adekoje, said Buhari should consolidate on the developmental programmes he started in his first term in office with more emphasis on bridging the infrastructural deficit. According to him, the new government should have a clear focus on fiscal policy that will result in double-digit growth in the economy. He said the government should build efficiency into its policy implementation by appointing technocrats into the new cabinet while priority should be given to job creation through favourable policies for the development of small and medium enterprises. “Capital market practitioners should be involved in policy formulation, knowing that the capital market is the barometer of the economy. There should also be a balance between monetary and fiscal policies; government should also encourage multinational companies and some government companies to embrace the capital market for long-term funds,” Adekoje said. Registrar/Chief Executive Officer, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Adedeji Ajadi, said the government should make concerted effort to foster unity and run an inclusive government that draws on Nigeria’s best hands locally and internationally develop the country. He pointed out that various strategies to drive faster economic growth, increased employment and reduced poverty must be activated urgently, noting that with unity of purpose and support from all Nigerians, the country will achieve better results over the next four years. “Government must continue on the path of infrastructural development, fight against corruption and improved security. Power and roads are particularly critical to any developmental efforts,” Ajadi said. President, Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Patrick Ezeagu, emphasised the need for collective approach by the government, urging the President to immediately commence efforts to unify Nigerians around the common objectives of the government. “This is the only way the government can engender peace, unity and cohesion needed to pull the nation together for meaningful ‘next level’ progress,” Ezeagu said. President, Association for the Advancement of Rights of Nigerian Shareholders (AARNS), Dr. Faruk Umar, said the President should put more effort at improving power supply, which will reduce industries’ reliance on fuel oil and diesel and make them to be more productive and profitable. He said the government should sustain its foreign exchange management that has given investors confidence in the Nigerian market. “The President needs to list companies like Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the refineries, and so on, to prevent somebody from selling them to individuals or foreign investors in the future . The government can retain 90 per cent and sell 10 per cent to Nigerian investors across the 36 states of the federation,” Umar said. According to him, there should be more concerted efforts to promote the usage of made-in-Nigeria products by Nigerians by stopping the importation of certain products that Nigeria has sufficient capacity to produce. “The government needs to expedite action on the reconstitution of the board of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This will give confidence to foreign and local investors. The government should also be commended for its fight against corruption, this is giving foreign investors a lot of confidence, but a lot needs to be done. Finally, the issue of multiple taxations should seriously be looked into, as this is one factor discouraging foreign investment in the country,” Umar said. Chief Executive Officer, Sofunix Investment and Communications Limited, Mr. Sola Oni, called on the new government to review all outstanding projects and plug the gaps, noting that some policies are ineffectual because of lack of proper engagement on the actual challenges of different sectors. According to him, macro-economic uncertainty remains the elephant in the house and it should be a major concern to the government at this juncture. “There are laudable programmes that can reinvigorate the economy, but Nigerians are yearning for traction,” he said. The government, he said, should privatise and list moribund companies on the stock market to generate revenue, deepen the capital market and enhance the companies’ ability to create employment. “The government should embark on deliberate and consistent investment in infrastructure as there are still gaps to be addressed. I will also urge the government to intervene in attracting new listings of multinational companies and the local ones to the capital market through effective incentives. They need to come up with equitable tax regime and restore confidence into SEC by constituting its board and appointing substantive director general,” Oni said. He added that government should review pension law and guidelines to increase the percentage of funds that pension fund managers can invest in the stock market as part of the strategies to deepen the market.