Our correspondents— Osagie Otabor, Nwanosike Onu, Mike Odiegwu, Yusufu Aminu Idegu; Bisi Oladele, Adekunle Jimoh, Yinka Adeniran, Abdulgafar Alabelewe; Ojo Damisi; Bolaji Ogundele— file in reports on campaigns ahead of Saturday’s polls. APC will complete the take-over of Delta on Saturday, says Buhari President Muhammadu Buhari has said next Saturday’s elections will complete the cycle of the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) take-over of the affairs of Delta State. Buhari spoke at the PTI Conference Centre, Effurun, Uvwie council area of the state yesterday when he addressed the party’s stakeholders and other stakeholders of the state, including traditional rulers. Buhari, who was represented by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo also assured the stakeholders that the Federal Government would ensure adequate security during the elections. “What happened last Saturday is a great victory for us, but it is only the beginning because the completion of that victory is going to come by the grace of God on Saturday March 9, 2019 when we vote in our own governor, Great Ogboru, who will by the grace of God be a governor from that very day. “It is very clear to everybody and to the world that Delta State can never be the same again. It’s impossible for Delta State to go back after what happened on Saturday. As the APC chairman said, we all watched to see what will happen in Delta State. Delta State was a focus of all of our attention. “Just as the chairman has said, we have seen a Delta state where the PDP was unable to recall a vote of 1.2 million and we knew they wrote the result. We wanted to see what way they can be curtailed, but you all proved that ‘you can tell a lie for a thousand years, but one day the truth will catch up’ and the truth caught up with them last Saturday. That truth will manifest itself fully this Saturday when we hold the next election. Delta State has proved a very important point that this state is ready for change to the next level. “The other reason why it is so important for us to ensure that Delta State become an APC state has been pointed out. The social investment programme that we put in place, it is only APC governor that can implement such programmes faithfully. We believe that once we are able to have an APC governor such programmes will be implemented,” the Vice President said. Osinbajo went on: “I heard talks about Delta Steel Company (DSC); after so many years, the Itakpe-Aladja railway has been completed 35 years after being on the card. It’s this same President that completed it. PDP has been in power all these many years, why didn’t they complete it? They (PDP) are the ones who created this mess. “Even the Warri seaport which we are now dredging has been there for years. They didn’t do it. All of these times that PDP has been in power. Sometimes, it surprises me that with the resources that Delta State has had for so many years, where are the fruit of the resources. Look at the Warri Seaport, it could have been seamlessly be done by the state. Here we are, we (APC) are completing the dredging of the channel. Even the East-West raod, this is the first government that has put resources for its completion. We are putting large amount of money into the East-West road. We all will benefit from it. “Delta State should not be an opposition state. Why should Delta be an opposition state? Why? There is no reason for it at all. For all the periods that Delta State has had high resources, what we need was a change from a progressive party. The time has come. This is the moment, let us seize that moment. You have shown courage, it is only the courageous that wins”, he said. Meanwhile, speaking earlier, various speakers had urged President Buhari to ensure strict security cover for the state to prevent the rigging of next Saturday’s election by the PDP, saying that the party (PDP) would repeat its alleged rigging pattern during the governorship and state House of Assembly election if there is no proper security to deter such. The event gathered leaders and stakeholders of the party in the state, including the governorship candidate, Chief Great Ogboru, Minister of State of Petroleum Resources Dr Ibe Kachikwu, former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan, Olorogun O’tega Emerhor, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and others. ADC, ZLP adopt Makinde More oppositionparties in Oyo State yesterday adopted the governorship candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Seyi Makinde, as a consensus candidate for the March 9 poll. This is coming three days after the Social Democratic Party (SDP) governorship candidate, Mr Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN) publicly declared his party’s adoption of the PDP’s candidate. The latest candidates to join the adoption train include Senator Olufemi Lanlehin of the African Democratic Congress and Mr Sharafadeen Alli of Zenith Labour Party. The proposed plan to conclude on the coalition suffered an initial set back when former governor Christopher Alao-Akala of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) withdrew and declared support for the APC candidate, Mr Adebayo Adelabu. Former Governor Rashidi Ladoja, who mediated the coalition as a chieftain of ZLP, according to sources, will address a news conference today. The final agreement on the adoption of Makinde was reached at a meeting held at the Bodija, Ibadan residence of Ladoja. The final agreement was signed by directors-general of the campaign committees of the four political parties. The signatories are Director General (DG), PDP Campaign Committee, Chief Bayo Lawal; DG, ZLP Campaign Committee, Mr Waheed Akanbi; DG, ADC Campaign Committee, Bashiru Lawal; and DG, SDP Campaign Committee, Chief Matthew Oke. The document entitled: “Coalition Meeting of 4th March 2019”, released at the end of the meeting held on Monday, read in part: “Agreement has been reached by members of the coalition parties to adopt Engr.  Seyi Makinde, as its gubernatorial candidate in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. Full details will be made available later on.” Makinde has congratulated the people of Oyo State on his adoption by a coalition of political parties in the state. A statement from his campaign office by Prince Dotun Oyelade said: “Leaders of the parties, led by the Osi Olubadan, High Chief Rashidi Adewolu Ladoja; Senator Femi Lanlehin, Barrister Sarafadeen Ali and Chief Bolaji Ayorinde, SAN, displayed unsurpassed broadmindedness and political maturity in agreeing to adopt him to face the APC, which is the nemesis of our people.” Edo APC begins voter education to avoid void votes Ahead of Saturday’s House of Assembly elections in Edo State, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has embarked on voter education to enable its supporters vote appropriately. Candidate of the APC for Oredo East Constituency, Mr Osaro Obazee, who spoke to reporters in Benin City, said the purpose of the voter education was to avert high number of voided votes as recorded in the February 23rd presidential and National Assembly elections in the state. Obazee added that the high volume of voided votes was responsible for the defeat of the APC in the presidential and some seats in the National Assembly. He said: “Our party did not lose; we did not lose that election. The agents of our party, some of them were not too experienced, some of them were not too confident. If you look at the void votes, if you add them to the votes they scored, you will see the difference so what we have embarked on is voters education.” Bayelsa women to Buhari: suspend election in our community Women in Nembe Bassambiri, Nembe Local Government Area, Bayelsa State, yesterday urged President Muhammadu Buhari and the Indepedent National Electoral Commission to suspend the forthcoming election in the troubled community. Spokesperson of the Women, Mrs. Sotonye Samuel-Johnson, said the call to postpone the election in the community was to safeguard the lives and properties of women and children in the area. Samuel-Johnson said that women and children, who fled the community to nearby Ogbolomabiri and Yenagoa had not been able to return to their homes. She urged the President to order investigations to the activities of the thugs and their Army collaborators which according to her had assumed a frightening dimension. Southwest youth groups, traders endorse Adelabu, Sanwo-Olu and Abiodun Candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Adebayo Adelabu; Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, have been endorsed by group of youths, traders and artisans under the umbrella of Grand Council of Yoruba Youths (Agbarijo Egbe Odo Yoruba). Representatives in the umbrella body include National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Market Women Association, Non Indigenes Association, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Okada Riders Association, Nigeria Automobile Technicians Association (NATA), Egbe Omo Odua (USA and UK), as well as Civil Society Organization led by Comrade Mrs Kehinde Olaoni. The endorsement programme which held at Western Hall, Oyo State House of Assembly Complex, Secretariat, Ibadan, yesterday was chaired by Senator Ayo Fasanmi, who was represented by Otunba Jumoke Ogunkeyede. Noting that President Muhammadu Buhari’s performance and intention earned him the second term ticket, Otunba Ogunkeyede explained that the administration of President Buhari which was initially termed ‘go slow’ after it was inaugurated in 2015 was slowed down by the leadership of the National Assembly, which he said consists of people with questionable characters. The convener and Chairman, Planning Committee, Comrade Awa Bamiji, enjoined people in Oyo, Lagos, and Ogun states to come out on Saturday, March 9 to vote for the candidates of the APC to ensure sustainability, even and rapid development of South West region. Mrs Iswat Ameringun, who represented the Iyaloja General of Nigeria, Folashade Tinubu-Ojo, Mrs. Kehinde Olaoni and other representatives said they were all in support of the candidature of Adelabu, Sanwo-Olu and Abiodun. Adelabu: I will sustain school feeding The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Adebayo Adelabu, has promised to sustain the school feeding project if elected by the people of the state on Saturday. He gave the assurance during his campaign across the state. Adelabu, who also hailed the return of many breakaway members of the party across the state, assured teachers of higher wages if he succeeds in the election. He described education as the bedrock of human and nation’s development, stressing that teachers are a major pillar of quality education delivery, hence need to be motivated. The APC candidate said without teachers, he would not be who he is today, adding that all great men and women owe the development of their minds to their teachers. He said he holds teachers in high esteem so much that he believes that they are a class of workers whose welfare should be a priority in the society. Ajanaku returns to APC for Adelabu’s success As part of plans to ensure the victory of the All Progressive Congress governorship candidate in Oyo State, the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party for Ibadan North West/South West Federal Constituency in the just concluded National assembly election, Dr Rotimi Ajanaku , has returned to the ruling APC. Ajanaku, accompanied by his supports at his Oke Ado base, noted that although he did not win the election, his  absence and that of his supporters was felt in the APC camp. He said his return to the APC was made possible by the “timely and uncommon intervention of the Executive Governor of Oyo State, His Excellency, Senator Isiaq Abiola Ajimobi who unequivocally fast-tracked the whole process, through his assurances of immediate re-integration of my followers into the party hierarchy and other worthy considerations.” Stop victimising civil servants, Abdulrazaq urges Ahmed Kwara State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq yesterday accused Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed administration of victimising civil servants. He urged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led state government to stop victimising civil servants on flimsy and petty excuses. Abdulrazaq, in a statement by is media aide, Rafiu Ajakaye said: “We are aware that civil servants who did not agree to do the bidding of the ruling PDP are being sacked or victimised in one way or the other. This is wrong, inhuman and unlawful. “Civil servants are humans and are covered by the social contract. Any government, such as the one currently in Kwara State, with no regard for the social contract cannot expect the civil servants to remain silent in the face of tyranny. “Once elected, we will look into the cases of all the civil servants who were victimised or sacked on account of refusing to compromise their professionalism or integrity. We will restore their rights and dignity as Kwarans,” the statement quoted AbdulRazaq as saying. “It is outrageously hypocritical for a government that is notorious for coercing and blackmailing civil servants to do its political bidding to turn around and accuse civil servants of getting involved in politics,” the statement added. Polls not war, says cleric A Catholic cleric in Anambra State, Rev. Fr. Emmanuel Obimma, has called on Nigerian youths to resist the temptation of being used for violence ahead of Saturday’s Governorship and Houses of Assembly elections. He urged them to embrace orderliness and peace, describing elections as  brotherly contests. Speaking yesterday at Blessed Iwene Tansi Catholic Church, Umudioka, Obimma, popularly known as Fr. Ebubemonso, enjoined the electorates to come out enmass to vote candidates of their choices. He said: ‘’2019 general elections particularly this Governorship and House of Assembly elections is a brotherly contest and not a war.” Oyo: We did not endorse another party, says AAC The African Action Congress, Oyo State chapter has said it is not part of any endorsement of any other governorship candidate for the March 9, governorship election in the state. Rather, the party said it remains focused, committed and determined to bring about a government that is welfarist concern for the people who have been deliberately pauperised by the ruling class since the beginning of the current political dispensation. It added that its governorship candidate, Mr Akinwale Laosun, remains the candidate and best option for the people of the state in the coming election. He urged the people of the state to open their eyes to the reality of selfish and self-centered politicians who would rather work for their personal interest and that of their allies, but camouflaging same in the name of the masses. Vote for APC candidates, Boroffice begs Ondo Indigenes The senator representing Ondo North senatorial district, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice, has urged the people of Ondo State to vote for candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The senator made the appeal during a thank-you rally organised by his supporters in Oka-Akoko on Saturday. Boroffice said an APC-dominated House of Assembly would guarantee good governance and political stability in Ondo State. The chairman, Senate Committee on Science & Technology urged his supporters to troop out massively to vote for all APC candidates into the Ondo State House of Assembly. Boroffice(Ondo North) is the only APC Senatorial Candidate that returned to the Upper Chamber after the recent Presidential/National Assembly polls held on February 3. Assembly Election: Oyetola solicits votes for APC candidates Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has enjoined residents to vote for All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in Saturday’s House of Assembly election. The Osun State governor said for his administration to be properly established for good governance and smooth running, there was the need for an APC majority in the House of Assembly. Oyetola added President Muhammadu BUhari’s re-election had vindicated the resolve of the APC-led Federal Government to raise the bar of good governance, sustain steady development in the country and put Nigeria to the path of progress and prosperity. The governor spoke on Monday during a ‘Thank You Tour’ to Ilobu, Ifon, Erin-Osun and Ede in Irepodun, Orolu, Ede-North and Ede-South Local Government Areas. The tour was to appreciate the people for supporting President Muhammadu Buhari and other candidates of the APC in the Presidential and National Assembly elections He lauded the courage displayed by the electorate to ensure victory for the APC in the February 23rd elections. Oyetola who described the Assembly election as important for entrenching democratic government, called on the electorate to vote all APC candidates in Saturday’s elections. He said the decision to elect APC candidates to the House will give his administration the opportunity to actualise all its planned policies and programmes. According to the Governor, the House of Assembly election is as important as other elections as it defines how the structure of government will be formulated. “We embark on this ‘thank you tour’ to appreciate our people who came out in large numbers to re-elect our President and other candidates of our party- the All Progressives Congress (APC). “We have taken a noble decision to sustain continuity and steady development in Nigeria with the re-election of President Buhari as this will help to engender more development and transformation for Nigeria,” Oyetola added 49 parties, 32 candidates back El-Rufai Thirty-two governorship candidates in Kaduna State, under the auspices of Kaduna State Progressive Governorship Candidates Forum, have stepped down for Governor Nasir El-Rufai of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). They made their decision public yesterday, when the 32 candidates and 49 political parties endorsed El-Rufai’s candidature. The chairman of the United Democratic Party (UDP), Comrade Auwal Abdullahi Aliyu, said they came out to support the governor towards ensuring that he continues with his good works, stressing that he has done well to deserve the endorsement.