A non-governmental organisation, Family Health Initiative Ogun (FHIO), is willing to support the Adolescent Reproductive Health Strategic Framework in the state. Its chairperson, Mrs. Kemi Balogun, gave the assurance at the launch of scheme for 2018 to 2022, held in Abeokuta, the state capital. “Our youths and adolescents deserve proper monitoring and care, particularly in the area of their reproductive health, and FHIO is committed to contribute its quota to the proper implementation and success of this strategic framework in Ogun State,” Balogun said. The Country Director of Pathfinder International, represented by Kosi Izundu, said adolescence was the period of transition from childhood to adulthood, which always brought multi-dimensional changes – biological, psychological, mental and social change –  in human beings. She noted that due to the biological and psychological transformation associated with the age group, adolescents were often exposed to risky behaviours, with consequences on their immediate and long-term health and socio-economic lives. She added that Pathfinder has recorded a milestone in the launching of the framework and in systematic assessment and mapping out of the key policies and programmes in enlightening the adolescents in the country. ýOgun State commissioner for health, Dr. Babatunde Ipaye, represented by the executive secretary, Ogun State Primary Health Care Board (OGSPHCB), Dr. Elijah Ogunsola, stated that with the trend of sexual abuses among the youths, it was imperative for all governments to address the issue of adolescents and young people’s sexual and reproductive health system in the country. “This strategic framework is designed as a guidance documents to address gaps currently inhibiting participation of adolescents and young people’s sexual and reproductive health in the state, and the state has made tremendous efforts to strengthen adolescents and young persons’ sexual and reproductive health with interventions across the state,” Ipaye said