The Accountant General of the Federation (AGF) Ahmed Idris has advised Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of Government to comply with the directive to move their payroll to the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System (IPPIS) or be ready for the consequences. Ahmed warned the Treasury will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive is fully complied with. A statement from the Office of the AGF issued on Friday and signed by Oise D. Johnson, Head Press and Public Relations (OAGF) said the AGF gave this advice while receiving the Ag. Inspector General of Police Mr. Abubakar Adamu who was at the Treasury House on a courtesy visit. Ahmed was said to have commended the Police for showing example by complying with the directive of President Bubari. He was quoted to have said: “The Nigerian police has been fully integrated into the IPPIS platform and their successful enrollment has paved way for the enrollment of the Nigeria Military, which has further demonstrated the robustness of the platform and our avowed commitment to a transparent, accountable and efficient management of the Nation’s funds in line with global best practice.” The AGF underscored the enormous roles the Nigeria Police played in maintaining peace and security in the country, saying there was need for the Police to be supported with adequate funding. He assured the continued support of the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation  in ensuring that all approvals due to the Nigeria police are timely released to enable them effectively deliver on  their  mandate to the Nigeria people . The Ag Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Abubakar  Adamu, extolled the cordial relationship existing between the Nigerian Police and the OAGF, describing it as “a very  strategic  partnership  in the business of policing the nation”. He commended Idris for his exemplary leadership, which has culminated in the effective implementation of the various financial reforms which has helped the Nigeria police in meeting most her financial challenges.