Civil Society Organizations in Plateau state and Coalition of Domestic Observers has rated Plateau state high in peaceful and orderly conduct during the just concluded 2019 general elections. The group comprising of 2,500 members said Plateau state is the most peaceful and orderly based on individual member’s observations during the elections. The CSOs/ Domestic Observers made their observations known Monday in a press conference held at the state secretariat of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Jos. Leader of the Group Godwin Okoko who read the text of the briefing said, “Our observations were collated from the reports of our members stationed at various polling units spread across the 17 LGAs of the state. “Generally, elections in the Plateau state was the most peaceful, orderly and fair from our assessments “We commend CSOs, security agencies, the media, observers groups, religious groups, traditional institutions, political parties and other stakeholders for their conducts during the elections. ”We also commend the electorate for their involvement in the process and peaceful conducts before, during and after the elections. As we look forward to a more peaceful, transparent and credible future elections, we use this medium to once more appeal to the Plateau State Government to ensure the strengthening of peace and security structures in the states through the promotion of peace and strengthening of community cohesion structures, provision of good governance, inclusive participation, accountability, increase youth empowerment programs, employment opportunities and youth/women development. ”We also appeal to the Governor-elect Barr Simon Bako Lalong as a leader of the state to begin the healing of wounds, closing of gaps, division and polarisation through the processes of reconciliation irrespective of party affiliation We also encourage all good sons and daughters of the state to give a supportive hand to the Governor-Elect towards a stronger, developed, peaceful and united Plateau State. ”We urge all good people of the state and residents of the state to continue to imbibe the culture of peace and tolerance. The Observers groups however recommend that INEC improves on the general conduct of the elections specifically; Smart Card Readers should be further enhanced. “We recommend that Collation Centres be more accessible to observers. We recommend that further delineation of voting points be carried out so as to make PUs more accessible to electorates. “Improve on logistics for INEC officials and ad-hoc staff to perform their duties optimally. “INEC and political parties should engage on sensitisation of the electorates and party members’ supporters. “Enhance capacity training for security agencies that will be involved in future conduct of election exercise. “We recommend that INEC should make information/data available on cancelled Polling Units where supplementary elections will be conducted. “We recommend that INEC should ensure prosecution of all her staff involved in electoral mal-practice “We recommend that voters should be more actively involved in subsequent elections. We recommend enhance capacity training for security officers that will be involved in future elections “We recommend capacity training for political party agents for future elections.”