A political pressure group, under the aegis of Delta APC Parrots have accused council chairmen in Delta state of plotting to dismiss staff who are “sympathetic” to the All Progressives Congress gubernatorial candidate, Chief Great Ogboru. In a statement released Thursday and made available to newsmen in Warri, the group claimed that the 25 local government bosses have begun collating names of the affected staff. The statement which was signed by the group’s spokesman, Comrade Igho Israel, disclosed the move is not unconnected to the March 9 gubernatorial and State House of Assembly polls. Further claiming that the plot is being influenced by the state governor, Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the statement said it was all to actualize his (Okowa’s) re-election bid. “They have started threatening council staff across the 25 LGA who are sympathetic to the course and vision of our great leader, Chief Great Ovedje Ogboru and every other aspirants contesting under the plat form of our party, APC, in the March 9 gubernatorial and House of assembly elections. “Delta APC Parrots is using this medium to alert the whole world and the various security agencies across the country on the evil and malevolent plans of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, in directing council chairmen in the state to intimidate, bully, scare, coerce and terrorize council staff in the state, in order to rig the forthcoming gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections in the state in favor of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state”, the statement read. Stating that it will not allow the victimization of the party’s supporters to come to play, the APC Parrots urged anyone who becomes victim to reach out to the group. “We will not stand by and watch Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa and his rubber stamp council chairmen to unleash his evil plans on council staff due to his selfish agenda to impoverish this great state for another 4 years. Any council staff who is victimized by any council chairmen should report immediately to the APC Parrots,” the statement added. In a related development, the APC Parrots has tasked eligible voters in the state to shun candidates of the opposition PDP claiming to be in alliance with Chief Great Ogboru. Describing them as politicians out to steal from the people “for another four years,” he urged the electorates to be mindful of them.