Youth international Taiwo Awoniyi has been in excellent shape since his transfer during the January Window from AAK Genk to Royal Excel Mouscron. The 21-year-old now speaks about his new-found scoring form that has earned him five times nominations in the Belgian Jupiler Pro-League Team of the Week in an interesting conversation with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Being named in the Belgian First Division A Team of the Week for five successive times is not a mean achievement and Nigerian youth international Taiwo Awoniyi, currently on fire with Royal Excel Mouscron, has admitted the Jupiler Pro-League (JPL) is the perfect place to hone the skill of aspiring footballers. It is over three decades ago that the late former national team captain and coach Stephen Keshi blazed the Belgian train when he joined Sporting Club Lokeren  from Ivorian side Africa Sports in 1986 and ever since  the JPL has been the Mecca for Nigerian footballers. Apart from the late Big Boss, former international striker Daniel Amokachi also made his mark at Club Brugge while the trio of Victor Ikpeba, Sunday Oliseh and goalkeeper Alloy Agu were standard bearers at Standard Liege in the 1990s.Other Nigerians that were household names in Belgium during their heyday include Celestine Babayaro who won the annual Ebony Shoe Award for the best African or African origin player in the Belgian league. Meanwhile, at the beginning of the 2017/2018 season, Awoniyi who duly has a valid contract (with Liverpool), was sent on loan to Royal Excel Mouscron where he performed creditably well  by scoring 11 goals and providing seven assists in all competitions and was rewarded by the English Premier League (EPL) side with another five-year long contract. Afterwards, he was loaned yet again to KAA Gent to swell the numbers of Nigerians at De Bufallos (The Buffalos) to three in addition to Philip Azango and Anderson Esiti. But the youngster did not really find his scoring form at the Ghelamco Arena as he fired blank in 16 JPL matches at the close of last year to warrant his return to Royal Excel Mouscron for the second time in his exciting career. His arrival at Mouscron during the January transfer window has coincided with his rich vein in form and he has since scored six impressive goals in seven matches. “The Belgian League is a good foundation  for Nigerian players  to gain more experience about European football,” Awoniyi, who previously had stints as loanee from Liverpool at FSV Frankfurt and NEC Nijmegen in the Dutch Eredivisie, stated in an interview with The Nation. “We grew up in Nigeria being able to fight for yourself and I think this is a good place because from our background, it’s always about power and speed. “It is true that the Belgian league has been a very good place for many Nigerian footballers; here they know that Victor Osimhen is one of the young talents for the Nigerian team and in the world. Personally, I think the Belgian league is ideal for Nigerian players because everybody knows the mentality of Nigerian players about fighting for success. “This is good for us (Nigerians) because we have the opportunity to fight through our challenges and this is why this place is good for us and I’m happy most of us are doing well here.” Already, Awoniyi has been tagged a sensation following his arrival at Stade Le Canonnier (the home ground of Royal Excel Mouscron)where he has been eminently named five times in the Team of the Week as conducted by the influential Belgian medium Voetbalkrant. “Michael Awoniyi has become a sensation at Mouscron,” notedVoetbalkrant writer, Johan Walckiers. “Hardly anything at AAK Gent, but now six goals in seven matches (at Mouscron). Would they have done something wrong in his water in the Ghelamco Arena?” According to Walckiers, Awoniyi is now being monitored by other clubs and there is a great possibility that he might soon be prised away on a permanent basis since Liverpool are mulling at the prospect of selling him to the highest bidder. “The Reds, who rent him out to Mouscron, would ask no less than 11 million Euros for him,” Walckiersfurther explained.“They put that price on his head when Schalke 04 was on the phone recently; they had already called Jürgen Klopp to discuss the qualities of the striker before that. “Liverpool wants to lend him a year because they do not think he is ready for the Premier League but now they also want to include bonuses in the contract.” But Awoniyi is seemingly at peace at Mouscron and was reportedly quoted as saying: “Itis not too early to talk about my future, nor do I have it all in my own hands, Liverpool will decide. “At this moment, I am a Mouscron player, I want to focus on that. My ambition is to continue the post-New Year life in the coming months.” For the meantime, the 21-year-old Awoniyi has further reitreated his confidence to do well with the Les Hurlus, adding that recent JPL Team of the Week nominations can only spur him to greater heights. “The Belgian League is a very tough one and being nominated five times in the Team of the Week is good for me as a player,” stated Awoniyi, a FIFA Under-17 World Cup winner in 2013. “But my priority is to help my team achieve its objectives and working hard with my teammates so that we can win our matches. “The most important thing is to be part of the team regularly. I think getting into the Belgian Team of the Week is secondary for me because I can only make it by working hard and getting good results with my club every week,” Mouscron are currently in a distant 10th position in the 16-team JPL but Awoniyi believes more wins and more goals from his lethal boots can propel  the 97-year-old club within a touching distant at the top. “The secret is all about having self-belief and hoping for the best in every situation,”statedAwoniyi a great fan of the workaholic Liverpool’s Brazilian forward Roberto Firmino ‘because he works so hard for the team (Liverpool) and makes the job easier for the team.’ He continues: “My goal scoring secret is all alsoabout working hard for the team and knowing that the result would come even if it’s not immediate. “It’s also about the good understanding with my teammates and for me to keep on working hard personally and generally for the team. I think this is just the secret and I’m grateful to God for this.” For now, Awoniyi’s good form with Mouscron has equally elicited huge interest back home but he remains calm despite being omitted by coach Gernot Rohr for the forthcoming international engagements against  the Pirates of Seychelles and Pharaohs of Egypt in Asaba. “It would be a great privilege to play for the Super Eagles because we know it’s a team with great talents; to be part of the team is a privilege and honour personally to the player and his family,” noted Awoniyi who was named in the CAF Team of the Tournament when the Flying Eagles won the Total U-20 African Cup of Nations held in Senegal in 2015. “Of course, this is a great dream and prayer of every player to represent the country. I believe anyone would be happy about such development and it’s really something to look forward to as a player. “But to be honest, I know that Nigeria has so many great talents and it would therefore be a privilege and honour for anybody to play for the Super Eagles,” noted Awoniyi who, in the meantime, has been drafted to join the U-23 national team, otherwise known as the Olympics Eagles. Indeed, Awoniyi has started 2019 in great spirit but he’s upbeat that there are still many rivers to cross for him.  “My objective is to keep on working hard and fighting being a football player; doing the best for myself and my family. “We all have our wishes and I have mine which I wouldn’t want to go public with. I’m working hard to ensure that I accomplish all what I have set to do this year. “I pray that God continues to watch over my family and everybody to be safe throughout the remaining part of the year.” Known for his genial and philanthropic gestures, Awoniyi rounded off his thoughts with a clarion call on the teeming Nigerian youths following recent skirmishes across the country. “My advice for Nigerian youths is to be peaceful and shun violence because we saw through the social media some of the bad things happening in recent times. “I understand how life is so difficult in our country especially if you come from a very humble background and you don’t have anyone to assist you.