In 2013, Joy Egbe, 26, lost her aunt who was seven-month pregnant to indoor air pollution caused by fumes from generator — a signature product for every household in Nigeria due to the poor electricity supply. That heartbroken experience forced Egbe to pay attention to the acrid emissions coming from millions of diesel and gasoline generators, fueling her fears of the stark reality that awaits Nigeria and the world, if the smoke continues to cloud the African breathing space, with more PM 2.5 particles pumped into the already polluted air. “For the first time in my life, the reality of greenhouse gas emissions dawned on. Firstly, I started researching about indoor pollution,” said Egbe, a 300-level Geology student of the University of Benin. “But more importantly, it stirred up in me some forms of climate action advocacy. Even as I learned more, I became so concerned about the course that I began to speak out in support of climate action in my community. At a point, I started adjusting my diet to that of a vegetarian.” With heavy reliance on fossil fuel as an energy source for Africans and much of nearly 200 million Nigerians, Egbe ’s campaign to get people in some communities in Edo — in Nigeria’s oil-rich Niger Delta region — to stop its usage and contribution to global warming did not achieve much due to lack of better alternatives. “People started asking me: if I stop using fossil fuel to cook, how do I cook? How do I stop using my generator when there is no light? Then I realized I can’t just be creating awareness without solving a problem,” said Egbe whose drive to advance the course of a green economy led to her joining Nwasor Derick and Ikponmwoba Eloghosa in a 3-member team that co-founded New-Digit in 2018. The startup’s zero-emission product uses solar cells and water to produce energy for hydrogen cooking gas and electricity. The capacity of the electricity generated could serve up to 10 households within a cluster. “Since November 2018, several homes have been benefiting from the prototype of our product in a village in Edo, where our product’s testing is currently ongoing, ” Egbe said ahead of the product’s official launching adding that “people are already placing an order for it.” Egbe’s New-Digit was among the 15 cleantech businesses selected by the Nigeria Climate Innovation Centre (NCIC) for its 2018-2019 inaugural incubation program which aims to accelerate access to clean energy in Nigeria and ensure that green innovations move from the ideation phase to market entry and then scale up. NCIC, which was established in August 2018 through a partnership between the Nigerian government and the World Bank Group, selected the 15 winning teams out of a pool of over 200 for the maiden edition of World Bank’s Climate Launchpad Competition, according to Centre’s CEO, Bankole Oloruntoba in an exclusive interview. “There is always an economic impact to every social issue we face as an individual or a nation.” Oloruntoba continued, “if we begin to address the challenge of climate change from an economic perspective and not just as an NGO issue alone, then we begin to get to the root of the social problems attached to it and then solve them.” Recently, the centre secured a grant funding partnership with All On — an off-grid energy impact investment company backed by Shell — to incubate the most innovative green ideas that were thrown up by the competition. Among the young entrepreneurs whose ideas are currently being incubated through the Climate Launchpad program is AbdulKarim Mayere who founded N-Network. Like Egbe, he is equally troubled over the phenomenal proliferation of generating sets in Africa’s largest economy, though his own proffered-solution comes with a different approach. The idea pushed forward by 34-year-old Mayere is the evacuation of excess power produced through solar generation and the surplus generating sets by individual households, as well as Independent Power Projects (IPPs), to be transmitted to households and facilities where they are needed. Through this idea, he believes the number of generators in neighborhoods can be reduced drastically. “Rather than add to the number of generators, a pair to pair electricity trading will enable neighbouring households to be able to trade electricity among themselves.” “For instance, if House A is running a 100 kva generator, but all it’s consuming is 50 kva and there’s House B that’s running 50 kva but all it can consume is less than that 50 kva, what we do is to ask both houses to subscribe to our platform. That means House B don’t need to run that 50 kva generator because it can be accommodated within the 100 kva generated by House A,” Mayere adds. “Instead of running a 150 kva combined capacity of generators, the 100 kva generator by House A will serve consumers in both houses.” With the ubiquitous generators, almost everyone in Nigeria is a power producer and a preponderance of the households generate more power than they can outrightly consume. In clustered neighborhoods, a building having six apartments for instance, could have each of the apartments producing its own power independently through a generator. The billowing smoke and the deafening noise typical to that of a production factory, oftentimes, would have already made the air go foul, leading to indoor pollution and the noise causing hearing impairment in some worse scenarios, before finally disappearing into the cloud to contribute its own proportion to global warming. An estimated $14bn (N5trn), representing 50% of Nigeria’s 2018 budget is expended yearly by businesses to import and maintain fossil fuel-powered generator. This is against the 2015 commitment by Nigeria and 194 nations at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to halt the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C, above pre-industrial levels, limiting it to 1.5°C. However, to the contrary, asides the generator’s worries, Nigeria’s position as Africa’s biggest oil producer makes her to top the list of the highest contributors to global warming on the continent. While the halting of the multi-billion dollar generator’s importation business in Nigeria may not be anytime soon, due to the erratic power supply from the centralized grid — the biggest elephant in Nigeria’s economic room — Mayere’s work comes with a focus. It is to cut the emissions emanating from these agents of ‘slow death’ and reduce the cost of generating power by individual households, as well as the nuisance they breed in communities. Using the northern state of Kaduna to test run the initiative before launching it in vast parts of Nigeria and West Africa, Mayere and members of his N-Network team are already working with five tertiary institutions and 20 hotel facilities. “They have been very positive about the idea, most especially as we’re helping them to reduce their power consumption and also help them get extra income from their independently generated power.” He noted that the startup is currently identifying the independent power producers and the potential consumers in the respective localities who will subscribe to the electricity trading chain. According to the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), only 100 KW of power is allowed to be distributed by an independent power producer and the N-Network is keeping it within that limit, albeit with a futuristic outlook to partner with the big power Distribution Companies (DisCos) and Generating Companies (GenCos) as network tends to grow bigger. “In the future, through this plan, we hope to get more solar and other renewable technologies to be the only source of the power generation that would be traded,” says Mayere who bagged a PhD, Engineering in Renewable Energy from the University of Nottingham in 2011. Juststandout Limited, also selected among startups with emerging innovations for the Climate Launchpad program is bringing to the table an eco-friendly E-waste management idea. Co-founded by Joseph Inyang and wife, Owen, Juststandout has its work well cut out in two inextricably linked solutions: to drive down E-waste volume coming from used batteries, hence, helping Nigeria meet its target of reducing the carbon footprint by 50% by 2030, and also leverage on E-waste to bridge the Kilowatt divide that exists between Nigeria and the rest of the world. The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) had estimated that about 1.1 million tonnes of E-waste — mostly PCs, air-conditioners, LCD-TVs, mobile phones, refrigerators — is generated in Nigeria annually. West Africa’s economic capital, Lagos contributes about 40% of the E-waste. Meanwhile, there are growing concerns among environmental activists that the planned $80bn investment in Nuclear power plant’s development by the Nigerian government could further complicate waste management challenges for a nation that is still battling to manage its E-waste. Speaking on his company’s work, Inyang stated that his team had fashioned out a waste collection system to gather used batteries from laptop and other equipment that have small cells. “We sort, recondition and use them to produce Power Packs between 8000mAmps to 24000mAmps and EV Packs (for larger energy storage).” Most times, people tend to toss away old electronic devices that get damaged or just stop working, leaving the battery inside, but the company hopes to increase the collection rate of such used batteries. “We’re reaching out to religious houses to allow their facilities to be used as collection centres for the batteries,” Inyang stated. For the Lithium-Ion (Li-Ion) batteries that defy reconditioning and repurposing, he said the company has a technology in place to recycle them and extract the Lithium, a valuable element in producing other forms of energy storage devices for small-scale and large-scale use. In recent years, Nigeria’s solar companies had made a meaningful contribution to boost the off-grid power generation. Following the country’s target to generate 30% of her power from renewable energy by 2030, notwithstanding, not much indigenous solutions had come the way of improving the storage of energy generated from solar panels, now on the rise. As part of efforts to address the energy storage issues, Juststandout is trying to ensure that through improved storage of energy produced by solar and other green sources, the transition of households and facilities away from heavy dependency on fossil fuels to clean energies can be fast-paced. This is expected to deepen electricity access, especially among rural locals and reduce energy poverty as renewables become a lot cheaper with time. The company, according to Inyang had reached over 3,000 people to include clinics and other service-based institutions with its energy products and services. “We call ourselves the ‘energy warriors’ because to us the power situation in Nigeria is a war that must be properly fought and won. And adequate energy storage by recycling and reconditioning used Lithium-Ion batteries is our best bet to leapfrog the Kilowatt divide, while we reduce our carbon footprint,” Inyang said.