Women they say are the ‘salt’ of the world! Which is the major reason Rite Foods Limited – RFL – has decided to make the month of March of every year the campaign time to create awareness for International Women’s Day, IWD, to bring a difference to the way the day is commemorated. In commemorating this year’s IWD, the giant food and beverage industry hopes to celebrate and unite  women all over the country and beyond on the 30th of this month at the Oriental Hotels, Lagos. You will note that International Women’s Day (IWD) is celebrated on March 8 yearly. It is a focal point in the movement for women’s rights. Its history started from women gaining suffrage at Soviet Russia in 1917. Ever since then, March 8 became a national holiday there. The day was then predominantly celebrated by the socialist movement and communist countries until it was adopted in 1975 by the United Nations. According to the Managing Director of RFL, Mr. Saleem Adegunwa, despite Nigeria being a member of the UN alongside many other countries, women and girls who represent half of the world’s population are still subjected to all sorts of gender discriminative practices. “Unfortunately, there is still an extremely long way to go in achieving satisfactory equality of rights and opportunities between men and women. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to think equal, build smart and innovate for change, ending the multiple forms of gender violence and secure equal access to economic resources and participation in political life.” IWD is a time to reflect on progress made, to call for change and to celebrate acts of courage and determination by ordinary women who have played extraordinary roles in the history of their countries and communities. As of today, IWD is a public holiday in some countries and largely ignored elsewhere, which is all dependent on the level of recognition given to the female gender in such countries. It is a day of protest in others, it is a day that celebrates womanhood; again it’s all about respect to the fundamental rights of a woman. Little wonder Rite Foods Limited is specially going to celebrate women in two arms; the first is targeted at Rite Foods Limited followers on social media platforms: consumers of Bigi products ( Bigi & Rite Sausages,  Bigi Beverages, Bigi Premium Table Water and Fearless Energy Drinks ); and individuals interested in women empowerment, international women’s rights, women rights in Nigeria and IWD 2019. The target audience for this campaign cuts across a vast variety of people. The second arm of this campaign asides from the pre-event registration stage is the main event and it is targeted at women in the cocktail business in Nigeria, specifically the female Mixologist Association of Nigeria. These female vendors will display their mixology skills to attendees. The intent of this event, amongst others, is to target the afore-mentioned group of people and communicate the Rite Foods brand in a light which supports gender equality, leveraging on the IWD’s platform which is known for its affiliation to fostering peace and unity amidst gender disparity in countries across the globe.