The Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday presented Peoples Democratic Party candidate Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal and his running mate, Alhaji Muhammad Mannir Dan Iya their certificates of return. Also presented certificates of return were the 30 Assembly members-elect. Presenting the certificates, INEC National Commissioner in charge of Sokoto, Kebib and Zamfara states, Mrs. Amina Zakari, said the commission remained committed to the course of ensuring smooth and transparent conduct of elections. According to her: “While we have concluded the 2019 polls exercise, we are looking forward to 2023 with a reminder to Nigerians that sustainable democracy can only be achieved through peaceful, free, fair, transparent and credible polls.” Zakari urged politicians and political parties to always ensure democratic process dictate their activities through adherence to INEC guidelines as well as peaceful conducts before, during and after elections. She regretted that Sokoto state, which was known for its peaceful electioneering process, had in the just -concluded polls lost its place due to violence and other wrongs. “This is the first time in many years we are experiencing this. I will like to state clearly that narrow lead margin was not the only reason why elections are declared inconclusive but violence and other reasons,” she stated. Sokoto Returning Electoral Commissioner, Sadiq Musa Abubakar, who noted the journey to the successful conclusion of the elections in the state was not an easy task, said INEC was able to deliver a credible and transparent exercise that ensured every voted counted to the last moment when the rerun was conducted. “We conducted the 2019 elections without fear or favour but commitment to the realisation of an acceptable exercise. “All struggles and efforts towards this day are over. I urge the people of Sokoto state to join hands together and forge ahead for the development of the state in unity and progress.” Tambuwal reassured of his resilience to building a Sokoto state that would symbolise prosperity for the people. He said nothing would be left out in the course of transforming the state and its people.