The Forum of Former Members of the House of Representatives who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have asked the leadership of the party to be tactful in handling the issue of the leadership of the National Assembly. This, they said, was necessary to avoid a repeat of the 2015 mistake which became costly for the party in terms of executive/legislative relationship. The group believe that the leadership of the party must move fast to douse the likely tension that will emerge if the varied interests in the leadership are not streamlined on time and individuals are allowed to take positions like they did in 2015. Addressing a news conference in Abuja, spokesman of the Forum, Idris Yahuza Yakubu, said it was high time the party took a decision on the zones where each of the principal officers should come from before it becomes too late. While pledging to making themselves available to assist the party at all times, the former lawmakers believe that the party must be guided to toe the line of equity and fairness, suggesting that the cognate experience, party loyalty and acceptability among colleagues should be considered. They said the party should consider the fact that the North West and South West have already produced the President and Vice President, while the North East has been given the position of Senate President, hence the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives should go to the North Central zone. The forum said “As the APC tries to consolidate on its recent successes, the party must not lose focus but do all it can to stay on track by putting in place a structure that will support its programmes for improving on the lot of the people. “The eye of the public and indeed the international community is on us to see if we can translate this victory into something tangible for the entire nation and, more importantly, if we are able to put our act together to create the enabling environment. “The foundation for building a cohesive and united Nigeria stands on the tripod of equity, justice and fairness, and this is where those of us who have been elected to the House of Representatives in the past, who have seen how the different arms of government are run, have decided to advise our beloved party on how best it can go about addressing the current agitations for geopolitical balancing in allocating the remaining top positions that would determine the shape of the next administration and engender a harmonious executive-legislature relationship for the good of the nation. “You will recall that in 2015, the APC made the mistake of not paying enough attention in the election of the leadership of the National Assembly and how the party nearly paid dearly for it by having to constantly battle with a hostile legislature since its leaders were not products of the party’s internal democratic arrangement. “The APC as the ruling party cannot afford to make that mistake again by leaving the choice of those to assume leadership positions in the National assembly to chance. “It is our strong view that the party must step forward to provide political direction to its elected members at the National Assembly by zoning all the leadership positions to the specific zones and, where possible, states. “This, we believe, will douse the unnecessary tension being generated in the bid by individual members from the different geopolitical divides of the country to aspire to those positions and avoid further digging of trenches which the party cannot afford to allow at this stage. “It is high time the party took a decision on this to make its stand known to the members of the party on time so as to prevent a repeat of the 2015 scenario where it was unable to stop vested interests who had gone too far in their campaigns by the time the party decided to step in. “If the varied interests are not streamlined on time and individuals are allowed to take hard line positions, it will be difficult for the party to make them reverse without causing further frictions. The former members of the House of Representatives, APC, said they were ready to support the APC in ways that could be considered fair and just by all within the party. “As a way of guiding the party to toe the line of equity and fairness, we suggest consideration be given to cognate experience, party loyalty and acceptability among colleagues.