•A right decision to build people’s confidence in the army The Chief of Army Staff, Lt-General Tukur Buratai, has ordered a probe into allegations of misconduct against the army during the recent elections. According to the Army spokesman, Colonel Sagir Musa, terms of reference include investigating activities of Nigerian Army personnel in all the States that have alleged wrong doing on the part of the army. Another focus is analysis of reports to determine truth of alleged assassination attempts on the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, and circumstances leading to the shooting death of Lieutenant Kurmi and injuries to other soldiers on deployment to Rivers State. The panel is expected to submit its report on March 31. To an army that has, since the exit of military dictatorship in 1999, pledged undivided loyalty to civil rule, allegations by citizens of army’s partisanship to political party members before and during elections should worry not only the military charged with securing all citizens and the entire country but also to all patriots that subscribe to the concept and practice of  separation of powers and impartiality of the country’s security forces on domestic political matters. The response of the Chief of Army Staff not to ignore allegations by civilians of military misconduct is proper and commendable for its timing. Leaving such serious allegations to float and fester without intervention from the military can be dangerous to the security and stability of the country. In most democracies, it is a taboo for the army to get involved in electoral activities. But the peculiar security situation of the country, particularly the ratio of law enforcement staff to citizens, moral reputation of the police among citizens, and the readiness of politicians to resort to violence through party thugs may call for deployment of military staff to enhance security during elections or other tension-inducing civic engagements. But calling on the army to reinforce security at a time of tension, such as is characteristic of elections in Nigeria, does not justify unethical involvement of the military in election matters—for or against any party or individual. As moments of national tension can induce errors of judgement, it is not impossible for individual soldiers to overreact, as citizens have noted in their assessment of military activities in some states. It is thus reassuring that the Army has deemed it fit to put the matter to rest by establishing a thorough probe of the serious allegations against the army. However, no effort should be made by any officer to water down the commitment of the investigators to objectivity and fairness in carrying out the assignments given to senior members of the Armed Forces. It would have been enough and professional for the spokesman of the army, Sagir Musa, to state that the army, “as a noble institution reassures members of the public of its determination to deal with any of its personnel whose actions fall foul of the law.” He did not have to demonise those who have made allegations, especially after his boss has found it necessary to build confidence in the citizenry by establishing a probe. Musa’s plea with the public: “The NA has also drawn the attention of the public to mischievous activities of some selfish individuals who recruited thugs dressed in military uniform and armed to harass and intimidate their opponents” is needless and a distraction from the matter at hand. A matter already under probe should not be undermined by the self-righteousness captured by this statement. The Army not only needs to be impartial in election matters, it has obligation to be seen to be impartial. Therefore, it should be worrisome if citizens complain about interference of the army in partisan politics. And the Army Chief’s authorization of a probe into citizens’ allegations is a rational response to doubts about the professionalism of the army. In addition, if those making allegations were sponsors of fake soldiers, the probe ought to be able to unearth this anomaly. We expect the investigators to do the special assignment diligently and name soldiers—genuine or fake—found culpable, if any, for possible sanctions. The authorities should also make findings of the probe public. 