Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, Dr. Dayo Hephzibah Oladebeye has assured of his administration’s commitment towards providing an enabling environment for staff to flourish at their optimum potential for the achievement of the goals of the Institution. Dr. Oladebeye who gave the assurance at the Inauguration of the Reconstituted Advisory Management Committees of the Polytechnic stressed that staff would be supported to give their best towards making the Polytechnic a world-class Institution. The Rector, who recalled with gratitude to Almighty God for handing over the mantle of leadership of the Institution to him about a year ago, expressed his appreciation to the 10th Governing Council, Principal Officers, other members of Management, Staff and Students of the Institution for their unflinching and highly commendable cooperation to his administration since its inception. While thanking the three Trade Union Executives i.e. ASUP, SSANIP and NASU as well as the Alumni and the Students’ Union for their support, the Rector also commended the uncommon display of understanding and maturity on the part of the leadership of the Unions in their fair dealings with the Polytechnic Management. He appreciated them for their constructive criticism and their readiness to always tow the line of dialogue as against confrontation opting to “jaw jaw” instead of “war war”. The 42 Standing Advisory Management Committees with about 500 members of staff drawn from across Unions, Cadres and other strata of the Polytechnic serving as Chairmen, Members or Secretaries were inaugurated in Ado-Ekiti on Tuesday, 12th March, 2019 in commemoration of the Rector’s first year in office. The Reconstitution of the various Committees marked a resolve to make the Oladebeye administration an all-inclusive one and a bold attempt by the Rector to democratize the one year old administration of the Polytechnic. The 42 reconstituted Advisory Committees and their Chairmen includes the Management Committee, headed by the Rector himself as well as the Board of Olusegun Obasanjo Centre for Engineering Innovation. Committees headed by the Deputy Rector (Academics) Dr. (Mrs.) J.O. Omoniyi are Academic Staff Publications Review Panel, Accreditation Committee as well as the Staff Training and Development Committee, while the Deputy Rector (Administration) Bldr. G.S. Olorunoje will also preside as Chairman over the Board of Survey; Ceremonies Committee; the Polytechnic Land Use Committee; Office Space Allocation Committee as well as Hostels Monitoring and Rehabilitation Committees. Other Committees include the Senior Non-Teaching Staff Review Committee, with the Registrar, Mrs. K.O. Ekanem as the Chairman, while the Junior Staff Review Committee and Housing Committee are both headed by the Polytechnic Librarian, Mr. E.O. Ayeni as the Chairman. The Admissions Committee has Mr. A.A. Aliu a Chief Lecturer in Mathematics as Chairman, while Polytechnic Loans, Security and Sports Committees are headed respectively by Mr. O.D. Dada, Dr. M.O. Akinola and Dr. O.I. Ayeni.The list of Committees also includes Students Disciplinary; Staff School Management Board; Time Table; Publications; Transport; Energy Utilization; Internally Generated Revenue; Environmental; Endowment Fund and Polytechnic Exhibition Committee among others. Dr Oladebeye, who noted that the inauguration of various Advisory Management Committee was the first of its kind by his administration, stressed that the inauguration became necessary in order to get staff familiar with and identify and recognize the chairmen and members of the Committee for easy accessibility and administration. He further stated that the inauguration of the Committees was in fulfillment of his avowed resolve to involve staff at all levels in the decision-making process of management which is in line with his belief in the democratic approach to decision making. The Rector further stated that the Committees of Management are primarily set up to serve as veritable tools in ensuring a virile and invigorated administration and Management of the Institution towards unhindered development of the institution. He charged the Committee members to generate sufficient intellectual discourse for the incubation of ideas that will lead to the hatching of sound recommendations for the realization of goals and objectives of the system. He also mandated the various Committees to carry out their assignment with utmost dispatch and ensure optimum achievement in their mandate as specified in their terms of reference.