The emergence of high end mobile devices with high definition camera has not affected the market segment for photography cameras, leaders in imaging solutions, Canon, said in Lagos at the weekend. Speaking on the sideline of the unveiling of three new products – the EOS R System, PIXMA TS9540 and the ZOEMINI, in Lagos, Senior Manager, Sales & Marketing – B2C, Canon Central & North Africa, Mr. Amine Djouahra, said the evolution of camera devices has been a blessing to the camera segment as it has boosted its sale. He said: “In the past, we used to say mobile phones are impacting the business of camera. For me, it is not true. It is better and better. Before mobile phones, how many people use to go and buy camera to take pictures? Not many. Today, the mobile phones, especially the high end mobile phones which have high level cameras just excite people to go and click pictures. Out of all this population of people clicking, there are some people that will be interested in having fantastic pictures that will move them into photography and the moment they decide to move into photography, they will realise that the smartphone cannot fulfill their  needs, so that is creating for us, more segment and more demand. If you look at the optics of the camera and look at the sensor of these devices, they cannot be the same, it’s impossible. So these devices are preparing some people to enter the camera segment. “In 2015, the market size of cameras in Nigeria was 46,000 while the mobile phone penetration was 88 per cent. That means 88 per cent of the 194million are having mobile phones and if we do simple calculation and take one per cent of this population, about 1.4million people have been converted to camera use. So for us, it is a blessing. Our products are far more better than the smartphone in terms of performance.” He said the new range of printers and the camera are poised to expand Canon’s imagery range in the country and help customers manage productivity. The EOS R System is redefining the frontiers of photography and filmmaking. Over 30 years on from the original, era-defining EOS launch, the bold, new EOS R System once again expands photographic possibilities in countless ways. The new RF lens mount has been engineered with the perfect blend of optical, mechanical and electronic design to capture unique moments previously seen as very challenging. “We are very proud to have officially launched and announced the availability of our EOS R System in Lagos. This market plays a significant role in our growth plans and we hope that today’s local launch event will further cement our position as innovators in imaging technology. Canon is globally committed to investing in the unrivalled EOS world with cameras, lenses and accessories that set new heights in image quality, optical excellence and performance, building on Canon’s lens heritage, these high-performance lenses will push forward the frontiers of creative storytelling and satisfying the ever-evolving needs and demands of our customers.”