A Customer Support official for Taxify/Bolt who preferred to remain anonymous said the company’s
name change from Taxify to Bolt will not affect standard of service. The official said this on Friday in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. Taxify, an Estonian digital transport company serves 25 million customers in over 30 countries globally and recently changed its name to Bolt. The customer support official said that Taxify started as a taxi dispatch platform but advanced to a name that could represent fast and reliable mobility in a wider range. He said `Bolt is our platform’s new name. Nothing will change for passengers or drivers using the platform. “All the features will remain same. Taxify started as a taxi dispatch platform, hence the name. “Today, we are a transportation platform that provides ride-hailing, as well as scooter sharing. “With new products on the platform, we wanted a name that stands for quick and reliable mobility in a wider context. “Bolt represents dynamic, fast, electrifying movement and in that sense represents our company’s vision perfectly.” Mr Markus Villig, the Chief Executive Officer and co-Founder of Bolt, during the official announcement, said that the company’s logo would change from Thursday. Villig said “while we’ve made progress on our mission, we’ve also started to outgrow parts of our brand, including the name. “Given our ambition to solve transportation problems on an increasingly broader scale, we want the brand to reflect the company’s future, rather than the past. “Our new name Bolt stands for fast, effortless movement, which is the experience of getting around in a city should be, be it by car, scooter or public transport.” The company was the first to bring ride-hailing and scooter sharing in one single app and is currently working on expanding its sharing services across a number of cities. The company official,however, said the new brand would be gradually rolled out across Bolt’s global markets in the coming weeks. “Bolt users will not need to take any action as the app will update automatically.” NAN