The Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN) has advised President Muhammadu Buhari on the need to avoid past mistakes in his appointment of ministers, especially as it concerns the ministry of Health. MHWUN urged the president not to appoint only Medical Doctors as Ministers of Health. In the current dispensation, the two ministers of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole and Dr. Osagie Ehinare are both medical doctors and not until recently, the permanent secretary of the ministry was also a medical doctor. Nigerians are looking forward towards appointment of new ministers as the president sets to commence his second term in office on 29th May 2019. The first term of the Buhari administration is expected to wind down on 29th May, 2019 and he is expected to dissolve his cabinet latest 24 hours before the end of the current administration. The union argued that appointing two ministers from the same segment of the medical profession to head the ministry does not promote healthy working environment. MHWUN National President, Com. Biobelemoye Josiah said because of the existence of other professionals, appointment of ministers should be a mix. He noted that one can be a medical doctor while the other can be from any of the other professions within the medical sector. Besides, Josiah called for the return of the management of health institutions to hospital administrators who have the capacity to manage the institutions. He spoke Thursday in Abuja at the 10th National Quadrennial delegates’ conference of the Union. Josiah noted that the last four years is the worst for health delivery in the country, saying many factors conspired to cast a very gloomy and dark cloud on the horizon in the Nigerian health care delivery system. He therefore warned that as long as the appointment of ministers of health, and other key positions are held by only one profession to the exclusion of other health professionals, there will continue to be disruptions in healthcare delivery. He said, “As long as the appointment of ministers of Health, Directors in the ministry of health and the Chief Executives of health institutions remain the birthright of one profession, to the exclusion of other health professionals in the team, turbulence and inefficiency shall continue to thrive as they are not trained for such duties, their discriminatory approach would continue to invite protestations from other members of the health team who are in the majority. As long as government does not make conscious efforts to break this monopoly by the medical doctors, a monopoly that is self-serving, Nigerians would continue to suffer for it.” He posited that “As an immediate action to put confidence into Nigerians, the appointment of Ministers in the ministry must not necessarily be to only health professionals in order to halt politics of exclusion that has taken tap roots in the ministry. “We believe the appointments of both doctors and other health professionals as ministers, or the mixing of appointments of both doctors and other health professionals as ministers in the Ministry of Health would go a long way in boosting the confidence of the operators/ stakeholders in the ministry. MHWUN president also opposed the school of thought that is pushing for privatization of the health care industry. While stressing that privatization is not an option, Josiah said that it is the business of the government to provide for security and welfare and wellbeing of its citizenry. “If the business of government is to provide for security and