Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has called on the people of Rivers State to remain calm as the success of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) in the March 9 governorship election would be a sweet victory in the end. Wike made the statement when members of the National Assembly, elected on the platform of the PDP, presented their Certificates of Return to him at a ceremony in the Government House, Port Harcourt, the state capital, yesterday. He said that the will of the people of the state will prevail at the end, despite the conspiracy against the state. ”I know that PDP won the elections squarely. We believe in peace, therefore, Rivers people should remain calm. We believe in due process. I believe that INEC is doing their best to follow the due process. ”In the end, it will be a sweet victory. The will of Rivers people will prevail,” he said. The governor described the political stand-off in the state as a drama fated to end. He said “the people of Rivers people voted overwhelmingly for the PDP in all elections,  while the anti-democratic forces attempted to snatch results at the collation centres. ”Let me thank the people of Rivers State for the love they have shown for our great party. It is not in doubt that Rivers people have shown our party, love. What is happening is sad. It is a drama. ”We have 13 House of Representatives seats and the PDP clinched all of them. We have three Senate seats, one has been declared and PDP won. When the remaining  two seats are declared, PDP will win them. Eighty percent of the seats declared,  PDP took all. “You begin to wonder why any right thinking person would say, that, PDP lost the governorship election. Not that they say PDP lost to a party with a known logo, or even if you have seen the candidate one day in your life or seen his posters to make people vote for the candidate. For us, it is a drama. PDP won the election squarely,” he said. Speaking on behalf of the newly-elected legislators, Senator-elect Barry Mpigi, said there is no need for anyone to panic as Governor Wike will be declared winner in line with the votes cast on March 9. He said, Rivers people are with Governor Wike as shown by their votes in all the polling units. ”We have looked round the 23 Local Government Areas and we have seen that the people of Rivers State voted for you. Don’t panic, the vindication will come at the appropriate time,” Mpigi said.