•Orgy of killings, and bloodletting at elections, must stop before 2023 Violence, in whatever context and by any means, is condemnable. However, when it attends a civic action meant to mobilise citizens for development, it is reprehensible. Elections are at the heart of democracy. It is the modern means if recruiting leaders and putting the people at the centre of governance. In a multiparty setting, free choice marks the beauty of the system, with the electorate empowered to decide the party to run public affairs for a defined period. When, then, violence disrupts the process from the party selection of candidates to actual voting and the post-election period, the society risks sinking into anarchy. Nigerian elections now epitomize all that could go wrong in electing leaders. In the process leading to the last election, the party primary system was turned more into a contest of raw power, than a test of strength, by aspirants and tendencies within the major political parties. Everything from the register of members to securing the primary venue, to even deciding the mode of election, led to hot exchanges and attempts to overawe opponents.  It was the early warning sign that the elections could be trailed by blood. At the end of the 2019 general election, 58 Nigerians were reported killed, with many more injured and some still hanging between life and death. This is barbaric. Many had thought that the outrage and salutary reforms that attended the wanton post-election killings and destructions, devilishly pronounced in the “do-or-die” election of 2007; and comparatively limited but still high casualty figure in 2011, would be enough to sanitise the system. This apparently is not so. The Buhari administration has a duty to bequeath an impeccable election mechanism to the country. No more should voters be seized with trepidation when stepping out to perform their civic duties. The penchant to descend into anarchy could have contributed to the fact that, in the 2019 polls, only about a third of those eligible actually participated in deciding those to lead the country in the next four years. The security organisations should step up their game by starting planning for 2023 now. It is not enough to vote billions of Naira for security, roll out tanks on election day and post military men to mount road blocks. Securing lives and property during electioneering should be more subtle and the architecture should rest more on intelligence. The electoral commission should begin immediately to commission and facilitate studies on how best to achieve this. The experience this year, during which hoodlums waited for the collation stage to strike, is an indication that the existing process has become anachronistic. Technology is too long in being adequately deployed. The 2015 Jega INEC took some steps forward with the introduction of the smart card machine and declaration of results at every polling unit. This has reduced fraud at that basic level. But electronic transmission of results, with adequate backup and safeguard, has become a desideratum to check violent disruptions. Besides, electoral crime should be made less attractive by prescribing adequate punishment for offenders and ensuring that nobody, however connected escapes justice. Beyond technology, however, politicians themselves must develop a democratic ethos.  Since 1999, nay since independence, Nigeria’s recurring problem has been running a democracy without democrats.  The huge cost of that, in sheer lives and limbs, and the ruin of military rule, has been shattering and sobering. The next one year is crucial to preparations for the next general election, if Nigeria is to escape the odium attached to the regular loss of lives and limbs, in the name of elections.