 Can Arsenal forward and Gabon international Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang turn the table and hand the Panthers a ticket to the Nations cup in Egypt? That is perhaps the query on the lips of most Gabonese as the Panthers take on Swallows of Burundi in the last group match of the AFCON qualifiers. Burundi occupy the second position in Group C two points below group leaders Mali and two points above third placed Gabon with seven points. If the qualification were to end like this, Mali and Burundi will clinch the two tickets of the group, but judging from the overwhelming welcome handed Aubameyang by his countrymen and women on his arrival to the country, it is apparent that they believe it is not late to swap positions at the last minute. The 2015 African footballer of the year, who has 22 goals in 39 games for the Gunners this season, got a hero’s welcome as he touched down in the city of Libreville on Wednesday night. Hundreds of supporters turned up to greet Aubameyang with chants and cheers as his brother, Willy, captured the incredible reception on Instagram. He is back and in top shape for Saturday’s crucial battle against Burundi And Gabon’s fans made sure to give him all the motivation he needs to fire them to victory with the warmest of welcomes. Aubameyang’s brother followed the Gunners star as he struggled to move through the packed crowd, who were clearly delighted to see him back on home soil. Aubameyang was absent for Gabon’s last two games – a 1-0 win over South Sudan and a 1-0 defeat by Mali – despite having been named in both squads. No official reason was given for him missing the clash with South Sudan, although some reports suggested he was unhappy with the plane Gabon had chartered for the journey. Aubameyang then missed the match with Mali amid claims that he was set to retire from international duty at the age of 29. However, manager Daniel Cousin dismissed those fears last week, telling the Gabonese News Agency: ‘Pierre is indeed summoned. ‘I did not receive any document from his club signaling his refusal to take part in this match. He knows what I think and expect of him.’ The pressure will be firmly on Aubameyang’s shoulders on Saturday with Gabon needing a win to progress to this year’s Africa Cup of Nations. Will the Panthers carry the day or will they be swallowed by the Swallows?     