The Federal Commissioner, National Population Commission (NPC) in Anambra state, Mr. Chidi Ezeoke, on Thursday, expressed dismay over the difficulty in gathering of data in the country. He said it was more worrisome in view of the importance of data in effective national planning. Ezeoke spoke in Aguleri, Anambra East Local Government Area of the state during the commencement of the Enumeration Area Demarcation (EAD) across the country. “It’s unfortunate that in our country, we’re still gathering data bit and pieces which is difficult to plan with. “Out of the 774 local government areas in the country, only 135 have been demarcated. That’s not commendable,” he said. He said the exercise was holding simultaneously in 23 states corresponding to 23 new commissioners appointed by the president last year November. Ezeoke enjoined the officers to accord the 21-day workshop the seriousness it deserved, describing it as an important national service. He said, “It’s very important you realize the enormity of the responsibility of the assignment you’re embarking on. “It’s also important you appreciate that what you do here will determine what will happen to the state data wise. “You’re here for an important national assignment and not a jamboree. Any mistakes made will impact negatively on the people. “It’s what you lay down today that you’ll continue to update in the future. As experts, you’re laying a foundation and if it’s faulty, the superstructure can’t stand.” A statement by the Acting Chairman of the Commission, Alh. Nassan Bashir, stressed that the EAD constituted the foundation of the census architecture and helps in planning and execution of the census project. “We wish to advice that no time is more auspicious than now that the general elections are over to draw the nation’s attention and energy to the imperatives of a national census that will provide the country with much needed current statistical data to aid effective planning in the country,” the statement read.