Kwara state Governor-elect Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq on Wednesday promised not to label anybody opposition in the state. He said his administration would be an all-inclusive government that would embrace everybody in the state. Abdulrazaq said this in Ilorin, the state capital after receiving his certificate of return from the state Resident Election Electoral Commissioner of INEC. “This state belongs to all. We don’t see anybody as opposition. It is Kwara for all. All hands must be on deck (to rebuild the state). ‘’This is a poor state and a lot of work has to be done. We will embrace everybody,” AbdulRazaq stressed. He said the new administration has a lot of work to do to get the state back on its feet, calling on all Kwarans to support his government once he is inaugurated in the coming months. “When you record a winning margin of 75 percent as we did, it means that even those on the side of PDP voted for us. “So we are going to ensure that we all work together. We are not going to label anybody. There are good people on the other side too.” He went on: “Our members will also be taken care of and our priority will be to rebuild our state. We need to get everyone together for the task ahead and move our state forward. “We have a big task ahead of us but we will surmount the challenges ahead by the grace of God. Once again, we thank everyone who took part in the elections — either as officials or as voters.” AbdulRazaq also hailed the electoral body, the security agencies and the voters for their patriotic roles while the exercise lasted. He rated the elections in Kwara as the most peaceful and orderly, commending the security agencies for checkmating thuggery and potential violence in the state. National Electoral Commissioner of INEC Dr Mohammed Haruna described the elections in the state as remarkable. Dr Haruna added: “The change in the state was not only remarkable but peaceful. “It is remarkable because those who lost at the polls accepted their defeat. “Senate President Bukola Saraki in his congratulatory speech said those who won the elections are not his enemies. “Therefore, I urge you not to treat those you have defeated as your enemies.”  