The Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC) performed woefully in the just concluded general elections. The state lost both the presidential and the governorship polls to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). LEKE SALAUDEEN examines the factors that were responsible for the performance and the way forward. THE defeat of the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the recent presidential election, President Muhammadu Buhari, in Oyo State came as a surprise. Many had thought that Oyo being an APC state would deliver for Buhari. Besides, incumbent Governor Abiola Ajimobi, the party’s senatorial candidate for Oyo South, was equally defeated by a dark horse fielded by the PDP. The party also inflicted a crushing defeat on the APC in the governorship and the House of Assembly elections. The PDP governorship candidate, Seyi Makinde, polled 515, 621 votes to defeat APC’s Adebayo Adelabu who garnered 357, 982 votes. A stalwart of the APC who spoke in confidence said: “Ajimobi performed well as governor, because he constructed and rehabilitated many roads more than all his predecessors. He also excelled in the provision of basic infrastructure, but his leadership style is negative. Ajimobi’s leadership style ruined the APC. He doesn’t listen to anybody; even those working with him don’t have access to him. He is not a team player. He is self-centred. “It was a protest vote against Ajimobi; it was the state versus Ajimobi, not the APC against the PDP. We won’t find ourselves in the position we are today, if Ajimobi had listened to words of wisdom. Look at the case of the aggrieved members that defected to other parties; he never made attempt to reconcile with them. Politics is a game of numbers. You can imagine if all those who left the party were still with us today; our party would have won all elections in the state.” The party stalwart said the defeat suffered by the APC was a result of protracted internal crises. The conflict, he said, dates back to the years of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), before the APC was formed. Before the 2011 general elections, the ACN had two distinct camps: those loyal to a former governor and leader of the party, Lam Adesina, and those in support of the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. The late Adesina’s camp was known as “Lamists”, while those loyal to Ajimobi were tagged “SENACO”, an acronym for the governor’s campaign organisation. Before the death of Adesina, there had been insinuations that the Lamists were being sidelined in the scheme of things. But the animosity was not pronounced until the death of Adesina and formation of the APC. The crack widened in December 2016 when some members of the Lamist group alleged that the governor was planning to impose candidates on party members in the local government election scheduled for February 2017. The conflict later degenerated into a sharp division in the party, which later snowballed into a full controversy that tore the party apart. The ward and state congresses turned violent. The crisis and in-fighting reached a crescendo during the build up to the last governorship primary. The Minister of Communication, Mr Adebayo Shittu, who was a governorship aspirant, rallied together some aggrieved APC members and federal lawmakers in the state under the umbrella of what they called “Unity Forum”.  Most of them had defected from the APC to other parties, like the ADC and the PDP. On the eve of the 2019 general elections, Shittu vowed to work against the APC in Oyo State. He was disqualified from participating in the governorship primary by the National Working Committee (NWC) on the ground that he did not participate in the one-year mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). He rejected the call on him by the reconciliation committee to bury the hatchet in the interest of the party. Shittu said: “Before you talk of reconciliation you must first talk of restitution. If you violate somebody’s property and you are found out, instead of you to surrender what you had stolen you are now talking of reconciliation. As for me, I don’t recognise the governorship candidate of the APC. I am in court and I am sure that I would triumph over those who were less than intelligent to foist a stranger on our party in Oyo State. “With all sense of humility, I have passed the stage where any party would threaten me. I am in court and if the party is sure that it has a better basis for what they have done, let us go and meet in court. You don’t start threatening those who feel unfairly treated, thinking you can get me out of the justice system.” The minister alleged that some leaders in the APC were worse than some of the PDP members they were accusing of impunity and corruption. He added: “I have passed that stage where any party will be threatening me. The loss is not mine, but that of the people of Oyo State who deserve the best in governance.” The APC spokesman in Oyo State, Dr Olatunde AbdulAzeez, said this is not the time to blame any individual for the party’s misfortune. His words: “I don’t believe in blame game. What matters to us now is how we are going to bounce back to power; it is not how long it takes you to get up when you fall, but the courage you bring into it that matters. “As progressives, we know in politics, there must be challenges. How we are able to overcome these challenges will separate us from the conservatives. In 2003, we were in complete dark, when the entire Southwest, except Lagos State, was taken over by the PDP. We didn’t succumb; we took our time to re-strategise and reposition our party and by the grace of God, we regained power in 2011. “In 2019, our problem is in isolation. In the whole of Southwest, only Oyo State was taken over by the PDP. The kitchen will be too hot for them. Oyo State is odd man in the Southwest. The PDP victory in Oyo State will not last.” On the way forward, AbdulAzeez said: “The APC in Oyo State should restructure its activities. For the next one year, it will be ‘siddon look approach’. We have pretenders in the fold. Within one year, they will show their true colour. We shall embark on stock taking. The hypocrites among us would find their way; our blood will not desert us.” But, Ogundare had advised the APC against shutting its door against aggrieved members who left the party. He said the party should have a sober reflection over its problems and find enduring solutions to them. He said: “If I were Ajimobi I will go for an all inclusive reconciliation. Invite those who left to a round table meeting and resolve all the differences in the interest of the party. “You can’t say people like Pa Michael Koleoso from Oke-Ogun zone, Dr Busari Adebisi, Adebayo Shittu, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu, Yinus Akintunde, Alhaji Isiaka Alimi, Chief Adegoke Oyetunji and many others that have decamped are not relevant in Oyo politics. Ajimobi should put ego aside and look for a way to accommodate these people. If he is able to do that, the APC would bounce back in Oyo State very soon.” The analyst said if the APC had reconciled with former Governor Alao-Akala weeks before the election, it would have performed better. He described the situation whereby it took the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to intervene and get Alao-Akala back to work for the APC governorship candidate in less than a week to the day of election as laudable, but too late. He said the scenario suggested either Ajimobi did not make overtures to Alao-Akala or that the former governor rebuffed him. Ogundare advised the APC National Working Committee to reconcile aggrieved party members in Oyo State. He said Ajimobi is a party to the crisis. He added: “So, there is no way he can resolve the crisis fairly. Asking Ajimobi to preside the reconciliation meeting is like asking him to be a judge and prosecutor in his own case.” 