The organised private sector (OPS) in conjunction with the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) have called on the government to install an efficient port system. This was the outcome of the intensive mPAD meeting organised  by MAN recently Lagos. “We need an efficient port system that guarantees speed and reliability to ensure on-time delivery of raw materials and the export/distribution of finished products from the factories to destinations,” OPS noted. According to the OPS, there should be close monitoring of the terminal operators by relevant government agencies like NSC and NPA to enforce modern ports operation as vital nodes in the logistics chain, saying that it would go a long way to support fast-paced industries where products must be moved to the market on time. “Our inland transport network; highways, waterways, railways must be made to be efficient to catalyse economic activities and to ease spatial interaction in the distribution manufactured goods.  Government should fast track the passage of all transport related Bills with the NASS, particularly the NTC Bill. This would go a long way in helping to provide the transport infrastructure capacity need in the logistics sector. “We should take the advantage of the volume of cargo destined to Nigeria to make Nigeria a logistic hub in the sub region.  Requires that the country must be made logistically competitive. This can be achieved through making Nigeria distribution center for services and goods in the sub-region.The waiver being enjoyed by MAN through government fiscal policies must be seen to reflect on locally manufactured goods. The collaboration between MAN and freight forwarders should be deepened by channeling MAN consignments through the freight forwarders.” OPS outlined. The OPS noted that construction of more logistics highways should be promoted to ease cargo flow from seaports to the hinterland other than the concentration on the port access roads, explaining that other road linkages are in ever bad state. According the MAN President, Ahmed Mensur; “The relevant stakeholders should synergize to address the incessant placing of alerts and undue interruptions in the cargo clearance process.  To further escalate these discuss I would humbly request that MAN, freight forwarders and shippers under the guide of NSC could come together to chart a course for revamping the ailing transport logistic sub-sector of the economy. “We in the Manufacturing sector can now look forward with confidence that the bold and dynamic policies and purposeful initiatives introduced by the Administration which have helped to rescue our economy from recession, and re-direct it towards sustainable and inclusive growth, will not only be sustained but scaled up. “We particularly appreciate Mr. president’s setting up of the High level Committee to undertake wide ranging consultations with key stakeholders to assess the impact on and readiness of our various sectors with regards to the “African Continental Free Trade Agreement” before signing the framework Agreement.  When this Committee concludes its work and submits its report, we expect that all critical issues and recommendations made by the stakeholders, including MAN, will be considered in taking the final decision on the matter. “As you are aware, the introduction of The Expo and mPAD by the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria is meant to boost the technological base of the Nigerian manufacturing sector which has been identified as one of the banes for the sector’s growth and development. “Through this annual international event which provides a common ground for large manufacturing organizations and SMEs to explore new production process that will increase their production output, the Association has taken the challenge of leading the manufacturing sector to play a vital role in the nation’s vision of becoming one of the leading industrialized economies in Africa”