We should transform the economy if we must stop brain drain The national stress of watching able-bodied youth as well as middle-age professionals leave our borders in waves began about three decades ago. Today, it is even worse. Many Nigerians who have lost their nerves and verve as citizens have turned their belief to other lands, leaving the country to wait for more waves. These days many eye Canada, Australia, the United Arab Emirates and some Asian nations because of the scrutiny of visas in the United States and Great Britain. Recently, Nigerians were a big part of the continental scandal of migrants fleeing poverty and misery in their country by risking death and destruction travelling on turbulent waters as passengers on precarious boats to Europe. Before that, they travelled through miles of a desert plagued by bandits, shysters and opportunists. The dramas of their return scarred a country that cannot give a reliable data of how many died or were lost in the escapade of desperadoes. To discourage this trend, the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCRMI) has flagged off a programme to train young and enthusiastic Nigerians in skills that can make them self-employed and profitable. The initiative will take place across the country, but it has already started in the Surulere and Yaba areas of Lagos. Soon it will happen in Ijebu-Ode in Ogun State, and the northeast. According to NCRMI’s southwest zonal head, Margaret Ukegbu, the programme is “the most practical and result-oriented way of empowering these returnees and persons of concern to become self-sufficient and self-sustaining.” At the end of the training, the commission will issue each of the trainees a certificate and seed money to trigger their businesses. They are starting with 2,000 beneficiaries. The skills administered to the trainees include cosmetology, phone repairs, soap making and photography. We cannot but commend the Federal Government and its agency, NCRMI, for nurturing entrepreneurial acumen in fellow citizens. The principal reason of the efflux of talent from Nigeria is to secure the proverbial Golden Fleece. The main definition of it is jobs. Many want a sense of self-worth, and having a place to work and earn a living wage would discourage any such flow of humans out of a place. That quite a few of the young have taken part with eagerness underscores why creating jobs cannot be overstated. In the just-concluded presidential campaigns, the contending parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), as well as the other lesser known ones promised to give job creation a boost by making it a priority. But it is no mean task. About half a million Nigerians graduate from tertiary institutions every year, and an increasing number of young people graduate in European, American and Canadian universities. According to a 2016 report by Jobberman, a recruiting agency in West Africa, about 47 percent of Nigerian graduates had no jobs. It is worse even today. The numbers swell year-on-year as the unemployed in one year add to the next year. Nigeria has the top number of migrants on the African continent, and about seven million leave the continent every year. Nothing demonstrates its potency more than in the medical field in which 12 doctors migrate to the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States every week, according to the National Association of Resident Doctors of Nigeria (NARD). That means close to two doctors leave Nigeria every day. This is an emergency. The doctors also claim that less than 40,000 resident doctors practice in Nigeria. This figure is a boon as 88 percent of these medical experts want to leave to join their fellow professionals abroad. For a nation dealing with avoidable deaths daily, especially from such illnesses as malaria and typhoid, it shows that the problem of development puts Nigeria in a low scale among failing states of the world. Nigeria is also listed among nine African nations that lose $2 billion yearly training doctors who benefited other lands. Other than medical doctors, many institutions abroad have nurses and pharmacists. We also have Nigerians who are by far under-employed because of their skin colour and accent and country of origin. Yet, they leave. It means efforts by successive governments to provide jobs have fallen abysmally short of the jobless rate. The figures of tertiary institutions graduates are high enough, but the numbers of high school and other lower educational graduates are even higher. The only answer is a drastic approach to the economy that disrupts the now staid outlook of gradualism. The Buhari administration’s approach of roads and railways are commendable, but we need greater pace so as to engender more jobs. The NCRMI training programme only tackles a small part of a big and expanding challenge. We must show a radical sense of solution. If the migrant crisis in Libya and the high seas looked outward, it may be even more turbulent if they are trapped here and decide to take an insurgent tack on their challenges and make life difficult for those among us who think life in Nigeria is peaceful enough for them. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo called them a time bomb. For sure, it is ticking.