LAGOS Water Corporation (LWC) Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Mr. Mumuni Badmus has urged the public to desist from wasting water because of its enormous cost of production. Badmus, who spoke at the weekend on the occasion of the World Water Day, with the theme : ‘’Leaving no one behind’’,  said it would be unfair  to waste the water the corporation produces. He said some customers had been given prepaid meters  to prevent water wastage, adding that soon, all customers would be metered. Badmus, an engineer, said: “Water is a human right, essential for the well-being and survival of all. The truth is that it has no alternative. Making sufficient water available to all has remained a major challenge around the world. This explains why the United Nations considers it appropriate to carry everyone along. “Today, many countries are going through water stress, and the world is jittery about the imminent scarcity that may descend on us in future. However, Nigeria is not sitting on the fence, as the country has made water stress a matter that requires urgent attention, as evidenced by the state of emergency declared on the nation’s water sector last year. This informs us that we must continue to double our efforts towards providing water in sufficient quantity.” He said LWC would continue to develop its strategies for increasing water production and supply. In recent years, he said, the corporation had developed a strategic business plan as a roadmap to take the water production capacity of the state to 492 million gallons per day by 2023, to close water demand gap significantly. “Therefore, in our bid to carry everyone along, we have widened our data base to supply water to more Lagosians. We have equally deployed water meters to properties across the state, so that people can pay for the exact amount of water they consume. “In tandem with this year’s theme, ‘Leaving no one behind’, it has been our tradition to involve the younger ones, particularly pupils and students from primary schools to tertiary institutions to be part of our advocacy initiative for water conservation. Not long ago, we brought in Lagos State children parliamentarians because we believe women and children are major stakeholders in the water sector,” the LWC boss added.