Nigerian youngster Ebere Christian Osinachi has moved to Brazil as he continues to put his fledging career on a sound footing, reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. While most of his teammates that annexed Nigeria’s record fifth  FIFA U-17 World Cup four years ago in Chile are sharpening their skills at European clubs, hard-fighting striker Ebere Osinachi soldiers on with his arrival at his second South American club, Esporte Clube Juventude of Brazil. Simply known as Juventude, the modest Campeonato Brasileiro Serie C side is based in Caxias do Suland, has a rich history having featured in the 2000 Copa Libertadores after being crowned winners of the Copa do Brasil in 1999. Reportedly founded in 1913 by some 35 youngsters who were mainly descendants of Italian immigrants, Juventude were also twice winners of the Copa FGF (Federacio Gaucha de Futbol) in 2011 and 2012 but they suffered relegation from Serie B at the end of last season. The 20-year-old Osinachi, who started his professional career at Argentine Primeria side Club Atletico Rosario Central, believes Juventude offers him a great opportunity to learn few more football tricks in the land of the Samba – after a botched deal to Belgian professional football side, Sint-Truidense Voetbalvereniging (STVV). “The football in Argentina is hard,” confessed Osinachi who was blooded at the famous ASJ Academy in Owerri. “But I was able to cope because of the kind of trainings I had when I was in the U-17 national team; you have to be very strong to play in Argentina and I think I did my best.” Osinachi’s striking talent has never been in doubt and he was the second highest goal scorer behind Victor Osimhen in the Golden Eaglets’ class of 2015 where he remarkably scored a total of 28 goals during his days with the national U-17 team. His scorecard included 20 goals in local friendly matches, five in international friendlies, including a brace against Egypt’s U-17 national team in Cairo. He scored another brace in the African U-17 qualifiers in the 5-0 mauling of Gabon in Calabar andcontributed a goal at the World Cup in that unforgettable 4-2 semi-final defeat of Mexico at the Estadio Municipal de Concepcion. “Though many people didn’t believe in us, we worked hard to qualify for the World Cup and being part of the team that won the World Cup in Chile would forever be in my memory,” remarked Osinachi who ironically nearly missed the 21-man squad for some extraneous reasons. “We ensured our qualification through hard work and I’m really grateful to have passed through the hands of CoachEmmanuel Amuneke.” Meanwhile, Osinachi is an out-and-out striker with little finesse  and can be  as ruthless as barbarous on his good day and demonstrated this when he struck a hat trick in the 9-0 massacre of Team Nigeria UK at the Abuja National Stadium on 29th July 2015. “I can’t forget our days  with the Golden Eaglets,” noted the son of a retired headmistress. “It is a great memory for me but we succeeded because of hard work and I’m very grateful to other members of the coaching crew and backroom staff that assisted us to win the World Cup in Chile.” After the conquest in Chile with the Amuneke-led Golden Eaglets, Osinachi went on trials to several clubs in Europe and was on the verge of putting pen to papers with STVV when spanner was put in his wheel of progress. “Of course, I wanted to play in Europe because that is where everybody was going and I was almost signing for STVV in Belgium but my manager stopped me from  doing so,” he said. “I was disappointed but I have faith in God that he would do the best for me.” Indeed some disappointments do have blessings; and Osinachi believes it was fate at work because joining Juventude is an opportunity for him to learn from the land that produced his boyhood hero. “I used to like Robinho of Brazil when I was growing up and coming to Brazil is a chance for me to add more skill to my game,” he explained. “My favourite player now is Cristiano Ronaldo and I pray I can do well here so that I can also have the opportunity of going to play in Europe in the nearest future.” Already, he has been offered a direct one-year contract into the main team of Juventude where he is expected to slug it out with home-grown talents in the shape of The Village; Brend; Caprini; Dalberto Paulo Sergio, amongst others. “Everything is coming well with me here in Brazil and I’m eagerly waiting for my debut,” he affirmed. “The training has been very good and I’m coping well; I’m with the main team and I would try my best. “I’m just waiting for some papers to be sorted and once this is done, I can’t wait to play for this great club that has history and I pray I would be able to make my mark here. “The football here is great and the people at the club have been  very nice to me. The club is good with a lot of great players and I’m doing well. “I don’t have any fear at all about my ability and I would also attribute this to the fact that I had good preparation at the national team under coach Amuneke. “It’s now left for me to show what I can do with Juventude,” he remarked.