Few weeks back, Chief Joseph Akpieyi turned 80 and the celebration has not stopped. That’s because at 80, Chief Akpieyi has too many people to celebrate him. He has children and grandchildren and goodwill that has been built over the years in the corporate world and outside it. In the 80s, Chief Akpieyi was a Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Petroleum Refining Company (now Port Harcourt Refinery Company) and was also the CEO of Warri Refining and Petrochemicals Company Limited. Now at 80, he is still in boardrooms, notable among them being Arco Group of companies where he is the Chairman. In this interview with PAUL UKPABIO, he tells us his story. HOW does it feel to be 80? I am grateful to God for preserving me to 80 in good health.  I feel fulfilled. When did you turn 80 and how did you celebrate it? I turned 80 on February 28, 2019.  My family and I went to the 06:30 am Mass to thank God for His manifold blessings upon my life; thereafter, we received family members and some friends at my residence. The formal celebration will take place in early April by the grace of God. How did your early background influence the person that you are today? I grew up in a much disciplined environment both at home and in Government College Ughelli (GCU). Certain values like honesty, integrity, striving for perfection, hard work as secret of success, punctuality, humility, kindness to family members and neighbours, standing up for your right, protection and preservation of family name in all circumstances, respect for the rule of law and respect for seniors, wife and friends were all inculcated in me at home and GCU. These values have been the anchor and beacons of my life that have upheld me to being the person that I am today. You attended Government College Ughelli, what prompted your option? Government College Ughelli was the secondary school of first choice in our days; it had excellent infrastructure, devoted expatriate and Nigerian graduate teachers, bumper student welfare schemes and it diligently pursued the policies of ‘healthy mind in a healthy body.’ My elder brother, William, who was my role model, preceded me to GCU and he told me numerous stories of how wonderful the college was. So those were the things that made me resolve to work really hard to gain admission into the famous college. When you decided to study Chemical Engineering, were you targeting the oil industry? Truthfully, there was no nexus between the study of Chemical Engineering and working in the oil industry. No Nigerian universities were offering Chemical Engineering in 1962, which was why I first obtained a degree in Chemistry from the University of Ibadan, but was sent on an in-service training by my employers, the Petroleum Division of the Ministry of Mines and Power, to study Chemical Engineering in the University of Surrey in the United Kingdom. At what point did marriage come in? The marriage idea came in after three years of graduating from the university, securing a decent job in the public service of the federation and being sent abroad on an in-service training, which meant that my salary was still being paid during the period of the in-service training. I got married when I was 29 years old. Was it love at first sight? Yes, it was indeed! I had gone with my elder brother, William, to visit his classmate and friend, Mr Joseph Oroye, who was on vacation from Igbobi College, Lagos.  Mr. Oroye had arranged a luncheon for the lady of his dreams, Janet Otuedon, my cousin, at his father’s sprawling residence on Macpherson Road, when I sighted Joseph’s sister, Mabel, a slim, very beautiful lady. On first sight, I blurted out, “you will be my wife in the future.” How prophetic!! At 80, are you fulfilled? Yes, I feel quite fulfilled: I was educated at the prestigious GCU, premier University of Ibadan and the University of Surrey Guildford, U.K. I am an alumnus of Columbia University Graduate School of Business, New York, USA. I served as the CEO of four key NNPC subsidiaries. I retired voluntarily after 26 years of meritorious service. I have been married to my childhood love for 50 years plus and we are blessed with six lovely children who have in turn given us 14 grandchildren. At 80, I do not suffer from the infirmities of old age and my faculties are still very much intact. In retirement, I have been gainfully engaged as: the Executive Chairman of TRITHEL International Consulting that has built an impressive client base across corporate Nigeria in the diverse fields of Quality and Environment Management Systems and Services, Human Capacity Building and Executive Search and Selection. I am the Co – Founder and Chairman of Air Separation Nigeria Limited, a wholly indigenous company, which manufactures industrial and medical gases for industries and health care institutions, and now has incredible reach into 30 states of the Nigerian federation, employing many Nigerians. President Olusegun Obasanjo then, appointed me  the Chairman of the Interim Technical Board of Port-Harcourt Refinery on May 31, 2004 to prepare the refinery for privatisation. I have been the Chairman of Arco Group Plc family, a leading player in the oil and gas services business to multinational companies since 2008. I once served as the chairman of another reputable company, SOWSCO Well Services Nigeria Limited, that is into well cementation, well head maintenance and repairs, brine filtration, pipeline and industrial cleaning services. I was the National President of the Nigerian Society of Chemical Engineers from 1999 to 2000. My period witnessed the transformation of the society to position it to meet the challenges of the new millennium and successfully integrated the society into the Nigerian Society of Engineers. I was the Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Nigerian Society of Chemical Engineers’ Foundation. I have given back to my Alma Materby serving it as president in two branches and as its President – General from 2011 – 2015. I definitely feel fulfilled. I give God all the glory. Do you miss the public service after you left? I deliberately decided to retire voluntarily from the public service. Before doing that, I had weighed life in the service and life after service. I knew that there would be a time that every public servant must leave the service and face the future. So, I decided not to let the fear of the unknown deter me from leaving the service ahead of the retirement age. So, I can say I did not have any reason to begin to dwell on whether or not I would miss the public service. Life must continue. People don’t retire voluntarily in such lucrative sectors as the oil and gas industry. Why did you leave? I agree that it is not usual for people in the oil and gas industry to retire voluntarily in such a lucrative sector unless pushed to do so. As I had stated earlier, I think what is responsible for that situation is the fear of the unknown. In the Military Governments’ culture of “retirement with immediate effect,” it was evident that one could be retired arbitrarily with no notice for drummed up charges of inefficiency, lack of integrity, lack of productivity and so on. The staff would have to face the unknown with the stain of the cooked up reasons for the sudden retirement. I thought it was by far better to face the unknown with one’s integrity intact. Hence, I opted to retire voluntarily. If I had allowed myself to be retired suddenly, the undertones beneath the retirement would have crushed my spirit and probably hastened my demise. You retired early but went back to work again, so when will you retire finally? I will do that now that I have attained 80 years in good health. How are you spending the latter part of your life? You mean how I intend to spend the remaining part of my life after 80? Well, I will now really retire from active consultancy works but not from chairmanship that demands my service only once a quarter. I shall plan more holidays internally and abroad to the extent possible. I shall also spend more time with my grandchildren. Thank God we have many internet communication facilities that make contacts so easy. In your youthful days, were you a lady’s man? No, I was not. In fact, GCU taught me to be decent in relationships with the female sex. My mother also preached the need for me not to ruin the lives of young females. I guess that I grew up avoiding the ladies. What is the secret of your longevity? I think it is genetic inheritance. My dad passed to the great beyond at 103 and my mother at 92. Are you on special diet or sports or exercise? I am not on special diet, although my wife ensures that I always have balanced meals. I exercise by walking once a week in our estate, doing exercise on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in my bathroom. What makes you still stylish and fashionable at 80 and what kind of clothes appeal to you to wear these days? Thank you for your generous comments. I wear clothes that I am comfortable in and project the positive image of someone who is not oblivious of his environment. Do you take time off for holidays? Yes I do. Throughout my 26 years career in the public service, I always made sure that I went on vacation. I never accumulated any leave because I was very mindful of the principle of balanced self-renewal and the fact that no one is indispensable.