Senate presidential aspirant Ahmed Lawan yesterday kicked off his campaign for the number three position in Lagos, urging senators-elect to endorse him at the in-house poll. He unfolded his plans for the Ninth Senate, saying that his campaign slogan is: ‘A Senate and National Assembly that works for Nigeria.’ The Senate Leader said the next Senate should assist the country by helping President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve his agenda in the areas of security, economy, job creation and anti-corruption battle. Lawan, who spoke with reporters in Lagos, said while he is conversant with the doctrine of the separation of powers, it should not translate into an unnecessary rift that will cripple harmonious working relations among the organs of government to the detriment of the country. The journey of the ‘Lawan Campaign Organisation’ to Lagos was delayed as the aircraft developed fault in Abuja, necessitating a change of aircraft. The Senate Leader was accompanied to the Lagos news conference by his campaign manager, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North), Senator Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos Central), Senator Solomon Adeola (Lagos West), former Senate Leader Teslim Folarin, Senators-elect Ifeanyi Ubah (Anambra), Bayo Osinowo (Lagos East), Opeyemi Bamidele (Ekiti Central), Prince Dayo Adeyeye (Ekiti South), Lekan Mustapha, Adeleke Oriolowo and Senator Aliemekena (Edo North). Lawan, who is from Yobe State in the Northeast, showed interest in the position in 2015. For now, other aspirants  from the region are Senator Danjuma Goje and Senator Ali Ndume. Senator Abdullahi, the chairman of Lawan Campaign Organisation, described the Senate Leader as a household name in Nigeria, adding that he is eminently qualified for the position. Describing Lawan’s entry into the race as a new beginning for the Senate, he also hailed Senator Oluremi Tinubu for “the partnership for the progressive agenda”. Abdullahi said: “We want to have a Senate that will work with Nigerian people. That is our agenda. Senator Ahmed Lawan is known throughout Nigeria. We think Nigeria deserves Lawan as Senate President.” Lawan, who described himself as a progressive, observed that the next Senate will be made up of seasoned professionals, technocrats and statesmen, adding that “the experience we have garnered will help us to assist the country through legislation”. Justifying his fitness for the role, he said: “I have been in the National Assembly for almost 20 years. I have served in the House of Representatives for eight years and the Senate for 12 years, I thank God and my people for renewing my mandate. “I am a progressive. I was an APP and later, ANPP House of Representatives member and I am now in the APC. I believe in the progressive politics, in ensuring that ordinary people – the masses – get support and opportunities to actualise their potentials and dreams. We should support entrepreneurship and business to grow and thrive for employment to boom.” Reiterating his campaign slogan: ‘A Senate and a National Assembly that works for Nigeria,’ he said senators should work in a united manner for Nigerians, irrespective of their different political platforms. He added: “We need a National Assembly that will look at Nigeria as its constituency. We want a Senate and a National Assembly that will maintain cordiality, synergy and cooperation with other arms of government.” Lawan said the welfare of Nigerians should not be compromised, stressing that jobs and wealth should not be concentrated in a few hands. He stressed: “You can’t sleep with two eyes closed, if the wealth does not go round, if there is poverty, if the children of the poor cannot go to school.” Lawan, who emphasised his belief in the concept of separation of powers as guaranteed by the constitution, said the doctrine does not connote an infinite independence, but inter-dependence of the three arms. He said the relationship among the three organs should be characterised by cooperation, collaboration, partnership and synergy. Lawan stressed: “We may disagree. Our perspective may differ. We don’t go to the market square to settle our differences. We should be able to meet and discuss issues and make compromise in the national interest. That is the way to grow democracy. We may disagree, but the disagreement should not escalate.”