THE Ogun State All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday appraised the March 9 governorship elections in the state and declared that the outcome was a true reflection of the will of the people. The party  said it was “heart-warming, that despite the harassment, intimidation and sponsored violence from known quarters”, Ogun people spoke with their votes on who they preferred to govern them for the next four years. In a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Tunde Oladunjoye, in Abeokuta,  the party observed that the election recorded over 158,000 voters more than the National Assembly  elections. He described it as a demonstration that Ogun people were really determined to choose who  becomes their governor. The statement reads: “It is beyond reasonable doubt that our candidate, Prince Dapo Abiodun, won fair and square as confirmed by all other candidates in the governorship election, except the sore loser and his paymaster. “Our people showed more concern in the  governorship election. While the total votes for the Senate were 549, 909, the  House of Representatives were 552, 223, and Presidential elections had 605, 738 voters;  a total of 708, 807 voters participated in the governorship elections.” It added: “Furthermore, never in the annals of governorship elections in Ogun State, had the winner received such outpouring of  congratulatory messages, encouragement, promised support and visitations by his co-contestants. Prince Buruji Kashamu, Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, Otunba Rotimi Paseda, Chief Tope Tokoya, Mr. Adewale Omoniyi, and about other 10 political parties and candidates have either sent goodwill messages or visited the winner or  placed congratulatory adverts in the newspapers, in a commendable demonstration of good spirit of sportsmanship. “Having submitted itself to the authority of Election Petition Tribunal, we urged the Allied Peoples’ Movement (APM) to stop its campaign of calumny against our candidate, and its seeming patronage of the tribunal with its amateur simulation in the media. We see this as deliberate and desperate campaign after elections. APM should allow the law to take  its course.” The party added that over 90 per cent of those arrested on election day by security and anti-corruption agencies for perpetrating election-related crimes on March 9, 2019  in Ogun State were well-known agents of the APM and top government officials in the outgoing regime. “We, therefore, call on the relevant agencies to do the needful going forward. The APM is actually crying for being unable to execute its rigging plans. “The APM, with a sitting governor as  its chief promoter and  despite the enormous state resources deployed and poured into the process,  which could not muster a convincing win in one-third of the 20 local government areas in Ogun State, should bury its head in shame and stop campaigning after elections. “If the governorship election in Ogun State is to be held several times again, the margin for our candidate, Prince Dapo Abiodun, can only increase,” the APC said.