Ogun State Governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun and his deputy Noimot Oyedele-Salako of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday received their Certificates of Return (CoR) from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The CoR was presented by INEC Commissioner in charge of Ogun, Ondo and Lagos Dr. Adekunle Ogunmola at the commission’s state headquarters in Magbon, off IBB Boulevard, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, the state capital. Twenty-six elected members of the state House of Assembly – comprising 15 All Progressives Congress(APC) including the current Deputy Speaker, Kunle Oluomo (APC, Ifo 1), seven from the Allied People’s Movement (APM), three members of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) and a member of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) – also collect their CoRs. Adedapo Abiodun pledged to be fair-minded in his approach to governance. He expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, National leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, former Governor Olusegun Osoba and the Ogun electorate for their support that ensured his victory at the poll. He noted that the victory was for the good people of Ogun State, pledging that he would not betray the trust and confidence reposed in him as expressed with their votes. Abiodun said: “Victory at the poll is neither that of our great party, All Progressives Congress (APC), nor mine alone. It is indeed the victory for all the good people of Ogun State who, despite the challenges that could have dampened their spirit and prevented them from exercising their civic duties, defied the odds and came out in their large numbers and laid the foundation for this ceremony. “You are the real heroes and heroines of this success and democracy. You are the ultimate winners! “It is gratifying to note that, almost all my major co-contestants have demonstrated spirit of sportsmanship, congratulated us and even responded to our hands of fellowship. “I salute your character, which confirms that your motivation is beyond aspiration for office or personal interests. Our hands of fellowship remain wide open to all.” Ogun State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Prof. Abdulganiyu Raji advised Abiodun to note that election has come and gone with the outcome determined, and so, should run an all-inclusive government that would deliver quality governance to the people.   