Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has assured that sports facilities in the state are being remodelled to accommodate games for the 2020 National Sports Festival, to ensure smooth hosting of the sporting event. Obaseki disclosed this during a courtesy visit by the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung, at Government House in Benin City, Edo State. He explained that adjustments have been made on all the sporting facilities being built by the state government, to ensure the facilities are fit for hosting of the National Sports Festival in 2020. He said that the state government is prepared to justify the confidence reposed in the government in granting her the hosting right for the 2020 National Sports Festival, noting that his administration is working to ensure that Edo State sets a standard for hosting the games. Obaseki explained that he has secured assurances from contractors that some of the facilities to be used for the games will be test-run by October or November this year. “We will do everything to justify the confidence reposed in us as a state. We have begun to revamp all our sporting facilities in the state,” the governor said. According to him, security and other logistics were being put in place ahead of the games to ensure that participants have a memorable stay. “Edo is the home of culture and we have so much to show and display to the world. This is the home of sports in the country. As a state, we understand our role in the history of sports in Nigeria. Some of our leaders contributed to establishing the National Sports Festival to promote nation-building,” he added. Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Hon. Dalung, urged the state government to pay more attention to developing traditional sports, noting “The role of traditional sports is amazing. We encourage and challenge Edo people to present new sporting activities. We will be interested in developing such sports, it will go a long way to enhance national unity.” The minister commended the Obaseki-led administration for the ongoing massive development of sporting facilities in the state in preparation for the 2020 National Sports Festival. 