It was slated to be a masterclass on wood and percussion instruments. The venue was the rooftop of The Lekki Coliseum, Lekki, Lagos, and by 9am, last Thursday, a sprinkling of musicians from the Nigeria Trumpet Group and the Eko Brass Band were seated on the rooftop, with their boxes of horns. Soon, soldiers from the United States Naval Forces Europe started filing in, wearing fatigues, shiny black boots and carrying their different cases. Smiling, exchanging pleasantries, they quickly settled to unboxing their shiny instruments. Minutes later, their sound check produced a cacophony of sounds as instruments such as horn, tuba, trombone, trumpet, saxophone, flute and clarinet came alive. The drums and cymbals rested meanwhile. As sound check progressed, more artistes arrived and some of the soldiers started mixing with attendees, exchanging tips and tricks of their trade. Soon enough, it was show time. The soldiers, standing in uniform rows and columns, each with their instrument, were called to attention by the conductor leading the band, Lt. Matthew Anderson, Assistant Director of US Navy Forces Europe Band. With signals from him, the band started playing a marching song, The Black Horse Troop, written by ‘American March King’, John Philip Sousa, in 1924. Anderson then explained how the same song can be played in different ways, with the band doing exactly that afterwards. And after some other band songs, it was time for Topside Band, a seven-man ensemble, to show their stuff. Relaxing the traditional band music regime, Topside delved into popular music. And as they dished tunes like Havana and Waka Waka, the 2010 world cup theme song by Shakira, the hall became lit as students of the University of Lagos displayed their energy by clapping, singing and dancing along, flashing camera light from their mobile phones in appreciation. The band then played a B-Flat session and invited interested participants to join in the performance. Turn by turn, musicians from the Eko Brass Band led by Pascal Menu and the Nigeria Trumpet Group led by Uche Akobundu, performed to the admiration of the audience who joined in the fun by dancing. From then on, attendees danced as the performers thrilled with their tunes. According to Anderson, the masterclass also serves to cement ties with others through music. “We’re coming down as the US Navy Band to bring music and share that musical message, really just to share camaraderie,” he said. “Music is an easy way to do that. As you can see, as soon as we started playing, the crowd started interacting, smiles on faces and we’re able to communicate that way. So, even from such different backgrounds at times, it’s very easy to bridge that gap, come down, and play music. For us representing the United States military, sharing cultures is such a special thing for us. So, this is an opportunity for us to do that that we’re very excited about.” Asked to give his impression about Nigerian music, Anderson said, “I think it’s wonderful. It’s very good. Again, the background and history that it’s built on is a wonderful history that we share and try to emulate on a day to day basis as musicians.” Appreciating the band, Dr. Seyi Kenny, who led the University of Lagos’ students to the event said that the experience would enrich his students musically, especially as relating to band music. “I expect them to gain a lot of things,” he said. “Now, that we have US Navy Band performing in their presence, they would be able to gain a lot of things, the elements or performance, their motifs that they use. And then, they look at the modern style of playing Brass Band because they should not be too traditional to say, going by history what an Army Band or Navy Band should be playing. Those are probably for march-past or something. But this time around, they play entertainment music. They can play popular tunes and you will see the way they would interpret them with the instrument.” Before last Thursday’s event, Topside had performed at different places, including the University of Lagos, at Sought After Orphanage, and on Beat FM. They visited Nigeria to support the 2019 Obangame Express, an annual multinational maritime exercise on the Gulf of Guinea.