The Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC ) on Friday presented Certificates of Return to Gombe State Governor-elect, Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya, his deputy, Mr Manassah Jatau and the 24 elected members of the State House of Assembly. Alhaji Baba Arfo, the INEC National Commissioner Supervising Bauchi, Gombe and Yobe States who presented the certificates to the elected officials in Gombe, congratulated them. Arfo said the outcome of the elections in the states under his supervision had shown that democracy had developed, adding that every vote counted during the elections. He commended the security personnel, Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), National Orientation Agency (NOA) and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) for partnering with INEC for the success of the elections and all the international partners and observers for their technical supports. “I congratulate the elected officials. The presentation today is a constitutional requirement. “ The outcome of the elections has shown that democracy is developing and every vote now count. This is due to the high level of awareness by all stakeholders and we appreciate that,” he said. Arfo, while reassuring the commitment of the commission to free and fair elections in the future, requested the elected officials to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people by developing the state. Earlier, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Alh. Umar Ibrahim, thanked all the stakeholders for the success of the elections and the people for conducting themselves peacefully during the elections. Ibrahim thanked the Emir of Gombe, Alhaji Abubakar Shehu-Abubakar III, who he said, personally “recorded sound bites to encourage electorate to come out to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs)”. The governor-elect thanked the people of the state for conducting themselves peacefully throughout the elections, adding that his election was a product of true democracy. Yahaya extended his hands of fellowship to all who contested and conceded defeat, adding that: “We have no other place, but Gombe and the aim of contesting is to take Gombe to the next level.” He sought the understanding of all citizens of the state to develop and make it a shining example in the North-east sub-region. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that certificates of return were given to 22 elected members who were present at the venue out of the 24 elected members scheduled for the presentation.