No fewer than 10 bodies have been recovered and about 30 houses confirmed burnt in another attack by unknown gunmen on Nandu Gbok community in Sanga Government Area of Kaduna State on Saturday. But, Kaduna State Government while confirming the attack said nine citizens were killed by criminal elements who attacked the village in the early hour of Saturday. A government signed by Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s media aide, Samuel Aruwan condemned the killings. It read that, Governor Nasir El-Rufai has commiserated with the survivors and the families of the victims after being briefed by the security agencies. “The Kaduna State Government has been briefed by the security agencies on the killing of nine persons by criminal elements who attacked Nandu village in Sanga LGA in the early hours of today. “The security agencies have so far recovered nine corpses, including children. The attackers also burnt several houses in the village. The government condemns this attack on the live and security of citizens and appeals to our communities to resist those who do not want peace. “The governor, on behalf of the government and people of Kaduna State, commiserates with the families of the victims and prays for the repose of their souls. “Government, security agencies, traditional and religious institutions will continue to work towards sustainable peace. In this moment of grief, we must come together todefeat the machinations of those who have no notion of respect for the lives of others. “Violence has left an unacceptable toll of death and injury, loss of livelihoods, pain and fear. We must overcome this by respecting our common humanity, settling differences peacefully and promptly reporting threats and suspicions to the appropriate authorities. Evil will never triumph over our common humanity. “Security agencies have been deployed in the area, and the State Emergency Management Agency has been directed to immediately provide relief materials to the affected community.” Meanwhile, House of Representatives member representing Jema’a/Sanga constitutency, Hon Shehu Nicholas Garba, in a statement said the Chairman of the Council and other Stakeholders are assessing and trying to deal with the unfortunate situation. He said, ‘the renewed and ferocious attacks on communities in Southern Kaduna’ calls for the urgent attention of the nation and the international community. According to him, “We woke up this morning to the sad news of an attack by gunmen on Nandu Gbok, a Community in Sanga LGA of Kaduna State. At the time of this statement, about 10 bodies have been recovered and about 30 houses confirmed burnt down.” “Our Communities are helpless and are pleading that all persons of conscience should speak out.” He said. The lawmaker stressed that, “the latest attack is coming while we are mourning and trying to deal with the devastating massacre wrought on the Adara People has, once again, brought to the fore the plight of the indigenous people of Southern Kaduna. “My condolence to the Families of the Victims and the People of Sanga LGA . I am appealing to our Communities to remain calm and not to contemplate any reprisal actions  Meanwhile,I am appealing to the Security Agencies in our State to reinforce their presence in Sanga especially in the affected Community with the aim of  stopping further attack and fishing out the Perpetrators of this heinous crime. “I am also appealing to Sanga Local Government Council and the State Government for immediate  provision of Relief Materials to the displaced Victims.” He said. 