Ebonyi state governor, David Umahi is set to decamp to the All Progressives Congress (APC), latest May 29th. The candidate of the APC, Senator Sonni Ogbuoji disclosed this in Enugu while rejecting the just concluded governorship election in which Umahi who ran on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was declared the winner. In his words: “the information we have now is that while the governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, had acted as a mole in PDP all along, he has started making moves to ditch PDP and cross over to the APC on or before May 29. We are aware that the votes that enthroned Umahi were procured with the connivance of the system, a reason there are gloomy faces all over the state after the announcement of the claimed victory.” The senator who is representing Ebonyi South in the upper chamber told reporters that having known the antecedents of the governor, they would not accept him in APC. He also blamed the failure of the party in the election on the internal wrangling among the members. “What rather happened as all party insiders know is that the APC in Ebonyi worked so much against itself. By this allusion, I don’t indict all the members or leadership, I am actually taking about the moles among us that double dealt and made things impossible for us while they cloaked like part of us.” Ogbuoji commended those party members who worked assiduously for the party. He said: “With this, I also commend and doff my hat for those committed members and leaders of our party, APC that worked assiduously to ensure we made it big and good. “I want to assure you that even with the gang-up, I and the party gave a good account of the outing and made the ruling party understand that Ebonyi people can’t be taken for a ride. “I therefore call for consolidation and stronger bond in the party, and that none – including the candidates should despair in the face of the development of this rape of democracy. “Consolidating a new system takes tenacity and resolute steady effort to achieve and our great party should not relent in giving our dear state the opposition and checks we need in order to stop gangster politicians riding roughshod over our future. “I am aware also of those among us that desired the change we targeted to bring, seemingly worked for it but in the actual sense worked in contrary direction and deliberately frustrated the change they claimed to belong to.”