Nigeria’s leading low cholesterol milk brand, Three Crowns milk has commenced the 2019 Three Crowns Milk 30 days Fitness Challenge. This is its sixth edition and it was conceived to encourage every Nigerian, especially mothers to live a healthy lifestyle by cultivating healthy habits. The fitness initiative runs twice a year and it is a 30-day long fitness programme designed to drive home the importance of keeping fit and healthy eating habits especially for Nigerian moms so that they can have a good heart to show love to their families. Three Crowns Milk 30 days Fitness Challenge is a digital led campaign but supported on Radio and direct coaching on whatsapp with fitness instructors for 30days. It combines daily exciting workout routines posted on the brand’s social media pages (Instagram, Facebook and twitter) for 30days. It also incorporates physical cardio-dance sessions on Saturdays that is streamed online for others to participate. It’s a fact that people’s threshold to exercises fitness differ, so this year Three Crowns has created three different levels with a tailored approach to help participants achieve their fitness goals. The fitness levels are Pro, Newbie and Wannabe. Participants in Every level will be coached differently by the fitness instructors. Those interested have been invited to register at Pro:http://bit.ly/tcfpro1, Newbie:http://bit.ly/tcfnew1, Wannabe:http://bit.ly/tcfwan1, depending on which level they prefer to join. Participants are expected to make a demo video of themselves doing the same routine the showcased daily by the brand, repost it on their social media handles and tag @3crownsmilk with the hashtag #TC30DaysFitnessChallenge and their level e.g. repost demo video using ‘’@3crownsmilk, #TC30DaysFitnessChallenge, Newbie’’. Similarly, they can share their videos directly on the WhatsApp coaching groups. Within the duration of the activity, consumers will be encouraged to workout with whatever household material is available to them like buckets, kegs, tyres or do simple routines that do not require expertise supervision to accomplish. More importantly Three Crowns desires that every Nigerian dances and have fun which is synonymous to working out. Explaining the details of the campaign, Senior Brand Manager, Three Crowns, Mrs. Omolara Banjoko, explained that Three Crowns acknowledges the pivotal place of mothers in the families and the larger society. She said that is why Three Crowns has made the care for mothers a top priority as we acknowledge them as the ‘’Heartbeat of the home’’ According to her “In caring for the mothers we ultimately care for everyone in the society,” she said. This campaign aims to consolidate what the brand stands for to keep mums healthy so that they have a good heart to take to their families” Three Crowns milk is a brand of FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria PLC – Nigeria’s foremost dairy company and an affiliate of Royal FrieslandCampina in The Netherlands, one of the largest dairy cooperatives in the world.