LAGOS State Governor-elect Babajide Sanwo-Olu deserves his victory at the polls, grand patron of Buhari/Osinbajo Mandate Group in Lagos, Chief Lanre Razak, has said. He congratulated him and attributed the landslide victory to the goodwill All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu enjoyed among Lagosians. Razak said the triumph of the APC governorship candidate over his opponent in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Jimmy Agbaje, and the election of 40 lawmakers from the APC into the House of Assembly was the best way the electorate could appreciate Asiwaju Tinubu for his contributions to the socio-economic development of Lagos State. He said in a statement in Epe that people should expect good governance and more dividends of democracy from the incoming governor, considering his pedigree as a former private sector guru and a participant in the Lagos State public service for years. He assured Lagosians that Sanwo-Olu would prioritise the interest of the ordinary people. Razak, ex-commissioner for Public Transportation in Lagos, said: “I want to assure Lagosians that there will be more socio-economic transformation during Sanwo-Olu’s tenure as governor. The people of Lagos State as well as other Nigerians will be happy that they have made the right choice in electing him. “But let me make this strong appeal to them that all they need do is cooperate with the incoming governor by paying their rates and taxes as and when due and watch Lagos grow in leaps and bounds in infrastructural development and human capital like never before. Everybody will be happy for it. “He has the fear of God and will always put the interest of ordinary Lagosians first in the development of the state. He believes God gives power through the people, who will be his first priority in office because good governance is about the people.” Razak, the Balogun General of Epe, attributed Sanwo-Olu’s overwhelming acceptance and support by Lagosians to Asiwaju Tinubu’s sterling performance while in office and subsequently the continued trust and confidence Lagosians have in his leadership. Tinubu’s leadership traits and administrative style while in office as governor for eight years, he said, remained second to none and a golden era of the state, adding that serving and incoming governors across the states should draw from his fountain of wisdom and wealth of experience.