Dubbed Nigeria’s Jessica Ennis for her tenacity as a heptathlete , Francis Oluwakemi speaks on her love and challenge in the multi-track and field events in an encounter with OLUBUNMI OMOOGUN. THOUGH it is succinctly stated that the race is not for the swift, Nigeria heptathlon queen Francis Oluwakemi says the sport  that consists of seven track and field events  is not cut out for the faint hearted. To compete in heptathlon, you must be good at almost everything, notably in 100m hurdles, high jump, shot put, 200m sprint, long jump, javelin throw and the 800m run; Francis admitted it’s survival of the fittest as far as the sport is concerned. The heptathlete, who is fondly dubbed Nigeria’s Jessica Ennis (the retired British track and field athlete and heptathlon 2012 Olympic champion), has shown her tenacity of purpose since she won gold medal at the National Sports Festival KADA Games 2009 and she is relishing the prospect of doing more. “To be a great heptathlete, you need to rest, recover, have a good diet,” volunteered  the 26-year-old Francis, a member of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). “I rest a lot, eat a lot of fruits and drink a lot of water; I’m also happy with my work outside sport because the NSCDC supports me and they are giving me all the cooperation I need in order to bring more glory to our country.” Francis has already competed for Nigeria at the African Championships in Port Novo; All African Games in Brazzaville, as well as the African U-20 Championship in Gaborone. “As a heptathlon athlete, one needs to be strong, focused and consistent, and that is why people are running away from heptathlon because it is a seven-event sport that stretches for two days. “But it’s fun for me because if you miss out in one, you can make it up in the other. I always go to other events to challenge others because the more you challenge people the stronger you become.” Francis also noted that her long jump is plus six metres, 100m and 200m are improving at 13.42secs and 24.10secs respectively and her 800m is super good and high jump is 165m. Javelin is 40.38m, shot put is 11m. “I’m improving in all of my events and I will keep improving,” she said. “I should be playing with 6,100points tops. At the last Sports Festival, I was sick but I still did well and I know with more training, I will get there.” Meanwhile, Francis has picked Nigeria golden girl Blessing Okagbare-Ighoteguonor as her role model, adding that the Olympic and World Championships medallist in the 200 metres and long jump has been offering her useful tips. “I love Blessing Okagbare because of her physique,” she explained. “I really cherish her because Blessing is strong and fit especially when she’s running; and she is always ready to offer advice when you call her. “She is calm when she is running; she doesn’t struggle at all. “She runs to win with ease and I’m beginning to train myself to the level, because I want to increase my speed.” Francis was also quick to give credit to God and her family who have been there through the ups and downs. “My family has been very supportive. I started this sport while I was in primary school during the school inter-house sports. “My mum has been very supportive from primary to secondary school. “Since I lost my dad on May 4, 2005, it has been my mum doing almost everything; providing food, paying the house rent and paying school fees. “I even had to sell things during my holidays in order to support the house. “While I was in school, I didn’t have any sport wares but my mum would go to the local market to buy second hand stuff for me. “I really thank God because every prophecy she made about my life has come to pass because he told me I would be wearing the green-and-white colours of Nigeria. “But I never knew my career will reach this height to the extent of travelling for competitions.  My “Mum has been so supportive and I can’t love her less. I thank God that she’s alive today and I am the one looking after her now.” Yet Francis wants corporate Nigeria to come to the aid of athletes, adding that their support would go a long way in development and growth of sports. She said: “I have not gotten any support from any corporate body; I have never had any support from any of them. “I’m not happy when I see energy drink companies for instance using faces of people who are not in the field of sports as their brand image on billboards and advertisement. “They need to come to athletes like us because we are in the field and that will boost their products. “I feel very bad to see people that are not in any form of sport engagement being used to pose on billboards like regular sportsmen.”