•“Yorubaland beyond 2019:  Let’s set forth at DAWN”, the theme of an Ibadan conference, put South West integration back on the front-burner The Development Agenda of Western Nigeria (DAWN), on March 19, held a stakeholders talk, on  the future of the South West political bloc, with regional integration as a central plank.  At that forum, Seye Oyeleye, DAWN director-general, tasked the three newly elected governors in the region (Lagos, Ogun and Oyo) to make regional their policy hub, so that the Yoruba region of Nigeria could maximally benefit from a synergy of developmental policies. Though the pitch was basically to the newly elected governors, it is trite to state that it applies no less to the other three (Ondo, Ekiti and Osun), whose governors are not due for re-election till, at the earliest, 2021.  It is assumed – and strongly so – that these incumbents would continue to be receptive to the idea. “Some benefits of such integration include collective opportunities as a bloc, attaining self-sustenance and enhancing internally generated revenue,” Mr. Oyeleye said, “through the harmonization of taxes and levies within the region.”  Challenging the governors, he called on them all to key their respective policies towards these benefits.  Sound counsel! This DAWN reminder is timely and should be lauded by all.  The idea of South West integration is not new.  Indeed, DAWN, since its inception, has chalked up credit for initiating policies, programmes and protocols to make South West integration a reality.  That dream inspired DAWN’s formation.  It is heart-warming, therefore, that DAWN is delivering on the mandate for which it was set up. Yet, there are still many mountains to climb.  Aside from DAWN mastering the policy lane, The Nation as a newspaper, has also done some work in advocacy and active mobilization, organizing a chain of South West integration summits, hosted by Oyo, Osun and Ekiti states, in that order, since the first of such summits in Ibadan, in 2012.  For these successful summits, special kudos to host governors, Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo, 2012), Rauf Aregbesola (Osun, 2013) and Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti, 2014). Since then, however, the political landscape has changed – and still changing.  Governor Ajimobi is bowing out after two terms.  Governor Aregbesola left office in 2018 (also after two terms), while Governor Fayemi is back in office, after losing power in 2014, after only one term.  But even during this 2012-2014 period, zest for the project varied among the six governors, from the zestful to the tepid.  Yet, the regional integration is one project every governor and every state government must take very, very seriously. That is what makes this DAWN reminder all the more appropriate.  Even with the change of guards in South West state houses, there should not be any changes in core developmental interests.  There is more to gain from that common purpose.  On this score, the incumbent governors in Ondo, Ekiti and Osun should go the extra mile to draw the in-coming governors into the DAWN path.  Governor Fayemi has a special role to play, in showing leadership on this score.  He is the only survivor, aside from exiting Ajimobi, among the original set of governors that started implementing the DAWN protocol. No less crucial to this plan is in-coming Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde.  That he belongs to another party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should not make any difference.  DAWN and integration are about the core interest of Western Nigeria, which trumps whatever partisan colours that domicile in the different State Houses.  But Makinde’s fellow governors should make it easy for him.  DAWN itself must not rest in its advocacy, policy-brewing and implementation role. Regional integration is key to every of Nigeria’s six geo-political zones.  In the absence of a consensus over formal restructuring, regional integration offers a vibrant and health way in socio-economic self-help.  It could well be the prompter for a future re-federalized polity; after the component parts of Nigeria themselves had tasted of its good.