In commemoration of the 2019 International Day of Women and Girls in Science themed ‘Investment in Women in Science for Inclusive Green Growth’, Oando Plc led by a delegation of its female engineers mentored female pupils in one of the Oando Foundation adopted primary schools, Arch Bishop Taylor Primary School, Victoria Island, on the role and importance of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in the world, why they are passionate about STEM and proud to have built successful careers in it. The aim of the programme was to provide a platform for the female engineers to engage female pupils towards considering and embracing STEM subjects for a future career in STEM by sharing real life and relatable stories that would inspire the young girls. In order to achieve full and equal access to, and participation in science for women and girls, and to further achieve gender equality and female empowerment, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution declaring 11 February of every year as the International Day of Women and Girls in Science.  According to the United Nations (UN) “a significant gender gap has persisted throughout the years at all levels of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines all over the world. Even though women have made tremendous progress towards increasing their participation in higher education, they are still under represented in these fields.” Globally, less than 30 per cent of researchers worldwide are women.  According to UNESCO data (2014 – 2016), only around 30 per cent of all female students select STEM-related fields in higher education. Worldwide, female students’ enrolment is particularly low in ICT (three per cent), natural science, mathematics and statistics (five per cent) and in engineering, manufacturing and construction (eight per cent), Oando female engineers said. In a bid to fight the long-standing biases and gender stereotypes steering girls and women away from science related fields, a cross section of Oando’s female engineers spoke to the pupils on a wide range of STEM related topics, such as “why mathematics and science are important in the real world; opportunities that exist for girls/women in STEM, as well as games and engaging activities intended to stimulate the pupils’ interest in the sciences. It is interesting to note that research from different bodies are singular in their belief that there is little to no difference between boys’ and girls’ average ability in STEM subjects; however girls are still lagging behind boys in studying and in a career in STEM. In order to attract more girls to aspire to STEM careers, experts suggest the need to encourage young women through mentorship programs, creating an enabling environment and profiling women in science as role models. Such initiatives can inspire and encourage young women and girls to become more confident in their capabilities and can serve to empower aspiring and early-career women scientists. The lack of female interest in STEM related professions was reinforced during the mentorship session where 95 per cent of the mentees when asked what they aspired to be in future chose Arts and Humanities related professions whilst only a meagre five per cent chose STEM-related professions. However, after an invigorating day filled with activities aimed at rousing their interest in STEM, the girls were asked the same question at the end of the session and there was a remarkable 35 per cent increase in the number of girls interested in STEM-related professions. Principal Reservoir Engineer, Oando Energy Resources, Seun Solanke, one of the mentors, advised the girls to be proactive in their research into STEM-related careers, she also spoke extensively on what motivated her to a career in the sciences. 