Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar’s son-in-law’s Abdullahi Babalele’s passport has been seized by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He is under investigation for alleged laundering of 150million Euro. Babalele was released on bail yesterday after undergoing interrogation for about 72 hours. He is being investigated alongside Mr. Uyi Giwa-Osagie (an associate of Atiku) who had earlier been arrested by detectives. But the anti-graft agency held on to Uyi as at press time because “investigation is still in progress”. About €67, 950,000 of the 150m Euro has been traced to the accounts of Osagie, Babalele, two slush firms and two Bureau De Change operators. Of the € 67.9m, Uyi’s account received 26,050,00million Euro between January 9th and 28th, 2019. Babalele is expected to account for 41,900,000 Euro. An EFCC source, who spoke in confidence, said: “Atiku’s son-in-law has been granted bail but with some conditions, including the seizure of his international passport. The high-level investigation on cash-for-poll allegation requires that we should restrict his movement to the country. “These conditions will subsist until the ongoing probe is completed.” Responding to a question, the source added: “Mr. Uyi Giwa-Osagie, who is an associate of Atiku, is still being detained in Lagos. I cannot tell you when he will be released. “But we have granted bail to a former Minister of Special Duties, Alh. Tanimu Turaki.” The EFCC released more details of transactions involving Osagie. A document said: ”On receipt of this intelligence the team booked to Lagos Island market and arrested two BDC operators namely: Abdullahi Shehu who works with Abdullahi Munaciki of Hasbunallahu BDC, Abuja and Lawal A. Abdullahi of Three Brother BDC. Also the team recovered the said $1.6million USD but already $141,000.00 USD had been exchanged to Naira at N358/ per dollar which amounted to N50,500,000.00 while the balance of $1,459.000.00 USD could not easily be exchanged due to the Naira scarcity in the market. “Investigation conducted regarding the ownership as well as the source of the money so far revealed that Hasbunallahu BDC who is also the owner of Clean and Integrity Services Ltd received three transfers amounting to $5,000,000.00 USD on the 4th and 14th February, 2019 from Guernsey Trust Company Nigeria Limited which is an investment company that is being managed by  Uyiekpan Giwa-Osagie in trust on behalf of xxx. ”Investigation carried out on the accounts of Guernsey Trust Company Nig Ltd reveals that various transfers in millions of dollars and cash payments were made to various individuals and companies.” The details of these transfers are as follows: 