Forty four political parties have vouched for the integrity of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Akwa Ibom state, Mr. Mike Igini. The parties under the aegis of Inter-party Advisory Council (IPAC) also passed a vote confidence on Igini saying they will swim and sink with Igini despite attempts to remove him as Akwa Ibom REC. In a statement by IPAC’s legal adviser, Mr. Mfon Peters, the 44 political parties alleged that several attempts were made to lure the REC against the will of the people during the presidential and senatorial elections but he “chose his integrity instead”. IPAC applauded what it described an unbending noble character displayed by Igini in the face of intimidation and fat offers which they said played out in Ikot Ekpene. “We have noticed that after the Presidential and National Assembly elections in our State, the ‘Igini Must Go’ assemblage which had receded has been rekindled. The reason is not far- fetched. “We applaud the unbending noble character of the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mike Igini, in the test offered by the scenario that played out at Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District elections. “Despite monetary inducement, connection, influence and power play, Igini was uncompromising. “He insisted that only the valid votes cast at the polling units and collated by the designated officers will count. “This did not go down well with some political gladiators who hitherto thought that what money cannot do, more money can do.” The assemblage of political parties further alleged those seeking transfer of Igini have so far created spurious stories and blatant lies against the REC in a bid to discredit the just concluded election which was adjudged by their respective Units Agents and International Observers as credible and transparent. They called on the National Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Prof Mahmood Yakubu to discountenance the renewal of calls for the redeployment of Igini, stressing they were are ill-intentioned and in absolute bad faith.