Some of those who lost in Saturday’s supplementary elections conducted in 17 states yesterday kicked against the outcome. But, the winners were all smiles, promising to deliver on their promises. Wamakko urges APC loyalists to remain peaceful In Sokoto, where Governor Aminu Tambuwal retained his seat, Northern Senators Forum Chairman and Coordinator, North West, Presidential Campaign Council, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, urged All Progressives Congress (APC) loyalists to remain peaceful, resolute and calm. A statement by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Bashir Rabe Mani, reads: “The party’s leadership, membership and the entire electorate in the state would not despair, in anyway. “We have jointly struggled, fought and won. We are never losers. All and sundry have done their best possible by coming out en masse and massively cast their invaluable votes for our candidates at all levels. “In this direction, we are really appreciating and cherishing the immense sustained support of the members of the party to beat, the APC, as well as the electorate, in general. “These laudable gestures of the electorate were kick started with the Presidential and National Assembly polls, then during the first Gubernatorial and State Assembly elections and climaxed with the supplementary polls on March 23. “Our Leader, President Muhammadu Buhari was just given a second term by Nigerians and he will surely take the entire country to the Next Level. “The leaders of the party, at all levels, most especially the ninth Senate, would relentlessly strive to fully complement the efforts of the President to better the lives of Nigerians, in all ramifications. “The leadership and membership of the party, as well as entire Nigerians should continue to be peaceful and united.” Tambuwal pledges continued people-oriented policies Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal assured the people that he would execute projects which would improve their living standards. Tambuwal, who addressed jubilant supporters in Sokoto, advised the people to maintain peace while celebrating the party’s success at the polls. Tambuwal, who contested on the platform of the PDP, scraped through by garnering 512,002 votes, 342 votes more than his former deputy and APC challenger, Ahmad Aliyu, who got 511,660 votes. He said that the victory was not only for him but for the entire people of the state. “We have succeeded in wining this election with all of you and we will ensure a strategic government that will involve all so as to develop Sokoto State and maintain its credibility and respect in the country and the world at large. “We have won the election and we need to celebrate it, but I urge all of you to maintain peaceful victory rallies and also pray for the best leadership of our dreams,” he said. Tambuwal further thanked the people for giving him another chance to serve them and assured them that they would not regret that trust.  PDP set for victory in Bauchi Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate Senator Bala Mohammed is enjoying a comfortable lead over his closest rival, Governor Mohammed Abubakar of the APC after the collation of results. The PDP garnered 6376 votes. The APC polled 5117 votes at the rerun, with a vote margin of 1259 between both parties. The result of the re-run was announced in Bauchi yesterday by the governorship election Returning Officer, Prof. Mohammed Kyari, who is the Vice Chancellor of the Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola. During the March 9 inconclusive election, Mohammed was credited with 469,512 votes and Abubakar 465,453, with a vote margin of 4059 but the election was declared inconclusive after a Federal High Court in Abuja halted the collation and announcement of result for Tafawa Balewa Local Government. Abubakar got a court injunction restraining INEC from continuing with the collation and announcement of election results in the state. Judgement on the matter had been fixed for today. The total votes scored so far  by Mohammed in the 19 out of 20 local government areas has increased to 475,888 votes, while that of Abubakar  is 470, 570 votes, with a difference of 5,318 votes. The total no of registered voters at the rerun was 22,759. Accredited voters are 12, 109. Valid votes are 11, 568 while total votes cast are 11, 979. Rejected votes are 403. The rerun election was held in 36 polling units covering 29 registration areas (wards) in the 15 affected local government areas. The PDP urged the governor to concede defeat and work together with the party for the progress of the state. Speaking in a telephone interview with The Nation, the PDP Chairman in the state,  Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam, said the “right thing for the governor to do is to  surrender in the face of an imminent defeat “ Mohammed expressed gratitude to the people of Bauchi State for their immense support. “We owe our victory to the people of Bauchi who have stood very firm on the threshold of freedom and liberty and have shown that they are the icons of democracy and liberty. Words alone cannot express my appreciation to them all.” He said while addressing a press conference at the Command Guest House, Bauchi immediately the result of the rerun election was announced.”  Kano alleges Kwankwasiyya posting gory Jos crisis’pictures to discredit polls The Kano State Government yesterday accused supporters of Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso (the Kwankwasiyya group) of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) of using pictures of Jos crises to discredit Saturday’s rerun election. A statement by the Commissioner for Information, Youth and Culture, Malam Muhammad Garba, said the supplementary election witnessed large turnout of voters and was peaceful. Garba said: “Since yesterday, members of the group have been posting and sharing gory pictures of violence in an effort paint black the peaceful and orderly election in Kano. Some of these pictures were shots from the Jos crisis in Plateau state.” The commissioner urged the public to ignore such postings on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. The statement also urged the people and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to remain calm and wait for the outcome of the election.  Coalition of Observers hails Kano election A coalition of the 18 accredited Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) local and international observers have hailed the conduct of Saturday’s governorship rerun election in Kano State. The leader of Global Initiative for Civic Training and Youth Development, Chinyere Manukwem, who spoke on behalf of others, said the distribution of both sensitive and non-sensitive election materials, “was done in record time”. He added: “In most of the polling units visited, election commenced early enough and there was a massive turn out of voters especially women with high presence of security operatives. “The election was relatively peaceful but for Dala Local Government and Gama ward in Nasarawa Local Government where the election was disrupted in some polling units by hoodlums. “We commend the security agents for their quick response in calming the situation as well as the media “for adequate coverage and reportage of the electoral process.” The group urged INEC and others stakeholders in Kano to “henceforth educate their electorates on the need for a free and fair election as an election is not a do-or-die affair. They commended the voters for coming out en-masse to carry out their civic responsibility.  PDP wins two remaining Adamawa Assembly seats The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has won the two state constituencies in which supplementary election took place on Saturday, according to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The PDP candidate in Nassarawo/Binyeri State Constituency in Mayo-Belwa, Umar Nashon, won the contest in that constituency by polling 10,733 votes against the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who polled the 7,185 votes. In the Uba/Gaya State Constituency in Hong, Abbas Aminu Iya of the PDP narrowly defeated his APC opponent, Mohammed Atiku. Iya got 7,251 votes while Atiku had 7,238 votes. With the two wins, the PDP now has 13 seats in the next session of the Adamawa State House of Assembly to post a slim majority. The PDP and APC got eleven seats each when the main state House of Assembly election was conducted on March 9. The African Democratic Congress (ADC) won one seat during the March 9 election. The state assembly comprises 25 seats. The supplementary election had been fixed for Saturday in the two state constituencies after the March 9 election was postponed in Nasarawo/Binyeri because a candidate died close to the election, while votes were cancelled in three polling units in Uba/Gaya during the March 9 election there.  Plateau PDP rejects results The Plateau State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its governorship candidate Senator Jeremiah Useni, have rejected the results of the election declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are not acceptable to them. The main opposition party also vowed to challenge the victory of Governor Simon Lalong in court. “The mandate given to PDP by the majority of people of Plateau State has been stolen by PDP and we will follow all the legal processes to reclaim our stolen mandate,” the party said. Useni, at a news conference yesterday in Jos, said: “It has become necessary to address you following the announcement by INEC of the results of the re-run election conducted yesterday in nine local government areas of the state. “As the PDP flag bearer, I convey my profound appreciation to the people of Plateau for their massive support to me and the party as their preferred alternative for the good governance of our state; I thank you very much for putting up with all manner of challenges as you cast your votes again and again to get rid of a non-performing administration that has long turned its back against your welfare and security. “I assure you that such massive support will not go in vain. My team and I have gone through both the official results released by INEC and the documents submitted by our own field staff. “We have every reason to believe that justice has so far not been done to our people in this election, because of massive rigging and electoral shortcomings. “After due consultation, I hereby state that the results announced by INEC are not acceptable to us. Consequently, we have requested our legal team to activate all the due processes to reclaim our cherished mandate. I give you my word that we will pursue this matter diligently, and by the grace of God, we will overturn and recover the people’s mandate. “The *Restoration* Agenda is for the soul of Plateau State, until its glory is restored. I thank all leaders, stakeholders, members and supporters of the PDP for their commitment, hard work and sacrifices so far. Your labour will not go in vain. I appeal to all of us to unite all the more now and avoid any bickering and blame-giving. Unity of purpose must be the source of our strength. “Let us remain focused on the struggle and avoid anything else that will distract and divide us. I want you to know that it is not yet over. This is only a temporary setback. We have entered another critical stage; “Let us stand together for God and for Plateau State.”  APC to challenge Ortom’s victory at tribunal The Jime – Ode Campaign Organisation is heading for the Benue State Election Petition Tribunal to challenge the victory of Governor Samuel Ortom as governor-elect by the Independent National Election Commission (INEC). In press statement signed by the Secretary of Jime-Ode Campaign Organisation, Prof. Eugene Aliegba, and made available to the Nation alleged that the supplementary election won by Governor Samuel Ortom was fraught with irregularities occasion by votes buying, massive thump printing and intimidation of voters. The statement by Jime-Ode Campaign Organisation reads: “We opt to insulate our democracy from threats. “Moments ago, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), upon completion of the collation of results in the Benue supplementary elections, made a pronouncement on the outcome of the 2019 governorship election, declaring Mr Samuel Ortom of the PDP winner of the governorship contest in Benue State. “We note that the announcement by INEC marks the end of another phase in this year’s electoral cycle. “We’d like to use this opportunity to thank the Benue electorate who came out in their numbers during the national and state elections, including the supplementary polls to participate in our democratic exercise. “Despite the challenges, hiccups and irregularities witnessed in the run up to and during the polls, they kept the faith to chart a way for the next four years of our lives. “Democracy thrives only when those we seek to serve show an interest in the process. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to all those who were victims of the needless violence that characterised the conduct of the in Benue “As a peace loving party, we are saddened by reports of casualties, in some cases fatalities, and condemned such barbaric violence visited on voters and electoral officers in what ought to be a peaceful exercise. “To our supporters and all those who filed out to vote for the Jime/Ode ticket we extend our deepest gratitude for all they gave to our aspiration. “When we embarked on this journey many months ago, it was to translate to reality the dreams of a better future to our long suffering people. “We toured the entire state making our case for wealth creation through agriculture; education reforms; infrastructure development and a welfare package for our senior citizens. We told our people of our plans for improved capacity and welfare for civil servants and a health policy that covers all Benue indigenes and residents. “Our message resonated with the electorate because they could tell our project was about service, not hinged on intent to occupy office for the sake of it. “And even as the results as declared don’t appear to reflect the will of most of these same people, we call on our supporters to remain extremely  calm and law abiding as they’ve been throughout the campaigns and electioneering period. “They have our full assurance that as a party that believes in democracy, we will not accept a stolen election. Thanks. “Going into this contest, we were well aware of the fact that only one of two outcomes was possible; either we won fairly in line with the massive support we earned from the people; or another winner emerged through a credible and transparent process. “We did not anticipate a third option that confers advantage to those who played dubiously outside the laid down rules of the game. “And because the results announced in favour of Governor Ortom and the PDP is a direct product of brutal violence, vote buying, ballot-stuffing, results-falsification, non-use of the card reader and a range of other irregularities that have no place in our electoral laws, we are making it unequivocally clear that the Benue APC will explore all constitutional and legal options available to ensure the votes of the people count. “In simple terms, we will make a case before the Elections Petitions Tribunal to subject the Benue governorship elections result to an integrity test. “If we opt otherwise, we will be as guilty as those who undertake acts that undermine democracy. We have chosen instead to take action that insulates democracy from practices that threaten it. “In line with this decision, we again urge our supporters to exhibit the highest level of calmness even in the face of provocation. We will provide regular updates on our next steps to the people of Benue until victory is achieved.” Adeyemi, Ogembe, Akpoti go to court Senator Smart Adeyemi, Miss Natasha Akpoti and Sen. Ahmed Ogembe have filed petitions against the conduct and outcome of the National Assembly election held in Kogi on Feb.23. The Secretary of the Kogi State Election Petition Tribunal, Mrs Aisha Mana, confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lokoja. Mana said that the petitions filed by Adeyemi, Akpoti and Ogembe’s petitions were among the 10 received by the tribunal by aggrieved candidates who participated in the election. Adeyemi contested on the platform of APC, Akpoti, SDP and Ogembe, PDP in the election. Adeyemi, a two term Senator lost to his closest rival, Sen. Dino Melaye in Kogi West senatorial district, Natasha and Ogembe contested and lost the senatorial election in Kogi Central to Mr Yakubu Oseni of APC. Others who have filed their petitions at the tribunal include, according to Mana are: Mrs Habiba Muhammed Deen of PDP who lost the Ankpa-Omala-Olamaboro Federal Constituency election to Mr Abdulahi Ibrahim of APC. Mr Emmanuel Egwu also of PDP lost the Idah-Ibaji-Igalamela Federal Constituency election to Mr David Zacharis of APC. Other petitioners are: Mr Abimbola Henry Tuesday of APC lost the Yagba Federal Constituency election to Mr Leke Abejide of SDP. Mr Onimisi Itopa of PDP, who lost the Okene-Ogori Magongo Federal Constituency election to Mr Bello Joseph Asuku of APC. Mr Wemi Jones Ojo of the APC, who is challenging the election of Mr Tajudeen Yusuf of PDP who is the Representative-elect for Kabba/Bunu/Ijumu Federal Constituency. Also,Mr Ibrahim Shaba Isah of PDP is also contesting the election of Mr Abdulkareem Wambai of APC as the Representative-elect for the Lokoja-Kogi Federal Constituency seat. Mr Lawal Idrissu of the PDP, who is protesting the election of the APC candidate for the Ajaokuta Federal Constituency. No date has been fixed for the hearing of the petitions.