SIR: The election of President Muhammadu Buhari on February 23 was a victory foretold based on political realities staring everybody in the face in the run-up to the elections. Elections are about numbers. Either you have them or you don’t. Any politician hoping to win any election should be able to say this is where my voter population is going to come from compared to that of his/her opponent. If that question cannot be answered satisfactorily in a way that shows the candidate has the prospects of real competitive advantage in votes against his/her opponent, then the election is as good as lost already. That PDP’s Atiku Abubakar to came to the electoral contest without his own political base/stronghold was like going into a battle with bare hands against an opponent that is armed to the teeth. The Northeast which is supposedly his political strong hold became his electoral graveyard instead as he was completely decimated by PMB. He struggled to win his home state Adamawa by the skin of his teeth and was annihilated electorally in places like Borno, Yobe, Bauchi, Gombe and Taraba. On the whole, PMB has done spectacularly well by getting more 25% of the votes in virtually all the states of the federation with the only exception being Enugu and Anambra states. Out of the 36 states and the FCT he only failed in two states to meet 25% threshold and polled nearly four million majority votes to defeat his closest rival, Atiku of PDP. By this margin and spread of victory, the Nigerian voters have given PMB a Pan-Nigerian mandate for his second term. I expect him to reflect this national endorsement with an all-inclusive government that will go a long way to unite the country. I also believe the president should inject more youthful energy into his cabinet going forward. I am delighted that the vibrations coming from the presidency shows that PMB is already moving in the right direction to foster unity with policies of accommodation. He has shown great statesmanship and humility both in his speeches and body language since his re-election including his now famous appeal to his supporters not to gloat or humiliate the losers. No election in Nigeria or any part of the world for that matter is without some blemish one way or the other, but the fundamental principles underpinning the validity of the electoral process is whether the process was substantially a free, fair and credible exercise and secondly whether it is a reflection of the will of the majority of the electorate. From the reports of a galaxy of reputable local, regional, continental and International observer missions that covered the polls we have seen that they are all unanimous in their reports that the election was a credible process meeting international standard and best practice. 