A survey conducted by the federal government in collaboration with her partners in 2017 showed that 71 percent of TB patients and their households are affected negatively by the catastrophic cost due to tuberculosis (TB). This was revealed by the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, during a press briefing to commemorate the World Tuberculosis Day and the official launch of the report of the catastrophic cost survey yesterday in Abuja. The Minister of Health, who was represented by Dr. Felix Ogenyi, Director of General Services of the Federal Ministry of Health, said that: “A worrisome trend is that of funding. The catastrophic cost survey conducted in 2017 showed that 71% of TB patients and their household are affected negatively by the catastrophic cost due to TB.” The report defines catastrophic cost as the total costs (indirect and direct combined) exceeding a given threshold (e.g. 20%) of the household’s annual income, and also as ‘dissaving’ (such as loans taken, property or livestock sale) incurred by patients to face health costs associated with the TB disease (Working definition adopted by the WHO Task force, March, 2015). “Our National TB treatment coverage for 2018 was 25%. This implies that out at the estimated 418,000 new TB cases, only 106,533 TB cases were notified in 2018 leaving over 300,000 cases undiagnosed. “Similarly, the current proportion of health facilities in the country with TB services is barely 26%. “Let me add that the access to TB diagnostic services is also a challenge. The current LGA coverage of Gene Xpert (which is the first-line test for diagnosis of TB) is 41%,” he said. He further added that: “To address these challenges, our President, His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, participated in the first-ever United Nations high level meeting (UNHLM) on TB that was held in New York, United States in September 2018. “The President, along with other leaders, made a firm commitment towards eradicating TB in the world. “To further demonstrate government’s determination to END TB, we have developed an action plan for translating the UNHLM commitments on TB into action. “The Government of Nigeria is therefore committed to enhancing available services alongside expansion of TB diagnostics and treatment services to improve access in line with our Universal Health Coverage (UHC) agenda.” “Our plan going forward is to: Rapidly expand TB treatment and diagnostic services in both public and private health facilities; ensure capacity development of health care workers on diagnosis and management of TB; “Strengthen intra-facility linkage for TB services by ensuring every OPDs attendees are screened for TB in all health facilities; Create an increased demand for TB services through awareness campaigns on TB in health facilities, schools and communities; Ensure improved social protection packages for TB patients and families and ensure a more robust engagement of professional associations and Civil Society Organizations,” he said. Dr. Adebola Lawanson, the National Coordinator for the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme (NTBLCP), said that: “TB is no more a disease that should be confined to the health care facilities alone. We see that social exclusion is one of the greatest problems we have for those who have TB. “Stigmatization against people with TB is one major risk factor that we have found out that is also leading to the spread of the disease. “A lot of people with the disease shy away from coming out to access the health care facilities. It is a social disease that must be tackled head-on to make sure that people with it are no more stigmatized. “The federal government wants Nigerians to be healthy. “With the support of our partners, these drugs and facilities are made available to ensure that people access them, and don’t expend a lot of their resources, in fact, they don’t expend any of their resources in taking care of themselves because service have been provided free of charge.” TB is curable; Diagnosis and TB treatment are available free of charge in oil DOTS centres notion-wide; Persistent cough for two or more weeks could be TB; Toll-free help-line for TB is 08002255282.