TWO salesmen have been arraigned at two Chief Magistrates’ Courts for allegedly stealing  pharmaceutical products worth N4.3 million. Adam David, 33, was arraigned for allegedly stealing N2.3million worth of pharmaceutical products before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court. Michael Okolie, 25, was charged with stealing medicines worth N2million from his employer before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court. At the Ikeja court, prosecuting Inspector Benson Emuerhi said David committed the offence with others now at large last November 5 at 23, Ogunlowo Street, Ikeja. He alleged that the defendant obtained pharmaceutical products from SKT Health Care Pharmaceutical Ltd, but failed to remit the N2.3 million realised from sales. “The defendant sold the drugs and converted the money to his use. “Efforts by the complainant to get the defendant to refund the money proved abortive,” Emuerhi said. The defendant pleaded not guilty. Chief Magistrate Olufunke Sule-Amzat granted him N200, 000 bail with two sureties in the like sum. The case continues on April 4. At Yaba, Okolie pleaded not guilty to the one-count charge of stealing from his employer. Prosecutor Thomas Nurudeen alleged that the defendant committed the offence on February 8, at 42A, Ashogbon Street, Idumota, Lagos. He said the defendant was employed by the complainant, Mr. Tochukwu Nduka, as a salesman in the pharmacy he had just established. Nurudeen said the defendant, who resumed work that day, stole the medicines in the pharmacy. “My Lord, it was the opening day of the pharmacy. Nduka left the defendant at the pharmacy to get to the bank. When he returned, the pharmacy was empty. “During investigation, it was discovered that the defendant had an accomplice whom we are yet to identify. “They stole the pharmaceutical products worth over N2million,” he said. Chief Magistrate K. B. Ayeye granted the accused  N250,000 bail with two sureties in the like sum. She said the sureties must be employed with evidence of three years tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The case was adjourned till March 27. 