Czech-born Nigerian artiste, Yemi Akinyemi Dele, simply known as Yemi AD has been using his modern dance choreography to connect and unite the world. Using his multicultural background as a launch, the artiste has continued to fuse cultures from different regions of the world into his own art. “I was born and raised in Czech Republic,” said Yemi AD who is also the United Nations SDG Ambassador in an interview. “My father is Nigerian, he is from Ibadan. “I started as a dancer here in Czech Republic and in 1999 I established my own dance company and a talent agency called ‘Dance Academy Park’, which is a studio in the central of the city. I do different kind of work for choreographers and I also work for several VIPs in the music industry.” Yemi AD was recently selected among the 50 entertainment experts from around the world that featured as a panelist at the just-concluded “Wall of the World” competition in America. He had his big break in 2010 as the choreographer when American hip-hop rapper, Kanye West hired him to choreograph ballet inspired sequence in the Runaway of the “Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy” album for Kanye West’s global tour. He has since then collaborated with West on many projects includes creations of choreography of Runaway performance in Los Angeles for VMA’s, Saturday Night Life performance of “Power” and “Runaway” respectively. Yemi AD also directed a music video for a Czech indie-rock band, Charlie Straight, in a song titled, ‘School Beauty Queen’ which was awarded the Music Video of the Year in 2011 by MTV Czech. As a performer, he has acted in several different productions: Chronicles of Narnia II – Prince Caspian, Red tails, “Uflaithful Klara” (Italy, 2009), and the Czech series. He  was also the first Czech correspondent for MTV Europe and became the host of a popular Czech TV show, ESO and featured in a principal role in the original Czech musical, Monte Cristo for two years as a dancer. Yemi AD’s works and performances have been well received in many cities around the world including Tokyo, London, Barcelona, Bombay, Los Angeles, Shanghai, Paris and New York.