The hope of Nigeria having more athletes in the track and field event at the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo is now a tougher task after the IAAF approved new qualification system and entry standard for athletes that intend to participate at the world’s most glamorous multi-sports event. 27 athletes represented Nigeria in the track and field event at the Rio 2016 Olympics in Brazil with no medal to show for it and the Athletics Federation of Nigeria would be looking forward to boost the country’s chances by having more athletes in Tokyo. However, during the first session of its two-day meeting in Doha, the IAAF Council also agreed the timetables for three 2020 World Athletics Series events – the World Indoor Championships, World Half Marathon Championships and World Race Walking Team Championships. “After extensive consultation with key stakeholders, the Council has decided to introduce a dual qualification system, combining both the entry standards and the new world ranking system, to determine which athletes are eligible for Olympic selection in 2020,” said the IAAF. The world governing body had initially intended to use the new world rankings system to qualify athletes for the World Championships in Doha but later decided to continue to use entry standards while the period of consultation for the new system was extended. Under the new qualification process, athletes can qualify for the 2020 Olympics by either achieving the relevant entry standard within the respective qualification period, or by virtue of their IAAF world ranking position in the selected event at the end of the respective qualification period. “The process is designed to achieve about 50% of the target numbers for each event through entry standards and the remaining 50% through the IAAF world ranking system,” added the IAAF. As a result, the entry standards are tougher in every discipline than for Rio in 2016. “The IAAF consulted with the Competition, Athletes’ and Coaches’ Commissions prior to this decision and will continue working with the Athletes’ Commission, the Athletes Representatives (ARs) and the Member Federations (MFs) to ensure the qualification system is well understood. Workshops will be scheduled with athletes, ARs and MFs during this year,” said the governing body. The qualification periods are from January 1, 2019, to May 31, 2020, for the marathon and 50km race walk; from January 1, 2019, to June 29, 2020, for the 10,000m, 20km race walk and combined events; and from May 1, 2019, to June 29, 2020, for all other events. 