National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has asked the Federal Government to put a huge question mark in the planned increase in Value Added Tax, saying it will be an attempt to further tax the ordinary man in the country. Tinubu who spoke at the 11th Bola Tinubu Colloquium to mark his birthday in Abuja said government should widen the tax NWT and ensure all those Nigerians who have refused to pay their tax are made to do so as a way of raising revenue for government.
He said increasing VAT at this stage will not help the ordinary man in the country, adding that those incharge of generating revenue for the country must begin to think of other sources of revenue.  [AT THE COLLOQUIUM] HAPPY BIRTHDAY @AsiwajuTinubu The Executive Governor of Kogi State, His Excellency, Alhaji Yahaya Bello arriving the 11th Bola Tinubu Colloquium ongoing in Abuja.#BTCNextLevel@batcolloquium @LugardHouse @GbengaGOLD @FanwoKings @PetraOnyegbule pic.twitter.com/AmxlUeLA6y — APC United Kingdom (@APCUKingdom) March 28, 2019   Scenes from the 11th Colloquium in honour of Bola Ahmed Tinubu.#BTC11#BTCNextLevel pic.twitter.com/7oLhFgQX05 — The Bola Tinubu Colloquium (@btcolloquium) March 28, 2019       Tinubu is a man of high political dexterity, says Ambode Governor of Lagos state, Akinwunmi Ambode has commended the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for spearheading the victory of the Party in the recently concluded 2019 general election.
Welcoming guests to the 11th Bola Tinubu Colloquium, Ambode describe Tinubu as a man of high political dexterity, a dogged leader and man of undaunted courage. He expressed confidence that the APC was spreading its progressive tentacles further into the country, while Nigerians are looking forward to moving to the next level. He said the theme of the Colloquium, Next Level: work for the people was choosen to coincide with the times when the country was on the threshold of greatness.  Osinbajo, others attend 11th Tinubu Colloquium The International Conference Centre, Abuja is a beehive of activities as Nigerians from all works of life converge at the centre to celebrate the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as he marks his 66th birthday.
Guests to the 11th Bola Tinubu Colloquium are welcome to the centre with colourful all-female traditional Yoruba dancers, while members of the Abuja Metropolitan Music Society entertain guests inside the Hall. Live at the 11th Bola Tinubu Colloquium #BTC11 #BTCNextLevel pic.twitter.com/vsR417mfPc — Fatimah Oyelami (@MsTyma_) March 28, 2019  Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu stepped into the hall quietly and unnoticed at exactly 9.48am, while the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo who stood in for the President came in at about 10.20am. 