THOUSANDS of former Ogun State Governor Gbenga Daniel’s supporters yesterday pleaded with him not to quit active partisan politics. The supporters, who met with Daniel at his “Asoludero Hall”, within his home in Sagamu GRA, Ogun State,  protested that his resignation from politics got to the media without the former governor first consulting them. The loyalists, who took turn to speak, hinged their demands on the fact that their efforts contributed to the emergence of Prince Dapo Abiodun, as the state’s governor-elect on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). One of the top loyalists, Ifekayode Akinbode, led other members  to prostrate for Daniel with the women holding his legs, pleading passionately that he should lead them into APC. Daniel, who governed Ogun State on the ticket of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for eight years, convened the stakeholders’ meeting of his loyalists under the aegis of the “OGD Political Family” at his Sagamu home, to formally announce his withdrawal from partisan politics. He explained that his foray into politics was accidental and necessitated by the need to “awaken the sleeping giant” – Ogun State –  from slumber. Having met that need, Daniel said it was important that he leaves the stage when the “ovation is loudest”. Daniel also lamented that he had been “battered,” “bruised” and “called names because of politics”, hence his “resolve to quit at a time there is much outcries against sit tight leaders”. He also narrated how he failed at getting Ladi Adebutu as well as the governorship candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC)  Gboyega Nasir Isiaka to work together after the court had validated Senator Buruji Kashamu as the PDP gubernatorial candidate. The former governor also lamented that members of his political family failed to listen to him on a number of occasions. After their deliberations, the PDP senatorial candidate for Ogun Central during the just concluded 2019 general elections put the matter to a voice vote whether to choose between remaining in PDP or joining the APC. But in unison, they all resolved to collectively join the APC. The declaration ignited a spontaneous chanting of the APC slogans “Change” and “Next Level”.