All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu yesterday urged the Lagos State government to ensure adequate treatment for the survivors of the collapsed building. Asiwaju Tinubu, who described the incident as tragic, also commiserated with the families . The former Lagos governor called on Lagosians to donate blood to the survivors. In a condolence message to the families of the victims, the APC leader said the pupils who died did not deserve to die the way they did. He prayed for the repose of the kids’ souls. He said the government must fast-track the demolition of any building that failed integrity test. A statement signed by Tunde Rahman, his Media Adviser, quoted Tinubu as saying: “The building collapse in Ita-Faji, Lagos Island on Wednesday is a tragic occurrence. I commiserate with the families of those kids who lost their precious lives. “They do not deserve to die the way they did. May God comfort their families and grant repose of the souls of those young ones. Government must now ensure adequate medical treatment for the rescued victims. “I appeal to Lagosians to voluntarily donate blood not only to victims who urgently require blood but also to improve our blood bank in the state. “While we await the inquiry into the circumstances that led to the incident, we must all support government’s intervention efforts. “The Lagos State Material Testing Laboratory for buildings must be strengthened and the officers must do their work. “Government’s laid down regulations on building construction and maintenance must be faithfully respected and enforced. To mobilise support for these regulations, Community Development Associations need to come to government’s aid. “If after the collapsed building had been found to be weak and marked for demolition, everybody had done what was required of them, perhaps this terrible incident would have been averted. “On its part, the government must fast-track demolition arrangements once a building is discovered to be weak and deserving of being pulled down to save lives. “Above all, we must all take appropriate lessons and learn from this sad incident.”