  A successful outing for the APC in the 2022 governorship election in the state, according to Governor Fayemi would confirm the party’s dominance in Ekiti politics as well as ensure continuation of good governance that would put the state firmly on the path of  irreversible development. He stated this in Ado-Ekiti on Friday, during a meeting to appreciate members of the Ekiti State Council of the PMB/PYO Presidential Campaign Organisation and leaders of the party, for the success of the Presidental, National and State Assemblies elections in the state. Fayemi who lauded the members of the campaign organisation for their demonstrated dedication and commitment to the success of the party, said the credit for the peaceful conduct of the election and timely collation recorded in Ekiti State should go to them. He said the unity of purpose demonstrated by both the council and the party leaders during the elections made the party record enviable result. The Governor who also conveyed the appreciation of President Buhari to the members, later presented letters of appreciation to the council members. He said: “When we inaugurated the Council, I was very clear the job the council would do in conjunction with the party leadership would produce a report that everyone would be proud of and that is exactly what the
council has done as the results have shown. “I remember I was with Mr President a couple of days ago, to discuss some challenges facing our state, and as soon as he came into the meeting, the very first thing he said was Mr 100 percent. “That credit really goes to the work that we all did and I think it leads to what happen when we have unity of purpose. We all started on this journey from different points, but ultimately, we came together, we decided
that we need to give the election all the attention it deserves and everybody pulled in their weight to ensure that we succeeded. “However, the outcome of the election tell us some things, that we cannot be complacent about this issue, we still have to work to completely crush the PDP in all our local government areas and state to a point where they are a minute fold rather that a sizeable number that can threaten the consolidation of our gains in the course of next couples of election. “The only way to guarantee this effort you have all put in this election is to ensure that the 2022 governorship election in Ekiti goes to APC.  Fayemi explained that after the heat of election, there is now need to focus more on governance adding that he would soon appoint more people into positions for ease of governance as well as make them more useful for the
services of the state. “By now, we would have a respite to now focus on governance which is really the reason why our people have put us in charge of the state. Yes, we started that process and we have to invigorate it now, we have to energize by putting more people in positions so that they can be of service to our party and the state. “As much as our resources can carry us, we must put our people first in the ‘Project Ekiti’ via empowerment programme or appointments. Not everybody can get appointments, but everybody can have access to feeling that they are also major contributors to the party’s success.” Speaking earlier, the Director General of the Campaign Organization, Oluomo Segun Osikolu appreciated Governor Fayemi for giving them opportunity to
serve in that capacity. Osinkolu said party’s successful outing at the polls was as a result of the commitment and hardwork of members of the council as well as party leadership.