SIR: With the elections successfully put behind us, Nigerians may now access some semblance of peace. With the contenders and the pretenders having made a choice between ‘clinking glasses’ and ‘licking wounds’, I have no doubt in my mind that the sleeping dog will, at least, for now, advance some respite. Beyond the pledges, slogans and the ‘dividends of democracy’ rhetoric that have not dovetailed into reality, one striking issue is the apathy of voters during the elections. In practical terms, that the voter turnout was less than 36% of the 84,004,084 registered voters in the largely peaceful exercise did not detract from governance issues. That Nigerians of voting age were reluctant to vote was a clear attestation to the deep animosity and a growing sense of frightful disconnect between the political class and the masses. It showed how eerily cadaverous the electorate’s morale and expectations have become. Apart from areas where the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recorded over-voting, which was outright fraud, most of the polling areas recorded very low turnout of voters, even as quite a sizeable number of eligible voters opted to stay indoors for lack of better things to do. Voter apathy is a product of many factors. For instance, a dose of rigging perception does more inestimable harm to the electorate’s psyche than millions of campaign jingles or slogans. When the people hold the notion that whatever they do, rigging will still take place; or that some powers-that-be, somewhere, will still influence or manipulate the outcome of their franchise, the implications cannot but be grievous. The situation even becomes complicated if a government is perceived to be fraudulent or fraudulently installed. The possibility of being disobedient to such a flawed system cannot be ruled out. Another area of our politics that must be critically looked into is alienation. It is a fact of life that, if the people are alienated from the programmes and policies of the government, it simply means that such a government is only planning for the people, not with the people. This, of course, negates the principle of democracy and development. Chances are therefore that such electorate will feel reluctant to vote. Beyond the ceaseless elegance and captivating hymns of partisan concerns, Nigerians are hungry. The systemic decay is apparent, and the concomitant erosion of political capital of the country and socially-ascribed legitimacy, which for decades, has been taken for granted, or assumed as given, is gradually receding. It will therefore amount to political suicide on the part of our political leaders to task the people’s tolerance by feigning ignorance of this ominous phenomenon! While Nigeria’s political leadership needs self-appraisal, self-cleansing and a lot of refocusing, it is time the electorate’s expectations were matched by government’s delivery mechanisms. Politics must be inclusive, not divisive, or, non-exclusive!  Ijebu-Jesa, Osun State.