The Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment (CISI) has launched its Nigerian National Advisory Council (NAC) to foster the activities of the global investment certification body in Nigeria. The NAC was established with the dual purpose of supporting CISI membership in Nigeria and of guiding the CISI’s activities in Nigeria in developing professional standards across the finance profession. The CISI Nigeria NAC, whose inaugural President is Mr Bola Ajomale, Chief Executive Officer of NASD OTC Securities Exchange Plc, is composed of senior CISI members within the Nigerian financial markets. The launch of the NAC in Lagos was followed by the inaugural CISI Nigerian Members’ Forum hosted at the Eko Hotel. Gguests included Mr Adedapo Adekoje, President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mrs Olubukanla Rufai, Assistant Director, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and Mrs Sa’adatu Faruk, Head, Marketing, Consultancy, Research and Publications, Nigerian Capital Market Institute (NCMI). Ajomale welcomed all delegates and Mr Praneet Shivaprasad, Senior International Manager at the CISI. CISI’s two Nigerian accredited training partners (ATPs), Kedari Capital and X-Academy, provided information on how individuals can register for training on CISI qualifications with them. Adekoje said CISI will enable Nigerian members to network with the CISI’s members around the world. Rufai spoke about her pride in being a member of the CISI, and of the importance of the institute’s work in the area of integrity and ethics. Faruk noted the value of an organisation like the CISI introducing international standards into the Nigerian capital markets, whilst mentioning the forthcoming partnership between CISI and NCMI to issue CISI qualifications. Shivaprasad said he is always incredibly impressed by the commitment of Nigerians to education and qualifications. “Nigeria has embraced CISI qualifications and membership, and we are therefore delighted to be able to launch a Nigeria National Advisory Council to support members in Nigeria. We look forward to working closely with our partners and the regulator to successfully blend both Nigerian and global professional standards for the enhancement of the Nigerian capital markets,” Shivaprasad said. CISI is the 45,000 strong global not-for-profit professional body with members in over 111 countries. It has been working in Africa since 2012 offering examinations and membership across the continent, with regulatory approval for its examinations in 10 countries. 