FOUR persons have been arrested in connection with the murder of the Administrative Officer (AO) of Ijanikin Police Division, Akinde Abiodun, an Assistant Superintendent (ASP), on March 19. They are Akinwale Bamido, 23, Olanrewaju Bamido, 22, John Mathew, 21, and Adeniyi Moses, 23. The suspects are said to be members of a  gang that killed Abiodun during a  robbery in Ijanikin on the outskirts of Lagos on March 19. Parading the suspects at the Command Headquarters in Ikeja GRA, Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu said one locally made gun, seven live cartridges, weed suspected to be Indian hemp and charms were recovered from their hideout. “During interrogation, the suspects confessed to belong to the syndicate, which recently killed ASP Abiodun. Investigation showed that the suspects were among the hoodlums terrorising motorists at Badagry-Mile Two area of Lagos. They will be arraigned for conspiracy, robbery and murder,” he said. Seventeen robbery and six cult suspects were also paraded. Muazu said on March 9, Abu Kabiru, 21, Nurudeen Kareem, 22, Okiki Salami, 20, and Faruk Atolagbe, 24, were arrested at Alakara in Mushin while robbing people at Martins and Olushola streets. A locally made gun with five live cartridges, a motorcycle and three phones were recovered from them. The commissioner said around noon on March 12, Obinna Anyanwu and Chinonso Ernest, who placed online orders for two phones, snatched the phones worth N100,000 and N83,000 from the seller at gunpoint at Ikotun-Egbe. “The two suspects were nabbed and one cut to size triple barrel gun with five live cartridges were recovered from them. Also recovered were five expended cartridges. They will be charged to court,” Muazu said. Another suspect Ifeanyi Owoh and his accomplices were arrested on March 10 while allegedly robbing motorists at Oregun. A locally made single barrel gun with three live cartridges, a jackknife and charms were recovered from him. “His (Owoh’s) confessional statement led to the arrest of Idris Pedro, a member of the robbery gang. It was revealed that the suspects specialised in terrorising Olowora, Alausa, Ogba and their environs. The suspects will be arraigned. “Sadiq Shittu, 18, and Usman Abubarkar, 24, were arrested on February 13 at about 2pm by detectives at Ilemba Hausa Police Station and  some operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) patrol team while robbing. “One revolver pistol with five live ammunition, one cutlass, one Automated Teller Machine (ATM) card and one motorcycle with number plate ADA328QH were recovered from them. They will be charged to court as well. “On March 22, Mushin Police Station received a distress call at about 2:30pm that some miscreants were sighted along Olateju/Ayantuga streets, armed with weapons and that they attempted to dispossess people of their belongings. “Operatives from Mushin Division and SARS, Ikeja were mobilised to monitor the area. Olalekan Sanni, 27, was arrested and a locally made gun with three live cartridges was recovered. “During interrogation, he confessed to belonging to a four-man gang of robbers terrorising Mushin and its environs. The suspect will be arraigned,” Muazu said.