•Dialogue is best option, says IE Some residents of Okota, Lagos, yesterday insisted on being metered by the Ikeja Electric (IE), as they relaunched their compaign against “crezy bills.” During a protest at the Okota Road office of electricity distribution company (DisCo), the residents said they would no longer pay any bill that is over N5000 a month until they are provided pre-paid meters. But, in a swift reaction, IE implored the residents to explore dialogue to resolve the issue. The protesters, who are members of the Okota Residents Association (ORA) Zone A, arrived at the IE office around 7:30 am, bearing placards with inscriptions, such as: “No disconnection till you settle us”; ‘”No prepaid meters, no payment”; “No more estimated bills”; “No more meeting with ORA Zone A  executives till our demands are met”; “Install prepaid meters with immediate effect” and “Emmanuella Nwafor must go”. The Nation learnt that Nwafor is the IE marketer for the area. Vice Chairman of Bishop Okojie Street Resident Association Eze Phillips said they had been given estimated bills since 2016, adding that meetings with IE management have not yielded result. “We demand stoppage of the current estimated electricity bills. Until we are metered, any bill more than N5000 will not be paid. There should be no further disconnection of residents for failure to pay the exorbitant bills. Any attempt to disconnect us will be resisted. The Okota Zone A marketer should be redeployed because of her unruly and unprofessional conduct. She is rude to customers. “We also demand that there should be no more sales of prepaid meters. Installation of prepaid meters should begin with immediate effect. No more meetings with IE on our demands. The executives of ORA Zone A have met the management more than eight times since 2016, with no result. The promises made have not been fulfilled,” Phillips said. A resident, Olagunju Olamide, wondered why he should be billed N18,000  monthly. He said he paid N176,000 last year to clear his arrears, but stopped paying when he discovered that the bill was not going down. “Now my bill is almost N200,000 within a short period. Why should I pay IE bills like I’m paying house rent?” Another resident, Austine John, of Bayo Oyewole Street, said the House of Representatives had passed a bill outlawing estimated bills. “Why are we still being billed outrageously for the light we do not consume? We cannot have enough sleep or enjoy what we are paying for. This is not acceptable and we will resist it,” he said. IE’s Assistant Public Relations Officer Akinola Ayeni said protest was not the best way to resolve the issue. He added that the residents could not tell the firm who to hire or not as the marketer is doing her job. ”It is not true that prepaid meters are sold. We don’t sell prepaid meters, they are free. “We have finished one of the schemes for installing prepaid meters. We will begin another pilot scheme next month. We cannot meter everybody at the same time. “On the estimated billings, we are a standard organisation. We are guided by rules. We have a policy guiding us and we follow the rules to bill customers as they consume. We follow guidelines on how to bill our consumers. We bill them for what they use. If anybody has any issue with his bills or that we have billed them outrageously, they can come to our office and have a meeting with us. Most consumers don’t want to pay, some pay and we appreciate them. There are some consumers who are just billed N1000 but you will see them with other protesters claiming that they are overbilled.” 