A former Deputy Governor, Ekiti State, Prof. Modupe Adelabu, has highlighted the reasons education policies fail or are ineffective in Nigeria. She stated that basing education policies on inaccurate financial and political postulations, failure to address rural and urban dichotomy, reliance on public funds to finance education and failure to integrate communities and other non-state actors in developing education policies make them fail or ineffective over the years. Adelabu disclosed this in her inaugural lecture entitled: As It Was In the Beginning, As It Is Now: Politics and Education Policies in Nigeria at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife yesterday. Highlighting relevant findings of her research in educational administration and management for over 30 years to establish how politics influence education policies, Adelabu explained that education policies largely derive from political goals and interests of a nation. To overcome policy failure and ineffectiveness in Nigeria, Adelabu called on the government to incorporate non-state actors in education, embrace Public Private Partnership (PPP), stop reliance on oil money to fund education stop ignoring the political, economic, and international environment in developing education policies. She further advocated appointment of educationists as chairmen of state and federal basic education boards and other relevant education agencies in the country. She highlighted gender inequality in education leadership at the level of principalship and heads of tertiary educational institutions, ineffective approach to teacher training, ignoring globalization, rural-urban dichotomy and poor national development as some of the areas requiring urgent attention by the Nigerian government. Being the foundation of education, Adelabu emphasized the strategic importance of primary education boards to effective education of children. As a former Chairman of the Ekiti State Basic Education Board, Adelabu recalled that she introduced trade fair and exhibition of pulpits to facilitate their interest in technical and vocational education, introduced the PPP and encouragement of inclusive education. She said she could achieve them because of her background in education. “Consequently,  I wish to recommend without mincing words that because of the importance of basic education to education, any chairman to be appointed across the state should have an education background just like any other professional parastatal in the country.” She said. Adelabu expressed gratitude to those who either influenced or paved way for her in life. They include Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Dr Kayode Fayemi and his wife, Bisi, Gen. Alabi Akinrinade (Rtd) and Chief Pius Akinyelure. In attendance at the lecture were dignitaries including Kayode and Bisi Fayemi; Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu; Oyo State Deputy Governor Moses Alake-Adeyemo; Ekiti State Deputy Governor Bisi Egbeyemi and Chief Judge, Ekiti State Justice Deji Daramola as well as traditional rulers from Ekiti State. The institution’s Vice-Chancellor Prof. Temitope Ogunbodede and Registrar Mrs Margaret Omojuyigbe also attended.