Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs. Aisha Abubakar, her Federal Capital Territory (FCT) counterpart, Mohammed Bello and the Ambassador of Japan in Nigeria, Yutaka Kikuta have called for improved collaboration between both countries. While they expressed delight in the existing cordial relationship between Nigeria and Japan, Mrs. Abubakar, Bello and Kikuta want an increase in collaboration in the areas of economy/trade, technical assistance and manpower growth. They spoke in Abuja on Saturday at this year’s anniversary celebration of the Japan International Cooperation Agency Alumni Association of Nigeria (JAAN), tagged: “JICA Day.” JAAN is an association of Nigerians, who have participated in the various training programmes facilitated by the Japanese Government, through its international development agency – Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Mrs. Abubakar, who was represented by the ministry’s Director of Rehabilitation, Nkechi Onwukwe, noted that many Nigerians have benefited from the relationship that exists between both countries. She said her ministry has equally enjoyed the support of Japan, through JICA. She advocated the sustenance of the relationship. Bello, who was represented by the FCT Permanent Secretary, Chinyaka Ohaa, noted that Japan has contributed and continued to contribute to the development of the Abuja City. He identified some of the recent project in which Japan was involved, to include the solar power system meant for water supply in the FCT and the Abuja waste management system. Bello, who praised the Japanese authorities for also assisting in the area of human resource development, called for an enhanced cooperation between both countries. The Charge d’Affair, Embassy of Japan in Nigeria, Shigeru Umetsu, who represented Kikuta, said his country has equally benefited from its relationship with Nigeria. He said he was optimistic about an enhanced cooperation to promote inter-cultural understanding among both nations. JAAN President, Ahmed Agberankhe said his association has been active in facilitating businesses and training opportunities for Nigerians, and was currently working on more. “We are currently making final preparation to assist 20 businessmen from different companies in Nigeria to attend a food and food materials trade fair in Tokyo, Japan in April this year. “While we appreciate the continuous support of the Japanese Government to Nigeria, through the Technical Assistance Programme, we look forward to an aggressive drive for improvement in trade relations between both countries. JICA’s Chief Representative in Nigeria, Ms. Makiko Okumura said she was delighted that both nations were interested in sustaining the relationship between them and its attendant benefits.