•Amaechi, APC supported us unconditionally, says candidate’
•PDP to Awara: you lied The Rivers State African Action Congress (AAC) governorship candidate, Biokpomabo Awara, has said he rejected Governor Nyesom Wike’s N3 billion offer to drop his ambition. He also debunked claims by his running mate, Akpo Bomba Yeeh, that the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and the All Progressives Congress (APC) made them sign resignation letters. Awara, who addressed a news conference in Abuja yesterday, dismissed the allegations against the minister as false. He said Amaechi and the APC offered him and his party unconditional support, owing to their shared ideology and love for Rivers State and the people. He dismissed Yeeh’s ‘compromising’ actions as pathetic, claiming that he was himself offered N3 billion to drop his ambition but he rejected it and his deputy was in the know. He said: “When the story of his resignation first came out as a rumour, that Rivers State Governor offered him N200 million to abandon me, I had no reason to believe it because Elder Yeeh knew I had earlier turned down an offer of N3 billion from the governor. “I discussed this with my running mate and outlined why we must not succumb to the lure from the governor or any interest group. I was convinced we were in agreement because he neither expressed nor alluded to a difference in opinion on the matter. “When the rumour became rife by Sunday, I tried reaching him without success. I started developing some strange feelings pointing to a possible sell-out by him. I know that a key component of their plot is to smear Amaechi’s image. But I state categorically that all the accusations by Yeeh against the minister are lies poorly crafted by his paymaster. You could see how tough it was for him to read the script handed to him. “I was never asked to, and did not sign any letter of resignation. I know that my deputy was also not asked to or signed any letter of resignation. My deputy, Elder Akpo Bomba Yeeh, is believed to be under tremendous financial pressure based on his statements. “The support the AAC got from Amaechi and the APC was unconditional. Those conditions my deputy alleged in the statement are false, crude lies. The alliance between AAC and APC for the governorship election was because of our shared love for the state and our vision to liberate it from cultism, rapidly growing poverty and insecurity.” Awara has also filed a petition to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) against the Resident Electoral (REC), Obo Effanga, for alleged gross incompetence and bias. He said: “My party and all well meaning citizens of Rivers State are dissatisfied with the gross incompetence of the REC and INEC’s decision to continue with the suspended electoral process, as it is clearly not a fair or transparent process. “We are concerned about the looming crises, and this may most likely result in a breakdown of law and order, destruction of property and deaths.” But the PDD described Awara as having mastered the art of lying since the APC adopted his party. The Director of Information and Communications, Emma Okah, denied allegation that Governor Wike offered Awara N3 billion or any money to drop his governorship ambition. The statement reads: “The allegation is childish and ridiculous. Does he know the weight of N3 Billion? Where will the governor get such money to give anybody as bribe to win an election that he has already won? What did Awara do or will do that will make the governor offer him such money? Is it for his lies or the election he contested and failed? Though lying is part of the APC, Awara is running faster than his masters in learning the art of falsehood.” “How will Awara explain to God and men of goodwill that he does not care about those who died during the elections; robbing Rivers people their right to choose the governor they like, and the huge economic toll the state has to bear because of his recklessness in wanting to serve the wrong master at the wrong time and at all cost?” Okah assured Awara that unless he responds in full to the weighty issues raised by Yeeh, a huge burden will continue to hover over his head.