The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has begun sensitisation programme for telecommunication consumers in Ekiti State on safety measures against cyber theft. The Commission said the hydra-headed problem of cyber theft had wreaked havoc on many Nigerians, making them lost valuable property and money to fraudsters, who used Information and Communication Telecommunication infrastructures to defraud innocent citizens. Speaking in Ado Ekiti on Thursday during the 104th Consumer outreach programme, Jide Azeez of the Consumer Advocacy Group of NCC, urged consumers to be cautious of information they divulge to people on social media and other ICT platforms. The stakeholders programme was attended by traditional rulers, students, youth groups, faith-based groups, artisans, market men and women as well as civil servants. While speaking on the theme: mitigating effects of cybercrime: role of telecom users, Azeez disclosed there was need for consumers to avoid unnecessary discussion with unknown individuals on social media platforms. This, he said, is the best way to fall into the traps and net of the fraudsters. He added that many Nigerians have lost their lives as a result of trauma caused them by ICT fraudsters, saying consumers must protect their personal data from being stolen by ICT theft. “These fraudsters attack consumers on social media, website where consumers carry out financial transactions by using credit/debit cards. Our mobile devices and computers are the targets of yahoo boys. “So, users must be aware that this fraud and attacks can emanate from any part of the world as long as the devices are connected to the global super highway known as internet. “So, we must take precautions on our SIM cards, by not using preregistered cards . “Follow guidelines on SIM replacement and where you lose your phone, or SIM quickly contact your bank to stop transactions on the account”, he advised. Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, MTS Felicia Onwuegbuchulam, said the programme was packaged by NCC to sensitise and conscientise telecommunication users on how best to protect their lives. The Director, who was represented by Deputy Director in the Department, Ismail Adedigba, said the NCC will continue to take actions that would protect the rights and lives of consumers. “It is our belief that without consumers becoming aware if cybercrime trends and making efforts to ensure safe use of connected devices, cyber criminals will continue to make ICT space unsafe. “We are concerned about curtailing the activities of dishonest people who are bent on using ICT for illegal businesses and this awareness campaign is part of that strides to make consumers enjoy the fruits if their labour,” she said. She added the sensitisation programmes will help to reduce telecommunication consumers’ exposure to the antics of cyber criminals.