The only Nigerian on the FIFA Legends squad to promote this year’s Women World Cup in France, Osaze Peter Odemwingie, speaks to TAIWO ALIMI on his superhero role and what he has been up to now that he is in semi-retirement. ERSTWHILE Super Eagles striker, Osaze Peter Odemwingie has been speaking about his role in the FIFA Legends squad. Speaking via his social media handle, the former West Bromwich Albion (WBA) player said he was thrilled to be part of the project and to attain the superhero status. “My kids are in love with this. They were thrilled when I eventually get around showing them the outfit. ‘Where are you hiding that outfit daddy? Is there anything more you want to tell us about yourself?’ Thought you disappeared often for golf, but now you are a superhero.’ Following his  successful debut in the Asian, precisely Indonesian top league in 2017/18 season,  ‘Osas’, as he is fondly called, said he has spent his time traveling for FIFA projects, football talk show on cable networks, overseeing his businesses in Europe and Nigeria and playing golf, a sport he had taken to three years ago. “I’m not active in football for now. I call it semi-retirement, but I still find myself travelling a lot. Golf is top on my agenda now. I play a lot of it and whenever I tell my children I have to disappear, they know that I would be on the golf course, somewhere.” The former Lille of France striker has in the last three years taken up golf and has improved enough to play in notable Pro/Am event in Europe. He attended the last Ryder Cup tournament and finished well at this January’s Golf Escapes PGA Midland Pro/Am in Victoria course. “Golf is the best thing to happen to me. It is a fantastic game teaching me a lot of life lessons. I’m picking up valuable lessons from top players and hope that soon I would win a serious Pro/Am event.” With two World Cups to boast of in the colours of Nigeria Super Eagles, FIFA has also called on him to grace its event. “At the last World Cup, I was on different cable TV analysing the games, especially when Nigeria or an African team was playing. I would say that Nigeria had a good tournament given that they came with the youngest team. It is a team for the future. I was rooting for them. I celebrated all their goals well too, especially that of Musa Ahmed. They were awesome,” Odemwingie said. He explained further that retirement has afforded him the opportunity to travel more and visit important places. “I am not under any strict training regimen and matches again. Aside from attending golf tours, I also go to important places that I’ve always desired. For example late last year I was in Tashkent in Uzbekistan. Tashkent is my place of birth and for 24 years I have not been there. I also visited Benin City, my home town in Nigeria, to attend to business and family matters. I’m always on the move, my guy. Necessity is what impels men to take action, and once necessity is gone, only rot and decay are left.” Next stop France. Ahead of FIFA Women World Cup in France coming up later this year, FIFA has also picked out Odemwingie, noted for his outspokenness in the fight against racism in football, for its promotional FIFA legends squad. The squad promoting the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup in France features 23 players from the men’s and women’s games. A 23-strong FIFA legends squad has been unveiled by world football’s governing body as part of a campaign to promote this year’s Women’s World Cup in France. The players on the team, comprising 13 women and 10 men, are tasked with helping drive attendances at the tournament, generating engagement and inspiring a new generation to play women’s football through the initiative. The squad includes the likes of  World Cup winners Marcel Desailly of France and Brazil’s Gilberto Silva, two-time UEFA Champions League winner Michel Salgado of Spain and Argentina’s Esteban Cambiasso. Australian Tim Cahill, former Ghana international Michael Essien and former South Korean star Park Ji-sung are among the other men on the legends team. The 13 women named on the squad include two-time Olympic gold medallist and World Cup winner Kristine Lilly of the United States, France’s Laura Georges and former England international turned television pundit Alex Scott. They are joined by the likes of Scott’s ex-England team-mate Kelly Smith, Nadine Kessler of Germany and Canada’s Karina LeBlanc and Odemwingie. Each has been given a superhero name and superpower by FIFA. According to FIFA secretary general Fatma Samoura, “The tournament’s official slogan ‘Dare to Shine’ echoes the current world movement towards female empowerment and I am looking forward to seeing teams of strong and passionate women, from 24 different countries, illuminate football stadiums in France with their skill. “Our superheroes will help us to reach a global audience of one billion and make the FIFA Women’s World Cup France 2019 our biggest and best yet – for players, for fans, for local communities and for the empowerment of girls and women. “It is expected that they would use their superhuman strength, lightning reactions, and unshakeable commitment to take women football to the next level.  Our legends overcame obstacles, fought adversity, and are here to inspire the next generation. They will throw their mighty support behind the game.” Odemwingie plays the role of Aeonian. The superhero is graced with the power of resurrection and ensures that no one can get the better of him. As part of the legends squad, Aeonian uses his ability to make sure he is always on hand to support the women’s game. To play his role, the Nigerian dresses up in exciting green customs with capes. “I had to keep the whole thing from my kids. They were very excited when I dress up the role of Aeonian. It’s good to be a super hero,” he noted. “We are here to inspire the next generation and change the world by promoting equality, further progress and celebrate the best in global. Throwing our support behind the FIFA WWC.” Odemwingie, however, informed that playing superhero is not new to him. “In 2010, when I was playing for Lokomotiv, I remember having such experience. Nigeria had just qualified for the World Cup, the first one on African soil and I was in Nigeria final list to South Africa. So, in order to celebrate me, as the club only torch bearer, I was made to play the role of Superman and made the cover of Lokomotiv Moscow’s magazine. It was an enjoyable moment for me and the club and their fans celebrated the moment very well.” After playing across four countries, Nigeria, France, Belgium, and England, Odemwingie moved to Asian country Indonesia in 2017 and spent a season netting 15 goals in 22 matches for Madura United. He revealed that he had a great time while it lasted. “I had no idea what it’s like to play in Indonesia but I had a brief chat with Michael Essien and he gave me positive feedback. So, I said why not? To be regarded as a marquee signing is huge – I’ve played in different European countries but this place is really beautiful – and the people are very friendly. I’ve scored goals at all the top clubs I played but scoring in Indonesia was great. I scored quite a few and the fans were appreciative. I did enjoy myself thoroughly while it lasted. It is a beautiful place. These are exciting times for Indonesian football and I’m happy to be a part of it, to be part of Madura.” At 37, Odemwingie may be retired but he is indeed not tired. “Madura still wants me and another club in China. I don’t know what tomorrow would bring but at the moment I enjoy what I am doing; helping female football to grow, playing golf and getting better at it and spending more time with my wife and children.” He then revealed that he will soon unveil his pet project. “I want to give back to the game that brought me so much fame and fortune. But that will be when I am officially retired, when I eventually call time on my career.  I will come out with something after my career is over and set up something. I am also speaking with people and outfit that are interested in what I have in mind. When we are ready the whole world will know,” he added.