The uniqueness of the maiden FCV Gladiators Football Camp has distinguished from others in terms of adding value to school sports in Nigeria. These were the views of the Vice President, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Seyi Akinwunmi who believes other academies should take a cue from what FCV Gladiators Camp intends to add to sports. Akinwunmi said globally, football and education must be combined well to mould a total child who can compete at global level. “Sincerely, the emergence of the maiden FCV Gladiators Camp is really a progress and we have been preaching this for a very long while. We are very happy that this is happening as it is the only way to succeed because if we don’t take back sports to schools, we are only wasting our time,” the NFF helmsman said. He added: “FCV Gladiators Camp has come in a unique way and different opportunity for the kids. They are clearly saying football and education must go hand-in-hand. There is no disguise and this is what other academies should come to say. Many of our academies are interested in the kids to become footballers without education but FCV is saying, play the game and get education.” For the Chief Executive Officer of Advanta Interactive Limited, Efe Ojigbede, the camp would not only focus on football but emphasis the need for the participants to marry their football prowess with academics. “Football has been a passion across Nigeria and a lot of people got involved in the game at grassroots especially. But what we are looking at doing is to bring into fore education and football. What matter the most for us is the education, we are not saying football alone but education and football because it is important we emphasis this,” Ojigbede said. To ensure that the initiative has come to stay, Ojigbede said: “We have been able to enter an agreement with FCV to be here for the next five years. Beyond that we know that the success of the camp will determine how far we go but for now, five years, we are here. Between now and when the camps will hold in Lagos and Abuja, we will have registered a lot of children and getting schools to start getting their kids and teams ready to come to the camps,” he added. The camp is a brainchild of Dynaspro Sports Promotion and Advanta Interactive Limited in collaboration with UK-based FCV International Academy with the sole aim of giving a new outlook to football with special attention to education. University of Lagos Sports Centre host the Lagos leg of the camp on April 14 while the Abuja leg holds on April 21. 