Despite playing the encounter for several hours yesterday, Nigeria continues its winning streak at the Africa Qualifiers of the ICC U-19 Cricket World Cup after beating Kenya in its second match of the competition. Having shocked host – Namibia in their first match, Nigeria again affirmed its intention to pick one of the tickets at stake with another 58 runs win over Kenya at the encounter held at the United Cricket Club Ground in Windhoek. Also top-rated Uganda beat Sierra Leone by 75 runs to hold on to the top of the table. On Sunday, Nigeria got its campaign to a thrilling start, as they outlasted Namibia, to ascertain their quality amidst other nations. According to ICC Tournament Director, Kuben Pillay, the West African side showed good promise in the Division 2 tournament last year in South Africa, relying on tenacious fielding to stun the hosts. According to Pillay, being the team to bat first, Nigeria scored a below par 129 for eight, with Samuel Mba scoring a patient 25 from 90 balls, and Miracle Ikiage chipping in with 22. Mauritius Ngupita took three for 16 for the host’s. “In reply, Namibia crashed to 77 all out, with man of the match Sylvester Okpe grabbing three for 16 in seven overs, sealing a well-deserved 52-run triumph,” he added. In other matches played on opening day, Frank Akankwasa (62) and Ashiraf Senkubuge (56) struck half-centuries for Uganda, as they cruised to a 70-run win over Kenya. The 16 year-old Akankwasa then added three wickets in nine overs to his day’s work, as Kenya were bowled out for 136. In the third match of the day, a workmanlike play from Sierra Leone saw them defeat Tanzania by 27 runs. George Ngegba and Edmond Ernest both scored 22 useful runs, as they battled to 126 all out. In response, Tanzania were all out for 99, thanks in chief to Chernoh Bah’s terrific spell of four for 22. Edmond Ernest also contributed with the ball, taking three for 18. As the teams observe today as rest day, matches will resume tomorrow as Nigeria takes their unbeaten run to the top team – Uganda; Tanzania takes on Kenya, while host Namibia battles high-flying Sierra Leone.