THE Ikeja Special Offences Court yesterday heard how a 35-year-old commercial motorcyclist, Emmanuel Idoko, usually drugged his 12-year-old daughter before sleeping with her. The court was told that he laced the girl’s drink with drug to make her sleepy before having carnal knowledge of her at their 35, Akewusola Street, Oworonsoki, Lagos home.. A witness, Dr Alagbe Oyedeji, of the Mirabel Centre, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, said the girl told him under examination how her father gave her soft drinks and ‘’I will fall asleep’’. The doctor was testifying in the charge preferred  against Idoko for the alleged sexual assault of his daughter. Oyedeji told Justice Sybil Nwaka that she came on referral to Mirabel by the Divisional Police Officer at Ketu Police Station on November 28, 2017. Led in evidence by the  prosecutor, A. O. Alagbe, of Lagos State Ministry of Justice, Oyedeji said the minor told him that her ordeal started in 2016 after she and her younger brother moved in with their father after their parents separated. “The victim told me that her father came home from work one day and told her that he had heard rumours that she was no longer a virgin, and that he wanted to examine her by inserting his fingers into her private parts to see whether she was still a virgin or not. “She said she became reluctant after her father told her that he wanted to use his manhood to test her virginity. “When she refused, he beat her severely. He later became very nice and every night after he returned from work, he would give her soft drinks, then she would fall asleep and he would have his way.” Oyedeji said when the minor started sleeping in school,  her class teacher asked her what happened and the girl narrated what her father had been doing to her. The teacher, he said, reported the matter to the Ketu Police Station and the defendant was arrested. “Upon examination of the victim’s private parts, it was discovered that it was reddened. Her urethra was also reddened. “I also discovered that her anal opening (anus) was loosened. There were also areas of laceration around the private parts and thighs. The injuries she sustained in her private parts and thighs showed recent and previous forceful penetration,” the doctor said. He said the test he conducted on the minor showed that she had been physically and sexually abused. Under cross-examination by the defence counsel, Adeyemi Adegbite, Oyedeji insisted that the defendant penetrated his daughter’s private parts with his fingers Justice Nwaka adjourned till April 3. 