Chairman of Senate Committee on Labour and Productivity, Senator Abu Ibrahim, has thrown light on why the Senate passed N30,000 national minimum wage instead of adopting N27,000 proposed by the Federal Government. Senator Ibrahim, who was a member of the Senate ad-hoc committee assigned to work on the minimum wage bill, said the upper chamber concurred with the House of Representatives on the bill to avoid unnecessary delay and bickering in passing the bill. The House of Representatives passed N30, 000 new national minimum wage bill higher than the N27, 000 minimum wage bill President Muhammadu Buhari submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and passage. Ibrahim said that the passage of N30, 000 minimum wage was informed by the need to avoid the commotion likely to result from harmonization of the differences by the two chambers. The Katsina South senator noted if there was disagreement between the two chambers, it may lead to the National Assembly not passing the new national minimum wage for workers. He said when members of the Senate committee, during its deliberation on the bill, considered the difference between what the House of Representatives passed and what was submitted by the executive, a difference of N3000, the committee felt that it could be addressed after the passage of the Bill. Ibrahim noted that it was in view of this the committee recommended that after the passage of the new wage bill, the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation, and Fiscal Commission, could review the federal allocation formula to give more fund to the States and Local governments. The review of the allocation formula, Ibrahim said, would enable the States and Local Governments to pay the new national minimum wage rather than waiting for the federal government to come to their rescue through granting them interventions funds. Ibrahim said, “We looked at it (bill), the difference of what the executive asked for is N3, 000 and the commotion that it will create if we disagree with the House of Representatives, we may not pass it, because we may have to go back and start again and go into harmonization “We are closing for budget defence. So we may end up leaving the National Assembly without finishing the minimum wage. “So we felt at the committee that it does not worth it, the problem that it will create for saving N3, 000. “Then, we brought another solution that the federal government revenue allocation should be looked into to make it possible for the states to be able to pay. “So, rather than the federal government giving them interventions, we can change the revenue allocation formula to give them more money, both local and state governments.” He went on: “We came up with additional suggestion after the N30, 000 minimum wage, we suggested that the revenue allocation should be looked into to make the states and local governments more viable.” The lawmaker promised to contribute his quota as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Labour to ensure that there is stability between the government and Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). He also stressed the need to develop a system of industrial harmony between NLC and the Federal Government.