Prince Louis Omolayo Adekola is one of the 100 Most Influential Young Nigerians and one of the 12 African youths honoured by Egyptian President AbdelFattah El-Sisi with the Promising Youth Award of the World Youth Forum. In this interview with CAMPUSLIFE CORRESPONDENT ADESOLA IKULAJOLU, Adekola relives how he surmounted some of his challenges. Excerpts: As a young leader, what is your mission? My mission is to provide access to quality education for people irrespective of age, gender, background and social status. I hold a bachelors’ degree in Educational Management and my postgraduate focus is on International and Comparative Education. I am the Founder of the Ambassadors of Africa, an organisation created in 2009 with the sole aim of building Africans into global giants. I am also the Country Council President of World Merit Nigeria, Artistic Director of Frikanah Theatre Company and my firm-Edvant Edge Africa, focuses on helping universities in Africa establish and manage functional and successful advancement centre/offices so that they can become 21st Century institutions indeed. What inspires you the most? My inspiration comes from the knowledge I have that “I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me”. Once I conceive an idea, I ensure to spend time analysing it and understanding the solutions that such an idea would provide. I am the kind of person who believes that problems are meant to be solved and only the passionate ones get to do this. So, I am inspired by all the passionate people all over the world, both past and present, who have stepped out of their comfort zones to create real life solutions in their communities and in our world as a whole. How do you cope with challenges and what’s the biggest you’ve faced? The biggest challenge that I have ever faced is doubting myself and my potential. When I started the organisation as a teenage-undergraduate student, I had a lot of discouragement from some of my friends and even some older people, who I expected to get advice from. Due to the reoccurrence of such discouragements, I began to think maybe they were right but I was blessed with a good network of friends and a fantastic family; those who constantly remind me how incredibly smart I am. If I had listened to the voices of naysayers, I would not be where I am today. You were among the Young Most Influential Nigerians, how do you feel? I feel great actually. I mean, getting nominated as one of the 100 Most Influential Young Nigerians in 2017 confirmed to me that when you are doing something, whether good or bad, people are noticing. The overwhelming support I received during the voting process, which ranked me as fourth in the entire country and second under the Personal Development and Academia category, showed to me how much of impact I have made over the years and the extent of love that people have for me and my works. In 2018 again, I was ranked in the Africa Youth Awards as one of the 100 Most Influential Young Africans and I felt really honoured to have received such a recognition. What earned you that feat? After being admitted to study Educational Management at Adekunle Ajasin University, I struggled really hard with that reality as I wanted to study Business Administration or Banking and Finance at the time. After finally accepting my ‘fate’, I buckled up with my studies and when I went on my first teaching practice, my whole life changed. I was inspired by all the amazing kids I was teaching, however, I was saddened by the terrible education system that subject students in public schools to harsh learning conditions and obsolete curriculum and pedagogies. Besides, the level of poverty in these rural communities makes the chances of further studies very slim as well as the way people like them had turned out in these communities. I knew I could do something about it; I was not going to look away like many others and so I started to act. So how did you do it? My career counselling/mentorship activities, student seminars, and teacher training programmes in 2009 and 2010 gave birth to the A-Students Project and my organisation, the Ambassadors of Africa. Over the years, this organisation has positively impacted the lives of over 35,000 people in various African countries and now has teams in over 10 countries. Apart from the A-Students Project, our BrainStorm, KickStart as well as the CoLearn Hub and Community Library projects have transformed the lives of people in many countries in Africa. This and more of my volunteering works with other organisations like Enactus and World Merit earned me that recognition at the Africa Youth Awards and, though I do not know the people who had nominated me. You were recently awarded by the Egyptian President; can you tell us about it? Sincerely, it was like a dream! I was on my desk one day when I received a message on LinkedIn from the World Youth Forum team. Not long after my discussion with the person who had contacted me, I received an invitation to attend the inaugural Arab and African Youth Platform, which was scheduled to hold in Aswan, Egypt and I was excited to attend. Then, I was invited to feature in a documentary about youths from these two regions to showcase the amazing works of young people, who are creating sustainable change. Again, I was excited to be a part of this amazing group of 12. After arriving in the beautiful city of Aswan and honouring several interviews, I joined the ongoing shots for the documentary. On the opening day of the event, which also marks the launch of the Egyptian Chairmanship of the African Union, we were informed that we would be receiving awards on the following day as “honourees” of the World Youth Forum. We were all stunned and I was completely gobsmacked. How do you cope amidst countless responsibilities? My major strategy is very simple – I do what I ‘have’ to do before I do what I ‘want’ to do. It is all about setting priorities and managing time effectively. Another strategy I have is to keep my house, office, and system clean and orderly so that I can always switch between tasks without any hassle. It might not seem like much, but it works well for me. When I don’t have several minutes/hours looking for my hair brush in my house or a file in the office or a document on my system, I get a lot of things done. Another thing I do is to always keep a positive attitude, I give myself affirmations from time to time reassuring myself that ’I can do it’; and then I surround myself with the right kind of people. All of these with the support of my incredible teams across various organisations, my colleagues at my workplace and my wonderful family, I am able achieve my set goals.