Angry workers in their thousands repeatedly booed Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, calling him names on Tuesday for alleged hostile disposition towards their colleagues in the state. Amosun, who hurriedly adjourned his meeting with the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Com. Ayuba Wabba and other affiliate unions, rushed out of the Governor’s Office on being notified the irate workers had already hit the road and were advancing speedily to storm Oke – Mosan. But his escape was not quick enough as the workers, who had taken over the IBB Boulevard leading to the Oke – Mosan Governor’s Office sighted him as he drives himself away in a black jeep and began to boo him, calling him many names. The urged Wabba and other NLC leaders negotiating with the Governor on behalf of the aggrieved workers to be tactful and apply utmost wisdom, alleging that Amosun is accustomed to reneging on his promises to workers. Wabba, who also left the meeting with the Governor to calm the workers and halt their advancement to Oke – Mosan, said they were already in a dialogue with respect to four fundamental issues affecting state workers and that a commitment had been obtained from the Amosun he would address those issues. The NLC leadership added that one of the four issues is the call for reinstatement of the state NLC Chairman, Akeem Ambali, whom he sacked over a year ago. He announced Ambali has been reinstated by the Governor, assuring that their presence in the state is not politically motivated. According to him, before the close of the day, NLC would sign an agreement with the state government regarding its commitment to address the issues of unremitted salary deduction, contributory pension funds, unpaid salaries and allowances of staff of Tai Solarin College of Education, Omu – Ijebu among others. Earlier, Wabba lamented the litany of anti – workers decisions of Amosun – led administration in the state, citing the sack of NLC Chairman, Com. Akeem Ambali, and “unremitted deduction of over 105 months” as examples of hostile workers policies. According to the NLC leadership, no other state in Nigeria has such unprecedented record of either sacking union leader or having over 105 months of accumulated unremitted deductions. Wabba, who was particularly appalled by the “very pathetic” situation of workers at the Tai Solarin College of Education, said some of them at the institutions have not earned salaries for the past eight years, lamenting their salaries have accumulated to the tune of over N4b (four billion naira). He revealed some of the workers of Tai Solarin College of Education being owed by state government have died, stressing that Amosun – led administration worsened the plights of the workers by proscribing their union. “The is the issue of statutory deductions, deductions of pension, deductions of unions dues, deductions of cooperatives, all statutory deductions which are part of the worker salaries. “The law is that you must deduct and remit to the appropriate quarters, these deductions have not been remitted for over 105 months, and no state in Nigeria that has such situation.