AXA Mansard, a member of AXA, an insurance and asset management firm, has joined women to celebrate the International Women’s Day. March  8 is celebrated as International Women’s Day. This date is significant in many ways; it is a time to reflect on the progress made on women’s rights as well as celebrate their courage and determination by ordinary women around the world. The theme for the International Women’s Day is ‘Think equal, build smart, innovate for change’ and is focused on empowering women for gender parity through innovation, particularly in social protection systems, public service access and sustainable infrastructure. AXA Mansard Insurance Plc Chief Executive Officer, Mr Kunle Ahmed said women have become very important in decision making for the purchase of insurance and other financial services. He said this is why AXA has developed the SHE (Super Heroes Everyday) initiative. Through this initiative, AXA is committed to partnering with women across all groups, sectors and life stages to build a network that can support the growth of their businesses and generally create better lives for themselves and their families, he added. He said: “In emerging economies like Nigeria, the number of women in business, women’s purchasing power and their access to higher-level employment is on the increase. Women’s role in the economy is growing as gender differences in labour market participation continues to narrow. “As a female entrepreneur, the SHE initiative will help the Nigerian woman manage her risks so that she can take the leap towards financial prosperity. We also practise what we preach. In 2018, AXA launched in Nigeria, its Internal Women’s Network focused on engagement and development of our female staff, who are proudly empowered through several mentoring and support initiatives. “Our Super Heroes Everyday are our valuable clients and employees. We will continue to be their trusted partner and we wish every Nigerian woman Happy International Women’s Day and Women’s Month”, he said.