Former African champion, Edem Offiong and compatriot – Jamiu Azeez will be aiming for glory in the singles event at the 2019 ITTF Challenge Spanish Open which serves off today. Offiong who is warming up for next month’s World Championship in Hungary will be competing from the group stage of the women’s singles while Italy-based Azeez will also be starting his campaign from the group stage of the men’s singles. Already, the Spanish-based Offiong has been drawn in Group 14 alongside Hungary’s Feher Orsolya, Portugal’s Andrade Raquel and Chinese Taipei’s Huang Yu-Chiao. The Nigeria will start her quest to advance from the group against the Portuguese while her second match later today will be against the Hungarian. Her last group match against the Taiwanese holds tomorrow to determine the leader of the group that will progress to the knockout stage. Azeez has been drawn in Group 27 of the men’s singles alongside Spain’s Martinez Guillermo, Moldova’s Cissa Victor and Portugal’s Silva Andre. Azeez will battle the Moldovan in the first group match while his second match will be against the Portuguese. Tomorrow he will face the Spaniard to determine his fate of progressing to the knockout round of the tournament. Also, 2018 runner’s up, Austria’s Robert Gardos will be aiming to reclaim his title as the number two seed of the competition in the men’s singles. According to ITTF Editor, Ian Marshal, Gardos is a major challenger for honours. “Moreover, can the player, renowned as one of the most dedicated and hardworking on the international stage, make it third time lucky; or perhaps more accurately, third time successful? In 2006, in the men’s singles final at the ITTF World Tour Chile Open in Santiago, Gardos was beaten by Vladimir Samsonov of Belarus in a full distance seven games final determined by the very narrowest of margins,” he said. Marshall added: “There is no doubt that Robert Gardos has experience on his side but he does not have time on his side? Earlier this year on the day prior to the commencement of qualification for the 2019 ITTF World Tour Hungarian Open, he celebrated his 40th birthday.”