The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday in Kano called on its supporters to remain calm and law-abiding as they await the outcome of the election petition tribunal. The party through a statement by Sanusi Bature Dawakin-Tofa, the spokesman of its governorship candidate, Abba Kabir Yusuf, vehemently rejected the result of the election. It said: “The PDP in Kano is proud to be distinctly civil and uniquely peace-loving. We condemn this fraud in its entirety. “We have decided to take legal action through the Election Petition Tribunal with overwhelming evidences that has been gathered, and Insha Allah, soonest the mandate of the good people of Kano state shall be reclaimed. “However, we urge the good people of Kano state and particularly our teaming supporters to be patient and remain calm. Kano state is our only home. “We have no other place better than this noble state and no blood of any citizen is worth shedding.” PDP accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies of joining forces to rig the election in favour of the APC. “In the political history of Kano, we have undergone the most horrific elections ever where the ruling APC and Kano State Government deployed all mechanisms to orchestrate violence against the citizens. “Indeed, the good people of Kano state have witnessed a broad daylight robbery of their mandate by the enemies of democracy. It is with tremendous zeal and courage that we joined the 2019 Kano gubernatorial contest, believing in the impartiality of the umpire – the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies, being on a mission to restore the lost glory of our dear state from the hand of political predators who destroy every meaningful programme and policies set by the previous administration of Dr. Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso. “The deliberate disruption of results collation process in Nasarawa Local Government, which led to the cancellation of Gama Ward, alongside numerous other Polling Units across the 28 Local Government Areas and the appalling conduct of the players in the sham called inconclusive Election, has raised huge doubts about the professionalism of the security agencies and the effectiveness, credibility and fairness of INEC as an organization as well as professionalism and neutrality of the security agencies.”