All-action Flying Eagles’ defender Igoh Ogbu reveals his flipside while speaking about his humble beginning on the streets of Jos en route to Norway with Rosenborg Ballklubb. He speaks with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Some footballers truly got talents, no wonder the world is littered with litany of players that  abandoned one endeavour or the other to purse their dreams on the soccer arena. For instance, some folklore have it that former Manchester United’s legendary Danish goalkeeper  Peter Schmeichel  was once a cleaner, ditto German’s 2014 World Cup winner, Miroslav Klose, was a carpenter before making it big on the soccer turf. Yet Nigerian youth international, Igoh Ogbu, belongs to this exclusive list of footballers with incredulous start since he actually abandoned fixing hairs for women at the saloon in order to earn a name for himself in the soccer arena. Tough-looking but always gracious with a smile, the 18-year-old, who was prised away by Rosenborg Ballklubb (RBK) from the feeder team of Gombe United, has yet to forget his humble beginning. “I actually learned how to fix women’s hairs before my breakthrough in football and it is something I would have loved to do if not playing football,” Ogbu, the rugged defender, who was at the recently concluded Total U-20 CAF Africa Cup of Niger with the Flying Eagles, told The Nation. Ogbu has his heritage in Benue State but he was born and bred in Jos – the capital of Plateau State in the North Eastern region of Nigeria, where football is about the major pastime of the locals. It was at the famous tin city that Ogbu honed his skills and spotted by selectors of the Golden Eaglets where he was later named as the assistant captain to Abduljabar Sani in the ill-fated team that failed to qualify for the 2017 Total CAF U-17 Africa Cup of Nations in Gabon. But Ogbu’s talent was never in doubt and his puritanical devotion to the game endeared him to many and it was not a surprise that he was spotted for trials at the Norwegian club where he was offered a four-year contract from February 2018 to 2021. “I schooled in Jos and that is where my parents raised all of us and, luckily for me, my eldest brother has a saloon in Jos,” explained Ogbu who was briefly loaned to Levanger in the 1. Division, otherwise known as OBOS-ligaen, to gain some European football experience. I started learning to fix hairs for  ladies when I finished my secondary education. My brother was very group at fixing nails, dreadlocks for ladies and it was from him that I learned how to do also. “It was  something strange to me initially  and I never wanted to do it; I felt such job was not meant for guys but my brother insisted  I should learn in order to be able to earn a living. I became perfect doing it and I don’t regret anything about it.” In only his first season in Europe, Ogbu got some rave reviews not least from RBK trainer Kåre Ingebrigtsen: “We’ve learned to know Igoh for a year now, and he’s going to be a great football player. “In addition to being a talented young boy, he is also a very nice type and has slipped well into the player group. It will be exciting to see his development when he gets trained for even longer time with the team.” With an exciting future still ahead of him, Ogbu says nothing can pull him away from his first love. “Of course, I won’t pick a career in the saloon over football because football has been all I wanted to do since I was born. “I love football and I didn’t give up even when my parents didn’t want me to go into football because I already have my two brothers in the game. “Football is my life and I wouldn’t have been happier doing any other thing than playing football,” he said with his usual open-tooth smile. Meanwhile, in an exciting conversation with our correspondent, Ogbu speaks more about his fledging career, amongst other sundry issues. Below are the excerpts… Being called to the U20 I don’t know where to start because I was really happy when I was called up for the national Under-20 team; this is one of the things I had dreamed about. The first persons I called when I was invited  was my mom and my dad and I was really excited and I was so anxious to go the camp to prove myself. It was a great thing of joy for my family and myself.  I was in the national under-17 team of 2016/2017. My long time goal as a professional footballer is to play for Chelsea in the English Premier league because that has always been my dream club. My short term goal is to do well with the Flying Eagles in our upcoming competition. Playing in Norway It has been a great opportunity for me playing in Norway; it has given me more experience and exposure and being here has added so much to my career because we all need experience. We have so many Nigerian players here in Norway and I’m not the only Nigerian in my club. In fact, I have a friend (Samuel Adegbenro) of mine here in my club and I would like to say he’s one of the best players we have in Norway presently. He’s like a brother to me and with all modesty, I can say he’s good to play for the national team because he’s such a great player. Playing along with him in the same club (RBK) has been a great pleasure for me. Loan deal with Levanger I had a good experience at Levanger in the OBOS-ligaen but unfortunately I couldn’t play much because I was injured. My hamstring gave me some problems and I was there for only half-season but the injury took me out for almost three months. I was back with Rosenborg and was around when the club won the NM Cup and the Championship though I didn’t play. But I was very happy with the experience I got at Levanger and I’ve learned so much; the experience in the OBOS-ligaen was good. Being happy Playing football makes me happy. I forget anything that troubles me or anything that causes me pains once I’m on the pitch playing football. What makes me sad is seeing people around me not being able to achieve what they want in life. I know how I started and what I had gone through to be where I’m today; so I can cry when I don’t see people achieving their dreams. Favourite colours It doesn’t matter to me if it’s black or white colours because those are my two favourite colours. The two colours represent what life is all about to me; life is full of ups and downs. When you are down in life, it can be referred to as black while white represents the miracle of survival. My family I come from a family with eight children; four boys and four girls. The four of us who are boys are playing football.  Two are already playing in the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) and I’m the only one playing abroad currently.  I have always admired David Luis and I love his style of play; I like the way he puts his soul and body into the game and I also love Achontelli too.  It is important for me to always pray before playing a match because I believe all the energy that comes out of me playing is from God. I look up to God for everything because I know he’s the only one that can put blessings upon all I do. Report card from Niger 2019 Though we didn’t win the tournament, I know that we all did our best. There is a great feeling when you put on the green-and-white colours of Nigeria because you want to show the world that there is a country called Nigeria. I believe our team can do better at the World Cup in Poland because we have a lot of good players in the team.  I was really impressed with Jamil Muhammad, Ikouwem Utin Mike Zaruma and Valentine Ozornwafor and with all modesty, I want to say I was also impressed with my own performance in Niger. It was very painful to have lost the semi-finals to South Africa. We shall continue to push and hopefully good things shall happen to our team at the World Cup. Generally, the four teams (Senegal, Mali, South Africa and Nigeria) that have qualified for the World Cup are very good and I know we would represent Africa very well in Poland.  OGBU:OBSERVATORY IN NUMBERS 