Sanwo-Olu made this known to State House correspondents on Monday after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The governor identified the challenges before that state as youth unemployment, insecurity and building collapse. According to him, his administration, when inaugurated, will quickly embark on programmes aimed at improving the quality of lives of residents and address all of the challenges facing the people. He said: “We are very excited that we have seen all the challenges and we will certainly be bringing about solutions that will very quickly solve all of our various challenges in Lagos. “We know that with a mega city of our status, it comes with a lot of challenges but we are lucky that we have been part of it before now. “So, we are excited that we are bringing solutions to problems that we identified on the campaign trail. “We will very quickly bring about positive development that would improve the quality of lives and ease all of the challenges that we currently see in Lagos.’’ While describing recent collapse of some buildings in the state as most unfortunate, Sanwo-Olu lauded the current administration for its quick response to the issue of building collapse. “It’s an unfortunate incident. Incidentally when I was in government before, I used to be the Vice Chairman of the building collapse committee. “It was something that happened about 8 to 10 years ago, which was what led to the creation of an agency which we called Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) at that time, which was meant to begin to identify structures way ahead before such incidences occur. “But it’s an unfortunate thing, extremely very unfortunate and it is not something that we would like to see happen again. “So the current government has started very quickly, ensuring that they test the integrity of a whole lot of properties we have there. “You know Lagos State is part of the old colony of Lagos and it is not unexpected that you see houses that are over a century old and in their numbers. “So, we need to be real and know that Lagos truly, really needs regeneration, especially Lagos island,’’ he added. Sanwo-Olu, who was accompanied by his Dep. Gov.-Elect, Obafemi Hamzat, said that they were in the villa to congratulate President Buhari on his re-election for another four-year term. NAN