The Ibarapa Youths’ Vanguard has appealed to newly elected members into the Oyo State House of Assembly to zone the Speaker speakership to Ibarapa zone. The Youths, in  a statement by its Coordinator, Ojebola Opeoluwa Matthew, and its General Secretary, Ogunjimi Sunday, also called on  stakeholders, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to reward the zone for its massive support with the position,  stressing the zone has been committed to the party since 1999. The group said it current member, who was re-elected, Hon Adebo Ogundoyin, representing Ibarapa East Local Government, has the leadership qualities for a vibrant legislative arm. “Adebo Ogundoyin is the only returning PDP member in the state legislative chamber and its not only appropriate to support his emergence as the Speaker of the Nineth Assembly, but to also make  Our state sets the pace of a new generation leaders by having the youngest Speaker in the history of Nigeria. “Politically, Oyo state has always set pace for good things in the Nigeria, the era of the Late Sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo can attest to this fact. Today with the clamour  for a new set of young leaders, we are extremely confident that Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin would raise the bar of quality representation of the people,” Ojebola said. The group is also  seeking the support of the Governor-elect, Engr. Seyi Makinde and all stakeholders in the state for the only PDP returning member, Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin representing Ibarapa East constituency. According to the statement, being a reward for the overwhelming support and loyalty given to PDP in Ibarapaland, it will also be a record breaking achievement having the first young speaker in Nigeria, as the pace setter state. It added: “We are not in doubt of our son (Adebo Ogundoyin) capability and credibility to lead the Oyo State 9th house of Assembly, because we are proud of what he has done so far despite joining the 8th Assembly barely eight months ago. “We believe his political records can also speak for him, as the only PDP Assembly Member in the State in this outgoing dispensation, he did not only deliver his ward and local government to PDP and Governor-elect, Seyi Makinde, he equally delivered the zone, this is a tastement of how connected he is with his people” the statement added. The group said that zoning the  seat to Ibarapaland will make the ruling party stronger for rewarding loyal and hardworking Debo Ogundoyin, adding that it will  guarantee a cordial and progressive relationship between the executive and legislature.