Expected to line up against top cricket playing nations at the 2020 ICC World Cup holding in South Africa, the Nigeria Cricket Federation (NCF) believes despite being a debutant, the Nigeria team would not be adding up to numbers at the global showpiece. According to International Cricket Council (ICC) qualification guidelines, the top eleven full members of ICC at the 2018 World Cup qualified automatically for the tournament; Ireland were the only full member to fail to qualify automatically. The qualified teams will be joined by the winners of the five regional qualification tournaments and Nigeria became the first team to win their regional qualification group, and qualified for the Under-19 Cricket World Cup for the first time in their history. Being the 13th edition of the U-19 Cricket World Cup holding in January and February 2020 and it is the second to be hosted by South Africa, Nigeria as debutant will be third African teams aside South Africa and Zimbabwe and the Secretary-General of NCF, Taiwo Oriss believes with adequate preparation, the team would make an impression at the tournament. “It has been an outstanding moment for the team as we did not get the victory cheaply. We cannot afford to miss through the last game against Sierra Leone and we thank God we could make it at the end of the day. We are so excited and we are sure the government would support cricket, and ensure that the team is well prepared for the World Cup. We will not be going to the World Cup to mark attendance but to put up a good show like this again,” Oriss said. However, captain of the victorious team, Sylvester Okpe admitted that the final match against Sierra Leone nearly scuttled their chance of making it to the World Cup. “I was surprised with the Sierra Leoneans because they shut the game after we had an early wicket. There was kind of pressure among the players and I think getting their lines and guys that were initially not bowling started picking up. Even with this, I had faith in the team that we can make it at the end. Also the wind did not help us at all and that was like made me scared. But I must admit that a lot still need to be put into our preparation for the World Cup,” Okpe said. Team Manager, Joseph Onoja believes the feat achieved by the team was divine, while also commencing the team for putting up a good fight. “Nigeria should be patient with this team and I am sure the senior team will also rediscover their form at global stage,” Onoja said.