The people of Amazaba community in Eastern Obolo local government area of Akwa Ibom state have appreciated Governor Udom Emmanuel for signing a peace/resettlement pact to enable them return to their land. Amazaba community made up of 8 villages was involved in a bloody crisis with Ikot Akpan Udo village in Ikot Abasi local government area sometime in 2008 which led hundreds of deaths and destruction of properties on both sides. The state government under the then governor, Senator Godswill Akpabio had asked the warring communities to vacate their lands as a measure to forestall further loss of lives. Following the development, natives of Amazaba had to seek refuge in other riverine communities within and outside Eastern Obolo, most times living under harsh and squalid conditions. For almost 11 years successive administrations in the state could not bring amicable settlement to the lingering crisis to enable the displaced natives of both communities return to their ancestral homes. The chairman Development committee of Amazaba clan, Mr. Ezekiel Tiligbor who spoke with our correspondent yesterday said there was a ray of hope for the resettlement of his people following Governor Emmanuel’s endorsement of an agreement granting them permission to return to their ancestral land. Tiligbor said, ”The people of Amazaba are very grateful to Governor Udom Emmanuel for signing the peace/resettlement agreement which will enable us return to our home. ”We had a fight with our neighbour, the IKot Akpan Udo village. We lost so many lives and properties. We cannot quantify our loss. And I believe Ikot Akpan Udo people also have their sad stories to tell. ”It was an unfortunate incident because we and our neighbours had lived peacefully for decades. We inter married and shared so many things in common. The clash was the the most harrowing period of our lives. ”We have learnt our lesson that crisis does not bring any good considering the fact that we had to vacate our land to squat in other places for eleven years. In the course of these years, we have had to live under very inhuman conditions. As a result, so many of us have died. Our means of livelihood which is fishing had been threatened”. The community leader, while thanking the governor for the intervention, promised that the people of Amazaba would vote enmasse for Emmanuel and the Peoples Democratic Party during the governor/assembly elections as a mark of appreciation for helping them resettle in the ancestral home. 