Globacom’s Executive Vice Chairman Mrs Bella Disu and Rwandan President Paul Kagame have said the digitalisation of Africa is the solution to the continent’s regional integration and economic growth. They spoke during a meeting held on the sideline of the 2019 edition of Africa CEO Forum, which kicked off in Kigali, Rwanda yesterday. They agreed that the deployment of digital technology will help to fast track the continent’s march towards economic prosperity, and that Globacom, the digital solution provider, would be of immense support in driving the digitalisation of the continent, especially through the Glo 1 international submarine cable. Kagame also commended the success Globacom has made over the years. The Glo EVC on her part, said the carrier could help Africa achieve a digitalised economy through its international submarine cable, Glo 1, as well as digital solutions such as mobile money, artificial intelligence (AI), e-health, smart cognitive learning and smart energy. “I commend President Kagame for his exemplary leadership and for the tremendous success Rwanda has achieved under him. Like President Kagame, I have no doubt that greater integration will lead to continental growth and a more prosperous Africa. Globacom is committed to Africa’s economic renaissance,” Mrs Disu said. President Kagame had while declaring the forum opne, called for “open, responsive and accountable governance” on the continent. He said the private sector was critical to growth because of its ability to “envision on what needs to be changed to achieve desired improvement in the private and public sectors”. Speaking later when she chaired a session on: Women in Business on the opening day of the forum, Mrs Disu applauded Rwanda’s policy of 50 per cent female representation in appointments as a good model. She also called for more gender parity on the boards of companies. “There are no two ways about it, women must continue to advance. After all, we make up more than half of the world’s population. My charge to women is to keep climbing the career ladder. Climb it anxious. Climb it confidently. But just keep climbing. And when you get to the top, because you will – give a helping hand to the women coming behind you – this is how we grow,” she said. Dignitaries at the opening session of the Forum included Togolese President, Faure Gnassingbé,  Ethiopian President, Sahle-Work Zewde; Cote d’Ivoire’s Prime Minister, Amadou Gon Coulibaly; Prime Minister of Rwanda, Édouard Ngirente, President of Congo Democratic Republic, Felix Tshisekedi. It was also attended by over 1,800 leading decision makers in the private and public sectors from different parts of Africa and beyond. 