Borno Governor- elect, Prof. Babagana Zulum, has pledged to remain committed to the rebuilding and resettlement drive of the state ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency with millions of displaced persons. Prof. Zulum is the immediate past and pioneer commissioner of Ministry of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement, a ministry created by Gov. Kashim Shettima to handle specific issues with the plight and challenges of victims of Boko Haram insurgency in the state. In his acceptance speech, he extended olive branch to his colleagues within the APC aggrieved during the primary elections and his opponents. He emphasised his administrations priority on the security of lives, just as he promised massive youth empowerment through job creation. “Our administration of continuity will place security of lives at the top of all priorities. “After all, the number one essence of government it to secure lives and create an atmosphere where citizens are not only safe but they actually feel safe. “Insha’Allah, we shall attach similar priority to provision of infrastructure and to rejuvenate the economy of the state. We will build the capacity of more youths and create more jobs for them. “We will increase access to public healthcare, quality and affordable education. We will strengthen agriculture to create verse opportunities.” He added: “Resources as scarce and needs of societies compete. However, I believe that where there is a sincere will, there will always be options to find the ways. “We all have responsibilities towards the rebuilding of Borno State. By we, I mean every resident of Borno across party lines. “I shall be willing to work with everyone, including those who contested with us. I believe that what works better is cooperation rather than confrontation.” He added: “It is universal that politics involves disagreements whether on principles, ideologies or in trying to get the votes. Politics is a contest and grievances do emanate from contests. “Fellow citizens of Borno State, I will on a final note like to say, that no matter our passion and commitment, Allah will at the end, decide what happens. “I appeal to all of you to constantly put us in your individual and group prayers. “I besiege you to pray all the time that Allah guides us to be the kind of leaders that will justify your overwhelming mandate.”