Monday’s Commonwealth Day celebration by the Lagos State Ministry of Education provided a platform for pupils of the six education of the state to educate their peers, teachers and senior government functionaries about the commonwealth nations, their currency, capital, attire and values. The theme for the Day, “A connected Commonwealth” was displayed by the pupils as they competed for laurels through various performing art forms (drama, dance, poetry, choral, and fashion parade). The overall prize went to Education District One, represented by pupils of Oke Odo Senior High School, Ile-Epo, for its drama which portrayed how the countries in the Commonwealth were disconnected because of lack of respect for each other’s culture, languages, or racism. English Teacher at Oke Odo Senior High School, Ile-Epo, Ms Adeola Adefemi, who prepared the pupils for the competition, said the aim of the drama was to solve the problems it highlighted. “We looked at the theme and we felt there should be a problem we solve.  Among the Commonwealth countries, there is problem of racism, lack of respect for culture and language of others and we hope it would be corrected through this drama,” she said. Precious Patrick, an SS3 pupil on the drama team, said she was delighted that her school won despite not displaying costumes as colourful as those of others. “The drama was highly educative.  I learnt we should have respect for one another’s culture, language, not negate people’s views and have regard for the rule of law.  When I saw the costumes of other districts, I thought we could not win because our costumes were not so good, but I am happy we won,” she said. Education District Four came second with their Atilogu Dance that featured a brief parade of other countries, while Education District Three was third with their colourful fashion parade of the national attires of the various countries that make up the commonwealth. In her speech, Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs Adebunmi Adekanye, praised the students for reflecting the theme in the presentation. She said efforts must be made to achieve peace in the Commonwealth. “The theme of the Y2019 Commonwealth celebration ‘A Connected Commonwealth’ is apt, given the prevailing world dynamics. You all will agree with me that there is the need for concerted efforts to pull down all obstacles on our way to building a sustainable and peaceful future that guarantees the optimal development of all, without inhibitions. “Ladies and Gentlemen, especially our amiable children, a connected commonwealth will bring about peace amongst countries of the world. Nations will shun selfishness and bullying of smaller and weaker countries,” he said. Director, Co-curricular Services, Mrs Marion Babs-Akineyeye, said the Commonwealth Day competition was an avenue for the ministry to nurture various talents in the young ones.