•Twinkling, twinkling with Taifa Stars Some Lagos ball fans could still remember, and recall with zest and fondness, the exploits of Juma Pondamali, the Tanzanian national team goalkeeper, and his heroics at the 1980 African Cup of Nations in Lagos. The then Green Eagles, the Nigerian national football team, had in the opening match, raced to a 3:0 lead.  But then, the Tanzanians began a comeback with two straight goals!  The stung Eagles responded with a blitz of attacks.  But they had the cheeky, heroic, and acrobatic Pondamali to to contend with.  Eventually, Nigeria nicked a final fourth goal to wrap up the match at 4:2. But the abiding hero of the evening was Pondamali.  Still, he could have ended up the villain, had Tanzania won, or even levelled up.  That was 1980 Lagos and its fickle fans! Which is why it is gratifying that 39 years later, it would be a Nigerian, Emmanuel Amuneke, that would restore to Tanzania Nations Cup action, since that 1980 exploits of Pondamali, who before the coming of the Nigerian, was drafted in as Taifa Stars goalkeeper trainer. On the face of it, Tanzania’s triumph was not spectacular.  Qualifying for AFCON with eight points from a maximum 18 available can’t be said to be brilliant by any standard.  But it was good enough to nick a second place after Uganda, ironically the same neighbouring country the hosts took to the slaughter slab, on that memorable day at the National Stadium, Dar-es-Salam. Still, it was the stuff with which epochal records are set.  To start with, Tanzania put three un-replied goals past Uganda — Uganda that, all through the qualifying series, had not conceded a single goal.  Then, on that memorable night too, Tanzania made AFCON qualification, 39 years after their last participation in that championship. But as much as qualification matters for that East African country, which not a few still consider football innocents, the attractive brand of football Amuneke’s Tanzania played was simply a breath of fresh air — short and crisp passes, fluid midfield and a sharp and potent attack, that somewhat hints at the “Barcelona” still left in Amuneke.  In his playing days as an imperious winger, Amuneke had stints at the Catalan Camp Nou. But also beyond national glory for Tanzania, it is also personal redemption for Amuneke.  Amuneke in 2015 went to FIFA U-17 World Cup in Chile, and his Golden Eaglets became world champions.  It was the cadet team of Victor Osimhen, Kelechi Nwakali and other young and twinkling stars. That team graduated into the national U-20, but couldn’t even qualify for the African championships proper.  That was because it got eliminated by Sudan in what could pass for a freak.  The Flying Eagles had won the first leg 1:0 away but lost the return leg in Lagos 2:3.  Thus, they got eliminated on superior away goals difference. So Amuneke, supposed the new rising star in the Nigerian football coaching galaxy, plummeted like a comet, after but a brief dazzle!  But then shortly after, came the Tanzania offer, which many didn’t think much would come out of.  With Tanzania’s AFCON qualification, therefore, it’s a new dawn of personal redemption, for Amuneke, in his coaching career. Nigerians are very critical of their own, particularly in the fickle field of Nigerian football, with the penchant to win all of the time.  But it is clear that despite organization that painfully lags behind talent and competence, in Nigerian footballers and coaches, there would appear some innate qualities to be acknowledged and cheered. First, it was Stephen Keshi (God bless his soul!) that took tiny Togo to the World Cup for the very first time; and later became only the second in history to win AFCON as both player (Tunisia 1994) and coach (South Africa 2013).  Now, it is Amuneke breaking, for Tanzania, a 39-year AFCON voodoo. While we congratulate Amuneke for his historic feat, wishing he would twinkle with Taifa Stars to  further develop that country’s football, we call on Nigerians to start celebrating the best from our country. That shows the great heights Nigeria can attain, if we all put in our minds and hearts.