Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki on Thursday faulted the Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, who claimed that he defeated President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC), with about 1.6 million votes. According to him, it was mere hallucination. Obaseki spoke with State House correspondents after meeting with President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Asked to respond to Atiku Abubakar’s claim that he won the elections with about 1.6 millions, Obaseki simply said, “You heard the word, they are hallucinating” According to him, he was at the State House to congratulate President Buhari and also to discuss some developmental issues that have to do with the South-South and South East being the only APC governor in the area. He said, “I came to congratulate the President on his victory in the pools. If you understand the Nigerian politics, I am the only APC governor in the South South and South East. So, it means I must keep a very close relationship with my President.” On what he discussed with him, he said, “It is just issues pertaining to the region, economic development of the region, security and how to make progress in the next four years. He said that his discussion with the President had nothing to do with politics. “Well, I didn’t come to discuss politics. INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) will determine what it needs to do, and as a compliant party we will accept the decisions of INEC.” He also said that his party has nothing to worry about in the Saturday’s supplementary election in Rivers State as it has no candidates in the election. On what his administration was doing to curb insecurity in Northern part of Edo State where some police officers including a Divisional Police Officer (DPO), he said that those involved in the act had been rounded up. He said “Security in that part of the state has been a concern to us and fortunately the Police stepped up investigation of the killings in Afuze Police Station last week and I am happy to report that the culprits have been found. “They are hoodlums who wanted to release one of their colleagues in the police cell. They did it in such a gruesome manner by killing four police officers including the DPO who Watson duty at that time. “They have been arrested and they have made useful confession. We are still investigating to see how this activity is related to such similar activities that we witnessed in that part of the state over the past one year.”