As part of its bold step in finding missing Tuberculosis (TB) cases, the National Tuberculosis, Leprosy and Buruli-Ulcer Control Programme (NTBLCP) of the Federal Ministry of Health is rapidly expanding TB diagnostics and treatment services to move sites across the country. The NTBLCP National Coordinator, Dr. A. Lawanson who made this known in the pre–world tuberculosis day press briefing on Thursday in Abuja, in collaboration with the Stop TB Partnership, said: “OPD screening for TB has been instituted and is currently being scaled up to include all health facilities in the country.” Dr. Lawanson who was represented by Dr. Emperor Ubochioma, said that: “Nigeria is classified among countries with high burden for TB, TB/HIV and MDR-TB and currently ranked 6th globally and 1st in Africa. ‘The country contributes 9% to the global 3.6 million missing TB cases after India and Indonesia with 26% and 11% respectively. “An estimated 418,000 new TB uses cases in Nigeria in 2018 and the country notified l04,904 (25%) and l06,533 cases of TB in 2017 and 2018 respectively giving a gap of 314,712 and 3l9,599 cases yet to be notified respectively. “This implies that a large number of TB cases are still undetected/missing thereby constituting a pool for continuous transmission of the disease in the community. “The missing TB cases in Nigeria can be found among men, women and children with different forms of TB, including drug resistant TB. “The proportion of missing TB cases among children is more worrisome, as the country was only able to notify 7% of the estimated childhood TB cases in 2017.” She however said that the major challenge is low case detection and low levels of awareness among the populace. The NTBLCP boss also added that, “TB diagnosis is also a challenge as Xpert MTB/RIF assay, which is the first line test for the diagnosis of TB in the country, has a coverage of 41%, that is, 394 machines in 315 LGAs out of 774 LGAs in Nigeria.” Prof. Lovett Lawson, who is the Board Chair of Stop TB Partnership Nigeria, said: “TB remains the world’s deadliest infectious killer. And Nigeria is among the 30 high burden countries for TB, TB/HIV and MDR-TB. “Nigeria is ranked 6th among the 30 high TB burden countries in the world and 1st in Africa. Nigeria also accounts for 8% of the global gap between TB incidence and notified cases. “Unfortunately, despite significant progress made over the last few years, every hour, eighteen (18)  Nigerians still die of TB; a disease that is preventable and curable. “To accelerate the TB response in countries to reach targets – Heads of States including His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, came together and made strong commitments to end TB at the first-ever UN High Level Meeting in September 2018 in New York.” He explained that the World TB Day 2019, which will hold on the 24th of March, is a continuation of joint efforts to keep TB high on the global and national agenda. The theme of this year World TB Day – ‘IT’S TIME’ (Adapted in Nigeria as “It’s time to end TB in Nigeria” – puts the accent on the urgency to act on the commitments made by global leaders at the UNHLM in New York, to: scale up access to prevention and treatment; build accountability; ensure sufficient and sustainable financing including for research; promote an end to stigma and discrimination, and promote an equitable, rights-based and people-centered TB response. According to Dr Odume Bethrand, the Senior Programme Specialist – TB/HIV of the United States Centre for Disease Control (CDC), “We are looking at the funding gap which is about 24%, about N35bn as at last year. Talking about TB case detection case in the country, we can’t reach out there if there are no resources to support the infrastructure, human resources, and other innovation approaches in detecting TB cases, and even support for the patient. “We agreed that it should be a multi-stakeholder approach; the government must be there, the funding organizations, even the patient group too. The problem now in Nigeria is that the private sector is not coming onboard to raise funding and collaborate to in addressing the TB issues in the country. “The government has done great. When we look at funding gaps, remember that the health care facilities out there are supported by government, and the people providing those services are being paid by government. But we are looking at drugs which are coming in through the global funds and other partners supporting. Government support and funding have actually increased overtime.” Other stakeholders at the pre-conference were: World Health Organization (WHO), USAID, USG implementers, Institute of Human Virology, Nigeria (IHVN), Development Communications (DevComs) Network, and many more. 