As the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu celebrates his 67th birthday today, Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU revisits the achievements of the eminent politician, administrator and governor of Lagos State between 1999 and 2007, which his successors have continued to build on in the Centre of Excellence. Twelve years after, Lagosians are full of nostalgia. The welfarist legacy of the Tinubu administration in Lagos State has served as an enduring foundation for successive governments to build on. The achievements of former Governor Bola Tinubu between 1999 and 2007 underscored the power of diligent planning and execution of the famed 24-Year Socio-economic and Political Development Plan. The Lagos blueprint also attested to Tinubu’s power of foresight and the import of team work. Lagos, according to observers, has remained a model state because it has evolved a standard that cannot permit deviations by successors. In the successive cabinet of talents are seasoned technocrats who cannot afford to play politics with the development of the state, and the most important factor in success is the judicious allocation of resources. Indisputably, the former governor was prepared for the job. He is educated and highly exposed. Also, Tinubu is not a politician without a second address. He had made name in the private sector as a successful boardroom guru. Tinubu left Nigeria for the United States of America in search of the proverbial golden fleece in 1975. He attended the Richard Daley College, Illinois, where he was on the college’s Honours’ List, and later, Chicago State University, Chigaco where he acquired a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration, with specialisation in Accounting and Management. Tinubu shone like a star in the tertiary institution. In his second year, he was accorded the honour of teaching remedial tutorial classes on part-time basis to the students of the faculty. He was on the Dean’s List throughout his undergraduate years. He received the Outstanding Students’ Award, University Scholar’s Award and Certificate of Merit in Accounting and Finance in his first year. Apart from his academic prowess, he was also a campus politician. He was elected as the President of the Accounting Society in his final year. After his university education, Tinubu worked with the America based-accounting firm, Arthur Anderson. Later, he moved to ‘Deloitte Haskins and Sells’, now Deloitte Haskins and Touche for his professional training. The young accountant also received professional training in other prominent firms, including General Motors, First National Bank of ChicagoProcter and Gamble, International Harvester, Fortune 50 Firms, and DEC, the largest communication and utility company in the United States. Between 1981 and 1082, Tinubu was a member of the Deloitte team that established the financial system of ARAMCO, the giant oil company. He was even retained by the firm to supervise the implementation of its financial system. However, his employment with the Mobil Producing Nigeria as a senior auditor marked a turning point. He rose to the position of the Audit Manager, and later, Treasurer of the Mobil Producing, Nigeria. Under his leadership, there were prudent financial management, aggressive corporate think-tank for the reorganisation of the company’s financial system and treasury activities, the integration of staff development, cost saving and fraud detection and prevention. The experience made Tinubu to describe himself as a financial surgeon. In the Third Republic, Tinubu entered politics as a new breed. Despite being a green horn, his transformation was legendary. He was an outstanding member of the Primose, led By Chief Dapo Sarunmi. As a Social Democratic Party (SDP) senator, he had wanted to serve as Senate President. But, he had to step down for Dr. Iyorcha Ayu. In the National Assembly, Tinubu was not a bench warmer. He was the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Finance, Appropriation and Currency. It was distressing to him that former military Head of State Gen. sani Abacha sacked the civilian authorities in 1993. Tinubu bounced back in 1999 as governor. Since he had a vision for Lagos State, he planned well, laid a solid foundation for its future and made a difference.  Lagosians recall with fondness the Tinubu years in the Round House, Alausa, Ikeja, the seat of government.  The challenges were daunting. To change the face of the metropolis, Tinubu assembled the best brains in his cabinet. More importantly, he fashioned out a 24-year Development Blueprint, which his successor, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), successfully built on. Paying tribute to Tinubu during his 60th birthday, Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), In his tribute to the pathfinder during his 60th birthday, Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), observed that the former governor tried to reinvent the glorious Awolowo era in the defunct Western Region. He applauded his sagacity and leadership qualities, stressing that “Tinubu remains a major factor in Nigeria’s politics.” Tinubu was a dynamic administrator and workaholic. As noted by his Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Dele Alake, “Asiwaju Tinubu has no apologies for pushing his health to an edge. He says he applied for the job. He begged Lagosians to give him the job, to give him a place to stand so that he could move their world forward. And if the people identified him as the person for the job, he has no option, but to put in his very best.” Also, Tinubu’s media aide, Kehinde Bamigbetan, said: “Governor Tinubu’s philosophy of governance was welfarist. He believes the state must serve the interest of the poor and the underprivileged by encouraging the rich to subsidise the poor. He believes that government, as the agency set up to do this job, must be efficient in raising revenue and dispensing services.” Tinubu inherited a Lagos State that was on its knees, although it remained a potentially great state. Lagos roads were an eyesore. According to records, in five years, Tinubu had awarded contracts for 422 road projects, and 308  were completed. His Works and Infrastructure Commissioner, Chief Rauf Aregbesola, later governor of Osun State, was up and doing. Road projects completed include Ijegun, Ojo; Oshifolarin, Somolu; Rhythm 93.7, Eti-Osa; Arufa Olugbemi, Ojo; Adeola Odeku, Victoria Island; Agege Motor Road (Idi Oro to Ilupeju Byepass),Mushin and Ojuwoye, Eko Akete, Abaronje-Okerube, Ikotun-Igbado; Alakuko, Ojokoro; and Aniyaloye/Edidi/Adegboyega/Fatai Bello, Ifelodun. Othere were Irede, Amuwo-Odofin; Owuto Ajaguro, Ikorodu; Ekoro, Agbado Oke; Aboru, Agbado Oke odo; Okun Alfa, Ibeju; Agunji Ajiran, Eti Osa West; Old Ota, Ifako Ijaye; Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun, Maroko-Epe Bye-Pass, Eti Osa West; and Oterubi Ogidan, Agboju.  A memoranda of agreement was signed with reputable construction  companies for the construction of Ajao/Ejigbo Road/Bridge, LASU-Iba-igbo Elerin-Agboroko-Badagry Expressway, and Isheri Osun-Isolo Housing Estate-Ago Palace Way. The Lagos Island Central Business District Road upgrading and renewal project were undertaken to give the most crucial economic zone a face lift. The roads were Broad Street/Lagos Western outer Ring Road/ Marina/ Third mainland Ramp; Nnamidi Azikiwe/ cater Bridge; Cater Bridge/ Ereko martins/Balogun and Idumagbo/Third mailand Bridge and inner adjoining roads. Tinubu also repositioned the health sector through heavy financial and human capital investment. More General Hospitals were established. The existing ones were rehabilitated. Also, the administration built more health centres at the grassroots. Modern medical equipment were procured for the health hospitals and helath centres. New medical laboratories were also set up. The administration introduced free health policy for children below 18 and adults above 65 years. The drugs for patients were heavily subsidized. Under the Blindness Prevention Programme, millions of Lagosians were saved from sight problems. There were free eye surgeries and free glasses (Dingi Bola) were distributed to patients. To reduce the scourge of HIV/AIDS, the Lagos State AIDS Control Agency intensified its enlightenment programme targeted at youths. The administration’s “Roll Back Malaria” programme complemented the Eko Free Malaria Treatment programme under which millions of people were treated. Government also combated the dreadful diseases, including tuberculosis by setting up clinic devoted to the disease and polio through the immunization of millions of children. To attend to medical emergencies, the  LASAMBUS scheme was initiated. Dozens of ambulances were provided to ease rescue operations. Tinubu introduced reforms, which led to the decentralization of the Health Management Board, the revatalisation of the Primary healthcare System, the establishment of the Lagos State Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency to ensure quality assurance, the establishment of Hospital Services Commission and the promotion of partnerships in health between the government and the private sector. In 1999, Tinubu inherited a city of fifth. Refuse disposal was a major headache. The fear of epidemic engulfed the state.  The former governor separated the Ministry of Environment from the Ministry of Physical Planning and repositioned it to combat flooding and coordination of waste disposal operations. Also, the administration defended the education sector. Lagos is a mini-Nigeria playing host to citizens from other states of the federation. A discriminatory education policy was incompatible with the spirit of Lagos. Tinubu believed passionately that education was the antidote to poverty. Moreover, his mother, the late Abibat Mogaji, always sent a long list of students to him for financial assistance. Thus, the former governor started paying WAEC and NECO fees and fees for internal examinations. The administration kicked-off the Millennium School Projects as part of efforts to guarantee a conducive atmosphere for teaching and learning in public schools. In 2001, Tinubu returned the missionary schools to their owners, thereby enhancing private participation in the critical sector. The administration’s youth development programme led to the annual “One Day Governor” event. The academic competition anchord by the New Era Foundation sponsored by the First Lady, Mrs. Oluremi Tinubu, thre up the young scholars. Also, the former governor converted the dreadful Ita Oko prisoners camp into a youth skills acquisition centre. There was also a programme of women empowerment to enable women cope with the harsh economic realities and make them become . More importantly, women were reoriented towards self-employment. In the housing sector, Tinubu administration facilitated access to quality accommodation and succeeded in making the Lekki corridor the fastest growing estates. The former governor lamented the Federal Government’s failed housing policy and the neglect of the housing needs of the former  Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He restructured the Ministry of Works and Housing by upgrading the Housing Department or directorate into a full fledged ministry. The ministry was mandated to provide 5,00 housing units yearly and coordinate the activities of the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC) and the lagos Building Investment Company for more effective management. More importantly, the sector was repositioned to attract private sector participation. There was a turnaround in the fortunes of the LSDPC. Its account was red before Tinubu assumed office. In his first term, the moribund Michael Otedola Low Income Housing was completed. The Jubilee Housing Scheme-q 1,300 units of low income housing designated as Abraham Adesanya Housing Estate, was completed. The project was undertaken directly by the ministry. Also delivered were the Lekki Scheme 1, named after the late Eleko of Lagos, Oba Adeyinka Oyekan, the Oko Oba units, Oregun Estate, Ikeja, Femi Okunnu Housing estate, Leki and the Mile 2 Housing Estate. Also, concerted efforts were made to develop the proposed estates in Gbagada 1 and 2, Ibeshe, Ikeja 1 and 2, Oko Oba/Alaba and Ewu Elepe. There were proposals on “Teachers’ Village,” “Civil servants’ Village” and “Judges Village.” The mortgage system was strengthened and foreign investors were encouraged. There were also novel initiatives in transportation, including the development of modern water transportation, BRT and LASTMA. Under the visionary administration, Lagos blazed the trail in the Independent Power Project (IPP), which continually supplied 270 mega watts of electricity to the national grid. The project demonstrated the capacity of some states to generate electricity, if the power to legislate on it is on the Concurrent List.  Tinubu electrification project covered over 100 communities. In his first term, 53 rural communities were targeted.  The projects were completed in Egan, Atewolere, Ifesowapo, Aboru, Agbado Ayetoro, Akorede, Isheri Ikosi, Orile Aguntan, Rofo, Borokini, Omologbede, Araromi, Oke Agbo, Erekusu, Logberu, Okegelu and Ebute, Lekki. Others were Origanringan, Onigbolakowe, Oke odo Elemoro, Ipaja Isale odo, Agenuba, Ajelogo, Mutaku, Egansando, Ayanfe, topo and Ikola Agbenaje. Tinubu created additional 37 councils, following the legitimate agitations of Lagosians for improved governance at the grassroots. The number of the councils rose to 57. However, the National Assembly  refused to list the councils in the constitution. For the former governor, necessity became the mother of invention. When the allocation for Lagos was seized, Tinubu put on his thinking cap. He embarked on a novel and aggressive revenue generation drive, which halted the dependence on federal allocations to the state. In 1999, under the military rule, Lagos was generating N600,000 monthly. Today, the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) is around N33 billion. For eight years, Tinubu also agitated for a special status, or special economic assistance, for Lagos State. Up to now, it is still a dream. Tinubu resolved the succession hurdle successfully in 2007. His successor, Fashola, built on his achievements. Tinubu has received many awards. They include the ‘Best Governor of for 2001 by the Nigerian/Belgian Chamber of Commerce, Winner of 2002 Best Practices Prize in improving the living environment (by the Federal Ministry of Works and UN habitat Group), 2000 Best computerized Government in Nigeria (by the Computer Association of Nigeria), 2003 Green Crystal Award for Enhancing the Value of the Environment (by Clean-Up Nigeria (CUN), 2002 Healthcare Award as the best provider of best health services in Nigeria, Presidential Merit Award for technological Development by the Nigerian Society of Engineers, 2001 National Literacy award for outstanding contribution to mas literacy, Co-winner of 2002 Outstanding Alumnus award of the American Association of Community Colleges (AACC), 2001 Distinguished Alumnus Award by Chicago State University, Distinguished Service Award for Exemplary Leadership by the Lagos State Economic Summit Group, Certificate of Commendation by the national Conference of Black mayors, Silver Jubilee Anniversary Award as Labour Friendly Governor by the National Union of Petroleum and Natural gas Workers (NUPENG) and Award of Recognition by Nigerian Berge Limited for the initiation of the Independent Power project (IPP). Tinubu was also conferred with a Honorary Doctor of Laws Degree by the Abia State University.  