President Muhammadu Buhari, drumming up support for the candidates of his All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday urged Nigerians to vote for APC flagbearers on Saturday. According to him, security agencies will ensure a peaceful exercise. In his message to Nigerians on the rescheduled election, the President described Saturday as important as February 23, when the Presidential and National Assembly elections were held. He cautioned youths against yielding themselves as willing tools for violence and ballot box snatching. The President said: “The second and final phase of the 2019 general elections comes up on Saturday, March 9, with Nigerians voting for governors and members of Houses of Assembly in the states. “Let me once again extend my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives or sustained injuries as a result of accidents or criminal violence during the elections. “The onus is once again on qualified people to turn out in large numbers to exercise their civic rights. With the presidential poll behind us, let us not become complacent, and fail to vote in the gubernatorial poll. The forthcoming elections are as important for good governance as that of the presidency and the National Assembly. “Indeed, governance at the state level is closer to us, and should touch our lives more directly. That is why it is vital for us to participate in the choice of who governs us at the state levels. “I, therefore, urge you to troop out massively on Saturday to elect your governors and state lawmakers. “As a member of the APC, I recommend those standing on the platform of the party to you, as we are guided by progressive ideals, and we will not disappoint you. “Equally, I urge you to comport yourself properly, as you turn out for the election. Avoid all deviant behaviours like ballot stuffing, ballot snatching, and any other action that does not conform to best electoral practices. “I assure you that the security agencies will be on hand to protect voters, and ensure that the process is not undermined in anyway.” The President went on: “Let’s make the gubernatorial polls much better than the presidential, which the local and international observers have adjudged to be free and fair.”