As Abia State prepares for Saturday’s governorship poll, Smart Nwachi examines the chances of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu at the poll. THE essence of democracy is to provide a veritable tool for socio- economic and political development for the people and provide the platform for participatory governance. As democracy is defined as the government of the people for the people and by the people, democracy enthrones leaders who are collectively chosen by the majority of the people. It is expected that leaders who are elected into various positions of trust should endeavor to endear themselves to the people who elected them. This obviously is achievable through good leadership. The Abia state story is not far from the analogy above. This is because of the strategic position of Abia state in the  political economy of the south east as one of the states that holds a high profile commercial activity in Nigeria. In realising this strategic fact, the Governor of Abia state, Dr.Okezie Ikpeazu took the bull by the horn through the Enyimba Economic City Project. The philosophy behind this project is to launch the popular Ariaria international market into global attention such that people from all works of life would find the market suitable for their trade. By so doing the economy of the state will no doubt improve in geometric progression. Although, Ikpeazu’s administration was greeted with so many distractions such as protracted legal battle which followed his election in 2015, his administration was able to pierce through the thorny path to chat a new course for the overall well being of the people of the state. For instance, one sector that the Ikpeazu led administration has made remarkable impact is on the area of road construction across the three senatorial zones of the state. Aba, the commercial nerve centre of the state is certainly the better. Roads which were hitherto abandoned have received proper attention. Worthy of mention in this regard include Faulks road being handled by SETRACO. Work has also commenced on the strategic Port-Harcourt road not to mention Ukaegbu, Ehere, Umuola and many others. As at the last count over 70 roads have been completed with so many others on-going. Despite space constraint, it is worthy to mention that the governor has also made remarkable in road into the overhauling of the health, education and agricultural sectors of the state respectively. But a revisit the Enyimba Economic City Project, cannot be over emphasized. This is because of the economic importance and the benefits the investment will yield  to the people of the state when completed. This singular project which has seen the governor travel the length and breadth of the world, from Singapore to china, as well as other Asian and American countries , is sitting on a wide field of 9,803 hectares of land spreading across three local government  areas of Ukwa east, Ukwa west and Ugwunagbo . There is no doubt that the  Enyinmba Economic City Project will open up Nigeria’s business fortune internationally and cushion the effect of population influx into the state, the city is also designed to provide Urban Housing of over 3000 units as well as over 2000 industrial business units with an estimated annual value output of more than five billion dollars. The project which is to be done under Private Public Partnership with Crown Realities Plc, the host communities, Abia state government and federal government of Nigeria has witnessed its first phase fully designed and would commence in the first quarter of 2019. This is indeed a one in a million project. One predominant cankerworm that has eaten deep into the developmental fabrics of our dear nation is the inability of successive administrations to continue with the project of their predecessors. This ugly monster is the reason behind abandoned projects scattered in almost 36 states of the federation, thereby retarding economic growth and creating unemployment. In one of his media outings, Governor Ikpeazu noted that he will be fulfilled in life to see the Enyinmba Economic City Project completed and commissioned as the project is capable of re-writing the ugly economic story of the state as well as provide over 600,000 job opportunities for the teaming youths of the state Majority of Abians who realize the prospects in the Enyinmba Economic City Project express worries that the next administration may not complete the project and therefore called on all the citizens of Abia state to reconsider Ikpeazu for his second term to enable him realize this lofty dreams. Dr Ugodinma Onyika , a community leader from Ugwunagbo local government area, said economic empowerment of the people is not rested on short term gifts such as cars, cash, but a solid foundation such as the Enyimba Economic City  Project which has a positive multiplier effect and can stand the test of time He commended Ikpeazu for conceiving such a wonderful idea and urged him to face the project squarely “even if this is the singular project he would achieve in his time as a governor, his name must have been written in Gold”. Maxi Ukaoma Wabara, a businessman, noted that visionary leadership is the ability of such leader to see far beyond his immediate surrounding and focus into a distant future which according to him is represented by the Ikpeazu’s Enyinmba Economic City Project. Maxi Wabara was of the view that politicisind of ideas was not the best for the state and urged politicians and the entire people of Abia state to allow the governor to return for the second term so that this noble dream targeted towards boosting and laying a lasting economic foundation for the state was not abandoned half way. But, apart from the Enyimba Economic City Project, Abians are aware of many other laudable projects across all the sectors which were started by the present government and ongoing which gives credence to the need for Ikpeazu’s administration to be given a second term in office. The Abia State political landscape has provided a peaceful trajectory which had afforded the three senatorial zones of the state opportunity for the number one position of the state. Abia north senatorial zone had the slot of the governorship between 1999-2007 followed by the Abia central between 2007 – 2015 before the turn of the Abia south which presented the incumbent who will spend one term by may 29 this year and have performed creditably and should be allowed for  Equity-sake to complete his second tenure His other two strong contenders, Dr. Alex Otti of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Dr. Uche Ogah of the All Progressives Congress (APC), have exhibited desperation in their quest to become the governors since 2015 against the Charter of  Equity propounded by the founding fathers of the state. But, behind the duos desperation is a peep into their past. Dr Alex Otti was alleged to have run down Diamond bank as managing Director which led to the bank being acquired today by Access bank Plc while his counterpart, Dr Uche Ogah is alleged to be bankrupt with some of his workers being owed for the past eight months. Stella Odimegwu, an Ohafia born legal practitioner described the ambition of the duo as a wild goose chase. She said “APGA and APC in the state are divided against themselves with two Governorship candidates parading themselves and it can not stand. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has done well in this his first term and should be allowed to complete his tenure” “These are the same people who dragged him for years at the court after the 2015 governorship election and they are out again. These two ambitious men who cannot wait for their turn come 2023 are the real enemies of the state,” she said. Odimegwu added: “Ikpeazu,s chances are brighter and the he is favored to win the election. I am not scoring him 100 per cent, but he should  be voted and supported by the entire Abians to complete the good works that he has started” 