A former Governor of Ogun State and Director-General of Abubakar Atiku Campaign Organisation , Otunba Gbenga Daniel, on Saturday announced his departure from the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). In a letter he wrote to the National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus, he also informed of his decision to quit partisan politics. The letter, a soft copy of which was received by our reporter, specified that the resignation of the former governor who ruled Ogun state between 2003 and 2011, on the platform of the PDP, takes effect from March 14. During the just- concluded 2019 general election, Daniel also served as the Deputy Chairman of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council (South). OGD’s media aide, Steve Oliyide, while confirming the development to The Nation, said :”Yes, the letter is from Otunba Gbenga Daniels. “He wrote the letter and it is true that he announced his exit from partisan politics”. The ex-governor had directed his supporters to vote for the All Progressive Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate, Dapo Abiodun in the last governorship election in the state. “This is to inform you of my intention to resign from active and partisan politics with effect from today, the 14th day of March, 2019. “My decision in this regard is entirely personal to me and having served in various capacities, including as Governor of Ogun State. “I have resolved to immerse myself in some other vocations and take on some new challenges,” the letter reads in part. Giving an insight into what he intends to do afterwards, Daniel explained: “My decision to quit partisan politics notwithstanding, I have decided to rejuvenate my charity based organization, the Gateway Front Foundation (GFF) which will literally continue to dispense succor to our people in need, address and assist in the areas of some of their health challenges. I also plan on resuscitation of the non-partisan Political Leadership Academy (POLA) which I established some years ago as a platform of political education to our citizens.” Hinting on some possible reasons for his decision to leave the PDP and shun partisan politics henceforth, the former PDP national chairmanship aspirant recalled: “Notwithstanding these widely acclaimed achievements however, our party, the People’s Democratic Party ran into trouble waters towards the end of our administration (about the year 2009) which led to the sad loss in the election of 2011, and regrettably ten (10) years after the party has been unable to resolve those internal disputes and challenges. Meanwhile, the PDP in Ogun State was confronted with a very difficult situation in matter of choice. “Whereas the national leadership of our party, recognized one candidate for the 2019 election, by court pronouncements another candidate, and in compliance with those court orders, which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recognized was on the INEC list. “The candidates recognised by INEC were not acceptable to the national leadership of the party. “Our situation was then compounded because the candidate which the court and INEC recognized and accepted as valid has also been expelled by the party. This was the dilemma we found ourself as we approached the March 9, 2019 Governorship and State House of Assembly elections. “Going forward, we have responded to the yearnings of our people and joined others in emplacing an administration that we believe will better serve the interests of our people than what currently exists. The rest they say is now history. “I must say that looking back, I do not have any regrets over that patriotic choice and decision, especially as several of our citizens, leaders and stakeholders in the state and outside have commended that singular action. “Many stakeholders within and outside Ogun State feel fulfilled, excited and grateful about our decision to join others in putting a stop to a regime that was believed to be against the collective and general welfare of our people.”