President Muhammadu Buhari and All Progressives Congress(APC) leaders will meet after the governorship poll to decide the zoning formula for sharing power at the National Assembly, a source said yesterday. President Buhari has, however, told his strategists that “he won’t be a bystander this time around”. He said he will be involved in the talks and intrigues on the election of principal officers of the National Assembly. The APC said it will also play an active role in choosing the new leaders of the Assembly. According to the results of the National Assembly released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),  APC won 65 of the 109 senatorial seats, representing about 59.6%. PDP won 42 senatorial seats(40.3%) and Young Progressives Party (YPP) got one (1%). As for the House of Representatives, APC won over 230 of the 360 seats, leaving PDP with over 100 slots. The horse-trading has started among the senators-elect and representatives-elect. Leading the agitation for principal offices  in the Senate are Senators-elect from the North-East, North-Central, South-South, and South-West. Some of those aspiring for Senate President are Senate Leader Ahmad Lawan; former Senate Leader Ali Ndume; former Gombe State Governor and outgoing Committee on Appropriation Chairman  Danjuma Goje, Parliamentary Support Group (PSG) Chairman and ex-Governor Adamu Abdullahi and Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege. Some of the  seven ranking senators from the Southwest are already jostling for either Deputy Senate President or Senate Leader or Deputy Senate Leader. The House of Representatives Speaker may come from the Southwest, with the outgoing Majority Leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, as a leading candidate. He will have a repeat match against Speaker Yakubu Dogara of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The APC has not decided on whether or not to retain its pre-2015 poll power sharing formula. Some party leaders are said to be pushing for a review of the zoning system since the President has promised an all-inclusive government. A source said: “We are actually waiting for the last strands of the general elections before we work out a formula which will guide the election of principal officers in the National Assembly. We won’t allow hijackers under any guise. “I think the ongoing agitation is based on the 2015 power rotation system in the party, which was altered by some rebellious members who later conspired with the PDP to produce Dr. Bukola Saraki as Senate President and Dogara as Speaker. “Some of our leaders are pushing for the undiluted implementation of the 2015 power formula, but others are insisting that we must tinker with the zoning system and align it with the sharing formula in the Executive arm in order to give a sense of belonging to all the six geopolitical zones. “In fact, some leaders want the allegation of nepotism  against the APC administration addressed.” Asked of the position of the President on the 9th National Assembly leadership, a Presidency source said: “He has told his strategists that ‘I won’t be a bystander this time around.’ But he  did not say his mindset or those he has favoured. When contacted, the National Publicity Secretary of APC, Mr. Lanre Issa-Onilu, said: “There is no discussion now on the choice of principal officers until after the governorship and state House of Assembly elections. “We will take stock after the poll because we need to know what our number is in the two chambers because there are still some results hanging. “I can, however, assure you that the party is going to play an active role this time around. We will ensure the emergence of principal officers who will put the nation first and assist the Executive to implement APC manifestoes. “Our party wants National Assembly leaders who will work hard and assist the President to execute far-reaching programmes. “APC will mandate its members to cooperate with members of the opposition in the National Assembly to see that Nigerians get the best.” Responding to a question, Onilu said: “We will not tolerate anti-party activities by newly elected Senators and members of the House of Representatives and we have already demonstrated this. If a serving governor can be suspended by APC, then it should be clear to all that we won’t condone indiscipline.”