Bisola Anthony, a housewife in Ondo, south-west Nigeria got a news mention when she was reported to have allegedly used a stirring rod to assault her two-year-old daughter over her inability to properly recite numerals. According to a Nigerian daily newspaper, cries from Bisola’s apartment prompted neighbours who rushed in to plead. They got in to meet a child bathed with injuries and blood stains and subsequently reported the mother to the police. In Nigeria, spanking children for faltering with school works is a regular occurrence. As parents in Nigeria continue to exert pressure on children to start learning and reading almost as soon as they set foot into a school compound; Ghana, Nigeria’s close neighbour is advancing a different approach. “Research has shown that children learn better through play. Kindergarten education is not a serious business, you need to allow the child to play.” Vida Ntow, the Early Childhood Coordinator for Ghana’s education ministry told a group of journalists during a reporting trip organized by the International Centre for Journalists. Ranked as one of the fastest growing economies in the world, Ghana is a pioneer in the expansion of two years of pre-primary education in Africa. The West African country is gaining tremendous strides. Net enrollment has soared to 74.6 % as seven out of 10 children are in school at the KG level. In 2005, the government of Ghana developed a KG Curriculum and also implemented KG as part of basic education. An enrollment drive on age appropriateness has seen improvement in right-age enrollment even as the percentage of trained teachers from KG increased from 30 percent in 2007 to 65 percent in 2017. At Ashongman MA Basic 1 school, a public school in Accra, Ghana’s capital city, children in KG classrooms sat circled around a wooden table. The walls of the classrooms are painted with trees, houses and the various shades of the rainbow. Hanging on the walls were letters of alphabets and numerals in varying sizes.  There’s a lot of singing and dancing in many of Ghana’s KG classes. The children at Ashongman wriggled their waists as they danced along with the teacher to the rhythm of school rhymes sang in the local dialect. Except for English language, other forms of learning at the KG level is conducted in the language of the immediate environment. “You may think they are playing but at the same time they are learning. We build learning around the play-based method. We don’t subject them to paper and pen examination, but according to whatever activity they are capable of doing at a given time”, Ntow stressed. Ntow further attested that it’s not been easy convincing Ghanaian parents to change attitudes regarding expectation of writing and reading from pre-school children. Even though government is keen on a play-based method for kindergarten education in Ghana, the Rote method which deals with memorization of learning based on repetition is favoured by parents and some private schools. According to Oxfordlearning.com, benefits of the Rote learning method include ability to quickly recall basic facts and develop foundational knowledge. But the disadvantage far outweighs the perceived benefit. Experts have found that the Rote method does not encourage the use of social skills and also deters a deeper understanding of subjects. Again, children taught through the Rote method may be unable to establish connections between new and previous knowledge, resulting in wrong impression or misunderstanding of a concept. Although Ghana’s early child education system is still fraught with inadequate infrastructure and low capacity of KG teachers; the Ghanaian government has demonstrated commitment to strengthening the system in a way that ensures accountability for early childhood education services, Agnes Arthur, an Education Specialist with UNICEF in Ghana told The Nation.