Not only is Anthony Joshua a formidable force in the ring, the 29-year-old has an impressive portfolio of commercial endorsements. The heavyweight champion has quickly become a lucrative figure in his own right, striking deals with big name brands such as JD , Lucozade Sport and Beats to name a few. Ranging from clothing to television and cars, Joshua has an extensive collection of endorsements from which he reportedly earned £2.7million in 2017. Ultimately, the ‘Team AJ’ brand depends very much on Joshua’s success. With over 240,000 tickets reportedly sold for his previous three fights and an impressive 22-match winning streak, the British star’s image is bigger than ever. In 2015, Joshua embarked on a joint-venture with Freddie Cunningham and set up their own company, AJ Boxing and Commercial, primarily earning money through 13 sponsorship deals. This collection of sponsors is the marketing force behind ‘Team AJ,’ promoting the brand and its image across a wide range of platforms. Joshua’s deal with promotional company Matchroom Sport is believed to be worth £100m in itself, while Forbes reported endorsement figures of $7m for 2017. Whenever he appears for promotional eventshe wears Under Armour or Hugo Boss and you can be sure he’ll have a pair of beats headphones to hand and perhaps a Audemars Piguet watch around his wrist. He invested in BXR gym in London and is provided with a set of wheels by Land Rover while the Londoner also has deals with Lucozade, Lynx, JD Sports, StubHub and Bulk Powders. In the ring, Joshua has taken the boxing world by storm after reportedly taking £15 million from the bouts with Wladimir Klitschko and Carlos Takam respectively, with total winnings suggested to be $32 million as of May 2018. He boasts an incredible record of 21 knockouts from 22 fights, most recently defeating Alexander Povetkin by TKO in September 2018. Soon, he will be heading stateside as he looks to conquer attractive markets outside of the UK and fans don’t have to wait too long to see their man in action. For the next couple of months, Joshua will be preparing for a massive world heavyweight championship battle against Jarrell ‘Big Baby’ Miller in New York. The fight is scheduled for June 1st and will take place at Madison Square Garden .