The trial of the former governor of Oyo State, Adebayo Alao-Akala, and two others for alleged N11.5 billion fraud was on Wednesday adjourned to May 2, 2019 due to absence of the prosecution witness. The witness was to give evidence in support of the 11-count charge preferred against the accused by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Justice Olalekan Owolabi of the Oyo State High Court, sitting in Iyaganku, Ibadan, granted the EFCC’s request after its counsel, Dr. Ben Ubi, told the court that the second witness, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, who is also the current Head of Operations in the commission’s Port Harcourt zonal office, was unable to make it to the court. The former governor is standing trial alongside former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters during his tenure, Sen. Hosea Agboola, and an Ibadan-based businessman, Femi Babalola. The charge against them borders on conspiracy, awarding a contract without budgetary provision, obtaining by false pretence, acquiring property with money derived from an illegal act and concealing the ownership of such property, among others. Among the offences, according to the information on the court papers, was a road contract worth N8.5bn, which Alao-Akala allegedly awarded between 2007 and 2009 to Pentagon Engineering Services, Babalola’s company, without budgetary provision. The said contract was executed on behalf of the 33 local governments in the state. Also in the charge is the allegation that the former governor ordered the supply of drilling machines on behalf of the 33 local governments in the state to the tune of N3.5 billion. Apart from the allegation of conspiring with Agboola to withdraw N2.9 billion from the Oyo State Local Governments Joint Account, the anti-graft agency is equally prosecuting the former governor for allegedly illegally acquiring some property on Old Bodija Road, off Rotimi Williams Road, when he was in office. The offences were said to contravene Sections 22 (4) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act and 1 (18) of the Advanced Fee Fraud Act. The case was originally filed in 2011, and has witnessed series of adjournments due to the volume of evidences and witnesses prepared to reinforce the prosecution’s argument. Though, the court was to continue with the trial yesterday, it was not possible because the witness billed for cross-examination was not present. Dr. Ubi told the court that the witness was unable to attend the proceeding because he was involved in election duties. Counsel to the first and third defendants, Hakeem Afolabi (SAN) and his counterpart holding the brief of the second defendant, Richard Ogunwole (SAN), did not oppose the prosecution counsel. The judge adjourned the matter to May 2, 2019 for continuation of trial as he ordered the prosecution to make its witnesses available at the next date.