A recharge card seller, Isiaka Yusuf, is distraught over the condition of his nine-year-old son, Kehinde, who needs N550,000 to treat hydrocephalus, known in lay man language as ‘’water in the brain’’. The boy, he told The Nation,  had never walked since he was born. Yusuf said Kehinde and his twin brother, Taiwo, were born at the General Hospital, Ado-Awaye, Iseyin, Oyo State on September 19, 2009, but six months after, Kehinde had repeated high temperature and had been receiving treatment since then. He said he had spent about N4million, sold his car, house, belongings, spent his savings and proceeds from his business to treat his son. Yusuf said his wife, an auxiliary nurse, left her job to attend to their son. “We can no longer raise the N550,000 needed to complete Kehinde’s treatment to enable him walk and live a normal life. “When Kehinde had repeated high temperature at six months, my wife and I took him to the General Hospital, Ado-Awaye, in Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State, where a drip was passed via his head because the doctor didn’t find a vein. He shaved his head and passed a drip through it. “About two weeks after he was discharged, we noticed that his head started swelling more than his entire body. He cannot sit, or walk, or control his head since then. We went back to the doctor, but the hospital was on strike. The doctor prescribed multivitamins for him. “Because of the strike, we went to about 10 private hospitals because his condition kept deteriorating.  A doctor later referred us to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. He told us that Kehinde had hydrocephalus, explaining that he could only be treated at the UCH. We were told that hydrocephalus was time and money consuming, and it might take up to eight years of treatment before Kehinde would fully recover. “Kehinde has undergone two surgeries (one at  UCH and the other at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital), and is undergoing physiotherapy at the UCH. “The first surgery was performed in 2014 and he was okay for a while.  We were told to come for post-surgery treatment and we did. Then, we were told that the surgery was unsuccessful. The doctors explained to us that there were two types of surgery they could perform in such a case. The second was later performed in July 2016 and we were told it was successful. But Kehinde still couldn’t walk, couldn’t hold his neck up. The changes we noticed after the second surgery was that he started eating well, although there are things he still can’t eat. His fingers that were tiny like a baby’s grew out and he started talking,” he said. Donations can be sent to Kehinde Abdur-Raheem Yusuf, 0151945965, GTBank. Mr Yusuf can be called on 08039406868.