Gender balance in society will take centre stage as Wema Bank collaborates with Afro-soul queen, Aramide to host Songversation with Aramide. As part of global efforts to promote women’s rights, equality and justice, the event will capture the ‘Balance for Better’ theme of the 2019 International Women’s Day. Although in its second year, Wema Bank is poised to use the platform to promote a positive narrative for Nigerian women and re-emphasise their significance in establishing a better society. This is a continuation of the bank’s effort to provide avenues for the progress of women in society. Last year, the bank celebrated women in Nigeria’s tech space through Tech Chicks – a platform that highlights the achievement of young women in the technology industry. Tech Chicks calls attention and recognizes the work of women such as Temitope Omotayo, Bolanle Banwo, Ada Nduka Oyom, and Dele Tejuosho. Through Tech Chicks, the bank has provided a channel for women to share related goals, dialogue and inspire each other. Wema Bank also marked the 2018 International Women’s Day themed ‘Press for Progress’, through the ‘Woman to Woman’ ALAT Open Office event. Omilola Oshikoya, Africa’s wealth connoisseur; Tomi Balogun, financial education instructor; Chika Uwazie, Chief Operating Officer at EnterFive and Bimbo Agbejule, Head of Commercials ALAT by Wema, were among the panel of women leaders who deliberated on the advancement of Nigerian women. Enthused by the weighty role of women in the financial and institutional sphere in Nigeria, the bank plans to moderate thoughts for a gender-balanced world at Songversation with Aramide to mark the theme of this year’s International Women’s Day. The event will celebrate women leaders such as Kemi Onabanjo, management consultant, blogger, and mentor; Omoyemi Akerele, an icon in Nigeria’s fashion industry and artistic director of the Lagos Design and Fashion Week; Oghenekaro Omu, founder of Sanitary Aid for Nigerian Girls (S.A.N.G), a non-profit organisation that aims to provide free sanitary pads for young women; and Temie Giwa-Tubosun, founder of Lifebank, a company focused on health management and improving access to blood transfusions.  