Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has charged the newly inaugurated 17-member Edo State Primary Health Care Board, to deepen the revamp of the state’s primary health care system for responsive, efficient and accessible health care delivery. The governor, who gave the charge at the inauguration of new members of the board in Government House, in Benin City, said the board is not a typical public service boa rd but one that must deliver service to the people. He said, “Our vision as a government is to ensure we have a health care system in the state that will be responsive, efficient and effective in delivering health care in Nigeria.” “For us in Edo State, our primary health care system will be built on several pillars which include human capacity, provision of technology and data, quality assurance, financing and infrastructure of the health care system.” Obaseki said that the inauguration of the board is to formalise the process which started over six months ago in working with consultants to develop 20 Primary Health Care Centres (PHCs), noting, “The objectives of these PHCs is to promote a package of preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care services to our citizens.” The governor explained that part of the key functions of the board includes, “to initiate, organise and sponsor programmes for effective health care management and manpower development and creation of public awareness of the importance of PHCs in the state. He urged the board to “determine the general policies for the administration of your agencies including the management of its properties and finance. Make regulations for the appointment, promotion, transfer and discipline of staff of the agencies.” Chairman of the Board, Dr. Victor Iyekekpolo, expressed appreciation for efforts made by the Governor Obaseki-led administration in repositioning the health sector in the state. Iyekekpolo noted the need to expedite actions on the proposed amendment to the Edo Primary Healthcare Development Board Bill to provide a legal framework for the successful implementation of the Primary Healthcare policies and programmes in the state. The board chairman expressed appreciation to the governor for the appointment, adding, “We have noted the high points in the governor’s address and we pledge that they will form the basis for our actions.”