The Iron and Steel Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ISSSAN) has raised concerns over the safety of workers in companies operating in the Esuk Utan Industrial Estate located in Calabar, the Cross River State capital. The Chairman of the state branch of the union, Comrade Cosmos Agbiji, told The Nation in Calabar that that the safety measures adopted by the oil and gas companies, especially in fabrication and construction, was below standard and was dangerous to the workers. Agbiji, who said they were an affiliate of the United Labour Congress (ULC), said various efforts to address the matter through interfacing with the companies had proved futile. He accused companies of refusing to work with the union, thereby compromising safety standards as well as poor welfare for the workers. “That is against our constitution as a union. So on that note, we deem it fit to meet our senior affiliates, have a meeting with them, discuss our challenges as a union under them,and point out that these are the processes we have gone with these companies. We have sent series of letters to come so we sit and negotiate on this issues, but they refuse to attend to us. “We want the public to understand that we are not happy with the condition of things. The safety aspect of workers at the sites is very poor. For instance, you see people using shirts to do iron work and working under dangerous conditions without adequate safety measures. If they engage us a union that is legally registered in this field, we know the rules and regulations that follow, what and what they need to do. Right now what they are doing is cutting procedures, which is not to the benefit of the people. “In these companies they mandate the workers after not paying them enough to buy safety equipment for themselves. It is not the duty of an employee to buy those things and work. Safety aspects of the site are not ideal and the conditions of service are too poor. They should allow us to go inside and negotiate as the right union that is supposed to handle all these matters. They should sit down on a round table with the union and negotiate what is obtainable for the workers,” he said. State Secretary, United Labour Congress (ULC),  Kalu Imong, said ISSAN, one of their affiliates, have been raising the issue with companies at the Industrial Layout for some time. He said if nothing is done about the situation, they were going to picket the estate and stop all activities. “Everywhere in this world companies must have safety standards. A worker is not expected to buy hand gloves, safety boots and other equipment. A worker would work for over eight hours and no over time. He does not even know how much he earns. “The idea of union is that we are all partners in progress. We have written series of letters through themselves and their representatives and they still don’t listen. We would not hesitate to picket that place when the time comes as a labour union. We are citizens of this country and we have our rights. We know where our rights start and where they stop. By extant labour laws, we know what we are to do. We call on all relevant authorities to call the companies to order, otherwise the day we strike, they would lose so much that they would never believe,” he warned. 