The Akwa Ibom State government has advised indigenes of Onna, Mkpat Enin and Okobo Local Government Areas of the state to protect completed government projects in their communities against vandalism. Commissioner for Economic Development Ekong Sampson gave the advice while speaking with newsmen after the facilities tour of some of the completed projects in the communities yesterday. The commissioner, who was represented by the Head of Department, International Cooperation, Ministry of Economic Development, Mrs Uduak Ekong, said that the projects were aimed at enhancing the living standards of the benefiting communities. He said the government through its agencies and World Bank spent a lot of its lean resources to provide the projects, therefore, benefiting communities should protect them from vandals. “We are here to inspect the completed projects. These projects are for the benefit of the people. These projects have enhanced the living standards of the people. “Since the people are the direct beneficiaries of these projects, communities where they are sited should protect them,” he said. Also, speaking with reporters, the Village Head of Atiamkpat community in Onna LGA, Eteidung Victor Attah, disclosed that three projects have been completed since June 2018. He listed the completed projects as: renovation of civic centre, motorised borehole and electricity extension. The village head expressed appreciation to the World Bank, Akwa Ibom government and Community and Social Development Agency for rendering assistance to Atiamkpat community. He assured the donor partner, government and its agency of adequate protection of the facilities against vandalism. “We are grateful to God for using World Bank, Akwa Ibom government and Community and Social Development Agency to assist our community and I can assure you that the completed projects would not be damaged,” he said. Also in Nung Ikono community in Mkpat Enin LGA, the Village Head, Obong Saviour Etukudoh, disclosed that in September 2018, the community was offered a cheque of N2.06 million for the completion of motorised borehole. Etukudoh said that the project had been completed and being put to use by the community. He solicited for more projects such as renovation of civic centre and extension of electricity supply to the community. “We are grateful to the World bank, Akwa Ibom State government and CSDP for helping us in completing our motorised borehole,” he said. Meanwhile in Afaha Akai, Okobo LGA, one out of three projects was completed while others are still ongoing. The Clan Head of Afaha Akai in Okobo LGA, Chief Ofong Asuquo Okwong thanked the World Bank, Akwa Ibom State government and CSDP for choosing Afaha Akai as one of the beneficiary communities. He said the completed project in the area was the construction of market stalls, while the provision of motorised borehole and construction of health centre projects were ongoing.