A novel private sector synergy between Nestle Plc and Wecyclers may lead to a sustainable solution for tackling plastic waste pollution crisis in the country, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF In Nigeria and other African countries, plastic waste pollution is a prevalent crisis that is affecting and depleting the ecosystem. This surmountable crisis is often aggravated by inefficient waste collection and limited recycling capabilities across Africa, especially in the cities battling rising population pressure. This explains why, in many big African cities, plastic wastes litter roads, rivers, boreholes, and sewage systems. In many African countries, increasing plastic pollution has motivated policy makers to enact legislation to protect the environment from further contamination. As plastic pollution worsens the ecosystem in many communities, problems of chronic flooding during the rainy season always surface. This is often attributed to litters of sachets that block drains. In cities, sachets, which are made primarily of low-density polyethylene, are popularly used for distributing drinking water. According to experts, the environmental effect this practice is foisting on poverty-stricken communities can result in serious consequences for residents – ranging from missed work to loss of income when clogged drains lead to the increase in malaria from mosquitoes in stagnant water. Distressed by these rising concerns, especially fears that plastic wastes constitute great dangers to the ecosystem, environment and wildlife, stakeholders have stepped up efforts to tackle the situation. One new initiative is a circular plastic economy where plastics are collected, recycled and reused efficiently. Determined to salvage the problem in Nigeria, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Nestlé Nigeria, Mauricio Alarcon, said tackling plastics pollution and its environmental impact remains an urgent priority that requires multi-sector collaboration in order to have a meaningful impact. It is estimated that Nigeria generates more than 32 million metric tonnes of waste annually, with Lagos alone producing about 10,000 metric tonnes of waste daily, most of which end up in landfills and in waterways, thus, exacerbating health challenges and environmental hazards. According to the United Nations (UN), the situation, if unchecked, is a planetary problem that is causing irreparable damage. In the words of Alarcon, during the signing of the MoU in Lagos, Nigeria is witnessing a surge in plastic waste pollution due to the increasing usage and indiscriminate disposal of single-use plastics. He said Nestle was committed to working together with governments, NGOs and other private sector and industry stakeholders to develop a circular plastic economy, where plastic is collected, recycled and reused efficiently. As part of efforts towards finding sustainable solutions to the raging crisis, he said his company has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Wecyclers, a social enterprise that helps household communities capture value from their waste to accelerate the process of recovering and recycling post-consumption plastic packaging waste in Lagos State. With this initiative, he said there would be no plastic and other product packaging materials that would end up in landfills or as litters in the environment, seas, oceans and waterways. “One of our ambitions is to strive for zero environmental impact in our operations as we strive towards a waste-free future and building thriving communities. A key part of achieving this goal is to make 100 per cent of our packaging reusable or recycled by 2050,” Alarcon said. He said further that the project would also build a self-sufficient recycle economy around post-consumer packaging waste, which will stimulate employment, wealth creation and innovation in Nigeria. In line with the belief that producers and consumers also need to change their behaviour and habits to manage the menace successfully, Alarcon said Nestle Plc would work with other industry members of the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA), including engaging the people, consumers and business partners to play their part in tackling the plastic problems. The mission of FBRA is to build self-sustaining recycling economy around post-consumer packaging waste in order to stimulate employment, wealth creation and innovation. “We need to protect and improve our environment,” he stressed. He said the agreement with a social enterprise organisation like Wecyclers that helps households in low-income communities capture value from their waste would enable them to extend plastics waste recovery systems to more communities through the establishment of collection points across five more communities. The Nestle boss said the project would create 40 direct jobs for collection point operators and sorters, and empower an additional 15,000 Wecylcer subscribers, adding that tackling the plastics situation is an urgent priority which requires multi-sector collaboration. “Plastic waste is one of the biggest sustainability issues the world is facing today with the growing volume of plastic waste entering the natural environment, harming wildlife and damaging ecosystems globally. Due to the increasing usage and indiscriminate disposal of single use plastics, we are witnessing a surge in plastic waste pollution right here in our immediate environment. “One of our ambitions at Nestlé is to strive for zero environmental impact in our operations as we strive towards a waste-free future.  A key part of achieving this goal is to make 100% of our packaging reusable or recyclable by 2025.  Another important element is our vision that none of our product packaging, including plastics, should end up in landfills or as litter in our environment, in our seas, oceans, and waterways. “Tackling plastic pollution is an urgent priority which requires multi-sector collaboration. So this MoU with Wecyclers is another step towards achieving our shared objectives of a waste-free future and building thriving communities. In line with the belief that producers and consumers need to change behaviour and habits to manage the menace, we are taking actions with other industry members of FBRA and are also engaging our people, our consumers, and business partners to play their part in tackling the plastics problem. At Nestlé, we are passionate about protecting the environment where we work and take action to protect and improve it,” he said. Speaking, the CEO of Wecyclers, Mr. Olawale Adebiyi, explained that partnering with Nestle would provide an avenue to extend the plastics collection and recycling process by setting up more collection sites across the state. Since its inception in 2018, the recycling exchange programme has diverted over 400 tonnes of plastics from landfills into productive reuse.  According to the MoU, Wecyclers will handle the construction and deployment of each recycling kiosk, with Ajah, Ikeja, Mushin, Lagos Island and Magodo picked as initial coverage areas. Adebiyi added that his outfit was ready to capture more areas in Lagos, stressing that the five areas his company is starting with are areas where issues of space have been sorted. “We are indeed pleased to partner with Nestlé to achieve our objectives of helping to create a plastics recycling ecosystem in Nigeria.  We are also happy that in addition to tackling the plastics menace, the project will also help to create 40 direct jobs for collection point operators and sorters while empowering an additional 15,000 Wecyclers subscribers,” he said.