Because of its huge business opportunities, the Nigerian health care sector has been described as a largely untapped goldmine that should interest any good entrepreneur. That was the thrust of the message by Dr. Ademolu Owoyele, Managing Consultant with Harley and Wall Consulting, a health care and business consulting firm during this year’s investment and entrepreneurial retreat of the Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (AGPMPN). In the two papers he presented at the retreat, which held in Lagos recently, the medical doctor-turned management and business expert said it is possible to make great returns on investment in Nigeria’s health sector, which he described as Africa’s largest health care market. Delivering a paper on how to understand and tap from the huge investment potential in Nigeria’s health sector, Dr. Owoyele told his doctor colleagues and others in the profession that the first thing to do is to draw a line between medicine and health care, stressing that medicine is a profession while health care is pure business. He stressed that health care is one of the fastest growing industries in the world, with almost 75 per cent of Nigeria’s health care transaction being private-driven (mostly for profit). The medical doctor-turned management guru also cited the example of United States where over $200 billion revenue was generated last year from health care industry alone. While imploring his colleagues in the health care industry to expand their worldview and be innovative in order to succeed, he added that it is a sad reality that many medics still suffer from having a myopic view of health care marketplace from the core medical perspective, despite a variety of career paths and investment opportunities available to them in clinical business. He urged medics and other potential investors to open their eyes to limitless business opportunities that abound in pharmaceutical medicine, health care consulting, managed care, laboratory and imaging diagnostics, stressing that the world of medical practice is now so wide and dynamic that investors can focus and specialise in any area and make a business success of it. With Nigeria as the largest market in Africa and by extension Africa Continent’s largest health care market, he said investment opportunities abound in the sector, especially now that the country is desirous of achieving universal health coverage (UHC) for its over 180 million population. This, he projected, will further open up the space for investors as the federal and many state governments would be embarking on a Private-Public Partnership (PPP strategy) to revitalise primary health care centres and build new ones, since about 80 per cent of health care needs will have to be taken care of at the primary level by the time UHC becomes a reality in Nigeria. While explaining the benefits accruable from diversified investment portfolios in the health care sector, he said medical tourism can be reversed through group practice, as chains of well managed primary level clinics may evolve to explore untapped opportunities to the benefit of investors and the people who need quality health care service. He, however, lamented that “many of us actually play within the red ocean than the blue ocean,” stressing that the latter is better for investors that really want to make a difference. The business management consultant said the red ocean strategy denotes all the industries in existence today or the known market space, with industry boundaries defined and accepted, and the competitive rules of the game known to all players. According to him, this leaves companies trying to outperform their rivals to grab a greater share of existing demand, with market space getting crowded and profits and growth increasingly reduced, leaving products become mere commodities, which often leads to cutthroat or ‘bloody’ competition. In contrast, blue ocean school of thought envisages all the industries not in existence today or the unknown market space. Because it is untainted by competition, demand is created rather than fought over, leaving an ample opportunity for growth that is both profitable and rapid. “In the red oceans, as the market space gets crowded, profits and growth are reduced. Products become commodities, leading to cutthroat or ‘bloody’ competition.  The blue ocean strategy is the simultaneous pursuit of differentiation and low cost to open up a new market space and create new demand. It is about creating and capturing uncontested market space, thereby making the competition irrelevant. “It is based on the view that market boundaries and industry structure are not given and can be reconstructed by the actions and beliefs of industry players. In blue oceans, competition is irrelevant because the rules of the game are waiting to be set. A blue ocean is an analogy to describe the wider, deeper potential to be found in unexplored market space. A blue ocean is vast, deep, and powerful in terms of profitable growth,” he said. “Because competition is deemed irrelevant in an unexplored market space, which leaves vast potential for profitable growth, he advised investors to be creative. “There is a need to be innovative. Don’t just join the competition; study and analyse the environment, learn and make investment decisions. The investment world is made up of theories, not laws, and that is because human investors can, from time to time, make emotionally based decisions instead of fact-based ones that will alter market behaviours. However, using sound investment strategies and research, investment opportunities abound in the health care sector,” he said. In another paper he presented on how to run a hospital business profitably in an unstable political economy, Dr. Owoyele admonished professionals in the health care industry to expose themselves to business and management tips that work. First, would-be investors need to understand how Nigeria’s macro-environmental factors can impact on organisational performance, using pestle analysis, which allows new entrants into a market to identify, understand and monitor threats and weaknesses. He also urged hospitals to always strive for profitability, not just profits. According to him, profit is an absolute figure because it is what is left after expenses are subtracted from total revenue; while profitability is the metric used to determine a hospital’s profit in relation to its size. “Profitability is the ability to make profit from all the business activities of a hospital. Profitability is an index of efficiency. It shows how efficiently the management can make profit by using all resources available in the market,” To improve profitability, he said doctors should develop skills in pestle analysis, SWOT analysis, and five force models, which may require hospital managers to engage health care business experts in the aforementioned areas or seek expert skills in the management of hospital businesses. Dr. Owoyele listed causes of inefficiency in hospital business and what it means for the growth outlook or viability of the hospital as a business. According to him, inefficiency can result if there are leakages such as fraud and corruption, overuse or oversupply in materials management, technical inefficiency, unmotivated or unproductive workers in manpower planning, inappropriate hospital size or poor supervision as a result of poor governance or management as well as inappropriate admissions, length of stay, medical errors, substandard or counterfeit drugs. Many of these challenges can be addressed if the hospital eliminates waste and corruption through standard operating procedures and use of technology; improves governance and management structures and does away with unproductive strategies; institutes quality improvement protocols; designs an appropriate use of medicines and technology; improves communication, motivation and performance among management and members of staff; reduces medical errors through training, coaching and instituting clinical and non-clinical guidelines. He also warned hospital managers about the consequences or chain reactions of failure to develop a quality structure that can allow the hospital to thrive optimally, stressing that all hospital structures must support the ambience of a quality hospital for the facility to achieve its mission. “Quality is not just the building and ambience, but everything you do in total to meet and surpass patients’ expectations. Doctors need to develop the strategic thinking to continue to optimise every resource towards ensuring profitability. There are two ways to make profits–you either increase your revenue or reduce your cost. If you can’t reliably increase your revenue in a tough time, then you should be able to control your cost. If you can’t do it yourself, then seek expert advice or bring in a management who can,” he advised.