The Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO) has inaugurated its Students’ Union (SU) executive for the 2018/2019 session. The election, adjudged free and fair, also saw the ceremonial oath of office administered on the new executive by the institution’s legal unit. Some members of the management, students and well-wishers attended the ceremony. The Acting Rector, Mr Gani Ogundahunsi, charged the student leaders to make the interest of the students their priority. He enjoined them to use unionism as a tool for development and not as a weapon of destabilisation. Congratulating the winners, Ogundahunsi challenged them to be magnanimous in victory, and encourage their defeated colleagues during the election to work with them in the interest of the entire student populace. Ogundahunsi warned that the status of a student leader does not give anyone the licence to act contrary to rules and regulations, adding that the management would not condone such. He assured them that management would continue to provide a conducive atmosphere for teaching and learning, while also sustaining the pace of infrastructural development in the institution. Dean, Student Affairs Mr. Olu Brahimo, advised the new leadership to partner the management in stamping out social vices and promoting good governance, transparency, discipline, accountability, due process and peaceful co-existence among the students and the host communities. The SU President, Ebiniyi Godwin, thanked the management and students for the successful conduct of the election. He promised to maintain the enviable records of the institution and do his best for the SU. The students’ leader said the union would support the vision of the institution’s Governing Council to retool, reconstruct and reposition the polytechnic as an ideal 21st century institution. Other members of the SU are: Adunbi Modupe, (Vice President); Ijituyi Eniola, General Secretary; Alao Victoria, P.R.O.; Olorunda Femi, Assistant General Secretary; Adepoju Oluwasegun, Financial  Secretary; Ojo Bisola,Treasurer; Aladesawe Ahmed, Welfare Director; Peters Joshua, Social Director and Daudu Dare, Sports Director.