Yeast infection (otherwise called candidiasis) is as common as anyone can imagine. Yeast is a fungus in similar category as our common mushroom, though the mushroom is much bigger and visible to our naked eyes. The yeast is smaller and less obvious to the untrained observer. Yet, this infection of candidiasis may first appear as innocent but on a closer look, it does a lot of damage or has potential to do a lot of damage as we shall see below. Yeast could affect anyone: men, women, children, young and adult, depending on the circumstances of the individual. Nonetheless, women in their reproductive age constitute the largest group of people that yeast affects mostly. You as a reader may be surprised why this is so. The reason for the relationship between yeast and women is a matter of hormone and the anatomy of women. The hormones create moist environment in women’s anatomical areas and in particular the vagina and the entrance to vagina, which is otherwise called vulva. It’s these moist anatomical areas that yeast frequently affects. For this reason, yeast infection is very common in pregnant women. From vagina, yeast could also affect other organs of reproduction such as fallopian tubes and uterus. Still on women, yeast could affect any parts of human skin, especially the armpit and underneath the breasts where the folds of armpit and breasts create another moist and enclosure for the infection to prosper. In children and very ill adults, regardless of age or gender, yeast could affect the mouth, the throat and the gut or the food tract as far as it could go. As I mentioned above, when a person suffers from low self-defensive capability, yeast could sense an opportunity in low immunity persons. This could occur in individuals who are malnourished as in children that are poorly fed, persons suffering from chronic debilitating illness such as diabetes, AIDS, tuberculosis, and cancers. For this reason, yeast infection has been medically labeled as an opportunistic infection. Why? The reason is that ordinarily and under normal circumstances, candidiasis may not have been found in such sufferers were it not for the bigger illness that exists in the person. In men of reproductive age, yeast could affect the groins and the terminal part of the penis. How does yeast infection manifest? In women, creamy whitish vagina discharge is well established and recognisable symptom of candidiasis. Another frequent symptom is itching. I have had a patient coming to wake me up at 3a.m. because of severe itching caused by candidiasis. The woman could not sleep because the itching was intolerable. The itching may also lead to soreness or ulceration of the affected areas. Under the breast, the area could be white or discoloured to darkish-white in our brownish-dark skin.  The same goes for infection in armpit. In children, infection in the mouth is very obvious by thick coating of the tongue extending to the throat. Yeast affecting the mouth could affect any age or any person who suffers severely. In men, itching could be the only symptom affecting the penis and the groin with sometimes patchy white coating of the affected areas. Complications: The most likely and severest complications in women are pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), which may occur. This could potentially lead to infertility issues. In pregnant women, if left untreated, candidiasis may lead to miscarriage. The logic is simple: pregnancy and infection cannot exist together at the same time and in the same place. One must give way to the other. Disseminated yeast infection in anyone, be it a child or adult, could kill the person. Thus, simple as yeast may look, it’s an infection that requires our utmost attention and treatment without delay. Treatment: Treatment of uncomplicated yeast infection is simple. The use of common antifungal medications that can be bought over the counter, for a specified duration of time will take care of the infection. In serious conditions, the skills and attention of a qualified physician is required. You should not delay in this regard. Sexual partners of adults should be treated as well. Prevention: Keeping to good personal hygiene may help. Treatment of sexual partners is also important. Ensuring children and adult consume balanced diets consisting of adequate protein, vitamins, fat, carbohydrates and fruits may keep yeast at bay. Treat any existing underlying diseases such as diabetes and chronic infections. If you have been affected by the issues discussed in this article and you need clarification, kindly call 07087733114 or 08188343865 for support.