Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) on Wednesday said it observed that many tertiary institutions were being established just to meet the requirements for its interventions and access its funds. The agency said this may weaken the import of its interventions, if it continued. TETFund said it was hoping that there would be policies to minimise the establishment of such institutions. Its Executive Secretary, Prof Sulaiman Bogoro, spoke in Abuja at the inauguration of a Technical Advisory Committee on Impact Assessment to review the agency’s projects done by the agency. The event was attended by delegates of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), led by its National President, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi. Bogoro said the committee would review the projects, interventions and expenditures done in universities across the country between 1999 and 2019. The TETFund chief said the committee has two and a half months to work. He said it would identify the weaknesses, strengths, progress and challenges of the agency’s interventions in universities as well as make recommendations. The impact assessment committee is expected to submit its report by November 29 to TETFund. Bogoro said: “We want the committee to identify those areas where we need improvement. We hope that your recommendations in the end will ensure that we increase in the ranking of Nigerian universities, globally. “There is a challenge that we have observed and it is that there is a tendency of more tertiary institutions being established just to meet the TETFund’s requirements for funding. “We are hoping that some policies will emerge that will try to minimise the emergence of institutions so that the impact of the interventions will not weaken. “The terms of reference of the committee are: to carry out the impact assessment of the Education Trust Fund (ETF) interventions from 1999 to 2010 and of TETFund from 2010 to 2019. “The committee is to collate and analyse the strategic plan document, the annual interventions and the internal working budgets. It is to propose the future direction of the fund within the statutory mandate as encapsulated in the TETFund Establishment Act 2011.”