The National Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and spokesman for the joint operations at the borders code named Exercise Swift Response, Deputy Comptroller Joseph Attah, in this encounter with MUYIWA LUCAS, explains efforts to address insecurity at the border. You said the objective of the Exercise Swift Response is not  to close the borders, yet goods cannot transit from neighbouring borders into the country. How do you react to this? Closure is not the right word to use here. There is, indeed, intensive patrol by the joint security forces of the borders and unapproved routes, which smugglers use. The exercise is also to prevent the proliferation of weapons and check the movements of illegal migrants who come in to the disadvantage of our national security and economy. The exercise is being coordinated by the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA). How long will it last? It will go on for some days. By the time we have got our acts together and the objective of the exercise is achieved, it will be called off. Anyone who lives in Nigeria or follows our affairs will know that, in recent times, there have been cases of insurgency, increase in kidnapping, increase in use and abuse of controlled drugs, smuggling of weapons, which contributes to general insecurity. Every responsible government will put its muscles together to address these issues for  citizens’ benefits and ensure that the safety and economic well-being of the country are preserved How many agencies and men are part of the operation? The Nigeria Customs Service, the Nigeria Immigration Service, in collaboration with the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN), intelligence agencies and the Nigeria Police pulled their human and material resources together for the exercise. We recorded some success barely one week into the exercise. I can confirm to you that 33 illegal migrants have been arrested, 59 bags of NPK fertiliser intercepted (NPK fertiliser are used to make improvised explosive devices), over 3000 bags of rice, petroleum products and other items have been stopped from coming into the country and seized. It has been largely successful and we will keep ensuring that those whose acts and movements are unlawful around our borders are brought to their knees. There are complaints that there was no prior information before the exercise started and that it is affecting perishable goods. If this is true, why? We cannot be talking about perishable goods when national security is at stake. We did alert the public. It may not be as long as those traders would have wanted. We issued a statement announcing the commencement of the exercise. Criminals and anyone involved in unlawful activities would have loved to have a long notice and go into hiding before the operation. The idea behind our short notice is to catch them unawares. Do you have the manpower and technology to man the illegal routes? The fact that managers of national security thought it necessary to pull manpower and resources together for this exercise should tell you about the importance the government attaches to the country’s security and citizens’ well-being. Beyond the patrol, there are efforts to acquire non-intrusive equipment. Every action to achieve improved security is being taken. Benin Republic, for example, is reportedly lamenting the ripple effect of the exercise on its economy. What are you doing about this? For some reasons, it appears that some people are making too much reference to a particular country. For the avoidance of doubt, this exercise is not targeted at any country. The target is on those who take advantage of our ‘porous’ borders to perpetuate illegal acts. As we speak, the exercise is not only in the Southwest. It is going on in the Southsouth, Northwest and Northcentral geo-political regions of the country. These zones have borders with other countries. It is not solely about Seme or Benin Republic. It is about anything that will negatively affect the security and safety of Nigerians.Any country that transacts business with Nigeria and keeps to the rules should have nothing to worry about. How sincere are your men deployed in this operation to keep to the rules? I have discovered that the escapist tendency of any critic is to talk about corruption. Who is corrupt? Who is corrupting who and for what reasons? If you are an international trader and you are importing legitimate things through the approved channels and paying appropriate duties to the government, why should you worry? If any law enforcement officer attempts to take you beyond the lawful aspects of trans-border transactions, you have a right to raise the alarm. If for instance, you import 100 units of an item and declares 30, trying not to pay for 70 units, that is an illegality on its own. As a Service, I can tell you that Customs, under our Controller-General, Col. Hammed Alli (retd), will never spare any officer found compromising. I am sure you are aware that some officers have been dismissed for compromising their positions or conniving with economic saboteurs against national interest. Some of them might not be directly involved in the act of smuggling but maybe in the course of carrying out examination on import or export cargoes, they did not do due diligence. I think the important message being passed is that the security forces of this country see themselves as one fighting a common cause. Our differences in uniform do not inhibit our togetherness in fighting criminals and criminality. We are working jointly as a team and in the interest of the country. What we hope to achieve in the long run from the exercise? It is the desire of the Federal Government and Mr. President that we achieve self-sufficiency in food production with local industries adequately protected to grow. Nigeria is blessed with arable land and vast human resources to grow the food we need. This operation supports that drive. We should do less, and if possible, none of food importation into this country. If we continue to rely on foreign rice that we don’t even know how long its been harvested and kept in silos before shipping, what are we saying to rice farmers? Are we saying they should pack and go away? Our local rice are more nutritious. The more we patronise them, the more we support that aspect of our local industry to grow and provide job opportunities for our teeming youth population.