Local rice traders, especially in Lagos and its environs, are lamenting the non availability of local rice as demand and price for the product increases due to the shutting down of land borders in order to curtail the influx of smuggled rice, which was already threatening the survival of the budding Nigerian rice industry. The traders are warning that the continuous scarcity of the product will greatly undermine government’s efforts to groom Nigerians off imported foreign rice to our locally cultivated rice. Consumers most especially affected by the border closure are those in border towns who have for many years depended on the foreign par boiled long grain rice. However, with the border closed and no more rice smuggled in, those consumers who hitherto consumed such rice have no option other than to turn to our very nutritious organic rice. But the problem is that we do not seem to have enough to go round everybody. The population of Lagos State alone according to the National Population Commission of Nigeria as at 2016 is over 21million. Market survey in major rice markets in Lagos, like Daleko Mushin market, Iddo Terminus and G CAPPA Iddo, revealed the numerous rice brands in Nigeria. What more, no foreign rice was on display except what the traders dubiously refer to as the ‘Nigerian foreign rice’, whereby local rice is deceptively bagged in foreign branded rice bags like, Royal Umbrella, Caprice and for those consumers who still insist on buying foreign rice, the traders direct you to such bags. They sell for about N18,000 per 50kg bag while local rice branded Nigeria sells for between N14,500-N17,000. Though if they see you are ready to pay any high amount for the real foreign rice, they retreat inside the market and produce it for between N20,000-N23,000. However, all the traders are complaining of lack of rice to sell to consumers. As at last week Tuesday and Wednesday when the reporter visited the markets, the traders disclosed that things have generated to the level that even rice manufacturers have stopped receiving money to supply rice to the traders. In an interview with one of the big rice dealers at No. 1, Taylor Rd. G-CAPPA rice market, Idowu Omogbemi, he said manufacturers like Olam, Stallion, Big Bull, Umza, Famous, Tomato King, amongst others, declined to take money from traders explaining they had run short of rice. “A majority of rice dealers who paid for truck load of rice since the last two weeks have not received their order. If you pay for 11 trucks, you get just one truck in order to make room for other traders. In fact at the moment, manufacturers are rationing the rice,” regretted the rice dealer. “Rice manufacturers are overwhelmed by the demand. They cannot meet up. Labana, Three Brothers, Super Champion, Al-Hamsad, etcetera are no longer taking money from traders. I tried to pay them today for consignment of rice but they refused to accept money,” lamented Mrs. Nky Okoro at the Iddo Terminus rice market. At Daleko market in Mushin, many traders were complaining bitterly that they could not find rice to buy. They complained that the major distributor of the product, Madam Jumilar, was not giving them enough to buy. She is rationing 10 bags to each trader daily through her agent, Tokunbo. If Tokunbo does not like your face, he will not sell to you. Those he does not sell to, patronise the traders he sells to at a higher price, resulting to un-uniformed rice price in the market. Besides, what is 10 bags of rice? One customer alone can buy them all and your shop becomes empty,” cried Mrs. Ethel of shop 409/416. The same tales of demand and the same tales of scarcity were everywhere. Of course, this has greatly affected the price. Virtually all the local rice brands sell between N14,500-N17,000 per 50kg bag. “The price keeps escalating,” lamented Mrs Effiong Orji. Acknowledging the scarcity and attributing the increasing price of rice to rice farmers who increased the price of Rice Paddy, President, Association of Rice Distributors in Nigeria, Mrs. Esther Akinsoye, said that government needs to stop owners of Paddy from hoarding the product and increasing the price. “Rice millers are complaining that farmers are increasing the price of Paddy because of high demand and as such forcing the millers to also increase their price, resulting in further increase by the manufacturer,” regretted Mrs. Akinsoye. “They should make the Paddy or rough rice to be surplus for the manufacturers and millers.” Reacting to the development, Nigeria’s leading rice merchant, the Iya Loja of Daleko Market, Chief Mrs. Ibilola Solaja popularly called Madam Jumlar,  appealed to Nigerians to be patient. “Rome was not built in a day. There is bound to be teething problems as we are just starting. In a few years time, we shall have more than enough rice to eat and export.” Admitting the scarcity, she said it will soon be over as many farmers have gone back to farms and millers have also gone back to their business due to the demand for local rice now. “I encourage the consumption of local rice so that we can grow our economy. I give to traders on credit and they remit money back to me when they sell,” said the delectable lady. However, in a telephone interview with the National President, Rice Millers Association, Arc Kabir, though he admitted that he heard of shortage of rice in some parts of the country, he said they were not experiencing much shortage in the north. In Enugu State, another big player in the rice industry, Ogbonnaya, regretted that the price of local rice has gone slightly up since the closure of the border but added that consumers in the eastern part of the country were not feeling it. “People here prefer nutritious local rice to foreign rice. Price went up because there is increased demand from places like Lagos State.” Another analyst, however, pointed out that majority of rice mills in the country are located within eastern and northern states. “It is only Olam that has a mill in Lagos State because consumers here preferred foreign rice. Rice farmers in the west send their rice Paddy to east and northern mills. Even Lagos State Lake rice is milled in Kebbi State. However, with the promise of Lagos State to open a mill in the state come March 2020, maybe we shall have enough rice for the residents.” To ease the immediate problem of scarcity in major states, stakeholders should find cheaper ways to transport rice from the hither lands to the metropolis. Investigations revealed that a truck load of rice from Kano town to Lagos is about N350,000 and this price is deterring some people. All hands should please be on deck to make this government’s noble project to succeed.