Offices of MTN telecommunications were on Wednesday closed over fears of reprisal attacks over killings of Nigerians in South Africa. At the MTN office at Dawson junction in Benin City, customers were not seen even as it was placed under lock and key. Security personnel at the MTN office refused comments on why they did not open for business. Several multi choice offices visited were closed as businesses were discreetly. There were however no street protest in Benin City as at press time. Meanwhile, the lawmaker representing Ovia Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon Dennis Idahosa, said the ongoing attack of Nigerians in South Africa was an embarrassment to the world. Idahosa, who is the Chairman, Legislative Compliance Committee, called on the South Africa government to urgently proffer solution to end the attacks in the country. In a statement issued to newsmen in Bénin City, Idahosa said the attacks that have led to killings of many Nigerians and their properties either looted or burnt is highly condenmable. Idahosa said the attacks could cause a strain in the relationship between Nigeria and South Africa if not checked. He urged the people of South Africa to remember the role played by thegovernment of Nigeria during the Apartheid crisis. According to him, “The unfortunate news of continued killing, looting and burning of properties of Nigerians in South Africa by few criminals elements in that country should be condemn by all. “President Muhammadu Buhari must as a matter of urgency, meet with his South African counterpart to put a stop to this ugly menace. “South Africa must never forget that during the appathied period, Nigeria was there for them, we stood by them through thick and thing all though their trying period. “South Africa governemnt should know that the cordial relationship that have always  existed between the Nations is not allowed  to be ruined by some few criminally minded individuals. “If we cannot be our own brothers keepers in even Africa soil, then who will outside the shore of the continent. “The attack is not only shameful but barbaric, and should be condemned by all lovers of the two nation as well as lovers of peace.”