A Smartphone brand in the emerging markets around the world, Infinix Mobile, has unveiled the Hot 8, the latest addition to its entertainment product line-up Hot. Speaking during the launch at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Infinix Mobile Managing Director Benjamin Jiang said with a 5,000mAh battery, a 6.6-inch HD+ waterdrop display, a triple rear camera, and a DIRAC Sound & Party Mode as the key features, the device will allow consumers to enjoy a world of entertainment at their fingertips. He said: “The Infinix Hot series aims to empower young people with boundless entertainment experience fueled by transformative mobile technology. We observe the trends of online and offline entertainment in global emerging markets where technologies apply. We found that young people desire to connect and share their life with their communities in various ways, such as social networking, gaming, streaming, and partying. “The launch of Hot 8 is a great example of how Infinix spares no efforts in delivering on its promise. By integrating a bigger battery, a bigger display and other key features, we not only aim to satisfy consumers’ entertainment desires, but also inspire them to explore a world of creativity with one device at smaller cost.” He added that Hot is a mid-budget series phone designed for young people who are passionate about entertainment in the interconnected world. Inheriting Infinix’s brand spirit of providing the most cutting-edge technologies at affordable prices, Hot series has been committed to breaking the boundaries of combining the most relevant features in one device, letting customers amplify their entertainment experience in the digital space. He said the device comes with a 5,000mAh battery in a compact body that  enables four days of battery life with just three hours of charging through the 2A fast charge technology. Consumers will be able to enjoy non-stop entertainment throughout the day, whether it is social networking, watching videos, capturing images, or playing games. To further satisfy consumer demand of long standby time, Hot 8 also adopts artificial intelligence to optimise power consumption.