Management of AOCOED has praised the Lagos State government for playing a leading role in the educational development of the state through prompt payment of salaries of teachers/ lecturers, improved infrastructure and modest tuition for students in the state-owned tertiary institutions. Management, therefore, vows to reciprocate the gesture by providing quality teacher education in the 61year-old institution. Registrar of AOCOED Mr Adebisi Adeyanju announced a new tuition in the college during a management/parents forum that held at the school premises. According to him, as against N28,000.00 (including Acceptance Fee) charged Year 1 students, they will henceforth  pay N20,000. 00, while Year 2 and Year 3 which formerly paid N20,000.00 would now part with N15,000. 00. Adeyanju told the excited parents that the review became necessary following students’ rejection of the initial fees two years ago. He said: “Remember that we last held this forum two years ago, “Adeyanju began. “That was when we introduced N28,000 for new intakes while Year 2 and Year 3 students paid N20,000 respectively; but our students appealed that the fee should be reviewed downward. “We then notified government of their (students) complaint and they (government) allowed us to review the fee s downward. “Here, we usually do not charge tuition but administrative fees. However, we realised that some students will collect money from their parents yet failed to remit it to the school account.  Therefore, management has decided to henceforth slam a N5000 as punishment for students who fail to remit their fees within the first two month of resumption of every semester. Registrar of the college Mr Shehu Muhideen, urged parents to ensure bio-data of their wards are correctly included in the Students Files and designated portions signed by them and their wards before being returned to the office of the Dean of Students’ Affairs, for keeps. He said Students File accommodates documents of academic performances of each students, adding that it could also be used for referral, for issuance of academic profiles and most importantly a proof that a particular individual was once a student of the college. He said the school’s ID card is valid for students of the institution for three years only, and additional two years for students with references after which such individuals ceased to be students of AOCOED. Shehu noted that parents have a duty to inform management officially when their wards take ill while at home, noting that defaulting students risk carry over (CO) “When students are indisposed, they can forward their position or send someone to notify the school. If any students misses exam, that is summary CO; but if such matter is genuine and duly reported, management will not treat the matter as CO. We have other provision where such students will be allowed to rewrite the papers after enough findings are made.” The Provost, Dr Aina Ladele, and her deputy Dr Deborah Dele-Giwa, urged parents to bond with the school authority by keeping  some of the hotlines provided by management with which they could reach any of the college top principals for enquiry. Ladele said the college discovered that many of the children left their various homes pretending to be godly or innocent but turn out wayward and heady once they get to school. “Some of them no longer listen in class preferring to play with their phones during lectures. Some will not even come to class or do their assignments. Some will litter the classrooms with their jotters after lecture. “Some females cannot close their laps. Some will even sit carelessly on the laps of their male friends. Some males and female students now co-habit at their various hostels. “We have mothers to blame for this. Most of us no longer teach our children the values. When you duly perform your role to the children, you help the society and through that you help the nation.” Dele-Giwa said she is a living testimony of some of the best products of the institution who, as an alumnus, rose through the ranks to become deputy provost of the institution. Chief Security Office of the College Olajide Sanyaolu, said management has illuminated the entire campus to make it is safe and students can study unhindered. Guest Speaker Mr Akolade Lapite who spoke on ‘improving students’ welfare’ urged parents to provide enough resources for their wards’ books and accommodation since students live off campus. Lapite said the school has a robust Guidance/Counselling Unit where worried or anxious students could visit, for counsel. “Here, we provide academic support for our students especially those ones below average. We also monitor our students off campus through the Students Affairs Division. We take time to visit the various communities particularly across Oto and Ijanikin axis where majority of our students stay, so we can get feelers from our community leaders about our students’ activities. Lapite also advised the students to be of good conduct and make positive use of the social media.