The Wedding Party 2: Destination Dubai  This is a 2017 romantic comedy drama film directed by Niyi Akinmolayan. It is a sequel to The Wedding Party, which was released in December 2016. Principal photography for the film, which was shot in Lagos and Dubai, began in May 2017. It is currently the highest grossing Nigerian film of all time with N512,000,000 domestic gross. The Wedding Party  The 2016 romantic comedy drama film was directed by Kemi Adetiba. It premiered on 8 September 2016 at the Toronto International Film Festival in Canada and on 26 November 2016 at Eko Hotel and Suites in Lagos. The film was released worldwide on 16 December 2016, and became the highest grossing Nigerian film; a record which was broken in 2017 by its sequel The Wedding Party 2. Chief Daddy  The 2018 feature film was directed by Niyi Akinmolayan, written by Bode Asiyanbi, produced by Mosunmola Abudu and Temidayo Abudu. It was released in December 2018 and starred popular Nollywood actors and actresses such as Funke Akindele Bello, Kate Henshaw, Nkem Owoh, Joke Silva, Patience Ozokwor, Richard Mofe Damijo and Racheal Oniga. King of Boys   The 2018 political thriller is written, co-produced and directed by Kemi Adetiba. It is the second movie directed by Kemi Adetiba after The Wedding Party. It reunites Adetiba with Adesua Etomi and Sola Sobowale, after they worked together in her directorial debut, The Wedding Party. The movie is focused on power tussle. It stars rappers Illbliss and Reminisce in their movie debut roles. Others include Paul Sambo, Osas Ajibade, Toni Tones, Sani Muazu, Demola Adedoyin and Akin Lewis. Merry Men: The Real Yoruba Demons  The 2018 movie drama was written, produced and directed by Ayo Makun also known as AY. The film which grossed N230,000,000 is set in Abuja. It centers on four rich men (the Merry Men), who seduce powerful women, get contracts from the political elite, steal from the rich, give to the poor and have sex with the hottest women in town. They face their biggest challenge yet when they antagonize a notorious and corrupt politician who plans on demolishing a village to build a shopping mall. The four men scheme to save the poor people of the village.