Stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have commended the decision of the Bayelsa Governor Seriake Dickson to review the party’s choice of running mate within the timeframe given by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for substitution of candidates. Dickson and some party chieftains stirred fresh crisis in the PDP ahead of the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa when they insisted on Senator Lawrence Erhujakpor, who hails from the Governor’s Sagbama Local Government Area, as the running mate to the party’s candidate, Douye Diri. Party stakeholders, including members of the Bayelsa East Forum for Justice (BEFJ) rose to condemn the development, describing it as clannish, selfish and recipe for failure at the election. The BEFJ, in its latest statement, however, commended Dickson for his decision to review the choice of Erwujakpor, following outcries from members of the party. Chairman of BEFJ, Monday Eribo, said the governor by deciding to convene the meeting, had again proved that he was a leader that listened to genuine complaints. He said for listening to the loud outcry against the intended running mate, Dickson endeared himself to the hearts of loyal members of the party, who were ready to stand with him till the end of his tenure. Eribo urged the leaders and stakeholders invited for the meeting to look at the issue of running mate dispassionately and ensure that it was zoned to the East. Eribo, a former three-time Commissioner in the Local Government Service Commission, appealed to the stakeholders to ensure the selection of a competent person from the East before the expiration of the INEC deadline. He said: “What the candidate of the PDP for the November 16 governorship election, Senator Douye Diri needs is someone who enjoys the support of not only Ogbia people but people across the state and it must be someone who is very committed to the Restoration agenda. “Picking someone from the East, particularly Ogbia will be a mark of honour and respect to former President Goodluck Jonathan and will balance the political equation in the state. “We thank individuals and groups who came out to voice their concerns over the choice of Senator Lawrence Ehrudjakpor, saying history will never forget them, as they spoke up when it mattered most”.