For an industry that has never been able to hold a candle to its peers on the globe, the level of de-marketing intrinsically woven into its operations must be truly astounding. Or how else does one classify the claim by the first vice president of Ship Owners Association of Nigeria, SOAN, Eno Williams, that one of his vessels gutted by fire about five years ago was still at the dockyard, following failure of his local insurers to settle the claims? Said the SOAN chief at the pre-event briefing for the group’s forthcoming event with the theme – Ocean Blue Economy for National Development: “The Nigerian Insurance Industry has not lived up to the billing in the shipping industry. I give you an example, this ship you are seeing here (pointing at it) got burnt while delivering a service at Chevron. As we speak, next month would make it five years this ship is still at the shipyard. The insurance would pay today x amount and tomorrow they would pay one little one here and so on, whereas if I had done it in London, they would simply issue a credit note to the shipyard”. Of course, caught in the web of their delay tactics or inability to pay claims as at when due, ship owners like other classes of insurers have since resorted to taking up insurance policies with the foreign insurance outfits, the result of which is the billions of naira annually carted away in offshore insurances. An old problem that Nigerians are only too familiar with; an individual or an entity takes up an insurance policy; something happens and the insured, thinking he has his asset covered wakes up to find that he has been sold a pig in a poke. First come the frustrating delays in the claims process during which all manner of invisible clauses are thrown in his face; and then at the point of payment, he is again tossed endlessly around because the insurance company – the supposed risk bearer – couldn’t come up with the funds to settle claims. We see two levels to the problem here. One is the palpable lack of capacity by local insurers; the other is regulatory inadequacy. Today, the industry reels under all manner of yokes – ranging from poor capitalisation to dearth of technical capacity by local practitioners. Whereas the former sets the limit on the value of risk that the insurer can carry (which in our circumstances is extremely low), the latter is the harbinger of the countless sharp practices that have come to define the industry today. Of course, there are also challenges directly linked to the poor shape of the naira in an industry where risks are more often than not denominated in major foreign currencies. To survive, many of the local insurers have been known to indulge in all kinds of anti-competitive practices prominent of which is rate cutting – a practice that directly impinges on their solvency and as we have seen, has put the entire industry in grave peril. As it is, what the industry needs now is a new lease. Already, the regulator – the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has taken a bold step in fixing new capital requirements for operators in the industry. Although the deadline fixed for June 30, 2020 is less than a year from now, we expect both the regulator and the operators to adhere strictly to the date. By then, life insurance companies are to have their capital bases raised from N2bn to N8bn, general companies from N3bn to N10bn, and composite insurance companies from N5bn to N18bn. The issue of adequacy of the capital bases at this time is at best moot; it is to us a starting point in the long journey to grow capacity. Next to this is the challenge of regulation. For an industry that thrives strictly on trust, we have seen the level of malfeasance by practitioners taken to an intolerable level in recent years. Beyond merely setting the rules, NAICOM must be seen to scrupulously enforce them. After more than 100 years since the industry berthed in the country, the country deserves more than what is currently on offer.