The Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) has recovered N900 billion from unnamed lawmakers. According to the executive secretary of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof. Sadiq Radda, the lawmakers had converted into cash funds allocated to senators and House of Representatives’ members for execution of projects in their constituencies. Sadda added that ICPC is ready to take the fight against corruption to the states: “People will be accountable. No governor will go free under the guise of security votes. People must be accountable”, he said. The discovery and recovery of the funds by ICPC are commendable. We also find the decision of the commission to take the fight against corruption to the states long overdue. The matter of constituency projects under the control of lawmakers has been a source of controversy since the policy became part of the governance style since the country’s return to post-military rule in 1999. The core of the controversy, especially from the perspectives of the executive branch, and from the civil society has been the proneness of legislators performing executive functions to corruption, and its distortion of the principle and practice of separation of powers. In addition, there have been many instances of irregularities in the management of constituency projects to illustrate the fears of critics of the policy. For example, in August, several equipment and medical items purchased for projects were found in the possession of some senators. It is thus remarkable that the ICPC has recovered N9 billion during transition from one administration to another, and at a time that President Muhammadu Buhari has re-committed to fighting corruption harder than ever. We find the opportunity of lawmakers to access cash meant for constituency projects ridiculous, especially after many years of a government that is driven by zero-tolerance for corruption. The procedures inherited from previous governments ought to have been streamlined to make it impossible for lawmakers to access funds for projects in their constituencies. The role of lawmakers should have been limited to lobbying for projects for their constituencies. It is thus concerning that lawmakers have been able to access funds not meant for personal use. We suspect that there must have been collusion between the concerned lawmakers and some members of the executive. There is need to probe the process that opened collection of cash for projects to lawmakers. Members of the executive found responsible for this anomaly ought to be fished out and made to face the law, along with the erring lawmakers. Undoubtedly, manipulating procedures can prevent community projects from meeting goals of community empowerment. It is not enough to recover funds held illegally without prosecuting holders of such funds. Further, ICPC’s decision to move beyond Abuja to the states is better late than never. About 48% of allocations from the federation account go to subnational governments—states 26% and local governments 22%. A nation-wide anti-corruption commission designed to fight corruption should not restrict its radar to the nation’s capital. Ensuring transparency and accountability over spending of 48% of the nation’s resources is not less important than watching over 52%. ICPC should also not restrict its activities to security votes for governors. As important as monitoring security votes may be, it is also crucial that the commission extend its radar to all aspects of expenditures at the state and local government levels. We urge the commission and other anti-corruption agencies to avoid rushing to the press on important matters of management of the nation’s resources. Not being able to disclose names of legislators in possession of N900 billion that they should not have had access to diminishes the significance of such recovery. In such matters, full disclosure is essential.