Can Timi alaibe get the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship ticket in Bayelsa State? Brilliant energetic and smart, he is a banker, public servant, businessman and politician. He is a strong character steeped in intelligence, foresight and an uncommon determination to ensure that Nigeria is made greater, using the vast resources exploited from the Niger Delta region—his geo-political zone—as the catalyst. His ideas about how to turn the Niger Delta, nay Bayelsa State around, are both radical and deep both in content and context. His politics is about inventiveness, creativity and an uncommon commitment to deliver the necessary good for the people. This was what then President Olusegun Obasanjo and the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua saw before appointing him into the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC); where he rose to become the managing director; and later, Special Adviser to Yar’Adua on Niger Delta Affairs. After dismantling the stronghold of militancy in the Niger Delta, ‘Timi sees no reason anybody should engage in violence in a bid to secure political power. Timi’s political profile has experienced a consistent rise over the years. Ifie Ozaka testifies. “I got on his political train in 2002 as a young man. Over these years, I’ve seen him as a focused politician with his mind fully set on governing his home State of Bayelsa with a clear intent to provide the much needed political leadership that will make the state the envy of others and the investment destination in Nigeria. People often wonder whether he can really turn his vision to reality. For me, because he has done it before at the NDDC and the Presidential Amnesty, it means he can do it again. He turned the once volatile Niger Delta region into a place of peace that has allowed the Nigerian Government to continue the exploration and exploitation of oil.” Timi is the frontline runner in the governorship race. He is already being branded as the choice of the political stakeholders. From the beer and pepper-soup joints to the high profile business enclaves, the general belief is that he ranks top on the list of the aspirants. As a man peaked on development and vision, Timi has been successful in his private business pursuits. His network and net-worth are remarkably re-assuring. Timi is outside the Restoraton Team of Governor Seriake Dickson. This is a challenge to his ambition. Politically, he has an unquestionable combat experience that can crush any opposition. The biggest mistake delegates can make is to elect a weak candidate. That may be the end of PDP in Bayelsa. Supporters said Timi has what it takes to manage the affairs of Bayelsa. He has the management experience and the public service experience. He has the goodwill of the people. His vision and mission is to develop intellectual militants in place of violent militants. Will they give him a chance?