Nasarawa State is open for business, Governor Abdullahi Sule has said. The Chief Executive of the famous State of Solid Minerals gave this assurance when he addressed a motley crowd of local investors on the sidelines of the Nigeria Bar Association conference in Lagos. According to him, both new and prospective investors in the state are being encouraged to come and invest in the state whether in agriculture and agro-allied industry or the solid mineral subsector. “My vision for the state is anchored on industrialisation. Our desire is to make Nasarawa the industrial and economic hub of the North-Central zone in Nigeria. We are convinced that this policy is capable of addressing the challenges of unemployment of youth and women, wealth creation, as well as boost economic activities in the state,” he began. While acknowledging that Nasarawa State is predominantly an agrarian state with about 80per cent of the population engage in agricultural activities, Governor Sule said a lot is being done within that sphere to encourage prospective investors. Specifically, he said, the state is giving over 50 per cent discount for fertilizers as part of incentives for those willing to invest in agribusiness in the state. “We have taken appropriate measures to boost agriculture through the provision of improved technology and agricultural credit financing scheme for the benefit of rural farmers through various cooperative societies. Already we have secured N1.5billion facility from the Central Bank of Nigeria to provide seed capital for farmers.” Governor Sule who took stock of his first 100 days in office while fielding questions from, newsmen said, it is heartening to note that things are looking up for the state. Upbeat, he said, the state has achieved some modest successes thus far in the area of special education, infrastructural development amongst others. “We have seen the completion of most of the project most especially for the skill acquisition centre, especially education technical education and then most of the primary and secondary schools that were initiated by the former administration has been completed, some are still on and we have given new ones,” he said. Expatiating, he recalled that his administration set up a think tank which identified key areas requiring urgent attention. “When we came on board we identified about 14 areas of interest as a major plank of pour intervention.” An investment advisory council peopled by professionals within and outside the state has been helping to drive policies as well as initiate programmes aimed at delivering the dividends of democracy to the electorate. The governor who has left no one in doubt about his desire to turnaround the fortunes of the state for good, said, his hand is on the plough, “Nasarawa state is hungry for development and we are willing to ensure this is achieved in record time.”