Former Interim National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Adebisi Akande, on Thursday shocked guests at a book presentation in his honour when he declared that Nigeria may never celebrate 100 years of independence. The guests, who were earlier mesmerised by speeches from the Osun State Governor, Adeboyega Oyetola; his Ondo State counterpart,  Rotimi Akeredolu and the University of Lagos Vice Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, were left dumbstruck. But Akande suggested ways to avoid doom. The mild drama played out at the public presentation of the book entitled: “The Bisi Akande Phenomenon: Governance, Economics and Politics,” held at the University of Lagos, Akoka. Akande identified three factors sabotaging the progress of the nation. These are education, military decree-based laws and religion. According to him, until all these three are looked into and addressed, Nigeria may not live to celebrate her centenary independence anniversary. He recalled how Nigeria was the place to be over five decades ago. The former governor of Osun State said: “Fifty years ago, Nigeria was most enjoyable; we had freedom of what a true democracy was supposed to be, at least individually. I don’t know about the government then. But today, it appears everybody lives in fear. “I think the phenomenon of the country must be examined around three things. First, our education – It seems to me that Nigeria’s education is colonial. It ended only literacy without numeracy. “Education of a community that is not science-based can never be technologically based. And a community without technology cannot be industrial and when you are not industrial, you may end up in poverty. “Secondly, I think our laws are military decree-based and military decree-based laws cannot be used to sustain democracy. As long as we remain or we use these military decree based laws, our democracy will never prosper. “Thirdly, our religions are mostly imported and because of that, we seem neither to be good Christians, nor good Muslims or good atheists. We merely live in fear and when there are problems, we have no laboratories to go, we all retire to churches and mosques for vigils. “A country that remains like this may celebrate 60th anniversary of Independence, but may never celebrate 100th anniversary. I think until all these three are looked into and addressed, or let me use the word; restructured. All these ethnic restructuring, political restructuring and so on, I believe in them, but they are not difficult to restructure like the three I told you.” The Chairman on the occasion, who is the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, said the political class had a lot to learn from the elder statesman, noting that Akande’s canny insight was remarkable for to the emergence of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the centre. Boss, who was represented by the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, said Akande and his political ally, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, fought hard to ensure that APC, an opposition party, won the 2015 elections and went ahead to retain power in 2019. He said: “I saw very closely strength in these two men and how their impact took us to where we are today. For the first time, an opposition party became the ruling party in the country. Imagine Nigeria having Bisi Akande in every single state, this country would have gone far and it would have been a different country. “This book is a testimony that is unprecedented and will be explored many years to come. Your courage particularly, and how you withstood the 46 years jail sentence passed on you on corruption charges, which could not stand. You came out undaunted, and inspired the enthronement of democracy. “Your political stewardship remain a remarkable one. We are happy you are alive today. The political class has a lot to learn from your wisdom. He is very firm, fair and one that loves justice; his contribution to the cohesion of our party is quite great.” Oyetola described Akande, as an encyclopaedia of governance and statesmanship, whose virtues are worthy of emulation. He said Osun was proud to donate his politics, economics and governance dynamics to a nation striving to emplace visionary and dynamic leadership, adding that it was Akande who birthed the legacy of prudent and transparent management of men and resources in the state. He hailed Akande for his immense contributions to nation building and national integration. Describing the book as a collection of the illustrious contributions of Akande to the building of the political edifice called Nigeria, Governor Oyetola described Akande as a model for contemporary politicians, youths, and school children, who the nation looks up to as its hope. The governor added: “His life, politics, philosophy, leadership dynamics and lifestyle accurately exemplify him as an outstanding Omoluabi and a phenomenon in the nation’s budding democracy. “Akande represents everything Osun stands for, and radiates the honour and statesmanship our nation exudes. Baba Awon Omo Kekeke (father of small children), as he is fondly called, is a metaphor for the future of Osun and Nigeria. “He radiates vision, discipline, dynamism, industry and honour, which we require to overcome the raging rot to become a great player in the competitive world. This Octogenarian was a compendium of wisdom during the opposition days of the progressives and even now, a formidable guide while in power. Oyetola added: “Since his tutelage under the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Chief Akande has remained a potent voice in politics, governance and the economy. He is also widely known as a bridge between the North and the South in a nation immersed in ethnic and rotational politics. “These rare attributes make him a phenomenon, a quintessential politician and a unifying force in a country where centrifugal forces are always gnawing at its political and economic soul. A visionary and dynamic leader, Chief Akande remains the architect of our beloved state, having laid a solid foundation, which his successors have built on in all the sectors to announce the state to the world. ”Chief Akande birthed the legacy of prudent and transparent management of men and resources. Despite Osun’s status as one of the resource-challenged states in the country, Chief Akande employed his skills as a creative manager to build structures and institutions in a manner that dwarfed the achievements of resource-studded states in the nation. ”As students of Chief Akande’s politico-economics, we owe a huge debt of gratitude to the author of the book for codifying the activities and milestones of our principal into a compendium for us and the generations yet unborn to appropriately build bricks on the foundation that will take our fatherland to the Promised Land.” The chief presenter of the book and Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, said Akande took hard decisions as long as they were in public interest. He noted that such decisions were not only worthwhile but advanced performance, prudence in public spending and eliminated wastage. Akeredolu added that most politicians were not courageous, urging them to follow the examples of Akande. He said some of the decisions taken were exemplified at Abere, where the Osun State Secretariat is located. The host, University of Lagos Vice Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, described Akande as an upright man and a personality that could be trusted. Among the dignitaries who graced the event were the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; former Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi; Ogun State Deputy Governor, Muinat Salako-Oyedele; Ekiti State Deputy Governor, Bisi Egbeyemi; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi; Lagos APC Chairman, Babatunde Balogun; Speaker, Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye; Gen Alani Akinrinade (retd); Prof Lai Olurode, Dhikrullah Yagboyaju, Dr. Adebisi Obawale, Chief Lanre Rasaq, Chief Ayo Afolabi, Prof. Olu Aina; former Ogun State deputy governor, Prince Segun Adesegun; Prof. Tunde Babawale, lawmakers, traditional rulers, students and others.