Youths and Sports Development Ministry, will soon establish Centres of Sport Excellence in universities across the six geopolitical zones of the country. This was disclosed by the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Akin Dare, when he visited the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), Prof Sulyman Age Abdulkareem, in his office ahead of the commencement of the fifth National Youth Games hosted by the university. The minister said UNILORIN may be selected as one of the proposed centres because of its contribution to sports development in the country. “It is our plan to identify one university in each geo-political zone and confer on them the centre of sports excellence and I think this university is the prime candidate, and if we are able to do that, it comes with a lot of benefits in terms of equipment,” he said. Dare thanked the institution for playing host to the National Youth Games. He observed that with the facilities at the UNILORIN Sports Stadium, the ministry would recommend and support the University to host continental championships. “I must thank you and your university for hosting the 5th National Youth Games. This is the fourth time running; the partnership of the ministry with the school, I believe will be long lasting. We will ensure that it is beneficial to the development of sports, to the university and the country at large,” Dare said. He praised the Vice-Chancellor for appointing a woman, Prof. Olufunmilola Dominic, as the University’s Director of Sport. Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor had told the minister that the university was proud to host the National Youth Games for a record fourth time. Abdulkareem expressed delight that the institution had become the home of sports development for the country as new talents were being discovered on a yearly basis during the competition. The Vice-Chancellor, however, appealed to the Ministry to help the University in the area of staff training and upgrade of sport facilities at the stadium.