A 12-year-old schoolgirl has been raped by her teacher in Namtari, a community in Yola South Local Government Area of Adamawa State. Our correspondent gathered she was confirmed pregnant on Thursday by a referral centre that admitted her for care. Bashir Tahir, a member of the Adamawa Hope Center located at the state Specialist Hospital in Yola where the girl was rushed to, confirmed Thursday that the girl had been put in the family way as a result of the rape perpetrated by her class teacher, Nathan Yusuf. “She has received all the needed support and the medical tests required. “So far she is free from all sexually transmitted diseases. But she will start receiving anti-natal care next week at the Hope Center,” Bashir said. The Adamawa State Command of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), which arrested the teacher, has assured that he would be made to answer for his act. The state Commandant of the corps, Abdullahi Nuruddeen, told newsmen on Thursday during a briefing in his office: “I always charge my men not to relent in their effort on arrest and prosecution of crimes, more especially the ones endangering the life of people like rape cases. ”On 2nd September, 2019, around 2:30 pm, we arrested a suspect of rape in person of Nathan Yusuf (37) who is a teacher at Gurel Primary School Namtari, Yola South, suspected to have raped his primary school pupil who is below 14 years of age, which he confessed to have given her codeine syrup before raping her. “As soon as we finish our investigation, the suspect will be charged to court. “We are advising parents to be very vigilant o their children and report such crimes to the relevant authorities for judicial action.” An uncle of the victim, Sulaiman Namtari, who also spoke to newsmen, said the action of the teacher shocked the community because he was held in high esteem. He said: “Every member of the community reserves tremendous respect for the teacher as he has been in the community for years. “There is no house he doesn’t enter and every member of the community knows him very well. What he did was a perfidy of the highest order and for that we want authorities not to spare him.” The suspect confessed to the act and promised he would take care of the baby after delivery. He also said he would take full responsibility for his action.