Worried by the ceaseless theft and vandalism of public schools properties  in Oyo State, the government has declared war on vandals, saying that anyone caught in such acts will face the music. Some members of staff of the affected schools were also accused of conspiring with the vandals, but none has been arrested. It was reported that due to the absence of security guards in public schools, as a result of the ban on payment of school fees by the government, some criminal elements have taken advantage of the seeming collapse of security system to cart away valuables in the schools. Some head teachers had raised the alarm in a report, calling the attention of the government to the grave danger faced by the schools, especially when most of the schools could no longer afford to hire security guards because of the ban fees and levies. The state governor Seyi Makinde promised grants to public schools, but the government is yet to make the grants available. A statement issued by the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun yesterday warned that anyone caught in the act would be dealt with according to the law. Quoting the chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr. Nureni Aderemi Adeniran, the statement said those behind the vandalism shall be treated as saboteurs and enemies of the state. Speaking on the destruction of properties at a new model school completed by the state government in Ibadan, Adeniran said that perpetrators of such acts would be punished with extreme severity. Adeniran said, “It is unfortunate that these deliberate destructive acts on one of our model schools reportedly were aided by some teachers and staff members of the school, but let me assure you that this administration would tackle the menace of thugs among our teachers in the interest of our children. “This government frowns at such shameful acts and we promise to fish out those who masterminded this. As a government, we will not allow anybody mortgage the future of our children, for their selfish interests,” he added.