The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and Belema Oil on Tuesday signed a dispute closure agreement in Abuja yesterday. With this, operations are expected to resume at the Oil Mining Licence (OML) 25 in the next 10 days. ROSEMARY NWISI, who has followed the crisis for over two years, wonders if peace has finally come Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, in June, directed all parties in the dispute relating to the Oil Mining Licence (OML) 25 to resolve all issues and reopen the oil facility in seven days. The deadline lapsed with Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and Belemaoil Limited still at loggerheads. But, if the deal sealed on Tuesday in Abuja is followed through, the end of the crisis is here. The sleepy oil-bearing communities of Offoin-Ama, Belema and Ngeje in Akuku-Toru Local Government Area of Rivers State have been in the news of late. All thanks to the controversy surrounding the continuous shut down of the OML-25 flow-stations. The three Kula communities, Offion-Ama, Belema and Ngeje, share hosting rights to the flow station located in a part of the island Kingdom of Rivers State. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), SPDC and Belema Oil signed the dispute closure agreement in Abuja yesterday. Operations at the oil well will take off in the next 10 days. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Chief Timipre Sylva, while signing the agreement, thanked all the parties stressing that the step signified the beginning of a new chapter in the industry. Sylva said the aim of the ministry was to ensure an oil industry that worked and operated in harmony and in unity. “When I came into the office, the issue was one of the problems that came on the table; there were so many letters from communities complaining about the problem. “I just decided to invite Shell to hear its own part of the story but fortunately, the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari, had intervened in the matter. “So, I have the honour now to thank him for this great intervention. And also thank Shell and Belema for cooperating to ensure that there is closure to this matter that has bedevilled the industry for so long,” he said. He said one of the aims of the petroleum industry was to ensure zero loss in the industry and production got to destination. According to him, zero loss is not loses from pipelines but lost to the country, especially with assets that can produce but for some reasons bug down by leakage issues. He said that the biggest beneficiaries of the agreement were not the companies but the communities, especially those in Belema who had been suffering since the beginning of the dispute. The minister commended the NNPC, Shell and the Belema Oil for agreeing to resolve the dispute. Kyari said the development was a big achievement for the corporation. The NNPC boss said the dispute around the OML 25 had been on for over two years, adding that  the end result was that communities lacked peace with the disruption of property and social lives in the area. “For us, the most important aspect of the dispute resolution is that, at least, the communities will have their peace restored. “At the back of it, you are aware that there is a complete stoppage of petroleum operations around the OML 25 and adjoining blocks. “What this means is shut down of production of over 35,000 barely of oil every day in the last two years and that is an enormous economic loss for all stakeholders, Nigeria and the communities. “This is why we engaged all stakeholders and we are happy to announce today that the closure has been obtained. “It means that the communities will have their peace back and also commence operations with the OML 25. “That means that there is prosperity for the community and also some returns to shareholders of Belema Oil, NNPC and Nigeria at large,” he said. Kyari commended the Belema Oil for its role and assured full engagement of the communities, adding that all the parties would be taken care of. The NNPC boss also said that all opportunities found would be shared equitably for overall peace and development of the country. He commended the minister of petroleum for his support and assured that the operations would soon commence in the area. Also, the Managing Director of Shell, Osagie Okunbor said that the dispute had been for two years but “we are happy that we concluded on resolving the dispute. “I want to convey my deep appreciation to the GMD of NNPC for the intervention to bring this issue to a closure. “When dispute of this nature happens, everyone suffers, especially the immediate family, recipient community not to talk of investors like ourselves. “We have been in discussion with communities and Belema Oil and sometimes under the auspices of government. “We are very pleased that we have finally brought this to a conclusion, to work on some agreements with communities to achieve speedy return to operations on that facility,” he said. He said to meet the plight of the host communities, Shell had paid in the Joint MOU account, over N300 million to restart community efforts it had not done because of some issues. Okunbor said that under the joint MOU framework money would be paid into communities’ accounts to execute projects to ensure that employment opportunities get to the people. He noted that SPDC remained the operator of the OML 25 but assured commitment to ensure that all parties would derive from the benefits. Belema Oil President and Founder  Jack Rich-Tein also said the agreement signalled that stakeholders shared common interest and value of lifting the country high and strengthening relationships. “What has been resolved is that, we have agreed to work together, SPDC and Belema Oil. “Belema Oil is now going to be able to create a lot of employment opportunities for the communities under operations and maintenance part of the operations. “SPDC remains the operators because they still have the licence, the communities will be happy because we will employ them and they will be able to work with SPDC. “The key thing there is getting back to work and creating jobs for the local communities, everybody will be happy.” He said Belema Oil with 7.7 per cent asset would provide the operation maintenance and employ the community members through that platform. The founder said Belema Oil Producing Limited would work with shell to ensure that the development needs of the people were met. “We have agreed that less than 10 days from today, we will visit the communities and appeal to them and then, we go to work,” he said. The operation in OML 25 stopped since in 2017 when the host communities sent SPDC away from operating in the facility over issues of unemployment and underdevelopment among others. Host communities’ grouses The multinational oil giant has operated in the environment for almost 40 years. Despite these long years of operation, the communities said they have become poorer while the oil giant gets richer. Members of the communities decried alleged gross neglect, marginalisation, impoverishment, enslavement, maltreatment, environmental devastation; failure to comply with the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) it signed with the host communities, among others necessitated the shutdown of the facility by women and children of the communities. But the company denied the alleged neglect, insisting that the welfare of their host communities remains paramount to it. The SPDC is operating the flow station as a consortium with 32.3 per cent stake on behalf of SPDC, Total E&P and Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC), in Joint Venture with the NNPC, which controls 60 per cent stake while Belema Oil Producing Limited has 7.7 per cent participating interest in the facility, which it inherited from Chevron Nigeria Limited. To attract the attention of wider society to the deplorable state of the oil-rich communities, their chiefs and leaders held a news conference at Offoin-Ama and the flow station in July. They also conducted reporters drawn from local and international media round the communities for on-the-spot assessment of the areas and to verify the claims by the oil firm on the developmental state of the communities. From Offoin-Ama to Belema down to Ngeje communities, the sights and sounds are the same tales of woe, lamentation, impoverishment and high level of poverty among the people. There are no signs of social amenities in the communities visited. There are no hospitals, good schools, no habitable houses and power supply. Houses in the areas are all shanties, made of polythene bags and trampoline. The rich among them built their houses with woods. Hunger, poverty, hardship and total and criminal neglect of the areas are prominent features of the areas and these are etched on the faces of the residents. There is a complete lack of government’s presence whatsoever in the places visited despite their huge financial contributions to the state and federal government coffers. They also lamented lack of jobs, business and no artisan workshop anywhere in the area. Apart from a small patent medicine store at Offoin-Ama which apparently serves as health care facility to the people, the other shop in the communities is a beer parlour shop at Belema community. Analysts put the estimate of revenue so far lost by the governments in the two years the business has been shut down to over $2 billion. The communities accused Wike of meddlesomeness, stressing that the governor had no business interfering in matters of oil and gas, insisting that he lacked the statutory powers to preside over any meeting on the dispute. The governor set up a committee led by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Dr.  Tammy Danagogo, and gave him seven days to resolve all disputes, reunite parties and re-open the facility within one week. The host communities boycotted the meetings convened by the government where a Memorandum of Understanding was purportedly signed to re-open the oil facility. The Chairman of Kula Supreme Council of Chiefs and the Amanyanabo of Kula Kingdom, His Royal Highness Kroma Eleki was in the meeting and signed the GMoU. But he told the participants that the rightful stakeholders were absent and that his signing the agreement would not guarantee the vacation of the facility by the women. He said:  “I really did attend the meeting by the state government to broker peace between Shell and the host communities of OML25, flow station. As a government recognised monarch, I am supposed to attend such meetings and to advise the government on the way forward. “I did attend and there was settlement agreement to sign and I did sign, but before I signed, I told the government and the public that the signing of that agreement do not lead to the opening of the OML 25 flow station. “In any case, Shell has owed us for several years and we needed that money. So, signing the document was for us to access the money and, again, I also did tell them that the people with who they were negotiating at the meeting are not in the position to ensure the opening of OML25 and that the real stakeholders were not in the meeting. “I advised them to be patient until they meet with the main stakeholders and that there is a need for them to pay a visit to Kula Kingdom and the host communities to see things for themselves before they will be able to broker peace.” Speaking on his position in OML- 25, he said: “Since Shell began operations in Kula, they have not done any significant thing for the communities. So, I stand with the people of Kula Kingdom, because of the suffering we are going through. “I will not like Shell to come back to operate OML 25, it should give the right to other operators, if possible, to Belema Oil. He is our son. If on the other hand Shell feels that it has gotten a licence, they want to operate, Belema Oil has a stake in that the partnership he should be given the operatorship of that stake, so that whenever they want to sell, he should have the first option of refusal before they can sell it.” The spokesperson of Belema Central Women Association occupying the OML 25 flow station, Mrs. Belinda Nokiman relived their ordeal to reporters. She decried the poor state of the communities, adding that they do not have good drinking water in the area. At Offoin-Ama, Chief Ibiosiya Nath-Sukubo said: “Offoin-Ama is a co-host to OML-25 and  bellies the six and eight inches delivery lines, a myriad of oil wells, the Sego Creek manifold, riser, Eastern Gas Gathering Lines (EGGS I) and NCTL among others. It is a principal oil-producing and pipeline community and a contributor to over 200,000 barrels of oil and over 1.5 million standard cubic feet of gas (mmscf). “We are prone to serious ecological hazards such as earthquake and Tsunami, among others. The people’s natural source of income which is fishing has continued to diminish.” Nath-Sukubo reiterated the failure of SPDC to take seriously the welfare of its host communities in the area. He urged them to divest the flow-station to Belema Oil, maintaining that Shell will never be allowed back to the area. In the heat of the brouhaha, Shell insisted it had high regards for its host communities in the Niger Delta. “Shell JV’s committed to the welfare of its host communities in the Niger Delta remain unshaken, even as we debunk every allegation that we neglected the development of communities in Kula Kingdom and Belema.,” the company said. Will the agreement engender peace? Will the agreement entered into yesterday by the oil firms, NNPC and Sylva be acceptable to the host communities? The outcome of the meeting the operators are supposed to have with them in the next few days  will tell.