Consequent upon the high rate of road traffic crashes, injuries and deaths particularly among passenger carrying vehicles, the training, testing,  licensing and licence renewal for drivers should no more be taken for granted. As it stands in Nigeria, many commercial drivers and those who don’t even know how to drive are still getting driver licence with ease without any form of training and testing. Most people today do bypass the driving school and proceed straight to the driver licence  centre where they are made to pay higher than the official driver licence fee. They will thereafter be invited for capturing and licence issuance without any structured and unbiased theory and practical test. The issuance of driving school certificate is mostly without the requisite theory test. Hence the rising rate of accidents and deaths on the roads. In the countries with low rates of road traffic crashes, would – be drivers must acquire the requisite theory and practical training in accredited driving schools, compulsorily pass the theory and practical tests, go for medical checkup for the mandatory medical reports before he or she can be issued with licence to drive passenger carrying vehicle. The tests are to confirm the mental and physical fitness of the drivers. The medical report must cover vision, nervous system, diabetes mellitus, psychiatric illness, general health, cardiac health and medical practitioner details. Driver licence may be refused passenger carrying vehicle or commercial driver licence  if they suffer from any of the following: Liability to epilepsy/seizure, diabetes requiring insulin, eyesight defects, heart disorders, persistent high blood pressure, a stroke within the past year, unconscious lapses within the last five years, any disorder causing vertigo within the last year, major brain surgery or severe head injury with serious continuing after – effects, parkinson’s disease (multiple sclerosis or other chronic nervous disorders likely to affect the use of the limbs), mental disorders, alcohol and other psychoactive drug problems, serious communication problem, etc. Driving is a very complex job, which involves the use of the eyes, ears, nose, brain, neck, hands,  and legs to ensure effective and safe vehicle control. A  lapse on the part of the driver can result to loss of lives and properties. Before anyone is issued with driver licence, it must be established through uncompromised  theory and practical tests that the candidates have a comprehensive knowledge of the highway code including the meaning of traffic signs and road markings, thorough knowledge of the national road traffic regulations, a high level of driving skills as well as the ability for good journey planning and hazard perception. The road safety management is far from attaining the global standards. It is time to stop taking road safety issues with kids gloves and get more proactive in the war against road traffic crashes, injuries and deaths on the roads.