Welcome to another impactful week. I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. Today, we shall focus on: Understanding Covenant Dimensions of Prosperity! From scriptures, we understand that prosperity in the Kingdom doesn’t answer to fasting nor does it answer to prayer or prayer of agreement. It only answers to our understanding and practice of covenant details. What we are selling or the business we are involved in is not what determines our prosperity. No! It is the light under which we are operating that determines the results we get. As it is written, But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God: for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant which he sware unto thy fathers, as it is this day (Deuteronomy 8:18). Thus, the platform for wealth is released based on the covenant. When we step out into the covenant, we encounter the power to get wealth. Prosperity is not a promise we claim in prayers or with fastings and confession. No! It’s a covenant we practise. That means, God has set a stage for us, but we must understand our part of it and then the power to realise the promise will be delivered to us. A covenant as it were is like a contract. So, it involves two or more people. In this case, it involves just you and God. God is the covenantor and we are the covenantee; that is, we are the beneficiary of the deal. All we need is a good understanding of what the covenant entails and we will be up in abundance. The Bible says, My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips (Psalm 89:34). God is a covenant keeper. His side of every covenant is forever secured; it is our side that is variable. But when we lay hold on the terms that relate to us and apply ourselves to it, God is committed. And once we locate the covenant and we enter into it, our struggles will come to an end. Since that day in March 1981 when I saw the covenant of prosperity, I entered into my rest. We don’t pray or fast for a covenant, we just enter into it. As it is written, And they entered into a covenant to seek the Lord God of their fathers with all their heart and with all their soul; And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn with all their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found of them: and the Lord gave them rest round about (2 Chronicles 15:12, 15). What Then, Is The Covenant Dimension Of Prosperity? In summary, if famine could not stop our covenant fathers, famine cannot stop us because the economy of our nation has no bearing on our covenant walk with God. I see the covenant prevail for you in your time! May everything that is against you bow to the power of this covenant! However, the only way to prove the reality of new birth is to genuinely repent and accept Jesus as your Lord and Saviour. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Understanding Financial Prosperity, Breaking Financial Hardship, Winning the War against Poverty, Hidden Covenants of Blessing and Covenant Wealth. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.