Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun on Monday said God has continued to show His divine powers in his life and led him to triumphs in his trying times. The governor said he had experienced one of the most turbulent times since he became governor in May. He said his victory in the March 9 governorship election had been contested in many courts, adding that the Saturday validation of his victory at the tribunal was a further affirmation that with God, nothing is impossible. Abiodun poured out his heart to reporters after the opening ceremony of the second plenary of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference at the Sacred Heart College, Okelewo, Abeokuta, the state capital. The conference was attended by some politicians, including Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi; Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi; Women Affairs Minister Mrs Pauline Tallen; Osun State Deputy Governor Gboyega Alabi; Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong; popular economist, Prof. Pat Utomi, and former Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate Mr Jimi Agbaje – all practising Catholics. Abiodun, who was reacting to his victory at the tribunal, stressed that he had experienced one of the most turbulent periods as governor. The governor said he went through nine pre-election cases besides going to the tribunal. He said: “My first reaction is to give glory to Almighty God and to say that this is a further affirmation that indeed with God, nothing shall be impossible. This victory is for Ogun State people who have entrusted me with this mandate. It has been contested in so many courts. “I have gone through probably one of the most turbulent periods any governor could have gone through. I went through several pre-election cases, about eight or nine, and this tribunal. “God has continued to remain God. This mandate is a divine mandate and I believe that is obvious to all. This is a decision of the people of Ogun State and that was further ratified by the people yesterday (Saturday). “Unfortunately, I was away in Burkina Faso yesterday. But I was being informed about what was going back home and I was told it was a detailed judgment. “I am thankful to the Judiciary, the people of Ogun State and my team of lawyers, who are very learned. I am thankful to my party, which has stood by me during this period. They are very disciplined, very resilient, supportive. I could not have opted to be in another party apart from APC. “It is not because I am the best in the state, but I am special. God has just given me the assignment to lead Ogun State at this point in time. I have pledged I will do so with all that God has given me.” Abiodun urged religious bodies and other organisations in the state to join his administration in its quest to make life meaningful for its people. The governor thanked the church for its contribution to the socio-economic economic development of the state, saying the Catholic Church had played an important role in the health delivery and education of the residents. He added that his administration was glad that the Catholic Church held its plenary at the early stage of the present administration in the state. According to him, the session was an affirmation that God was present and the decision of the election tribunal in his favour showed God’s manifest powers. 