Purple Shelves Publishers is set to unveil a new book by United Nations and Nigerian Air Force award recipient, Flight Lieutenant Anthonia Egbujiobi. Entitled: “Bridging Civil-Military Gap: Strategies for Robust Relationships and Successful Operations”, the book is a research work that proffers alternative solution to the upsurge of insecurity that currently plagues the country. According to the CEO of Purple Shelves publishers, Amara Chimeka, the work is timely and relevant presenting facts and figures from a detailed research work on curbing insecurity, adding that it also documents Egbujiobi’s hypotheses and recommendations regarding security enhancement in our communities and the country at large. “We are pleased to be associated with a work that is definitely timely and relevant in these days of uncertainty due to insecurity. It calls for co-operation between the military and civilians as the way to combating the menace and going ahead to proffer lasting solution on how such collaboration can be achieved. “The book, which has its foreword written by the Nigerian Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, is due for launch in Makurdi, Benue State. We hope that members of the civil society, individuals and the general public, will read the book and be equipped with adequate knowledge on how to collaborate with the military and make our society safer,” Chimeka says. According to the author, Egbujiobi, her personal experiences while going about her programmes and empowerment schemes in the Congo which earned her the recognition and award by the UN and Nigerian Air Force inspired the writing of the book. “I was inspired after being nominated by the United Nations to serve in Congo as a military observer” Egbujiobi recalled while briefing correspondents. “While serving in the Congo, I set up and ran many empowerment programmes for the natives in the communities where I served as a delegate. It was while in the course of discharging duties it dawned on me that the best way to build a safer community was if we – the military and civilians – worked together,” she says Egbujiobi is also a lawyer, a professional negotiator, mediator, conflict resolutionist, and motivational speaker. She is married to Engineer Declan Egbujiobi, and they are blessed with two sons. Her latest title, Bridging Civil-Military Gap; Strategies for Robust Relationships and Successful Operations will be released as an imprint of Purple Shelves Publishers this month.