There are five basic rights that must be followed at all times before medication safety can be assured, the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has said. This was the thrust of a message by PSN to commemorate this year’s World’s Pharmacists Day. According to the PSN President, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, the five rights are ensuring the right dose of the right medication is administered to the right patient at the right time and by the right route. As simple as this may appear, he warned that such rights are personalised for each patient, since they are modified by demography, health condition, physiological status and possible allergies. All over the world, the world pharmacists’ day is marked yearly in September to appreciate the immeasurable roles pharmacists play in the healthcare delivery system, with this year’s theme being, “safe and effective medicines for all.” According to the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP), the theme seeks to highlight the role of pharmacists in ensuring patients’ safety through improved medicines use and reduced medication errors (adverse drug events that occur when exposure to a medication results in harm). Among other functions, pharmacists affect patients’ safety in ensuring access to medication, supplying medication information, evaluating medication appropriateness, improving medication adherence, providing health and wellness services, medication management and assessing health status of patients. “Pharmacists have continued to perform their traditional role of drug production and dispensing, but the paradigm shift towards a more patient-oriented practice has necessitated the adoption and embrace of pharmaceutical care by all settings of the pharmacy practice, from drug formulation to production, analysis, distribution and dispensing. Pharmacists must be intricately involved in all of these for the integrity of the system to be guaranteed. Pharmacists use their specialised skills to affect the health outcome of patients. Effective medicines will be able to produce the intended or expected outcome when responsibly provided,” Ohuabunwa said. To ensure safe and effective medicines for all Nigerians, the PSN president said there are things that require urgent attention. Pharmaceutical care needs to be promoted wholly by health policymakers, applied by all pharmacists and embraced by all stakeholders, he said. There also needs to be better controls so that ethical and psychotropic drugs will be taken away from the streets. For all this to happen, Ohuabunwa said the pharmacy bill needs to be signed into law. He also called for more serious regulation of medicines because drugs are potential poisons, which need to be handled with adequate knowledge. The industrialist also asked for more training for pharamcists, improved infrastructure such as transportation and electricity to ease the burdens of the local pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. “Health is dynamic and pharmacists need training and retraining to retool for emerging and reemerging health problems. Improvement in transportation and electricity will have a big effect on the delivery of safe and effective medicines to Nigerians through timely delivery of pharmaceutical products and adequate storage temperature, especially for cold chain products like vaccines and other heat sensitive products. “Pharmacists in Nigeria are not adequately remunerated given the tasking and sensitive role they play in healthcare delivery. The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria will continue to encourage pharmacists, through capacity building and professional development to provide safe and effective medicines to Nigerians. We have strived to do that in the past, sacrificially doing it today and will willinglydo it tomorrow,” Ohuabunwa said.