Audiences are being thrilled to a rich and colourful experience of entertainment and culture on MTV Base as The People’s Hero talent hunts kicked off on Saturday. The show, which will be repeated every Wednesday, is an initiative of Hero Lager Beer, an International Brewery Plc brand. The Senior Channels Manager for Viacom International Media Networks Africa, Solafunmi Oyeneye, said after a series of thorough and transparent auditions in Enugu and Owerri, which attracted almost 2,000 youths from every city in the Southeast and Southsouth, the final 20 with talents in singing, dancing, the spoken word and acting have been selected. They and are in the house to contest for the grand prize of N7 million and the consolation prizes of N2 million and N1 million for the first and second runners-up. Solafunmi said the broadcast began with episodes of the pre-audition activations across five states in the Southeast and Southsouth. The subsequent episodes will feature the auditions in Enugu and Owerri. She described the auditions as intriguing experiences the audience cannot afford to miss. According to her, the massive turnout of raw talents and deep knowledge of culture by youths, as displayed during the auditions, were breathtaking. She noted that throughout the auditions, it was impressive to see how youths were proud to celebrate their culture. Assuring audience of a thrilling experience, the Marketing Manager, Hero Lager Beer, Mr. Obumneke Okoli, said the show promises not only to be entertaining and exciting, but also to further educate the populace, especially those from the Southeast and Southsouth, on the relevance of their culture to modern live. According to him, it is amazing to see our young ones demonstrate a detailed understanding of the Southeastern culture in diverse contemporary styles. He reiterated that The People’s Hero TV show is a platform to celebrate the culture of the people as well as giving opportunities to young talents to express themselves along the skills of singing, dancing, spoken word and acting.