National Vice Chairman, North East of the All Progressives Congress (APC), comrade Mustapha Salihu has said that former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar was deceived by con men into believing that there was an INEC server used for the transmission of election results during the last Presidential election. Comrade Salihu told newsmen in an interview after a meeting of stakeholders of the party from Adamawa state that from the judgement of the tribunal it is clear that there was no server recognised by law anywhere and so, could not have been used for the election. He insisted that those who told the former Vice President of the existence of a server succeeded in scamming him, stressing that even though his lawyers did a good job trying to present his case, they could not establish a prima facie case. He said “some people jobbed them, took their money telling them there was INEC server somewhere when that was not true and so, they could not establish a prima facie case. “Even though their lawyer did a good job trying to present their case, it was dismissed because there was no substance. This is a victory for Nigeria and the Nigerian people and not for APC alone. We have now done away with the distractions and this government is going to deliver the dividends of democracy and the next level is assured. “The outcome of the tribunal was something that was expected. All the cases canvassed by the opposition are frivolous because you cannot say that an army general who serves as military commanding officer, Head of State, Minister and President of Federal Republic of Nigeria for four years does not have credentials”. Speaking on the essence of the meeting, Salihu said “this is a meeting of stakeholders, Adamawa APC. You saw the calibre of people that turned out. The meeting is actually meant for us to have consultation with each other and discuss on the matter border on the development of the party. “To God be the glory, we have achieved a lot. A committee has been set up to further deepen the consultation and reconciliation. This meeting intends to synergize and rebuild the party in Adamawa state. “Politics is war without bloodshed. When people put their interest and vie for position, there will be discrepancies and some people will gain while others will lose. At the end of the day, we all come together and work “We are aware that some people from various ideological divide contested for various positions and some people won, some people lost. Some people agreed and disagreed and at the end, we agreed and we entered election as one people and we did our best. “The Committee we have set up now is to do a SWAT analysis of the election, see what went wrong and what need to be fixed. We expect them to come up with a comprehensive report on how to fix the party. “The main agenda for the committee is to seek ways of reconciliation because we know that some people will feel aggrieved. So, they are supposed to carry out deep-rooted consultation, door to door diplomacy. We expect the committee to visit everybody that feel aggrieved, discuss with them and find a way of reconciling them.”