There were mixed feelings on Friday as the appointment of Budgit’s founder, Seun Onigbinde as Technical Adviser in the Federal Ministry of Budget and National Planning became public knowledge. The civic tech organisation, which he founded, has been at the forefront of transparency, accountability and engagements on public finance. Besides, Onigbinde has been a foremost critic of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, declaring it has been operating without transparency. Nigerians took to the social media immediately the appointment was confirmed to express divergent views on the development. While some hailed Onigbinde for the boldness to accept the job considering his vociferous attacks on the administration, others criticised him. They declared he has been bought over by the administration, claiming he has lost the voice to hold the government accountable by taking the appointment.  Former Director-General of the Bureau of Public Service Reforms, Dr Joe Abah, said by taking the appointment, Onigbinde has justified his belief against extremism. According to him: “I am pleased that Seun Onigbinde has been given an appointment by the Federal Govt. “When I tell young people not to be too extreme, they abuse me as “Fencist.” “In 2015, you are all in for Buhari. 2019, you are all in against Buhari. Your country is bigger than Buhari. Think am o.” Dr. Dípò Awójídé tweeted: “Congratulations to Seun Onigbinde on the appointment. “Kudos to the Federal Government for snapping up such a smart and energetic young man. We need the best of the best in government. I mean, we need our best brains!” But some maintained the appointment was more or less a reward for a non-APC member. Tweeting at the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, Abu Abdullahi, said: “The appointment of Seun Onigbinde as your adviser is rather unfortunate. ‘’He worked against the re-election of PMB during the last election. Please see below excerpts of some of his tweets. I suggest you consider another person pls.’’ Badru Rafiu said: “I don’t rate any of you that criticize Buhari’s government or any government for that matter.
“You’re all fraudulent. I owned an ad agency & I know a top influencer here paid almost N7m to tweet. You all respect him & love him. But he knows I know he is a fraud. Seun Onigbinde is.”