The absence of former President Goodluck Jonathan has put on hold a proposed stakeholders’ meeting by the Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, to review the choice of running mate for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the November 16 governorship election in the state. There were outcries in the state chapter of the PDP following attempts by few party leaders to foist Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor, who hails from Dickson’s Sagbama Local Government Area, on the party as a running mate to the governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri. But Dickson, who listened to stiff opposition against Ewrujakpor, called for a meeting of top and critical stakeholders of the party to review the controversial choice of Ewrujakpor within the time frame given by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for substitution of candidates. It was, however, gathered that no date had been selected for the meeting because Dickson and other party leaders were waiting for the arrival of Jonathan who was said to have travelled outside the country for an engagement. It was learnt that Jonathan’s opinion would be sought on the issue, which was threatening the existence of the PDP and its chances at the forthcoming governorship poll. A PDP stalwart, who spoke in confidence, said following widespread argument against conceding the running mate slot to Dickson’s West Senatorial District comprising Sagbama and Ekeremor, the position would be zoned to the East, Jonathan’s district comprising Nembe, Brass and Ogbia. He said in view of the current political realities arising from the decision of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to give Nembe its running mate slot, most of the PDP leaders were making a strong case that the position should be given to Ogbia as a mark of honour to Jonathan and to counter the raging influence of APC in the East. The PDP chieftain said if the meeting eventually holds, Jonathan and Dickson will be expected to nominate their preferred persons in Ogbia for the running mate position while the governorship candidate, Diri, will select from the nominees of the two leaders. He said: “But the dilemma here is that Jonathan has a father figure in his Ogbia Local Government Area and would not want to be seen as favouring one son above the other. “Jonathan will not dabble into that kind of politics of selection. He will simply ask the governor to choose anybody in his team so long the person is from Ogbia. “We know that most of the people from Ogbia angling for the position lack electoral value and have shown disloyalty to the governor. “Most of them were involved in anti-party activities and could not deliver their wards in the last general elections. But they are the ones desperate to become running mates. “There are, however, persons in the restoration team from Ogbia with the capacity to drive votes and command the respect of the younger ones. “People, especially youths from across the state like these ones who have shown loyalty to restoration ideals. We expect the governor to pick a running from this pack”. Another source close to Jonathan said the former President was still busy with his international assignment and might not be available for the meeting. “But he has made his feelings on the matter known. He is of the view that he will support anybody from Ogbia the governor and the party consider for running mate to the candidate,” the source said. A former Chairperson of Brass, Mrs. Hellen Bob, said in a statement that the stakeholders’ meeting was unnecessary since the governor had the knife and the yam. She said: “For me there is no need calling stakeholders to hear governor’s briefing as usual because they may not be given opportunity to speak out their minds. Even if they do, their opinions will never count because of our past experiences. “We all recalled how three aspirants emerged from him to speak for a Restoration political family and the entire PDP. Not even the party leadership could call a meeting to discuss the way forward but strongly supported the governor to ensure one of them won the PDP ticket while others were disgraced. “He may be the last PDP governor if he doesn’t fix all these disheartening issues that have clouded our dear PDP. The governor is a very intelligent and experienced personality that knows what best to do at the right time. “He needs not any stakeholders meeting to fix the party back to the way it used to win general elections. Since 2015 that the model of choosing who bears the PDP flags in state House of Assembly,  House of Reps and Senate seats changed to imposition of candidates due to favoritism, family and friends, we have lost more seats than ever. “With all due respect my boss, the truth is bitter but I have to state it here clearly that this imposition of candidates is an unpopular and old school kind of party primary model that is why we lost those seats to the APC. “Frankly speaking, even those who are close with you are only there to ensure their salaries read, hence will never tell you the truth. Please take a good decision yourself as you have always done to fix all the collapsing walls of the party as no stakeholders have any role to play at this point”. But some party stakeholders commended the decision of Dickson to review the party’s choice of running mate, saying it was a step in the right direction. Chairman of Bayelsa East Forum for Justice (BEFJ), Monday Eribo, said the governor by deciding to convene the meeting, had again proved that he was a leader that listened to genuine complaints. He said for listening to the loud outcry against the intended running mate, Dickson endeared himself to the heart of loyal members of the party, who were ready to stand with him till the end of his tenure. Eribo urged the leaders and stakeholders invited for the meeting to look at the issue of running mate dispassionately and ensure that it was zoned to the East. Eribo, a former three-time Commissioner in the State Local Government Service Commission, appealed to the stakeholders to ensure the selection of a competent person from the East before the expiration of the INEC deadline. He said: “What the candidate of the PDP for the November 16 governorship election, Senator Douye Diri needs is someone who enjoys the support of not only Ogbia people but people across the state, and it must be someone who is very committed to the Restoration agenda. “Picking someone from the East, particularly Ogbia will be a mark of honour and respect to former President Goodluck Jonathan and will balance the political equation in the state. “We thank individuals and groups who came out to voice their concerns over the choice of Senator Lawrence Ehrudjakpor, saying history will never forget them, as they spoke up when it mattered most.”