Since Atiku Abubakar lost in his bid to become our President, he has made great issue of whether or not President Muhammad Buhari possesses the minimum educational qualification to run for the high office of President of Nigeria. I have combed all relevant documents to know that to be our President, you must be educated up to a minimum of West African School Certificate level. Atiku, the PDP and their lawyers are telling us that our President does not have a secondary school leaving certificate and that if he has, he couldn’t produce it. They offered to help Buhari search for it – from his weather-beaten cupboard in his native home in Daura to the remnants of the burnt records of the West African Examinations Council at their imposing office headquarters in Jibowu area of Yaba in Lagos. Açcording to tales by Atiku, since the search for Buhari’s certificate had, to them, ended up in futility like the guys out there looking for the head of the air that circulate round the world, Buhari should be asked to relinquish the mandate given to him by the Nigerian people and surrender the presidential ‘tiara’ Atiku has coveted so much since his barely disguised bid to oust his boss, Olusegun Obasanjo in the post-military Presidency of 1999 to 2007. But the elusive certificate, I am happy to report to the Atiku crowd, has been found by some concerned citizens in the vault of Tafa Adeoye, the deceased leader of the Yoruba militant group otherwise known as Agbekoya Movement, at his headquarters at Akanran, the border town between Ijebu Igbo in Ogun State and Ibadan in Oyo State. The ‘but’ in the matter is that the certificate has been partially eaten by termites and thus defaced to be presented in the President’s favour at the Supreme Court where Atiku is headed in his desperation to win through the courts, the presidency he lost at the polls. Some hope for Atiku? If you ask me, I’d say his ice hasn’t got a ghost of a chance in hell in this case. In the first place, it is uncommon for a 5-0 unanimous decision of a presidential election appeal tribunal to be upturned by any Supreme Court. One could have made a safe guess of victory for Nigeria’s serial presidential contestant if the appeal tribunal verdict had been split, say 3-2! In the second place, no Supreme Court of the calibre of the eminent jurists sitting there will be consciencelessly audacious enough to throw a whole country into chaos by upstaging a sitting president whose popularity rating on integrity and piety has no parallel among his peers. That said, this columnist calls to question the patriotic and intelligence credentials of those who thought educational qualification could be a basis for blighting Buhari’s victory. I move forward to say all those who think that way have insulted the collective intelligence of citizens of this country and portrayed the nation in bad light by suggesting even remotely that a man who rose in the nation’s Army to become a General, a state governor, a federal minister of petroleum, a head of state and commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces and a democratically-elected president, is un-educated and unfit to lead the country. Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, the afro-beat legend, had not seen much when he sang his popular song “Ye-ye dey smell”. This is it! The putrid odour of this Atiku desperation and the height it has been taken is offensive to the nose and altogether unacceptable. He should wait till 2023 to try his luck again.