The military high command on Monday defended the convert of super camps in the fight against insurgency in the Northeast The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Abayomi Olonisakin said the concept was borne out of operational necessity. The CDS spoke before going into a closed-door session with the leadership of the House of Representatives. The House, last Thursday, stepped down a motion by Ifeanyi Momah, titled: “Review of the military strategy of ‘Super Camps’ in the fight against Boko Haram in the North East Zone.” The mover of the motion had argued that the concept was not well thought out and that it left thousands of citizens exposed to danger. But Olonisakin said the constantly changing vistas of the war against insurgency made the military to adopt the strategy. He said: “The super camp concept was borne out of our need to re-strategise to meet changing operational conditions in the Northeast. “In respect to the security situation in the Northeast, especially Borno State, we’re all aware that the Armed Forces, in collaboration with other security and intelligence agencies, have been contending with insurgency and terrorism for many years now. “Indeed, the counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency operation in the Northeast predates the administration of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari. “Despite the challenges we’re facing, we have made appreciable progress. The Armed Forces continue to restrategise to address changing operational situation and practise of the insurgent terrorists “We have achieved better intergration of air and land as well as air power as well as greater coordination with other security and intelligence agencies, through regular strategic inputs at the  highest level of command and down to the chain of command.” He further said: I want to assure the leadership of the House, that we will continue to do all we can to ensure peace and security in our country in line with our constitutional mandate despite the challenges. “As the representatives of the Nigerian people, we recognise the concernn of the House and indeed the National Assembly on this issue.” The military top brass however apologised to the House leadership for the inability of the Service chiefs to make last week’s meeting “I need to add that as the Chief of Defence Staff,  my inability to be here in person last Friday, was due to an equally urgent interaction at the presidency where the chief of army…. According to him, their absence was by no means a deliberate act mearnt to disrespect  the institution of the National Assembly.. He said though they were not able to come, their various chief of operation were present and were capable of answering the questions that would have been put to then. Earlier, the Speaker of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila , who was at the meeting with relevant committees said the meeting was to find out the state of the war against terrorism and insurgency. He also said with the budget due in a week or two, there was the need to find out the needs of the armed forces in the prosecution of the anti-insurgency war An attempt to convene the security meering last week was unsuccessful as tje servide chied were absent and sent representatives. This made the Speaker very angry and it was subsequently rescheduled for yesterday. At the session were the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal  Sadique Abubakar; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas; Lieutenant General Lamidi Adeosun (Chief of Policy and Plans, Army), represented the Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai Yusuf Bichi the Director General Deoarrment  of State Security  and the Comptroller of Nigeria Immigration service, Mohammed Babandede were also present. However, Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, was represented