Zamfara  State Government is to partner the Russian Government to develop critical sectors of its economy. This was discussed at a meeting between the Zamfara State Governor, Dr. Bello Matawalle, and the Ambassador of the Russian Federation, Mr Alexey Shebarshin, at the Russian Embassy in Abuja. The meeting focused on improving the agriculture, education and health sectors as well as solid minerals development and exploration. Shebarshin said Russia was ready to work with Zamfara to improve its economy. He added that his country, which specialised in minerals exploration and excavation, will provide Zamfara State with expertise to enhance its economy for global marketing . He also extended an invitation to the governor for the upcoming first Russia/African Union  Summit on October 24 and 25, which will focus on fostering economic, political and cultural cooperations He further said during the summit, the governor would be invited to visit one of the biggest Russian gold mining companies transformed by high technology mining equipment. Earlier in his address, Matawalle said he was at the Russian Federation Embassy to seek for a partnership on how best to develop his state’s critical sectors of the economy and to have foreign investors, especially in agriculture and solid minerals. Matawalle said his decision to visit the Russian embassy is to make Zamfara benefit from the expertise of Russia which it is known for in developing countries by extending same to Zamfara through transfer of technology. This according to the governor has made Russia a formidable ally of all nations that desire true and meaningful development. Matawalle solicited the partnership of the Russian government in transforming Zamfara State Agricultural sector to make it an all year round activity, with greater benefit to the farmers through the deployment of modern farming technology.  On the solid minerals, the Governor informed the Russian Ambassador that various minerals are available in the State in a commercial quantities which include gold, uranium, manganese, kaolin, granite, tantalite and Zinc and requested the Russian Government to come and invest in the State solid minerals Exploration. He further said that on Education his Government wishes to partner with the Russian Government to provide scholarship for the indigenes of the State considering Russia’s reputation of academic excellence globally.