From Lagos to Harare, Lusaka, Accra to Johannesburg, it’s been nearly two weeks of unrestrained rage back and forth. For once, the victims appear to have had enough of the seasonal madness called xenophobia from the rainbow country. In Zambia, scores of bitter and angry students marched on the South African High Commission where they burnt tyres and an embassy sign in apparent frustration. Not done, they went after South African-owned shops such as Pick n Pay, Shoprite and MTN, forcing them to close shop. Accusing South Africa’s government of not doing enough to prevent the attacks against Africans in South Africa, Zambia National Students Union (ZANASU) Vice President Steven Kanyakula warned that “South Africa was not an island and the actions of South Africans pose a serious risk to South African investment and businesses in African countries”. By this time, Zambia Radio stations had stopped playing South African music; a friendly football tournament against Bafana Bafana, the South African national team, was swiftly cancelled by its football association. The Zambians were not alone. From the African Giant, the response would follow the same pattern. Sufficiently piqued by the madness in South Africa, cultural icon Tiwa Savage would release a volley on her twitter handle September 4: I refuse to watch the barbaric butchering of my people in SA. This is SICK. For this reason I will NOT be performing at the upcoming DSTV delicious Festival in Johannesburg on the 21st of September. My prayers are with all the victims and families affected by this. Perhaps even more dramatic however was Nigeria’s Sheila Chukwulozie, who left her booth at the Johannesburg’s FNB Art Fair empty – with a boldly printed message “Thanks, xenophobia,” on her space. Meanwhile, in Lagos, the mob simply descended on the Sangotedo and Surulere Shoprite malls carting away everything on sight. Typical of the police, an attempt to minimise the destruction would leave one dead. Similar attacks were reported on Shoprite malls in Abuja and Ibadan with varying degrees of destruction. Moments before, the federal government had announced its boycott of the World Economic Forum in Cape Town, to join Rwanda’s Paul Kagame, and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)’s Félix Tshisekedi in the league of boycotters. All of this in addition to other diplomatic shuttles to contain what was already a festering crisis. By Wednesday last week, thanks to the local carrier, Air Peace, what would ordinarily have been deemed unthinkable happened: the evacuation of 178 Nigerians (actually the first batch) from the former apartheid enclave. None of the above however yet compares with the cold reception accorded the South African leader, Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, at the burial of former Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe in Harare at the weekend.  As reported by this newspaper, the crowd booed the South African leader as he was introduced by the master of ceremony at the funeral held at the National Sports Stadium. Thoroughly embarrassed, the South African leader could not but eat the humble pie: He apologized to the people of Zimbabwe for the acts of violence “directed at our brothers in other African countries”. Hear him: “I stand before you, fellow Zimbabweans, fellow Africans to say that we are working very hard to encourage all our people in South Africa to embrace people from all other African countries. “We welcome people from other African countries and we are going to work very hard that will encourage and promote social cohesion of all the people of South Africa working side by side with people from other part of our continent. This we shall do, because we want to embrace the spirit of unity that President Mugabe worked for throughout his life.” Call it a Pauline conversion coming from a man who, en route to the presidency, read what amounted to a Riot Act to foreigners who he tagged with operating businesses without permit. Of course, the born-again President Ramaphosa couldn’t have been speaking for Goodwill Zwelithini, the Zulu monarch who in 2015 famously declared that ‘foreigners must pack their bags and go home’! (He later blamed the media for grossly misrepresenting him, while nonetheless maintaining that “this country would be reduced to ashes” were he to issue such a directive). Or, Bongani Mkongi, the country’s deputy minister of police who while claiming that residents of the Hillbrow neighborhood of Johannesburg are 80% foreign born, insisted that “We cannot surrender South Africa to foreign nationals… We fought for this country, not only for us, but for generations of South Africans.” Official denial or not, the fact of the matter is that xenophobia is deeply ingrained in the country’s DNA. According to Xenowatch, more than 500 attacks occurred between 1994 and 2018.  In 2008 alone, more than 100 xenophobic attacks occurred during which more than 60 people died. Yet, much as the current outrage is understandable, xenophobia ought to be seen merely as a derivative of the same forces driving Trumpism, Brexit and other nativist sentiments.  In a fundamental sense, the objective conditions as indeed the forces driving them are the same. Both are fearful of the future in which they see themselves as losing out to an army of invaders. However, whereas the champions of ultra-nationalism exploit the fears of the mob while presenting present themselves as champions of a mythical past, the xenophobic mob seizes the initiative while the elites waffle in abdication. This is where Ramaphosa deserves pity. Special envoys might help to the calm nerves of the injured party; the question of how a government that was practically missing in action when the violence broke out will suddenly acquire the capacity to put a brood that has tasted blood on the leash is one that only he can answer at this time.  As Ramaphosa and his ANC crew will soon be finding out, statesmanship isn’t exactly the cheapest of commodities. Of course, Nigerians will remain Nigerians, warts and all; for sure, the brashness, the swagger and if you like, that tinge of deviance that evokes love/hate is unlikely to change overnight. It is even unlikely that this latest cycle of violence will curb their appetite for greener pastures. As far as I can see, the Rainbow Country will remain a fair destination. And the South Africans with their sense of entitlement?  Which is easier to confront between the hapless 3.6 million foreign nationals who make up a mere 7% of the population and the local white priviledged class who although make up a mere 8.9% of the population but hold the bulk of the nation’s wealth? Your guess is as good as mine.