The need by women in the informal sector to save to buy gold for collateral for loans or resell when in need of cash may  threaten the micro pension plan. Also, potential contributors who bought land and properties in instalments for their long-term cash-flow generation and the culture of reliance on children for old age support may be another problem. An actuarial scientist and chartered insurer, Dr. Pius Apere,  stated this at a pension conference in Lagos. Apere, who is also the Managing Director of Achor Actuarial Services Limited, said informal sector employees might have other long- term investments generating income like dividends. He stated that the low uptake of Micro Pension Plan (MPP) of the Federal Government is as a result of its voluntility, low public awareness and negative perceptions (lack of confidence) about pension products and fund management with low pension benefits. He said there was the need for enlightenment to create awareness of old age risks and benefits of saving for old age over bank savings account. He however noted that the 40 per cent withdrawal option is a good incentive to attract micro pension contributors. Speaking on the administration of micro pension, he said high capital investment in IT infrastructure (a driver for financial inclusiveness) is needed to mobilise contributors at grassroots with high volume of records keeping required. He said: “High tendency for contributors to operate Retirement Savings Account (RSA) as bank savings account due to over flexibility of the contingent withdrawal option, is the leading administrative hassle for the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs). “To reduce administrative hassles, contributors are to complete a monthly income and expenditure planner at registration as a guide to what they can conveniently in a month. He disclosed that Section 6.5.3 (ix) of the micro pension guideline has created high expectation for micro pension contributors to benefit from Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) at retirement, even if their RSA balances are too low to qualify for GMP as required in section 6.5.3 (x) of micro pension Guidelines. “But there is reputational risk for the entire pension industry as micro pension retirees will be aggrieved when GMP expectation is not met due to more use of contingent withdrawal option. “This will create a strain on Pension Protection Fund (PPF) as high number of retirees likely to qualify for GMP benefit due to conversion from micro pension plan to mandatory contribution option. It is highly unlikely that the PPF established to fund the GMP as stated in section 82 of PRA 2014 will be sufficient to cover the GMP liability,” he added.