Twenty-eight National Executive Council (NEC) members of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) at an emergency meeting, has sacked the National President Comrade Osakpamwan Eriyo. Also dismissed for what it described as ”gross sabotage against the interest of the union and the NEC”, is the RTEAN National Secretary General Mr Yusuf Ibrahim Adebiyi. The Assistant National Secretary General Alhaji Adamu Zubairu Jalaludeen, who made this known at the Igando RTEAN Lagos State headquarters, said the National Deputy Chairman (Administration), Alhaji Mohammed Musa, being the most senior national officer, has been unanimously appointed as Acting RTEAN President, while the hitherto Deputy Secretary General Comrade Henry Ejiofor, is appointed the acting Secretary General of the union. Until his appointment, Musa was the Lagos State RTEAN chairman. Jalaludeen said the dismissal of Eriyo from the union stands, and he is therefore no longer recognised as the National President of RTEAN. He said Eriyo’s one year regime brought a huge shame to the union, as it was exemplified by ticket racketeering, bribery, corruption and an expansionist agenda that has brought crisis to Kano, Katsina, Ogun and recently Lagos state councils of the union. He said, “The RTEAN NEC found it shameful that Eriyo, who alongside the dismissed secretary general had collected N60 million from the Lagos State chairman for his second term of the exco, a development which has since been discovered to be fraudulent.” The President, according to him, ”unashamedly in concert with his aid and without the consent of NEC on September 15, dissolved the duly constituted Lagos State executive and put in its place a caretaker committee wherein his appendage, Alhaji Sulaiman Onabanko, who presided over the meeting wherein Alhaji Musa Mohammed was unanimously adopted for a second term, was enthroned to head the caretaker committee, in a bid to annex Lagos and enthrone a corruption laden regime” According to him, apart from the large scale fraud and diversion of funds, Eriyo also sidelined the NEC, making it, ”redundant in a manner that is at variance with the constitution and takes decisions without recourse to NEC.” Jalaludeen said the RTEAN constitution is such that a person can hold two offices, and as such Musa is qualified to hold the office of the National President and the state Chairman. He said by the time the tenure expires in October, Lagos Council would have come up with a resolution of the matter. In a swift reaction, the National President ComradeOsakpamwan Eriyo has dismissed the purported sack by NEC. Dismissing the action in a telephone interview, he wondered how a NEC could hold in Lagos without following the due process required for such meeting.