The annual African Communication festival by the Department of Mass Communication, Kogi State University (KSU), will be incorporated into the forthcoming Igala Cultural Festival. This was announced by the Administrator of Idah Local Government Hilary Edime Amoduwho. The exercise is a practical extension of the course-African Communication Systems, offered by 100-Level students of Theatre Arts, Library and Information Science and Mass Communication. The course tagged: ‘MAC 109’introduces students to the African’s modus operandi of communication in the pre- radio, television and newspapers era. This years’ event was therefore not different; as participants displayed African values and culture such as child birth and naming; attires and a folk tale session, among others “I had been enthused by the performance of the students’ troupes so far. I’m using this medium to invite you for a live performance during the Igala Cultural Festival, which I’ll be hosting shortly,” said Idah who was the special guest at this year’s edition. Vice Chancellor of KSUState Prof Muhammed Abdulkadir, praised the Head of the Department, Dr Gabriel Ottah, for not just teaching the course but ensuring that students participate in the practical aspect. This, he noted, would further entrench in them the love for African culture and communication. Abdulkadir who was represented by his Deputy (Administration), Prof Taiye Oluwagbemi,  said other universities had begun to adopt the approach already being used in KSU’s Mass Communication department. Said Abdulkadir: “Based on our assessment, it is debatable to say that other universities have begun to adopt the approach already being used in the Department of Mass Communication. We’ll continue to take the lead role in ensuring that all tertiary institutions within and outside Kogi are fully impacted by our positive vibes in this regards. Chairman of the occasion Prof Dave Menegbe, expressed joy that African culture was being revived through the programme. He said: “There is a big difference between culture and fetish practices. It’s high time we started seeing African culture as the decent and morally upright exhibitions of the typical African as against evil practices like killing of twins, female genital mutilation and dangerous widowhood rites we have been fed with overtime. I therefore, called on other universities in Nigeria and Africa to key into the celebration of African Communication Systems so as to revive the rather obscure values of our culture. Earlier in his welcome address, Head of the Department of Mass Communication, Dr Gabriel Ottah thanked the students and the guests for the attendance and support.