President of Students’ Union, Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO) Comrade Frank Chigozirim, has urged the entire students of the institution to desist from immoralities. Chigozirim spoke with CAMPUSLIFE at the flag-off of ’War against vices in FUTO’ a student advocacy group against social vices in the university. “We are also saying no to rape and indecent dressing in our campus,” Chigozirim added. He explained that the essence of the awareness campaign was to encourage students not to be part of social decadence. “As students of the institution, we are intelligent, good Nigerians who want to be part of the development of the nation,” Chigozirim added. The campaign, which began with a roadwalk was launched last week by the Institute of Women, Gender and Development Studies (IWoGDs) in collaboration with the Federal University of Technology, Owerri Women Association (FUTOWA). The Director, IWoGDs, Prof Gloria Okwu, told CAMPUSLIFE that FUTO has begun the fight today because it could no longer tolerate such vices in on campus. She frowned at vices such as internet fraud which she said is now prevalent across institutions nationwide. “There is a lot of internet fraud happening around here which we also want to also stop. We are beginning the fight in our institution and we want to encourage others to join in the fight against these vices.” “We don’t want these vices. There is no need for any boy to co-habit with any girl. It cannot be heard of, we cannot tolerate such a thing around us,” she said. She the campaign aims to first to sensitise the students after which sanction might then be applied to defaulters. Deputy Vice-Chancellor, (Administration) Prof Julius Orebiyi who represented the vice-chancellor, Prof Francis Eze, described the war against these vices as a remarkable project in the annals of FUTO. “I have served the institution close to 30 years but I’venot seen this kind of development. FUTO is known for its good performances and the institution cannot lag behind in this aspect. Also, the president of FUTOWA and wife of the VC Mrs Eze Egejuru, observed that anti-social tendencies such as drug abuse, rape and ritual killing creeping into FUTO are not part of the culture of the institution. Eze warned that students caught in any of the aforementioned vices after the sensitisation campaign, stands the risk of being dismissed. “This is a warning to all our youth. We are doing this so that they will be guided,”