An Ikeja High Court on Thursday sentenced one Lawrence Maduagwu to ten years imprisonment for defrauding a Chinese company of $179,000. Justice Mojisola Dada convicted Maduagwu of a two-count charge bordering on stealing and obtaining by false pretence brought against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The convict was arraigned on February 28, 2018, on a two-count charge bordering on stealing and obtaining by false pretence to the tune of $179,000.00. Maduagwu was introduced to the complainant, PMC Industry Limited, through its Nigerian representative, Ohio Ileogben, as a businessman who deals in calcium chloride chemicals. He however failed to pay for the 500 metric tonnes of calcium powder valued at the sum of $179,000, after taking delivery of the items and efforts to get him pay for the goods were unsuccessful. One of the charges against the convict stated: “That you, Lawrence Maduagwu, sometime in 2013, at Lagos within the Ikeja Judicial Division, with intent to defraud, induced PMC Industry Limited, China to confer a benefit on you by supplying you 500 metric tonnes of calcium chloride powder valued at $179, 000.00 (One Hundred and Seventy-Nine Thousand US Dollars) on the understanding that you will pay for the goods .But up till now, you have refused to do so.” The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge. In the course of the trial, the prosecution counsel, S.O. Daji, called five witnesses and tendered several exhibits that were admitted in evidence by the court. The defendant, however, testified for himself and also called two other witnesses. During the sitting on June 19, 2019, parties adopted their final written addresses respectively. Delivering her judgement on Thursday, Justice Dada convicted and sentenced the defendant to seven years imprisonment on count one and three years on count two. Both sentences are to run concurrently from the date of his remand, February 28,  2018 by the court. The Judge also ordered that the convict make full restitution of $179,000  which the EFCC must employ all legal means to ensure compliance. 