The Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe has advised students within the institution to take advantage of the 250million grant given to the institution by the Bank of Industry to support creative and entrepreneurship ideas. Ogundipe said this at the Accounting and Entrepreneurship Summit for Students 2019 organised by Nigeria University Accounting Students Association held at the Main Auditorium, University of Lagos. The event tagged “Technological Advancement: The Nigerian Economy and the Future of the Accounting Profession” had in attendance students from different schools across the country. Ogundipe mentioned that #50million out of the #250m will be for training and renovations, while the #200million is meant to be given as loans to start-ups among the students, depending on their proposal and cost required. “We will be giving out loans between #1million to #2million to students that are able to come up with great innovative business ideas. We are also planning to register a limited liability company for our students while we will recommend experts to mentor them”, he said. He posited that the summit was in tandem with his vision as he concludes his maiden Professor Ogundipe Innovative Challenge (POIC) 2019. He stressed that the UNILAG is well equipped to mentor and provide all the needed support for students with creative business ideas. In his words, Head of Tax and Corporate Advisory Services of PwC Nigeria, Taiwo Oyedele challenged the students to open their minds, network and share opportunities and be ready to diversify. Oyedele, who spoke about tax sustainability of our economy, lamented the lopsidedness in the tax regime in Nigeria which he said that the poor pay more tax than the rich. Also speaking at the event, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountant of Nigeria, Joseph Aborowa challenged the students to develop the art of integrity as they prepare themselves for the marketplace. In his words, the President of NUASA, Opeyemi Oderinde said that the programme is aimed at helping accounting students to keep them abreast of the latest trends and issues in the profession.