Every writing requires painstaking proofreading, lest errors slip in, and when you read it later, you won’t like yourself for it. This was the feeling of this columnist on reading the publication of the last edition. The highlighted quote in the edition went thus: “When your usage is correct, that means your choice of words, phrases and expressions is such that makes your message easy to read, understandable and use . . .” The unpardonable error in that is the word understandable. It wrecked the structural balance of the sentence, making the message almost unreadable and incomprehensible. The error is called faulty parallelism. See the cadence of the message in this correction: “When your usage is correct, that means your choice of words, phrases and expressions is such that makes your message easy to read, understand and use . . .” Understand is it, NOT understandable! Understandable is an unrequired adjective in that structure. The verb understand is consistent with the related verbs read and use in the construction as mandated by the laws of correct parallelism. We will address correct and faulty parallelism in greater detail in due course. For now, we move on with misusages, because we consider correct usage as the spirit and soul of any language. Neither … nor/either … or You may not realize how bizarre misusages can get until you encounter statements like these: But neither the federal government or the governors of the failed states has been able to provide convincing reassurance for the agitated youths; and The article below is completely neutral, neither anti-republican or anti-democrat. The proper use of the correlative conjunction neither … nor has been breached in the two specimens above. The known and acceptable expression is neither . . . nor, NOT neither … or. Surely, neither . . . or is alien to the English language. Correct usage in both sentences is therefore as follows: But neither the federal government nor the governors of the failed states have been able to provide convincing reassurance for the agitated youths; and The article below is completely neutral, neither anti-republican nor anti-democrat. Even then, you would do well to note “the interesting grammatical knot involved in the treatment of the first statement, namely: What verb, singular or plural, goes with the peculiar subject of the sentence? Is it has been as in the original sentence or have been as in the corrected version? The rule is: the number and person of the part of the subject nearer to the verb dictate which of singular or plural verb to use. In this case, the nearer subject is governors, a plural subject. So, the correct verb to go with it is have been, not has been” (“Pop” Errors). The book educates us further: “The expression neither . . . nor, like other correlative conjunctions, is normally and most commonly used in reference to two entities. There are situations, however, where it can be correctly used in reference to more than two entities, but this depends on the writer’s dexterity in the mechanics and syntax of the language. One such dexterous handling is this: Neither the vice-chancellor and the university council nor the students’ union president and his executive have complied with the agreement. The key is proper grouping of the entities and using the appropriate verb.’ Not done with correlative conjunctions yet, the book provides another bizarre specimen error for consideration, namely: Most counties do not have storage capacity nor logistical support to administer the examinations. We suspect the awkward invention may be too incredibly atrocious for you to notice. You would do well to note the strange neologism do not … nor. Because this illogical invention does not exist, we find a way to express the same message correctly, viz: Most counties do not have storage capacity or logistical support to administer the examinations OR Most counties do not have either storage capacity or logistical support to administer the examinations (Kindly note the use of the correlative conjunction either … or here.) OR Most counties have neither storage capacity nor logistical support to administer the examinations. Let us take one more misuse of the correlative conjunction neither . . . nor. It runs thus: In this new era, armed hostilities neither break out simply on account of internal developments nor on account of the poverty of the people. The problem with this construction is the wrong positioning of the correlative conjunction, which raises the question of what elements are being correlated: Is it “the break-out and another act, or one reason and the other? From the position of the word neither, the impression may be created that it is break-out that is being correlated with another act, which unfortunately is not stated. Yet, it seems that this is not intended. Logic suggests that it is the factor of internal developments that is being correlated with the factor of the people’s poverty. But the reader should not be subjected to too much mental exertion in reading the text and making complete sense of its meaning. See how rapidly the reader would snap up the essence in the little tweak to the construction below: “In this new era, armed hostilities break out neither simply on account of internal developments nor on account of the poverty of the people” (“Pop” Errors). The correct re-positioning of the word “neither” has made the significant difference in meaning. 