Six caps Super Eagles striker Sylvester Emeka Igboun has done well for himself in the Russian league since moving there from Denmark four years ago. He has scored 25 times playing for FC Ufa prompting his biggest move yet to Russia top club Dynamo Moscow. Though on loan, he was called upon to beef up Dynamo’s attack and he believes he can deliver. Speaking exclusively with Taiwo Alimi, the speedy poacher chats about life in Russia, loan switch to Dynamo Moscow, racism and the Super Eagles snub. Excerpts: Dynamo Moscow move It’s a great move for me and a reward for my hard work. I am satisfied with my stay at Ufa, and the management and fans were happy with what I did. I enjoyed the atmosphere which was conducive for me. I will forever cherish the opportunity given me to prove myself. I am still loyal to the club because I am in Dynamo Moscow on loan. I thank God for everything because without him I wouldn’t have been here and I love the new challenge.  Expectations I don’t need to be told why I am here. My work is to score goals and work with my teammates to create more. Since I got here, I’ve been made to feel at home by the wonderful team, who are professionals and ambitious. I am also ambitious and I believe we can write history together. I want to do better than what I have done in the past and I am already challenging myself; with God on my side, I will deliver. I am here to contribute to the team’s success and be a part of history.  Beyond loan deal It is a mutual understanding that they want me and I want them too. I am looking forward to reciprocate their belief in me by scoring goals and putting the team in a comfortable zone on the table in order for them to retain me after the loan deal. I am here to prove that I deserve better than a loan deal.  25 goals for Ufa I want to challenge myself to go beyond the 25 goals I got with Ufa. As a striker, the numbers of goals you score or miss determine your quality. What helped me in Ufa is that the season was injury-free for me. I played lots of games without injury and I’m looking forward to replicating that here. More matches without injury will translate to more goals.  Target My personal target is not to let my team down at any point. I want to prove myself to the coach and fans by working for the success of the team. It all boils down to scoring goals. I’m also looking forward to helping the team achieve European ticket at the end of the season.  Pressure to score goals Sincerely speaking, I don’t feel pressured to score goals from the fans. I work hard and try to work with my teammates for good results while maintaining some level of confidence that I can achieve it once I put my mind to it. That’s what I am looking forward to doing for fans of Dynamo Moscow.  Life in Russia Russia is great. I am popular with the fans both on and off the pitch. I have settled in nicely and blended with the environment well. It’s like I have been living there for 20 years. Russia is home for me just like Nigeria. I have adapted well to their culture which has really helped my career. Yes, there’s cold but I’m used to it now.  Racism I don’t believe in racism, I have been in Russia for four years and I have not suffered racist remarks. When you talk of racism, in-fact I see in Nigeria, my country, every day. I’ve seen Nigerian airport officials treat their own people with contempt while Europeans are well treated. So when you talk about racism I don’t see Russia as one. I move in and out of Russia with respect from everybody but I suffer more disrespect in Nigeria than in Europe. To answer your question, I have not faced any racism in Russia.  Russian league and dominance of Zenith Petersburg Well, at the moment it’s not Zenith Petersburg at the top that will tell you the league is becoming more competitive. FC Krasnodar is at the top and lots of clubs are gearing up to catch points and contest for the league title. It’s going to be a tough season for all clubs. Even the promoted teams are proving not to be walkovers and the middle clubs are really trying to shore up more points. So, it’s going to be an interesting season with lots of shock results. And don’t forget that my Dynamo is also in the race for the title.   Super Eagles snub I think this is a question that should be directed to the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and the national team coach. As a striker, I am doing my job by playing regularly and scoring goals without injury, and don’t forget that I cannot in vite myself, the only way I can do that is by scoring goals and giving my best to my club which I have done on numbers of occasions. I have been there before and I did my best to the best of my understanding. I have proven myself at club level over time and so it’s left to the coach to decide on whom to bring for the team. And don’t forget the last World Cup was hosted here and I was at my best and nothing happened. I am not worried.  Philosophy I believe in the grace of God and hard work. I am fortunate to have what I have today. I am a humble person who believes that it is God that lifts one up. I make people happy and don’t believe in making noise about what God has done for me. I am a God fearing man that loves happiness and that’s why I have been able to reach a stage where I believe and I know God lives.  If not football… Football has given me joy in life. It has made me to break barriers and it has taken me places. I must appreciate everybody that supported the struggle from the beginning. But if I haven’t chosen football as career, I would have become a musician; it runs in my blood.