The whereabouts of Beauty Ogere, the mother of a former  Super Eagles Coach  Samson Siasia, remain a mystery. Security agencies, especially the police headed by Commissioner Uche Anozia, seem helpless over the abduction of the 80-year-old, writes MIKE ODIEGWU  NOTHING has been heard from the police since July 15 when Beauty Ogere, the mother of a former skipper and Coach of the Super Eagles, Samson Siasia,  was violently taken away from their family bungalow at Odoni community in Sagbama Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. It has been traumatising for the family of Siasia. For over 50 days, their aged mother is nowhere to be found. They are not aware of her condition and the kind of treatment she is receiving from her captors. They wonder whether the hoodlums are able to buy her drugs because she was said to be sick when she was taken away. The family members and sympathisers are also worried about how the woman is coping with the inclement weather characterised by constant rains and cold. Could she still survive the abduction? They queried. In fact, people are not happy that members of the public seem to have forgotten the octogenarian Ogere. No comments from activists and commentators even on social media. Nobody is championing the freedom of the aged Ogere. Have they suddenly forgotten that she is the mother of the famous Siasia, a footballer and coach that brought glory and laurels to the country? Samson Siasia played 51 international matches for Nigeria. He scored 13 goals and was part of the team that participated in the 1994 FIFA World Cup and won the 1994 African Nations Cup. He was also a member of the Nigerian team that won bronze at 1992 African Nations Cup in Senegal. He participated in the National Team over a period of 11 years and was recognized in Nigeria as the third-leading scorer for the National Team. Among all his coaching careers, he managed the Super Eagles from 2010 to October 2011. He was reappointed in 2016. But Siasia’s mother has been in kidnappers’ den for over 50 days. This is not the first time Ogere is suffering in the hands of kidnappers. In November 2015, she was abducted. She was later released 12 days following payment of about N.6million to the kidnappers. But this time there seems to be no hope for the aged woman. People are not, however, happy at the way the police have so far handled the matter. The commissioner of police beyond the usual refrain of investigating the matter has not been able to present any concrete evidence of the investigation. No arrest has been made and no clue yet as to the whereabouts of Ogere. Mr. Dennis Siasia, the younger brother to  Samson Siasia had while confirming he abduction of her mother said the abductors whisked her away without her high blood pressure drugs. Two days after the incident, the kidnappers established contacts with Siasia’s family and demanded N70m to set the victims free. Siasia, however, begged the kidnappers to set his aged mother free unconditionally saying he was out of job and had no such money to pay them. But a family member said the kidnappers brought down the ransom from N70m to N50m without consideration to the health of the woman. But the hoodlums have been allowed by the police to operate with impunity. Recently, the abductors of Beauty Ogere released one of their victims, Florence Donana. The 66-year-old Donana was abducted the same day Siasia’s mother was kidnapped. Donana was abducted alongside her 17-year-old granddaughter by the hoodlums, who first broke into the family house of Siaisia to seize Ogere at 2 am. Following prolonged negotiations between the families of the victims and the hoodlums, the kidnappers only released Donana, whose family paid some ransom. A source from the community, who spoke in confidence, said the Donana family negotiated the undisclosed amount of ransom with the kidnappers and sent someone to deliver the money to them. He said the kidnappers collected the money, held the ransom payer captive and released only the aged Mrs. Donana. “The 17-year-old granddaughter was not released. The mother of Siasia was also not released because the family had yet to agree on ransom. They are still holding three persons captive”. The source, however, lampooned the police leadership headed by the Commissioner of Police, Uche Anozia, for not living up to its duty on the matter. He said the kidnap case had exposed the current state police leadership as clueless and wondered why the octogenarian mother of Siasia could spend 50 days in kidnappers’ then without the police bursting the crime. “It seems the commissioner of police has forgotten this case. The kidnappers are having fun, tormenting the families of their victims and acting with ease and impunity yet the police have said nothing on this case. “They have no clues and nobody has been arrested. It seems nothing happened in Bayelsa. It is really bad. Maybe the Inspector-General Police should intervene by sending a special force to crack this crime”, he said. Residents and the Bayelsa State Chapter of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) raised concerns on the whereabouts of Ogere. Residents said it was a sign of incompetence on the part of the police and other security agencies to allow the 80-year-old woman to be in kidnappers’ den for over 25 days. They lamented that the silence of the police and other security agencies was disturbing and asked the security commanders in the state to either free the woman or resign their positions. Some of the residents derided the security architecture in the state for their lacklustre and alleged unserious attitude on the case of Siasia’s mother. Bayelsa SWAN said it was disturbing that several weeks after her abduction, Ogere Siasia is still being held hostage by suspected kidnappers. The Chairman of SWAN, Alambo Datonye said: “Since the woman’s kidnap on July 15 at her country home at Odoni in Sagbama Local Government Area of the State, the old woman is still languishing in the hands of her abductors. “This should not happen to anyone talkless of an aged mother of Coach Siasia who brought joy to millions of Nigerians and Bayelsans as a player and a tactician donning the national colours, bringing glory to the country. “We, therefore, call on the kidnappers to release Madam Ogere Siasia unconditionally and reunite her with her loved ones. “We also urge security agencies and government to act swiftly and efficiently to ensure the release of the woman and others that are being held against her will. “No sane society develops with individuals held against their will, with the perpetrators of this unconscionable act getting away scot-free. The pain and trauma of the Siasia family are going through is better imagined than experienced. “As concerned members of the society, SWAN in Bayelsa call on the relevant agencies to be alive to their responsibilities of safeguarding the lives of every citizen and bring to a halt criminal activities such as kidnapping which is antithetical to the very essence of our collective humanity.”