Abusiness matching investment conference and exhibition aimed at boosting trade relations between Nigeria and Asia  will hold in Beijing, China from  October 12 in China. The five-day conference and exhibition is organised being organised by Asian–African Chambers of Commerce and Industry (ACCI). About 50 small medium enterprises (SMEs) from Nigeria will meet their counterparts across Asian continent. A member of the board of ACCI Nigerian chapter, Mr Arinle Adekunle Ahmed, said the SMEs, which are members of ACCI in Nigeria, will engage with the China Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (CASME). Arinle said: “It’s a conference where we will be bringing people across different sectors-textile, engineering, farm produce, construction, and fashion,  among others, in both Nigerian and China, match them together to look at each country’s comparative advantage.’’ Through that, we hope to generate an agreement whereby those in Asia will also come down to Nigeria where the two parties can now engage in joint business,” said Arinle who is also the Chief Executive, Rinllandded Nigerian Limited. “What we hope to achieve through that is to boost foreign reserves in Nigeria. Usually, what we have is investors coming to set up business in Nigeria, make profit, but plough it back to their countries of origin. However, through this matchmaking, everything remains in Nigeria. We are starting with 50 SMEs this year, we hope we can double that figure next year and make more progress in subsequent years,” Arinle added. According to him, one of the major problems affecting the survival of SMEs is poor power supply. To this end, Arinle said ACCI is currently in talks with some of its partners to set up  incubator zones across the nation’s six geo-political zones. “We are talking with some of the state governments to set up industrial incubator zones,” Arinle said. He continued: “The idea is that when government provides land, we shop for investors that will provide solar or hydro power energy at the various incubator zones. Once we have that, we encourage SMEs to move to those zones since they will enjoy consistence power supply.  Overall, this will generate more jobs, increase production capacity, while the process of goods produced at such zones will be relatively lower .”