A final year visually-impaired student of the University of Lagos, Mustapha Yusuf, has emerged the winner of a singing competition titled: Musicality. Yusuf, who is studying Philosophy, beat 18 students from various faculties to clinch the star prize of N200,000 and a phone. The contest, courtesy of Lamu Entertainment, saw the judges, participants, and students acknowledging Mustapha with a standing ovation. Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, Yusuf said he was happy not to have let down his numerous fans who, despite his disability, still believe in him. Yusuf advised aspiring artistes, especially those in his shoes, to believe in themselves and be persistent. “As I always say, keep your game tight and believe in yourself; that’s the most important thing. I promised my fans I would not let them down. I plan to continue my music and hope for better opportunities,” he said. Wife of the Lagos State Governor Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu reiterated the administration’s continuous investment in the entertainment and tourism industry. She urged individuals and corporate organisations to encourage youths to discover their talents. She said:”Let me also urge individuals and corporate organisations to take a cue from what Lagos State government is doing and what other organisations like Lamu Entertainment is also doing to discover and encourage our youths with potential and assist them to utilise their talents in a beneficial way to the society.” The organiser Oladimeji Michael, said the show was to give back to his alma mater. “For over five years, I have wanted to give back to my alma mater – University of Lagos, which made me who I am today. God also ministered to me that this event must happen  and it happened, so I’m so excited.” He said the music industry still has room for more talents and urged all to encourage new artistes. “For me, I think the sky is wide enough for everybody to fly. We must continue to breed new talents and that’s exactly what this show is about. I intend to do this every year,” he said. The second and third prize winners Omole Victor, a 300-Level student of Integrated Science Education and Igboanugo Valentino, a 200-L student of Building, expressed their appreciation to the organiser for the opportunity.