Africa’s first Practical School of Integrated Brand Experience and Idea Management, Orange Academy and Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State are collaborating to offer a new academic programme to be known as the ‘Advanced Professional Certificate in Brand Experience Design and Communication Arts’. The formal announcement of this collaboration and the new programme was made at the 10th Orange Academy Immersion and Art of Positive Thinking (APT) ceremony held at the Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja-Lagos. The ceremony, which is an annual rite of passage for every graduating Brand Experience Specialist of the Academy, celebrated the graduation of 75 graduands who now join an army of over 5000 alumni that are often referred to as ‘Orange Minds’. The event was also attended by family members and friends of the graduands, Orange Academy alumni, Orange Academy board members and stakeholders, who were delighted to warmly receive the team from the Obafemi Awolowo University led by Dr. Adeola Ogunrin of the Department of Adult Education and Lifelong Learning, who made the collaboration officially public. Ogunrin, while addressing the gathering on behalf of the Vice Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University, Prof.  Eyitope Ogunbodede, said: “This evening we have come before you to say that Orange Academy has become a part of us. We have studied Orange Academy very closely and believe very strongly that they are worthy of this collaboration. The Obafemi Awolowo University will ensure that the highest standard that we are known for is strictly adhered to during this programme and collaboration. The programme, Advanced Professional Certificate in Brand Experience Design & Communication Arts, fits into the vision of our department which is to fill the gap in vital areas of developing manpower, training, professional and other important components of adult life. The curriculum has been so designed to cater for relevance and advances at the workplace to impact lives positively for a better Nigeria.” The Advanced Professional Certificate in Brand Experience Design & Communication Arts programme is a two semester course that spans a six-month duration of major practical sessions, which upon completion will earn participants the Advanced Professional Certificate in Brand Experience Design & Communication Arts from the Obafemi Awolowo University. Speaking on behalf of the Provost, Faculty, Management and the entire workers of Orange Academy, spokesman for the academy Femi Odukoya said: “We are so delighted that after such a conscientious journey of creating and offering of the brand experience programme for 10 years, the Obafemi Awolowo University’s collaboration with us is an attestation to our commitment and vision of ‘This One thing’. Our vision of ‘This one thing’ is to discover and nurture the inner creative self to tell stories that can change businesses, brands and people for good.