A 72-year old man, Chief Basil Ononuju, on Tuesday, led some group of protesters from Amiyi community in Ogbaru local council area of Anambra State over alleged imposition of a President -General on the community. The protesters comprising the young and the elderly blocked the entrance gate to Government House, Awka, carrying placards and calling the Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy and Town Union Matters names. Addressing newsmen, Ononuju said they were at the government house to register their displeasure against “a grievous wrong done to the community”. He said, “The community did what was required to conduct town union election, got permission to do so but after conducting the election the state government announced the emergence of the former President -General who did not even contest in the election. “Leadership of the community rotates among the three villages of Ohawa, Umuebiri and Umuagha and that whoever wins rules for just one tenure. “Both Ohawa and Umuebiri had produced candidates and now it is the turn of Umuagha. “Necessary arrangements were made in preparation for and an election was held with Mr. Chike Ugboma emerging victorious. “But to our greatest surprise, when we went to Government House, the Special Assistant to the governor on local government, Chieftaincy and Town Union Matters told us that an election had already been held previously and that the former former President- General Mr. Nwanze Afubere had been returned.” According to him, the Special Adviser claimed that former President General emerged in an election alleging held on June 24, contrary to the June 29 date given to them by the government the election was to be conducted. The protesters insisted that the government should be held responsible if crisis broke out in the community as a result of its refusal to do the right thing. Addressing the protesters, the Public Relations Officer of the ministry, Mr. Henry Nwasike who represented the Commissioner, Mr. Greg Obi assured them of government readiness to do the needful in resolving the matter. He applauded their peaceful conduct, promising that whoever emerged victory in the community’s election would be allowed to enjoy his mandate.