Kano and Port Harcourt share some parallels.  Both were once flourishing seductive cities of attraction. The former, with a 1,095 years old city walls described as “‘the most impressive monument in West Africa” and an important Trans-Sahara trade centre that embraced Islamic faith in the 12th century, six decades before United Arab Emirate that hosts Dubai, the fourth most visited city in the world was born, while the latter was a great industrial centre and a celebrated garden city that was once a must-visit for Nigerians. Today, Kano is relics of itself, a hotbed religious intolerance populated by impoverished unemployable youths deliberately groomed by politicians to (as recently affirmed by Nasir El Rufai) strengthen their hold on power just as Port Harcourt is controlled by armed gangs groomed by politicians to serve as balance of terror during elections. And as if by design, the two cities are today under the grip of politicians who draw inspiration from Nicollo Machiavelli, the prince of politics “marked by cunning, duplicity, or bad faith”. It all started with Wike’s alleged demolition of a mosque in Port Harcourt, a charge he denied. Alhaji Nasir Uhor, the Chief Iman of Rivers and Leader/Vice President General, Rivers State Council for Islamic Affairs, also confirmed absence of physical structure of a Mosque at the disputed land. Support also came for Wike from an unusual quarter, the Coalition of Northern Youth Groups (CNYG) that dismissed the allegation as not only “false and misleading but intended to draw religious ire, stir political tension and widen the chasm of national division, which rather requires healing and bonding at this point in time”. This however did not stop Rivers Muslim Community and its chairman, Alhaji Abdullahi Tabaco who insisted what was demolished on August 20, was a mosque under construction. The leader of the Niger Delta’s People’s Salvation Force (NDPSF), Asari Dokubo, in fact maintained   what Wike demolished was a mosque where he as  “ a member of the congregation of the Trans-Amadi central mosque, his 21 children and 59 other children that live with him worship”. Solidarity with the group  came from far away Kano where Governor  Abdullahi Ganduje threatened  to take legal action against Wike, who has since described Ganduje’s statement as irresponsible while not forgetting to remind him that  Wike is not “dollars that Ganduje can pocket recklessly and sheepishly”.  Ganduje also found an ally in MURIC which dismissed  Wike’s administration as government of thugs, exhibiting   ‘wikedisation’ of religion, acrobatic religiousity, gymnastic impunity, political violence and administrative rascality”.  Since both governors know each other well, I think it is futile to try to interrogate their characterisation of themselves. What is not in dispute however is that both are metaphors for Nigerian governors. From the record of their conduct and utterances since the beginning of the fourth republic, it is clear many of our successive governors are men without character. Between 1999 and 2004, about 18 of PDP 24 elected governors were indicted for massive looting of their state resources. With the ongoing travails of some governors who lost their immunity few months back, it is obvious not much has changed under Buhari’s government of change. Nigerian governors are responsible for what the United Nations Special Rapporteur for Extrajudicial and Arbitrary Executions, Agnes Callamard after two weeks tour of Nigeria, last Monday summarized as “cultism in the oil-producing south states and other well-organised criminal gangs; local militias engaged in mining and cattle rustling in the Northwest, particularly Zamfara, increased criminality and spreading insecurity;” all over the country. It has been established that substantial part of N4b to N12b governors’ annual security votes, which they are not obliged to account for, go into funding of armed gangs to keep themselves in office. The PDP garrison commander of Ibadan politics, late Pa Adedibu, was the first to confirm the use of security funds for funding political terror groups when his dispute over sharing formula led to illegal impeachment of Governor Ladoja. President Jonathan’s National Security Adviser, General Owoye Andrew Azazi confirmed that Northeast politicians initially armed Boko Haram to secure advantage over political opponents. The Niger Delta’s different militant groups were sponsored by Niger Delta governors as balance of terror. It was former governor, Goodluck Jonathan who as vice president went into the creeks to address his men in the language they understood when the Amnesty Programme was first instituted by President Yar dua. Ayoade Akinibosun, the gang leader of armed group that robbed a bank in Offa on April 4, 2018 killing about 27 people including six policemen claimed during police integration ‘we are the senate president boys…we have been working form him since he was the governor of Kwara State, we mobilise for him and we are the ones that do political arrangements for him, we scatter elections if we don’t win”. Hamisu Bala alias Wadume, the Taraba State kidnap kingpin and a gun runner during interrogation by the police last week painted a similar picture: “I made so much money from politicians, as a youth leader, money meant for the youths are given to me. I am to mobilise them, hire thugs where necessary and made arrangement for weapons”. In Ekiti, Ayodele Fayose who went through a political tutelage under Adedibu was said to have his own gang. The group is allegedly linked to some of the ongoing cases of political assassination of his political rivals during his first term. In Lagos, Joe Igbokwe as Lagos APC spokesman reportedly admitted that rampaging NURTW leaders in the state are members of APC. In Ogun, Gbenga Daniel had his own squad claimed to be headed by the late Olatoye Temitope alias ‘sugar’, a supervisory councilor for Odeda LGA and later his special adviser. Unfortunately the governors while hobnobbing with drug pushers, gun-runners, armed robbers and other criminal elements, forget democracy which elsewhere in the democratic world operates on the platform of law and order, cannot survive on a culture of corruption, violence and lawlessness. As Wike, lionized by prosperity prophets strives to exploit religious differences in the state he holds hostage, boasting “I heard that some people are angry that I declared Rivers as a Christian State; nobody can intimidate me into changing my position”.  Dokubo insisting  “Rivers state will never be a Christian State, we are Rivers Muslims; there is nothing you can do about it” and the man Wike calls ‘dollar Ganduje’  pours gasoline from the side line, they are encouraged to acquaint themselves with development elsewhere in the world. Pope Francis and the Grand Imam of Al Azhar, Egypt, the most important centre of Islamic learning in the world, recently embraced and signed a powerful joint declaration for world peace and human fraternity transcending all religious, national, cultural and racial differences. The Pope during another visit aimed at boosting Christian-Muslim ties, to Morocco, praised the country, a Sunni Muslim kingdom of 36 million as a model of religious moderation. The Pope was also in Azerbaijan, the second-largest Shi’ite Muslim country after Iran where he praised Azerbaijan as a model of religious tolerance given the interfaith harmony that characterizes relations among its Muslims, Christians and Jews. The UAE that once supported radical Islam including the Taliban recently hosted  a conference for religious and intellectuals of all faiths in the world  where Brahmavihari Swami, a Hindu monk asked “Do we unite and flourish together? Or do we disunite and perish together?” Ganguje can now see clearly why Dubai is the fourth most visited city in the world while local investors are moving away from Kano.