The operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) have arrested five persons in connection with the hijacking of a Taxify Toyota Corolla Sports in Lekki. Michael Sosa, 27, Nelson Benson, 24, Idowu Dauda, 30, Owolabi Shobayo, a.k.a Daju pa, 29 and Biliaminu Abu, a.k.a Gengen, 43, were arrested in Ijoko and Otta, Ogun State last week for hijacking and selling a Taxify car in February. They participated in the selling of the car to a dealer in Republic of Benin for the sum of N250,000. Sosa in company of Dosumu, now at large, had sometime in February, converged on Elegushi Beach, Lekki where they both hatched the plan to hijack a Taxify car, move it to Ogun State and sell. Sosa, a suspected ‘yahoo–boy’, after waiting till 10pm ordered a Taxify ride from Agungi Estate to Lagos Island. In the car with him were Dosumu and Dauda. Police quoted Sosa as saying: “at Abraham Adesanya Estate, Lekki, I told the driver I wanted to ease myself. We alighted, while I pretended to be urinating, Dosumu poured dried on the driver. He screamed and jumped out of the car. He started shouting for help. I got on his seat and drove the car away. “I drove to the road leading to Alpha Beach, where we stopped for some hours because we suspected we were being followed. At about 4am, I proceeded to Agege, dropping Dosumu in Omole. I picked Benson in Agege Stadium. Nelson was to direct us through the routes that prevent us from encountering the police and to Ijoko. “At Ijoko, I took the car to Alfa Mouka’s house. He was my spiritualist. I told him the car was stolen. It was at this point we began to source for buyers. It was introduced to Daju pa and Gengen. They are dreaded cultists and notorious criminals in the area. I told them I wanted to sell the car for N300,000. We later discovered that the car had no papers. This made it difficult to sell. “We got a dealer who asked us to bring it to the Republic of Benin. Gengen and I took it there at around 11pm after changing the number plate “We sold the car for N250,000. We would have sold it better than that but for the papers that were not available. I took N190,000. I gave N60,000 to Gengen and N40,000 to Eniba (Dauda) to give Michael. Although, I got to know that it was N30,000 that got to him. Our link to Benin Republic got N13,000. That was how we shared the money”. Commissioner of Police (CP) Zubairu Muazu said any criminal who think he can escape with nefarious activities perpetrated in Lagos need to think twice as the command is at alert and would haunt down any criminal in any part of the country. The suspects have been transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) for further investigations.