If a miracle worker came to town, casting out demons and chasing phantoms away, binding witches and wizards, making the blind to see and the deaf to hear, raising the dead and trampling principalities under foot, he would probably have a life time of miracle work among the infirm. Such appears to be what  billing is lined up for  hemp oil (cannabinol or CBD oil) in Nigeria’s sprawling illness. Last week, many people  lowered their guards which they had raised against Indian hemp for many years, after they  read the second part of this column, which suggested that  hemp is not all about head turning and organ damaging  as previously thought. It amazed many people that hemp oil may be the plant medicine of this century, healing hard nut diseases, such as  epilepsy, seizures, depression, insomnia, asthma, digestive disorders, high blood pressure, schizophrenia, inflammation,  pain, arthritis, hormonal imbalance and health questions araising from it, hepatitis, nephritis, even  cancer and many more. It was not surprising therefore, to receive enquires from some readers asking if two of Nigeria’s most common diseases were on the conquest list  of hemp oil. Guess what they are? UTERINE FIBROIDS and PROSTATE CANCER Yes, CBD oil can do the job. But this answer is not mine. It comes from  many experts based on opinions on  several studies which continues to amaze researchers about how deeply  entrenched for healing work cannabinol is in the human body.  With scientific report after report of the health miracle which cannabinol or (CBD oil is performing in the laboratory or animal and human studies, researchers in various specialist fields of medicine have been challenging CBD oil with naughty questions in their fields with amazing result. Some experts told us on this page last week of how it was just becoming better known  that  the human body has another system this is  as real and as active as any other known body system… muscular, skeletal, reproductory, circulatory, digestive, urinating, excretory, respiratory, visual, immune e.t.c. the discovery of this new system is as thrilling as the  discovering of a new planet in the solar system or of a new  star in our galaxy, the milky, in the universe way, in the universe. The new discovering in the human body system architecture It is the ENDOCANNABINIO system (ECS). Is the ENDO CANNABIDIOL system (ECS). This system consists of  nerve receptors for cannabinol components  widely distributed  in the Central Nervous system (CNS), Edo cannabinol and Enzymes. The ECS Is the  master system which presides over or regulates other systems, balancing their activities in a way no one is weak or is  run down by  another. It also ensures that, as a team, the body  systems can collectively withstand forces of the external environment acting on the body. This is why exposure of people with healthy ECS, to dust, smoke or the sight of feathers may  not dispose them to asthmas. While people challenged with  weak  ECS may  easily be over run by stressors in the external environment. In uterine fibroids, we see the picture of how  oestrogenation  or over estrogenation may occur and give rise to this trouble in the womb. Estrogen is a female hormone. Progesterone is another. They exist in different ratios to each other at different times in the menstrual  cycle. If estrogen maintains its quota in the mix,  but progesterone falls short, estrogenation  occurs, as when estrogen cover shoots its boundary, provoking elevation of the quantum of prolactin, another hormone. Estrogenation causes pre- Menstrual  Syndrome (PMS), which may  make a woman to bloat just before her period, torments the breasts with fullness, tenderness and pain on touch, instigate unhealthy food cravings and mood, swings,especially irritability. If there is an upswings in the ratio of prolactin, this may be a waterloo for women who wish to get pregnant. For its job at such elevated levels is to prevent the ovaries from  releasing eggs so that, when  a woman is pregnant, another  pregnancy does not  arise within the span of that establish pregnancy. So, if pregnancy, is desired, it cannot occur when prolactin level is excessively elevated. A warning signal that prolactin has flooded  the system is a type of discharge from the nipple when they   are pressed or if they are not. While it is true that  consuming desire to get pregnant may  instigate this hormonal imbalance, pseudo pregnancy or false pregnancy and pregnancy  symptoms, and while  uterine  fibroids are considered by some gynaecologists, such as Dr Cathsine Nathrop, as a compensation for such crushing desires, can it now be  not seen if an ECS failure in not an ingredients in these developments? Could  it be  that the CNS is weak and its cannabinol receptors are subnormal, making the ECS unable to store balance,  homeostasis  or  equilibrium? Or, is the body failing to produced enough ca nnabinol for the ECS? I have been wondering what the dietary materials  are for making Endo cannabinol.  In the case of hormonal  imbalance and false pregnancy, can there  be ECS stimulating factors in Vitex, which helps to balance female hormones, Macca and  Ashwaghandah, which help out in hormone production, or in Trace and false Unicorn Root, which have a role to play in fending off false pregnancies? What of Zinc, the fertility mineral, and the Essential Fatty Acids (EFAs)? However it is, researchers, doctors and lay people alike  are thrilled to learn that if  the body does not produce enough Endocannbinol, hemp or cannabis, abundantly blessed with exo cannabinol, can fill the gap. The words Edo and exco define the origin of cannabinol… Whether it is produced by the body ( endo) or supplied from external sourced (exo). CBDoil is exo cannabinol. The experts says it can help the Endo cannabinol system (ECS) conquer uterine fibroids. What about  prostate gland challenges and fertility questions among men and women? CBD oil is just right on the market  they say. Benign Hyperplasia (BPH) is an inflammatory condition which the anti- inflammatory ESSENCE of CBD oil can knock out. Prostate enlargement has to do with accumulation of toxins and heavy metals which cause irritation and all that . If (CBD) oil evacuates such rubblish in uterine fibroids to knock them out, why not give it a try in prostate enlargement ? Would be the counsel of CBD expert. And prostate cancer? There is evidence in many studies that CBD oil used alone or as adjunct medicicine,especial ly in chemotherapy, slows, helps to disorient cancer growth processes, especially by constituting  anti- argiogene force against them. The body derives cancer cells access to nutrition. But cancer  cells grow by tapping  nutrients from healthy cells and by influencing them  to become , like them, cancerous, through a process called ANGIOGENESIS. Anti-argiogenic factors disrupt and destroy these illegal supply lines just as an Air Force may cut off enemy troops  from food, medicine and arms supplies. Not only that, CBD oil is said to induce APOPTOSIS  in cancer cells, a process in which Mother Nature had programmed  cells which step out of line to commit suicide through self-destruction. Now, It is time to vacate the floor again for the experts. .. Prostate In www.very well health.com, we are advised of some benefits the prostate gland may derive from CBD oil. The website says: CBD for Prostate Issues (Medical Benefits, Studies, and Dosage). Long before scientists learned how to manufacture synthetic medications, people relied on natural compounds that are derived from plants. And while the use of CBD oil for prostate issues is of course a very new treatment method, naturally-based compounds are being increasingly marketed as “dietary supplements” for use in multiple forms of alternative or complementary medicine. While scientific studies that show the benefits of plant-based medicines are few and far between, certain compounds are really making a name for themselves. One of these is, of course, CBD. There is still a lot of controversy surrounding medical marijuana, and thus CBD. But this is a natural compound that is proving to be very effective in the treatment of several medical conditions, including prostate issues. Prostate issues is a broad term and one that we will discuss in more detail below. It could be anything from an enlarged prostate to a bacterial infection or even prostate cancer. In this article, we will be taking a closer look at how CBD could be used in the treatment of prostate issues. The use of CBD for Prostate, and an overview of potential issues The prostate is a gland that makes up part of the male reproductive system and wraps around the urethra close to the bladder. The gland is around the size of a walnut and grows bigger as you age. For such a small gland, the prostate appears to cause a lot of concern. All men have a risk of developing prostate issues, and that’s because all men have a prostate. Common prostate issues in men include; acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis, Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH), and chronic prostatitis (non-bacterial). Prostate cancer is common in men who are over the age of 50, but especially African American men or those who eat more fatty foods, and/or those who have a father or brother with prostate cancer. CBD for prostate issues Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) means that your prostate is enlarged but isn’t cancerous – it’s very common in older men. Enlargement of the prostate gland can cause some of the following symptoms; dribbling urine, blood in the urine or semen, pain or burning during urination, frequent pain or stiffness in the hips, lower back, rectal or pelvic area or the upper thighs, frequent urination, or painful ejaculation. Acute bacterial prostatitis normally starts suddenly because of a bacterial infection – it can cause chills, fever, or pain. Chronic bacterial prostatitis is an infection that occurs again and again – it’s a rare problem that can be hard to treat. Chronic prostatitis is also known as Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome (CPPS), and it’s a common prostate issue. To diagnose the cause of prostate issues, a doctor will do a rectal exam, look at patient history, and take bacterial cultures if they suspect infection, and they will rule out cancer. Initial tests and procedures that are done to diagnose prostate cancer may include; a rectal exam, ultrasound, or assessment of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. Prostate cancer is definitively diagnosed by means of a tissue biopsy. CBD for Prostate How and why it might be able to help Prostatitis and cancer are just two of the prostate issues that CBD is believed to have the potential for treatment. Before we look at each of these individually, let’s look at how cannabinoids in general, like CBD, work in the body. Just like other chemicals, cannabinoids need to bind to cells before they are able to influence the behavior of those cells. The cell receptors that bind to cannabinoids fall into two categories CB1 and CB2 receptors. CB1 receptors are concentrated in the brain and therefore responsible for the psychoactive effects associated with marijuana. CB2 receptors were first found in the cells of blood-forming organs and the immune system, but recent research has found them in many other tissues. Like many tissues, normal prostate cells contain both CB1 and CB2 receptors. However, prostate cancer cells have an excess of these receptors, and this makes them an interesting target for research. This means that they have a greater accord for cannabinoids (like CBD) than normal cells. Laboratory studies done on cannabinoids have shown that when these cells are treated with CBD, three things happen: Generally, the cells become less viable and more susceptible to apoptosis (programmed cell death) Androgen receptor activity that happens on the cancer cell surfaces is decreased (prostate cancer seems to be fueled by androgens) CBD and THC, for that matter, discourage the formation of tumor blood vessels which are needed by prostate cancer tumors to nourish themselves. We can also look at how CBD helps in the treatment of prostatitis. The most usual type of prostatitis is nonbacterial. Typical treatments include muscle relaxants or anti-inflammatory medications, learning to relax when urinating, taking hot baths, and drinking extra fluids. Prostatitis is often a painful condition that can be very unbearable, having an effect on both your personal and professional life. Many people turn to opioid painkillers to relieve their pain and keep it under control. However, opioids come with some negative side effects, one of the most common being a reduction in blood pressure which can be harmful to one’s health. CBD is well-known for its pain-relieving effects, and it doesn’t affect the blood pressure. Furthermore, CBD is also praised for its anti-inflammatory effects. CBD is thought to reduce tissue inflammation because of the presence of the compound ß-caryophyllene. It has shown great promise in clinical studies as an excellent anti-inflammatory drug that doesn’t carry the same risks that are associated with NSAIDs. CBD is a natural and healthier alternative to prescription painkillers, and if nothing else, it can be very effective in dealing with the pain that is often experienced with prostate issues, like prostatitis. CBD oils for Prostate issues Medical Findings: Effects of Cannabinoids and CBD for Prostate Issues Research into CBD and prostate issues is very much limited at this point in time. However, a few studies have been done, and they point to some very interesting findings. One such study is one done by a team of researchers from the University of Alcalá in Spain in 2009 and published in the British Journal of Cancer. The researchers studied three separate groups of human prostate cancer cells. They grew the cells in their lab, and then added two cannabinoids, one of which was a potent CB2 stimulator. A series of experiments found that cannabinoid-induced activation of these CB2 receptors slowed down the growth of all three kinds of human prostate cancer cells. Furthermore, cannabinoids that target CB2 receptors were able to kill prostate cancer cells by means of triggering apoptosis, which is a fundamental biological process that can be best explained as programmed cell death by suicide. Another study was conducted by De Petrocellis et al. (2012). This study used both prostate cancer cells in lab containers, as well as prostate cancer tumor cells implanted in mice. Non-THC cannabinoids were tested for biochemical effects that they have on individual cells and also actual tumor behavior in live animals. The authors of the study suggested that “non-THC cannabinoids, and CBD specifically, retard proliferation and cause apoptosis of prostate cancer cells through a combination of cannabinoid receptor-independent, molecular, and cellular mechanisms.” Potential Medical Benefits of Using CBD for Prostate Issues Pelvic pain is a symptom associated with prostatitis, and it can make daily life very difficult. When it comes to treating pain, some cannabis strains are more effective than others. Inflammation is a natural immune response which helps the body to heal itself. However, it’s often the root cause of pain. CBD can treat pain and relief inflammation all across the body. Cannabis strains with a high level of CBD help to reduce inflammation without getting you high. Aside from this, as we have discussed above, CBD has also shown some promise in the treatment of prostate cancer. While we cannot deem it as a cure, it could possibly help in the reduction of prostate cancer cells and tumors.