Lagos State Government has reiterated its commitment to implement and support the initiatives targeted at empowering women and youths to become useful and responsible citizens. Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation Mrs. Cecelia Dada, who spoke at the weekend in Alausa, Ikeja at the launch of the Girls’ Skill Up Programme of Jaebee Furniture, designed to train 10,000 girls in furniture upholstery, said the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration would spare no effort to equip women and youths with the requisite skills aimed at transforming them into wealth creators and key contributors to national development. She said: “Empowering women and youths has been a major focal point of this present administration. “It is in line with this that the government established 17 skill acquisition centres under the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation. “Ten vocations are being taught here and these include hairdressing and cosmetology, catering and hotel management, computer training, textile designing/hats making, beads stringing, barbing, printing technology, shoe making and leatherwork, furniture and woodwork, welding, block laying, adult literacy, to mention a few.” Dada hailed Jaebee Furniture for championing the unique girl-focused initiative designed to build up and empower young women in upholstery business, hitherto regarded as the preserve of men. She enjoined beneficiaries to take the opportunity to start their business and impart the knowledge gained to others. The convener of the initiative and Chief Executive Officer of Jaebee Furniture, Joy Shittu Igbodike, said the programme was conceived to groom, mentor and equip young girls with technical and business skills in furniture upholstery. “I believe young girls can thrive in a field like furniture making. When they are supported in this sector, we will be empowering them to create jobs, live their dreams and build a better society for generations to come,” she said. Igbodike said despite the huge financial benefit in the furniture and upholstery industry, which worth $675billions worldwide, it was unfortunate that Nigeria still grappled with unmet requests for upholsterers, adding that the initiative was designed to bridge the gap and tap into the potential of the sector. She advised the girls to take the opportunity and make the best of it. “Be focused on your training, make a commitment to learn all that you can and be disciplined enough to go out there and be a good ambassador to the people who are supporting and counting on you,” Igbodike told the first batch of about 200 girls.