Operatives of the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Agency (Task Force) on night patrol at Oshodi  have nabbed two persons on suspicion of stealing a tricycle popularly known as Keke Marwa at Ifo area of Ogun State. Chairman of the task force, Olayinka Egbeyemi a Chief Superintendent of Police, disclosed in a statement that preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects, Sodiq Sulaiman and Saidi Ibrahim, stole the tricycle with registration No JJJ-706-QF where the owner parked it on the road lay-by at Ifo area of Ogun State. Egbeyemi said, “It was after they refused to stop that our officers ran after them before they were caught at Cappa after abandoning the tricycle on the road”. Egbeyemi who urged residents to be careful and to take proper care of their belongings however hinted that during these ‘Ember Months’ officers of the Agency have been deployed to strategic locations across the State to protect life and properties of the citizenry. One of the suspects, Sodiq Sulaiman, an ex-convict, confessed that the tricycle was stolen at ‘Ifo’ and it was being taken to one ‘Mallo’ at Idi-Oro for sale at an agreed sum of N40, 000 before they were arrested at Oshodi by the task force. According to him “I was just released from Kirikiri prison last month where I spent seven months for not being able to produce a commercial tricycle given to me on hire purchase by the owner.” “I was trained as a tricycle mechanic for four years at ‘Abekoko’ area of Oyo State before I came to Lagos in the year 2017 and started stealing phones, bags including tricycles with one Saheed Ibrahim whom I met at ‘Akala’ area of Mushin”, he added. The second suspect Saheed Ibrahim, a bricklayer, revealed that before both of them started stealing tricycles they specialised in using motorcycles to rob innocent members of the public of their valuable items at night. “We had stolen and sold more than 55 phones, jewellery, laptops and seven tricycles to one ‘Mallo’ at Idi-Oro area of Mushin. We sold all our stolen items to ‘Mallo’ and others at Idi-Oro and Akala area of Mushin”, he stated. While confirming that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police CP Zubairu Muazu has directed that the two arrested suspects be immediately charged to court for prosecutions, Egbeyemi urged residents to be cautious and take proper care of their belongings during these ‘ember months’. In a related development, the Lagos State Government has warned members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) to conduct their activities in a peaceful manner and not to disrupt the peace of innocent members of the public. The task force Chairman warned all members of the NURTW across the State to always conduct their activities in a peaceful manner as anyone caught fomenting trouble would be severely dealt with in accordance with the law. He confirmed that 11 members of the Union were arrested over the weekend by the Enforcement team of the Agency for causing mayhem around Yaya-Abatan Garage at Ogba. Egbeyemi revealed that dangerous weapons such as axes, diggers, broken bottles and cutlasses were recovered from all those arrested in connection with the mayhem. He said that all arrested suspects have been immediately charged to court to serve as a deterrent to other union members who might want to disturb the peace in the State.