The National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) has decried the low level of patronage from government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in the country. Its Executive Vice-Chairman, Prof Mohammed Haruna said despite an existing law by the president on the patronage of made-in-Nigeria products, the agency only enjoys patronage from the private sector. He said it has been the culture of the agency to ensure that they come up with new inventions which they display at trade fairs for prospective investors. Prof. Haruna spoke in Abuja, while presenting the new innovations of the agency at the stand at the ongoing Abuja International Trade Fair. He said: “It has been in our culture to ensure that each year we come with new innovations, what we usually do at the end of each trade fair is to task ourselves to collaborate and come up with new inventions before the next trade fair, this year we have a lot of automation devices, smart metering devices and oil extraction machines that was not seen last year. “Finance has always been a challenge, the amount of profitability you can harvest is dependant on how much is invested, funding to the agency is not adequate but we are happier now because the new products that we are having is as a result of small attention that we have been recieving. “In NASENI, we are happy to have the patronage of the private sector, we are not having the patronage that we should be receiving from MDAs which us why we do all we can despite lack of resources to be at trade fairs because our partners are here. Nigerians need to learn to look inwards, we bring outsiders to build our solar systems but we have a solar manufacturing plant that belongs to the government, so we should patronise our own first, the instructions has been there by government that should be complied with and more is needed to guarantee adherence to it. Their is an existing order by the President on the patronage of local products. “Unfortunately, a typical Nigerian entrepreneur prefers trading than long term investment and if you look for partnership with a typical investor in Nigeria he would not want to invest but to go and see some products that have matured outside that he can be guaranteed but we are grateful for the Executive Order 5 that discourages trading and encourages local manufacturing.