The Nigerian Navy (NN) has held the first medical retreat for its heads of medical services. The retreat, which took place in Offa, Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State, was organised by the Directorate of Medical Services (DMS) of the navy. At the event, Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ette Ibas hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for investing in the medical services of the Navy. Vice Admiral Ibas also charged heads of departments and units of the medical services on performance. Represented at the occasion by Head, Administration, Policies and Planning of the Nigerian Navy, Rear Admiral Bec-Ibe Enwo said as a result of the resources made available by President Buhari’s administration, the Navy has been able to upgrade its medical equipment, train many of its medical personnel and employ 11 consultants for a start with plans to make further employment of them. He said the retreat illustrates the commitment to capacity development of medical personnel in the Navy, adding that all the investments made on his watch are aimed at improving the capacity of medical personnel, and providing the right tools as well as the enabling environment to work to improve productivity. He said the long-term strategic goal is to emplace a fully functional medical service with the right mix and number of medical personnel capable of delivery safe and efficient health care services to personnel. Ibas said,  “It is pertinent to state that a lot is expected of the medical services in the delivery of safe and quality healthcare in the Nigerian Navy.  Improving the quality of care has to be a priority for each medical personnel especially the heads of the medical units. It has been noted that where there are no consequences when heads of units and departments are found wanting, there is usually no impetus to make added effort. “Consequently, it would no longer be business as usual.  Going forward, heads of units and departments, many of whom are represented at this retreat, are going to be held responsible when it is evident that their units or departments are not performing despite resources provided. “Therefore, you are all enjoined to pull up your sleeves, utilise resources efficiently and improve services in your various units and departments. You are also encouraged to think, be innovative, proffer solutions and make recommendations to the Directorate of Medical Services, even after this retreat, on ways of moving the medical services beyond the 21st Century. A working and vibrant Nigerian Navy Medical Services providing safe and quality healthcare services would be of tremendous benefit to us all in the long run,” he stated.