Laws help misfits see their way out of their muddle … (and) … whoever gains from such people, no matter how highly or lowly placed, should also be placed on other planets. We have enough planets for them all. I did not consider myself too old or too young to appreciate the efforts of Sunny Okosuns’ Papa’s Land (Who owns the land? Refrain: Who owns Papa’s land?)  and Fire in Soweto as one man’s efforts to end the occupation of Africa by foreign powers. If I thought they were one man’s effort then, I have since found out that efforts like his were offered on behalf of the nation. In other words, his crooning voice represented the voices of the people of Nigeria. Okosuns’ songs were only a part of the Nigerian people’s responses to the foreign powers’ assault upon the integrity of the sovereignty of some southern African countries, including South Africa. These songs and other more politically forthright actions from the Nigerian people and governments might not have set South Africa free, they however contributed in no small way to the freedom that land enjoys today. Nigeria, and other African countries rose up as a body to help these southern countries that were in the bind then because they felt the kinship and commonality that binds all the people of Africa. This commonality made them feel the sufferings of the people under the laws of apartheid and deprivations. From the write-ups on this subject, many South African leaders lived in and were accommodated by Nigeria when the battle was fierce. Now, however, this story is changing. South Africa (SA) seems to have forgotten this commonality that binds. They are remembering only the disparity that separates the powers of love and unity. South African residents, in fits of anger and loss of self-control, are killing Nigerians. Brother is killing brother; that’s fratricide. Quickly, I checked my dictionary for fratricide. It is when a brother kills his blood brother, usually over money or a woman. So, when South African youths rise against their fellow black brothers, they are only committing fratricide; they are killing off their own kith. Against the background presented above, it not only spells ingratitude, it also spells doom for the African continent. Africa is poor. However, Africa is poor not because it is not materially wealthy but it is poor because it lacks the leadership volte force to bring about the necessary volte-face in her fortunes. In other words, the people needed to bring about the perfect U-turn in her fortunes are lacking. So, her stories of deep neglect, serious haemorrhaging of her resources causing debilitation in her parts are just being deepened. All that internal bleeding caused by the ‘eat or be eaten’ philosophy of the early fathers of Africa set the foundation. So, the facts are that Nigerians and other foreign nationals, mostly black, are being killed by South Africans. Indeed, judging by the videos being spread around on social media by the violence-spewing joy-rides among us, things are grim indeed. Even though these videos have been declared largely fake, the facts are still indisputable. The reason is that everyone seems to know someone who knows someone who knows someone who knows someone who is affected by the violence. Violence will keep going round in circles because it is forever chasing its own tail. Anyway, reports on the outbreaks of violence in SA have imputed the xenophobic actions to attempts to rid the land of drug-dealing foreigners. According to these reports, South Africans suspect that Nigerians and other black nationals are behind the drug trade in the country. Not to put a fine point on it, they say these drug people are corrupting their young and vulnerable. This is the ostensive cause. To be honest, though, I think drug dealers should be put out of this planet. They do not fit into the earthly society’s most sublime aspirations. When someone chooses to corrupt the youth and wreck their lives through drug peddling as a business, then he has totally lost his way and is deserving of society’s greatest condemnation. He should be put out of sight as a misfit. As deprived as the African society is, I believe that each country still has laws for handling infractions and social misfits such as drug dealers. Laws help misfits see their way out of the muddle they have made of their own lives not to talk of other people’s lives. Whoever gains from such people, no matter how highly or lowly placed, should also be placed on other planets. We have enough planets for them all. Laws exist so that jungle justice does not rule. Laws target offenders; jungle justice sweeps all standers-by, passers-by and sitters-by in its wake. Whereas laws are controlled by the experts of the law, jungle justice is controlled only by passion. Passions are recklessly blind. In the South African story, most of those killed so indiscriminately are said not to be drug dealers but professionals living in SA. Xenophobia is not new to SA. It had existed previously for different reasons. Today, the fight against drug peddlers is being peddled as a principal reason. In the past, it was suspected that Nigerians, and other black Africans, were taking the jobs that the indigenous people were not qualified to do. So, rather than go for anger management classes and learn how to manage their issues, those indigenous people hounded their African brethren. Whatever the reason, the fact is that the act of fratricide, which people fondly call xenophobia, is getting more worrisome for the reason that there are existing reports that the police in South Africa are not helping matters. According to these reports, rather than arresting the attackers, the police there are adding a helping hand to the attacks. This is where it gets awry because I believe this is done in ignorance that once an aggrieved crowd tastes blood, its targets only change. Today, it is foreigners, tomorrow, it would be fellow citizens. I have detected three strains of responses to all these. The first was the instinct to retaliate against these attacks by also attacking South African business interests in Nigeria, particularly the stores, etc. Like many people have pointed out, this is fighting fire with fire, and it will not do. What we need is ice-cold water to cool the fire and put it out. When two people are angry at the same time, all we get is a shouting match that resolves nothing. People who are looting stores are the witless ones; and you know what they say, looters are scooters gone into disuse. I also heard something about someone suggesting that the Nigeria Police be allowed to help the police in SA to protect Nigerians there. Seriously? I ask, why should a foreign police operate in another land when that land is neither conquered nor at war? There is no such thing in this here case. Besides, I’m not too sure the Nigeria police can help much. They should concentrate their energy on policing the internal affairs of Nigeria; there are still many stolen cars not yet recovered. To ensure that drug dealers do not enter a country is the joint responsibility of the source and host countries. Although people still have the freedom to go where they will, however, the host country has the right to keep out the people she suspects of crimes. Nigeria can also step up her checks on potential disgraces to the country. The police in SA should do their work. Drug dealers are law breakers and should be treated as such, whether they are foreigners or home boys. Mob killers are also law breakers. Both should be teased out and brought before the law. Just because the enemy is a foreigner today does not excuse the killing. The police that does not uphold the law today to end this fratricide could become the target of that mob tomorrow. 