It is appalling that live bullets are still being used against unarmed civilian protesters by the Nigeria Police. After all, there are many less lethal means of controlling crowds or protesters in these modern times available to the police. Just look at Hong Kong I am sure you have heard this expression before, ‘everybody is a government in Nigeria’. Well, dear reader, it is true. As I am speaking to you, there are governments, and there are the governments. For example, your ordinary governments govern your living within the geographical entity called Nigeria by taxing you. By rights, they should work for you but in truth you work for them. I think they are called THE GOVERNMENT. I think… no, I am sure the only time they work for you is when they want to tax you. They tax you for letting you build your house on their land, letting you ride your car on their bad roads, even for letting you breathe in their air. I tell you, you exist so that they can tax you. Then, there are the other governments in your life. Those ones govern the way you move and eat. They are the heads of the house. He can be recognised easily because he says ‘I am the head of this house; so what if I decide to eat my pounded yam with salad?’ It is his right by law. Failure of THE GOVERNMENT however forces him to sink his own well for water, install his generator for electricity, grade the road that passes in front of his house and provide his own food. Yes, sir, he forms his own government, atop which he sits, monarch of all he surveys, daily handing out the err… ten commandments. God help the ant that defies those commandments. Of course, those ants are generally called children, but what does it matter? An ant is an ant. Well, I’m sure you know every government has its own Achilles’ heel. While the house boss sits atop his government, he is in turn ruled by his plumbers who determine whether or not he can pump water into his house from his well. Then there are the generator repairmen who determine whether or not electricity will come out of the generator he bought. I tell you, every government has its own bosses. There exists the greatest government of all, which is that of the missus. Atop her local government council, she broods no dissension. Opinions differ as to the membership constitution of this council but I cannot forget the picture of a country’s powerful prime minister carrying the parcels of goods his wife had purchased as he, well, trotted after her. When the missus decrees that the bins need replenishing, many a man has opted to forego the shaving powder to make enough financial room for the needed purchases. Besides, every wise man knows that wisdom consists of living in trepidation of the one who can quietly slip something into your food to make you sleep till next week. There are other governments, of course. There is the government of the bank. Ho, ho! Don’t get me started on that one. Have you noticed that banks have taken to introducing all kinds of charges? Let me see now. There is the stamp duty charge which stands for only God knows what. Then, there is the trading charge which means what exactly, I do not know. Then, there is the tax on interest which is paid to whom, I have no idea. Worse, my bank charges me VAT on the tax on interest! I have never seen that kind of crookedness before, except on my gnarled cashew tree. Worse, they seem to be operating with impunity since I gave them no such permission to deduct any which how from my filthy lucre. Do we talk about the DSTV people? Oh yes, we should. There they are, bringing these wonderful pictures to my screen but at what cost! To start with, the blessed thing has to be fed every month with what they choose to call a subscription fee but which is really a bleeding fee. It’s my blessed blood it takes to feed it. Promptly on the date due for the subscription to be renewed and it fails to arrive, the services are cut. No pitiful mercy; no consideration that most homes do not get to use their subscriptions for more than two to three hours in a day courtesy of poor electricity supply; and no English courtesy commonly conveyed by phrases like, ‘by your leave’. There is worse. I understand that in the home country of the company, consumers are charged by the rate of consumption, i.e., prepaid. Why is this not operating here? Only God knows, and perhaps THE GOVERNMENT I told you about. Perhaps they know a thing or two they are not telling us. The same goes for the GSM providers. None of them answers to me. Government pleasers all of them! So, you see, there are so many governments operating on their own in the country. The one that I find most incomprehensible though is the Police government. That is the force we should run to in order to report all these self-declared governments but most times, we really can’t find them on our side. Take the latest citizens versus police matter that broke out in FUOYE which resulted in two students losing their lives and two others being injured. There are so many things we have not got clear in this country, but I don’t want to go into all that, only the ones that bear on this unfortunate story. The most important is that our public institutions have yet to learn that it is the people they serve, not the leaders that the people elected to serve them. The story says that the students were on a protest against poor electricity supply when the incident occurred. To start with, I thought it had been decided a long time ago that live bullets would and should no longer be used on defenceless protesters any more, especially students who, everyone knows, are more ruled by the testosterone hormone than anything else. Blames and counter blames have been flying around since the sad event, yet no one, not least the police, has been able to say who exactly fired those shots at four students! It is appalling that live bullets are still being used against unarmed civilian protesters by the Nigeria Police. After all, there are many less lethal means of controlling crowds or protesters available to the police everywhere. Just look at Hong Kong. Unfortunately, there is no getting away with anything, least of all the taking of human life. I’ve told this story before or you probably know it already but I’ll repeat it here for its relevance and for those who were absent when it was being told. The story is told of a policeman whose son was graduating from university. All the loving relatives who were involved had gathered themselves together for the ceremony and were waiting for the young man who was to arrive by another car. The news soon came though that he had been shot that morning at a check point on his way. Everyone was not only appalled they were filled with rage. The father calmly told them all to sheathe their anger for retribution had come full cycle since in his own heady days, he had been involved in shooting students at a riot. I’m just saying. It would be a lot better if all involved would just let truth and justice take its course. I believe all these governments are thriving because THE GOVERNMENT is not proving its own worth by putting its foot down on many national issues such as making life fairly possible for all its citizens. There ought not to be these private governments. They get power drunk. Just ask any head of the house. 