The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) says it will work with other security agencies to tackle insecurity in Niger State. Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar gave the assurance yesterday when Governor Abubakar Bello visited him in Abuja. He said: “We are interested in adding value to your governance. We are also monitoring what is happening there. “I assure you that the Nigerian Air Force will take steps. “We already have our quick response unit there in Minna with some of our special forces there. “I believe it is something that can be done and will be done very soon. We are gathering the necessary intelligence and information that is required. “We will not require anything from the state government in terms of logistics or resources. We have resources given to us by the Federal Government. All that we require from you is intelligence. “Give us intelligence and we will use that intelligence with the resources available to us to ensure that we address these problems.” Bello had told the air chief that the northern part of Niger had been faced with security challenges. He said his visit was to solicit further support of the NAF to address the menace of the bandits. “We are faced with security challenges in the northern part of Niger State in the last two, three months. “These ongoing challenges have been on for a while, but somehow with the support of security agencies, we have maintained calm and peace in those areas. “But somehow, in the last months, we have major influx of armed bandits we suspect are coming from Zamfara State due to the amnesty in Zamfara. They see Niger State even because of the vast forest. “You may be aware that Niger State on its own covers about 10 per cent of Nigeria’s landmass, it is very difficult to police and to even patrol. “More so that we have a lot of rivers and streams, it is difficult for our patrol vehicles or even motorcycles at times to reach some areas in the state. “My visit today is to come and see the Chief of Air Staff to request additional support and assistance toward ensuring security within those restricted areas in the forest that our ground troops do not have access to,” the governor said. He said based on his interaction with the joint security agencies, “they are of the opinion that the easiest and safest mode of operation to address these challenges will be through air raid.” Bello said many communities had been displaced by bandits. “The victims have become Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in nearby town of Kagara where I think, if my calculation is correct, we have not fewer than 1,000 IDPs. “We are concerned that if we do not make effort for them to go back to their villages, we will start having health hazards in the IDPs camp. “We believe that the earlier they go back home, the better. But for them to go back home, we must guarantee security in those areas,” he said.