House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu have condoled with the family of Oba Idowu Abiodun Oniru,  the Oniru of Iruland in Lagos State Oba Oniru, aged 82, died about 11 am on Monday in Lagos after a brief illness. Gbajabiamila said Oba Oniru would be remembered for his fatherly role and commitment to the development of Iruland. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker described the monarch’s death as painful at a time his advice and guidance were needed. Gbajabiamila said: “I wish to extend my heartfelt condolences to the family of our late royal father. His death came to me as a shock, but I take solace in the exemplary life that he lived and the legacies that he left behind. “Oba Idowu Abiodun Oniru was a father to all. He was a peace loving man, who did his best to make his people happy. I wish to commiserate with the government and the people of Lagos State, particularly the subjects… over this great and irreparable loss.” Governor Sanwo-Olu, through his twitter handle @jidesanwoolu, commiserated with the family. He tweeted: “On behalf of the government and people of Lagos, I commiserate with the Oniru Royal Family on the transition of …Oba Idowu Oniru, who joined his forebears. His service to the state and country… will remain his enduring legacy…” Former Lagos State Deputy Governor Idiat Oluranti Adebule described Oniru as a great monarch, saying he was a peace-loving monarch. “He was always bringing people together to live in peace and harmony. He demonstrated a great passion for the development of Lagos State. He was indeed a peace-maker,” she said. The Waziri Nupe, Senator Isa Mohammed, also condoled with the royal family. Senator Mohammed prayed to God to grant his family the fortitude to bear the loss. “My family and I wish to commiserate with you and the entire Oniru Royal family on the passing away of Oba Abiodun Idowu Oniru, the 14th Oniru of Iruland, Victoria Island, Lagos.  May Allah grant him peaceful repose, mercy, forgiveness, eternal rest and reward him with Al-Jannah Firdaus. May Allah also be with you and the children and grant you the strength and fortitude to bear this great loss,” he said. Chairman of Iru-Victoria Island Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Princess Rasheedat Abiodun Adu, described the late monarch as a great father. Princess Adu said Oba Oniru’s reign brought greater development to Iruland and its environs. “Kabiyesi’s reign ushered in unprecedented political and socio-economic development to Iruland and beyond. The late monarch’s demonstration of integrity is matchless,” she said. Wife of former Chairman of Iru-Victoria LCDA, Chief Funmilayo Daramola, hailed the late Oniru as a great monarch. Chief Daramola, the Alaje Wura of Iruland, said: “Kabiyesi was truly a great person. He was a nice man, who was after the development of the community and Lagos state as a whole. He sacrificed a lot to ensure Iru-Victoria Island is developed.” Oba Oniru succeeded his father in 1995. He was born on September 6, 1937, as the 12 of the 15 children of the long-reigning Oba Yesufu Oniru, who died at the age of 120 years. The royal family yesterday released the funeral programmes. It will start with the Third Day Muslim prayer today at the palace. Christian prayer holds tomorrow. On Sunday, the Seventh Day prayer, the Ije, will take place. The following Sunday, a programme called Erinla will hold at the palace. The late Oba Oniru attended St David’s Primary School and Araromi Baptist School on Lagos Island and Eko Boys High School. In 1965, he left Nigeria to study civil engineering at the British Institute of Engineering Technology in Slough. He returned to Nigeria in 1968 to join his father to run the family business. 