The National and State Houses of Assembly Petition Tribunal sitting in Ikeja has struck out the petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Tajudeen Agoro, challenging the victory of a member House of Representatives, Jide Jimoh of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in the Lagos Mainland Constituency. The election was held on February 23. The PDP candidate alleged unlawful declaration of Jimoh as winner. He also alleged that the poll was marred with rigging, multiple thumb printing and non-compliance with provisions of the Electoral Act. In a unanimous judgment read by Justice Olamide, the tribunal held that the petitioner failed to prove the allegations of malpractices. At the press briefing held at the APC Secretariat, Yaba, Jimoh praised the judiciary, describing it as the greatest defender of democracy. He said: “Today is a joyous day in the history of democracy, and in particular, Lagos Mainland Federal Constituency. We have accepted the verdict in totality. We witnessed the verdict and the judges upheld our results as the winner of the election. I thank the three judges for a job well done for the justice delivered judiciously, in line with the constitutional provisions and the Electoral Act as amended. “I thank the Almighty God, the ruler of heavens and the earth, who has given us all the supports where necessary financially, physically, spiritually and emotionally. Our lawyer stood vehemently on this case for three months and victory has come. Today’s judgement is a victory for democracy, APC and Lagos Mainland Federal Constituency.” The defence counsel, Wahab Shittu, said the tribunal’s verdict was a victory for constitutional democracy and sanctity to the electoral process. He added: “Today is a victory for constitutional democracy and Sanctity to the electoral process. Above all, its a victory for Hon Jide Jimoh who has been confirmed as duly elected representative of the Lagos Mainland federal constituency. Today is also a mark for celebration and there’s no law against celebration. We fought that battle and we won that’s why I give gratitude to the Almighty Allah and the supporters of the lawmaker who stood by him throughout the proceedings, he said “Interestingly, the tribunal has delivered the verdicts and all the three members of the  tribunal delivered a unanimous verdict. The tribunal confirmed that the election was conducted in substantial compliance with the provisions of the electoral acts. The tribunal also confirmed that there was no case of over voting, multiple thumb printing, forgery, no case of falsification of results, that everything was conducted within the provisions of the electoral acts and the winner is Hon Jide Jimoh. 