Zamfara State government’s plan to train and empower the teeming unemployed youths there to become economically independent is commendable. The state government is reported to have earmarked N3billion for the project. As the state government rightly reasoned, the banditry, cattle rustling and prevalent kidnapping in the state are fuelled by the high unemployment rate and endemic poverty in the 14 local government areas of the state. After all, as they say, “an idle mind is the devil’s workshop”. To earmark N3billion for such a project is an indication of determination by the state government to tame the monster of unemployment and free the youth from its pangs. If all states could do the same, it would go a long way in getting the youth usefully engaged as well as give a boost to the economy. Experts have always said that the route to a sound Nigerian economy is through the small and medium scale ventures. Vocational skills are still in short supply in the country, with artisans such as masons, carpenters, etc. usually fetched from neighbouring countries, and sometimes from as far as Eastern Europe. It is shameful that, to the contrary, Nigeria is exporting unskilled youths to other economies to be hewers of wood and drawers of water even in this century. In the past few weeks, South African rough necks have trooped to the streets to protest Nigerians, mainly the youth, being the preferred choice for menial jobs, among others. The situation in the West is even worse, while African countries are bearing the brunt of the giant with clay feet. Burkina Faso is protesting the influx of scarlet ladies from Nigeria. These are all young men and women who should turn the country from a consuming to a producing country. It should, however, be pointed out that merely allocating funds for the project is not enough. It should be well thought-out; training must be adequate and relevant loans should be structured and institutionalised. Only then can the objectives be assured. Given the guarantee of freedom of movement by the Nigerian constitution, other states in the Northwest should be encouraged to embrace the plan on a similar scale if the Zamfara State experiment is to succeed. This would necessitate the involvement of the Federal Government and its agencies such as the National Directorate of Employment, the Bank of Industry, and creation of intervention funds through the Central Bank of Nigeria. Disbursement of funds should be preceded by intensive training through vocational and technical institutes, where applicable. All stakeholders should support this initiative. Banks, the private sector and donor agencies have roles to play in ridding the country of vices and crimes festered by idleness and poverty. Unlike similar schemes in various parts of the country, this audacious plan must succeed. It should be accompanied with good orientation that would teach the people that it is a revolving scheme and is strictly for productive purposes and not for marriage ceremonies, buying cars or houses, or embarking on pilgrimage.