Ahead of next year’s governorship election in Ondo State, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have returned to the drawing board. Correspondent DAMISI OJO examines the permutations by the ruling and opposition parties. The governorship election will hold in Ondo State next year. Although  the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has not released the time table, the political parties are warming up for the poll. Already, gladiators are preparing  for the contest. No fewer than 20 parties are expected to participate in the exercise, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are the parties to watch. While the PDP is banking on its victoryduring the last presidential and National Assembly elections, which was due to the disunity in the APC, the ruling party is working hard to retain the Alagbaka House. Indeed, there is still a stumbling block on the way for the APC, judging  by the disharmony in the party. APC leaders are still at loggerheads. Since 2016 election, the heat has been on. The progressives party has been divided since that disputed primary. During the election, the party split.  The different groups worked at  cross-purpose. They did not support Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. The aggrieved members were fighting the ‘Team Aketi’, which worked for Akeredolu to become the helmsman in 2016. Now, the group is working to ensure that the Owo-born lawyer gets the second term ticket and retains the seat till 2024. Akeredolu, who was initially relunctant to unite the factional groups, shortly after emerging as the governor, is seeking reconciliation ahead of next year polls. But, he still has many hurdles to surmount to achieve the goal. Recently, the APC Southwest Caucus, led by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, was in Akure, the Ondo State capital, seeking for unity and to guard against destroying the party. At the meeting, it was learnt that   next year’s election and second term ticket werenot  on the agenda. The meeting was basically for reconciliation to fortify the ruling party. Besides, sources hinted that there was an agreement to dissolve the APC’s State Executive, led by Ade Adetimehin, to be replaced with a Care-taker Committee. Its membership is expected to be all-encompassing. However, after almost three-months, the same exco is still running the party, to the displeasure of the aggrieved parties . The concerned groups ,led by former Deputy Governor Alli Olanusi, who is also a member of theAPC Board of Trusteees (BOT), have  reminded Abuja forces to support the resolution. They are feeling uncomfortable with  loyalists of ‘Team Aketi,’ who are running the party. They are frowning at the inability of the NWC to dissolve the state exco as agreed upon during the July 10 peace meeting. For now, the estranged members have not been accomodated by Akeredolu to strengten the party to become a winning platform ahead of next year’s poll. The crack is bold on the wall. However, some aspirants are warming up.  They are not intimidated by the power of incumbency weilded by the governor. Therefore, Akeredolu may not be the only aspirant at the primary. The contenders include the Executive Director, Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC),  Ife Oyedele, former governorship candidate of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) the Pioneer Chairman of APC Isaac Kekemeke and former Information Commissioner Banji Ayiloge. Observers are of the view that the senator representing Ondo North District, Prof Ajayi Boroffice, may be interested in the coveted seat. But,  feelers from his camp have not been definite. Three aspirants-Oyedele, Oke and Kekemeke-are from the South District,which is agitating for power shift. They said the Central had produced  Dr Olusegun Mimiko and the North has produced Akeredolu, adding that   the South has not tasted it in post- Olusegun Agagagu period.To the South, the state has an unwritten zoning arrangement. The PDP is also thirsty for power,  having been booted out of office on February 24, 2016 by the ruling APC. PDP lost power to the APC due to  internal wrangling and litigations. The crisis led to the failure of its candidate, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), to succeeed Mimiko. Observers believe the party, which must have learnt its lesson, is ready to correct its past mistakes. The party’s success March general elections gave it a ray of hope.  The party produced two senators, Nicholas Tofowomo (South) and Ayo Akinyelure  (Central). Already, the party in readiness to send Akeredolu and his party, APC packing in Alagbaka House, is parading no fewer than 16 aspirants. Majority of them are from the North where governor Akeredolu hails from. Some are from the South and few from the Central. PDP aspirants are Eddy Olafeso (P.hD), who is the National Vice Chairman (Southwest ) and former Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Mobilisation under Agagu. Jegede, a former Commissioner for Justice under Mimiko, was the 2016 PDP governorship candidate. He came second after losing to  Akeredolu. Already, Jegede has begun consultations without minding some side talks that Ondo Central should rest for now after the exit of Mimiko. He said he had consulted God Almighty on whether he  should go forward on the project and the answer was in affirmative. Also on the list is Ebiseni, a lawyer and a three- time commissioner, and  the former Chairman of Ilaje Local Government and immediate past Publicity Secretary of the party, Banji Okunomo, and Otunba Bamidele Akingboye. In PDP, there will be no zoning. The congress will elect the strongest candidate. Stakeholders in the two parties are posting that their parties will win.