The National Hospital Abuja is losing its original focus on women and children, widow of former Head of States, Maryam Abacha has stated. She stressed that it is becoming a secondary care provider instead of playing the role of a national referral facility. Mrs. Abacha disclosed this on Thursday in her address at a lecture organised for the 20th anniversary celebration of the National Hospital Abuja. The former First Lady said: “Conceived as National Hospital for women and children, this hospital is a principal and cardinal outcome of the FSP as outlined by the blueprint in the health sector. “The hospital has carved a niche for itself institutionally, not only within our nation but beyond our shores, especially ECOWAS sub region and the African continent. “I have since its establishment, even after leaving office, taken keen interest on the activities, progress and developments at the hospital. Please permit me to highlight equally some other developments which I think, do not augur well for the image and progress of the hospital. “Some of these developments include alleged negligence. There have been other complaints such improper or inadequate attention to patients, long registration processes and waiting time by patients, attitude problem by hospital staff towards patient, unavailability of prescribed drugs, etc. “It must be acknowledged that these complaints may not be peculiar to only the National Hospital. However, the National Hospital as centre of excellence needs to do better in service delivery devoid of complaints of this nature. “Added to this is the pain I have that the hospital with its original focus on women and children, is seemingly losing focus and becoming a secondary care provider instead of playing the role of a national referral facility.” She said that the hospital was a product of Family Support Programme, which was one of her husband’s policies on heath development and meant to cater for women and children. “The National hospital as well known is a symbolic national monument for all Nigerians which should be devoid of prejudices, politics, creed, religion, ethnic bias or sentiment. “Also through my interaction with some persons who frequented attend this hospital, I got to know of some other observations. “The hospital is not fully IT compliant as it does not have area network arrangement between preawith no network arrangement between prescribing doctors, laboratories, pharmacies and other departments, such that patients do not have to physically hand-carry lab examination results to the doctor for action,” she added.