I never knew buying a good mattress can be difficult till a retiree, Mrs Edith Udug, complained to us that a mattress of a leading brand she bought collapsed after about one year of usage. Explaining, the brand manager of the company who pleaded anonymity said it could have been caused by many external factors. Exonerating the company, he affirmed the high quality of the product but said that Udug bought a mattress not meant for her. “When buying mattress, a customer must consider so many things including her weight. A mattress for someone weighing 40kilos will not do for one weighing 100kilos. We provided weighing scales for our dealers and educate them on weighing customers before selling mattress to them.” Weight is just one of them. Let us examine other factors to be considered before parting with our money. Getting a good night’s sleep is essential to staying happy and healthy. But buying a mattress without doing your research first can lead to sleepless nights and achy mornings, if you are not sleeping on a supportive base. So whether you are a side sleeper or suffer from chronic back pain, read on to find out what option is best for you. Types of mattress Open spring mattress: Also known as open coil or continuous coil mattresses. These contain one long piece of metal wire coiled into numerous springs. There is also an additional border rod or wire to maintain shape and provide structure. It is a great value for money option, although sides are machine-stitched rather than hand-stitched, they are lighter than other models, making them easy to turn. They tend to be less supportive than other mattresses too, so are most suited to guest bedrooms or as children’s beds, where they are used occasionally or will need to be replaced regularly anyway. Pocket spring mattress:  You can buy soft, medium or firm versions, depending on your preference, and they are more breathable than memory foam or latex mattresses. This is a good option if you’re looking for a bed for two people, as the separate springs will cater for your different needs and weights, while they will also minimise the risk of you rolling towards your partner in the middle of the night. Memory foam mattress: These more modern mattresses are made from memory foam, which is a mouldable material that also responds to temperature and weight, and has hypo-allergenic properties. This means it will mould to the shape of your body, absorb your weight and relieve pressure on your joints. Not everyone likes the sinking motion of this type of mattress, and it can get rather warm, but it’s ideal for those who need support or suffer from a bad back, as it will maintain posture and align your spine horizontally when sleeping on your side. Latex mattress: As the name suggests, these mattresses are filled with latex foam, which is an especially breathable material, so you won’t overheat in the middle of the night. It’s also extremely durable and should last for many years. And it’s a good option for those with allergies or asthma. They can feel rather solid at first though, so they’re better suited to those who prefer a firmer bed. Usually heavy, latex mattresses can be difficult to turn and cheaper versions can develop lumps and dents over time. Hybrid: Drawing from a combination of materials that usually include memory foam, latex and pocket springs, hybrid mattresses are designed to give a more balanced sleeping experience. They often come with a pocket-sprung base and a memory foam top layer, providing both comfort and support – alleviating aches and pains by responding to your body’s shape. Continuous and coil:  These are significantly cheaper than other mattress types, but be warned that with the attractive price tag comes the likelihood of these mattresses wearing out and sagging quickly. These mattresses also move around a lot with you as you sleep – as they are designed as one unit – so if you or your partner tosses and turns in the night, we’d suggest you consider other options. Mattress firmness How firm your mattress is will affect how well you sleep. The type of firmness you need will depend on your sleeping position, height and weight. Here we explain what level of firmness is best for what type of sleeper. Soft: Side sleepers or those who change positions during the night are best suited to soft mattresses. This is because the way you sleep already relieves pressure from your spine so you want your mattress to mould to your body’s natural position. Medium soft: This is ideal for those who change their sleeping position during the night, as it will still mould to your body position but provide a little more support. Medium firm: This is best for people who sleep on their back as you require extra lower-back support, which this type of firmness offers. Firm: This type of mattress is ideal for those who sleep on their front, are over 15 stone or suffer from back pain. This is because it will keep your back in a relatively comfortable and stable position without allowing you to sink into it as you sleep, which can cause lower-back pain. How should you sleep while pregnant? During your first trimester, you’ll often feel sleepy and want to nap. It’s important you get the rest you need so sleep in whatever position feels most comfortable, including on your front or back. In your second trimester, you’ll feel the baby’s weight more, which can feel uncomfortable and put extra pressure on certain areas of your body. This is when a soft mattress will help, while your bigger bump means the recommended position to sleep in is on your left side, as sleeping on your back will cause your bump to press against a main blood vessel, which may cause you to feel faint. During your third trimester, your lower back may be a source of pain as it supports your baby’s increasing weight. To ease this, continue to sleep on your left side and with a pillow under your head, between your knees and under and around your bump to ease discomfort and take pressure off your muscles and hips. We’ve also reviewed pillows to help mums-to-be sleep. What mattress do you need if you suffer from joint or back pain? A good mattress needs to give both support and comfort and that includes ones for those who suffer from back problems. Although a firm mattress is recommended by some retailers, you should always look for a mattress that keeps your back aligned while sleeping and relieves pressure points along your spine and joints. This has a lot to do with your weight (the heavier you are, the firmer your mattress should be). Mattress care Once your mattress is delivered, make sure you let it air for at least four hours. This will remove any storage smells of damp or cold. Ideally, the mattress should then be aired weekly by removing the bed linen. Remember to turn your mattress regularly too. This will stop dips forming and your weight altering part of the mattress, causing uneven sleeping.