Imo State Governor Emeka Ihedioha has extended a hand of fellowship to his opponents, particularly those who filed cases against him at the tribunal over the outcome of the polls. The governor, in a statement by him after the petitions by Uche Nwosu (Action Alliance), Senator Ifeanyi Ararume (All Progressives Grand Alliance) and Senator Hope Uzodinma (All Progressives Congress) were dismissed asked them to bury the hatchet in the interest of the state. Ihedioha said: No victor and no vanquished. I, therefore, call on all Imo people across party and opinion divides, especially my opponents in the last election and in today’s tribunal ruling to join hands with us as we make Imo great again. For me, there is no victor and no vanquished. Stakeholders have called on the opponents to embrace peace for the sake of progress and growth of the state. The President of Imo State Congress of America (ISCA), Sam Udeh,  advised other contestants to accept the ruling of the tribunal, adding that the state has suffered set back thereby eliciting need to avoid any form of distraction to the incumbent governor. He said: “We believe that with the verdict of the tribunal, we should give peace a chance. This is to allow Governor Ihedioha to focus on the daunting task of rebuilding and recovering the state from its present state of underdevelopment and wanton set back in all facets. “We also urge other contestants to accept the tribunal verdict in good faith since the primary goal of contesting election is to bring about development in the state.” He also urge the opposition to shun vendetta. “We also call on the good people of Imo State to rally round Governor Ihedioha and give him the necessary support to succeed.” While harping on peace and unity of the state, the group considers as sacrosanct, the need for synergy among politicians and professionals to ensure that both human and material resources in the state are optimally utilised for the ultimate development and welfare of the people. “We encourage Governor Ihedioha not to undermine the people of the State on whose mandate he stands. We urge him to keep to his social contract with the people.” The group said it was prepared to partner with the current Ihedioha led government to contribute its quota towards developing the state. bark on projects and employ staff, thus improving the lots of rural communities. The leaders also noted that the administration had awarded many road contracts in both urban and rural communities, however, they recommended that the contractors of these projects should be properly supervised to avoid poor quality delivery. They said the previous administration made mistake for not paying attention to contracts awarded. They observed that public water supply has not flow in any tap in Owerri and other towns in Imo State. But recently, water has started flowing in taps in Owerri, with the hope that this will be extended to other cities in the state. This according to them will reduce the risk of indiscriminate drilling of boreholes in the state.