APRIL 2017 Nigerians were greeted with jaw-opening and eyes-popping news, stories and details about fellow Nigerians’ deaths and sufferings in Libya. There was unison in believe of the gory stories. Those who made it alive back to the country were the narrators. There have been several batches of Nigerians trafficked to Libya, who have been returning to the country since April 2017. And many more trafficked Nigerians are still stranded in Libya and several other countries such as Egypt, Morocco, amongst others. TOBORE OVUORIE, who has been following the lives of trafficked persons and survivors, will in this continuous migration series, titled: Tickets To Europe, bring to the fore lives of trafficked Nigerians before, during and after their ordeal. In this second part of the series, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), takes responsibility for all medical and surgical expenses of Tunmininu- a trafficking survivor, whom this reporter, in 2018, had written about. Tunmininu was set ablaze in Libya by her captor. And, survivors lament over rejection and stigmatization by their family members and the society. International Organization for Migration Foots Medical, Surgery Expenses Of Returnee Set Ablaze In Libya Following The Nation Newspaper’s earlier publication about the plights of returned Nigerians who had been trafficked to Libya, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said it will foot all medical and surgery expenses of Tunmininu, a human trafficking survivor who was set ablaze by her madam while a slave in Libya.  The IOM made the disclosure in an official response exclusively availed this reporter who had been in touch with the United Nation’s organization since March 8th, 2018 over the story. The first part in the developing series was first published: https://www.google.com/amp/s/thenationonlineng.net/rejected-stigmatized-trafficking-survivors-shun-libyan-horrible-experiences-ready-to-travel-again Tunmininu, a gospel artiste, trafficked by her mother’s friend, February 25th, 2016 aged 20, returned to Nigeria April 25th, 2017. While a slave in Tripoli, Nurian, the Libyan woman whom she served, January 10th, 2017 set her ablaze after drugging the tea given her. Some parts of her body were severely burnt. Tunmininu before the ugly incident had been sold several times by Nigerian slave dealers before arriving Tripoli and while in Libya. In the official response to this reporter, the IOM in the second to the last paragraph said “IOM Nigeria has further pursued the case, and as of April 17, 2018 Tunmininu has been traced by IOM medical team and her situation accessed with a recommendation of her visiting the nearest hospital for her medication. IOM will pay for her medical bills and will continue monitoring her situation until she fully recovers.”   Since April 2018 when IOM’s medical team had first contact with Tunmininu, the global migration organization  has lived up to her words, while this reporter continues following up on both parties. National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking In Persons (NAPTIP) says in Nigeria, the two most reported human trafficking cases are foreign travels which promote prostitution and employment of children as domestic workers and inflicting grievous harm. Most of these victims are women but children and men  these days, now consist larger shares than they did 10 years ago. The anti-trafficking agency’s 2017 report states in the country, 0.1 percent of trafficked victims are men while 25 percent are females. Globally, 51 percent of trafficked persons are females and 21 percent are males. Traffickers, the report indicates are often males but women comprise a large number of convicted offenders. NAPTIP, in an earlier report, states in 2014, children comprised 28 percent of detected victims, and men, 21 percent. Thus, 51 percent were women. It indicates about four in 10 victims detected between 2012 and 2014 were trafficked for forced labour, and out of these victims, 63 percent were men. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in her 2016 Global Report On Trafficking In Persons says globally, more than 500 different trafficking flows were detected between 2012 and 2014. Forty-two percent of detected victims between 2012 and 2014 were trafficked domestically, while 21,251 total victims were detected. The UNODC reports 69 countries reported to have detected 21,251 victims from Sub-Saharan Africa between 2012 and 2014. Nigeria had 1030 detected trafficking victims. Of these, 322 were adults (61 males, 261 females) and 708 were children (458 boys, 250 girls). Like NAPTIP, the UNODC also indicates while traffickers are overwhelmingly male, women comprise a relatively large share of convicted offenders, compared to most other crimes. This share, according to the UN organization, is even higher among traffickers convicted in the victims’ home country. Court cases and other qualitative data indicate that women are often used to recruit other women. It disclosed trafficking in persons recorded 400 offenses in 2012, 407 in 2013, 603 in 2014 and  334 in 2015. However, in 2012, it disclosed 185 males and 147 females suspects and arrests were made.  HUMAN TRAFFICKING SURVIVORS/LIBYA RETURNEES LAMENT REJECTION, STIGMATIZATION BY FAMILY MEMBERS, SOCIETY Over 8000 Nigerians trapped in Libya have voluntarily returned to the country since April 10th, 2017, through the European Union/IOM and Federal Government airlifting assistance and partnerships. Since their return, the EU/IOM and NAPTIP have began reintegrating the returnees back into the society through vocational skill acquisition programmes. This, NAPTIP’s immediate past Acting Lagos Zonal Commander, Mrs. Kehinde Akomolafe says, in addition to psychotherapy which NAPTIP for instance provides, will help the trafficking survivors have means of livelihood, and pick the pieces of their lives. However, survivors who returned to the country two years ago from Libya whom this reporter spoke with, say all is not well. Resident in six states; namely: Ogun, Osun, Oyo, Lagos, Edo and Ondo states respectively, the 26 trafficked men and women say they are ‘back to square one’: experiencing terrible economic hardship. This time, worse than that which made them embark on the risky journey by road to Libya. That is not all. Their pains are garnished with family members, friends and the society treating them with much disdain. Many of their friends now avoid them. All the 26 returnees whom this reporter spoke with, say they are having a very difficult time reintegrating into the society. Some have fled their homes to destinations not known by their family members. “I got tired of being treated like excreta by my mother and brothers. When I returned to Nigeria, I was told my father slumped and never recovered when he heard Asma boys have captured me in Libya. My family are angry that I returned to Nigeria instead of crossing to Italy. They say I am worthless. Who goes abroad and returns empty handed? My mother and brothers say only useless girls like me do such to their family” Progress (surname deliberately withheld) narrated in vernacular to this reporter. Armed with only her Senior Secondary School Examination certificate, she has been hunting for a job since her return to Nigeria to no avail. Her mother wants her to embark on another journey; to Spain or Holland. “She always tells me graduates, even people with Masters degree and PhD are having difficulty getting jobs. Is it me with incomplete SSCE result that would get a job in this Nigeria? I am tired of being told I am worthless. I am sick of being compared with my age mates who are going to Italy and sending money home. So, I ran away from Benin to Ogun state. My family members don’t know where I am. I want peace. I want to start all over again. I want to forget everything that happened to me in Libya. But how can I when my family and everyone else call me terrible names and treat me like trash?” Progress narrated amidst sobs while being comforted by the friend she now lives with. The 25 other returnees interviewed by this reporter shared same horrendous stories of woes, rejection and being shamed by their families, friends and communities. “My mother said until I produce the dollars I was given in Libya, I must not come close to her door”. Grace, 23, an indigene and resident of Ondo state told this reporter. She is still in shock though it’s been well over a year since her arriving Nigeria from Libya. Her mother doesn’t believe anyone can live ‘abroad’ for two years and return to Nigeria without foreign currencies- dollars. Grace was trafficked January 2015 by her mother’s friend who had assured her of free university education in Sweden only to take her to Libya to become a sex slave. She was rescued and returned to Nigeria by the IOM April 10th, 2017. “I have sent many people to beg my mum. Maami ki n se eran riro o (My mother is not a pushover). She said I must either produce all the dollars or I stay away from her. At least, I have a very good OND (Ordinary National Diploma) certificate. I can’t afford the school fees of a regular university, so, I will attend National Open University (NOUN) so I can work and go to school”. Grace who learned tailoring alongside while studying for her OND at the Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, now sews from the house of her former school mate whom she squats with at the moment in Lagos state. When she arrived Nigeria two years ago, the IOM gave her some money. She used it to buy a sewing machine and external whipping machine. “These (the two machines) are my means of survival right now. I am saving most of my earnings to buy at least four more sewing machines and one internal whipping machine,” she told this reporter smiling, seated behind her sewing machine. She had been working on customers’ clothes since 6.30am that day but stopped work by 10am when the interview for this story began. According to her business plans (jottings in her diary) which she showed this reporter, she is working towards having a fashion training institute with stylists who will work in her shop while she studies for a degree at NOUN. “I am living with my former school mate so that I can save money to buy more machines and go back to school. God has been faithful. I have saved some money and still saving. By God’s grace, latest by October this year, I will be sewing in my own rented shop and will start the fashion classes by December. “When business is settled, by God’s grace, I will go back to school in 2020. I have made enquiries at NOUN. I was told to apply when forms are out. I will. I need money to pay my bills, so I can’t be a full-time student in a regular university” Grace’s oval face decorated with such bright eyes was alive with smiles as she shared her dreams with this reporter. Notwithstanding all these progress made since her return to Nigeria April 2017, her mother and family still treat her like an outcast. “Except she is honest enough to produce all the dollars she made in Libya, you people should stop disturbing me. Stop begging me on her behalf. Tell her to bring all the money or don’t come a centimeter close to my door” Grace’s mother, a retired headmistress sternly warned this reporter when the latter visited her in Ondo state over Grace. Another returnee in Benin, Edo state, Larry Udugba, said his father had driven him out of the family house since his return from Libya, calling him ‘a failure and never-do-well.’ Twenty-eight years old Udugba said he paid N70,000 to a certain middleman, who assisted him to get to Libya, only to be sold as a slave there. “Even as a slave in Libya, I was better off than a free-born in Nigeria. We agreed to be rescued on the assurances given us that we would be rehabilitated in Nigeria, only for them to bring us here, feed us for a few weeks and throw us into the streets,’ Udugba lamented. He said, while out in the cold, some vagrants had tried to lure him into armed robbery, but that, guided by his Christian background, he shunned the temptation. Udugba noted that a year after their return, most of the Libyan returnees in Edo state had become worse by lack of job and social rejection.  SOCIETY DIVIDED OVER ACCEPTABILITY OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING SURVIVORS/LIBYA RETURNEES The United Nation Trafficking in Persons Protocol, Article 9 section 1 states: Parties shall establish comprehensive policies, programs and other measures: (a) To prevent and combat trafficking in persons; and (b) to protect victims of trafficking in persons, especially women and children, from re-victimization. Though policies have been put in place in Nigeria, trafficking survivors and victims are not only being re-victimized, but shamed, rejected and stigmatized.   In an independent digital survey conducted by this reporter in 2018, the global community is still divided over accepting human trafficking survivors and Libya returnees. This reporter conducted the first survey via WhatsApp. Eleven of the 22 participants live in Lagos, six in Abuja, two in Ogun state and one each in Oyo, Rivers and the Republic of Benin respectively. While 14 males and eight females who consist: civil servant, book publisher, journalists, politician, life/relationship coach, IT/Brand consultants, trader, artisan, rights activists, teacher, caterer, realtor, lawyers, fashion designer and medical doctors participated in the survey. https://youtu.be/X-EhTScVLnk Titled: ‘Societal Acceptance Of Libya Returnees/Human Trafficking Survivors,’ 10 respondents of the 22 participants in the survey said they can marry the trafficked survivors. Nine on the other hand refused, while three were uncertain. Some of their responses include:       “SOME PEOPLE’S CHARACTER WORSE THAN BEING LIBYAN RETURNEE” Mrs. Temitope Igbodipe, Chief Executive Officer and Creative Lead, Cream Stitches-a Bespoke fashion firm in Lagos, says Libyan returnees are not only humans but are even better than many persons who have never been trafficked. Mrs. Igbodipe who teaches trafficked survivors fashion designing for free, told this reporter there is no saint anywhere as some persons’ character are worse than having being a sex slave. “I might see someone or someone might ask me out seeing me looking holy and churchy, or I could be a Muslim covering my face, my hand and everything to the ground and I might be two-faced. You can’t really tell my actual attitude. I might be even worse than the person who went to Libya and returned. The person went under circumstances for crying loud. It wasn’t by choice actually, so there is no saint anywhere.  https://youtu.be/uB-dac19uAg “Some people’s character are worse than prostitution. Anybody that gets married will also copulate, so the number of times actually doesn’t count. If you have done something bad and you repent, you can have a good life. Nothing stops us from having a good life. As a religious person, what if God says this person is your husband or wife, and because that person has certain background, will you now deny your destiny?” Asked if she would support her daughter or son to marry a Libyan returnee or human trafficking survivor, she said: “ Definitely. So far, studying the person afterwards and I am satisfied with what I see, definitely. There is no saint anywhere, so I will say definitely.  BLAME THE GOVERNMENT, SAYS CACOL Rationalising the plight of the returnees, the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has slammed the Federal Government for not providing a conducive environment for the development of youths in the country, generally. The group blamed the government for the harsh economic situation in the country, which it said caused the tragedy, adding that the government, at both federal and state levels, must tackle the rising rate of unemployment in the country to curb the menace of human trafficking. CACOL Director, Comrade Debo Adeniran said, “The problems of illegal migration and trafficking are an accumulated issue. We have a high population of children and youths in this country and we are not planning for their future. Workplaces are winding up and no new jobs are springing up. “This is why people want to leave and look for the proverbial ‘greener pastures’.”  OATH SWEARING AND DRAGGY JUDICIAL PROCESS Mrs. Akomolafe highlighted oath swearing and Nigeria’s draggy judicial process as major obstacles in securing more convictions. She told this reporter, oath taking is the tool used to stop victims from testifying against traffickers. She noted NAPTIP now engages juju priests to break such oaths. Then, voodoo doctors found culpable are prosecuted for their roles played in trafficking the victims. https://soundcloud.com/user-66302873/human-trafficking-former-naptip-lagos-zonal-commander-says-effect-of-oath-sworn-by-victims-is-real  But for Dr. Bolanle Ola, Consultant Psychiatrist and Head of Psychiatry, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja oath swearing is unreal. The psychiatrist said it is simply a way of brainwashing people into silence and obedience. Victims vulnerable to mental heath problems, he said, after traumatic stress, would breakdown. This is due to the hazardous experience, not oath taken.  Established in 2003, NAPTIP has secured 339 convictions, 73 of which is by the Lagos command with over 100 cases in court. Some of the cases, according to Ms. Akomolafe, last for five years.  She said if a judge is transferred or promoted to a higher court, even when the case is at the final stage- final address for the court to make a decision, the case starts afresh when a new judge resumes. Mr. Festus Keyamo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) explained that the Nigerian law doesn’t allow, especially in criminal cases, another judge to take over a case and continue from where the first stopped. In the country’s jurisprudence, he said, the new judge must have a complete impression of a case from beginning to the end in order to make a just decision. He must see all witnesses that were earlier called, take note of their demeanor; whether they are telling the truth or lies. He emphasized it actually hampers the speed of justice, hence a need for the law to be amended. Mr. Keyamo advocated if a judge has cases in advanced stages and is elevated or transferred, the judge should be allowed by law to return to the lower court to finish those cases, whilst resuming in the higher court. To him, it will help a lot in decongesting the courts and ensuring speed of trials.   SPECIAL COURTS TO THE RESCUE! NAPTIP Director General, Ms. Dame Julie Okah Donli in an interview March 2018, said before that year ends the agency would have special courts and designated judges for speedy trials of human trafficking cases. She warned that any person who recruits, transports, transfers, harbors or receives another person by means of giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person, for the purpose of exploitation of that person, commits an offense. Nigeria’s trafficking in persons (prohibition) enforcement and administration act states such person is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not less than two years and a fine of not less than N250,000. https://soundcloud.com/user-66302873/naptip-dg-promises-special-courts-for-human-trafficking-cases  Mr. Keyamo applauded it as a step in the right direction. He said to ensure speedy processes,  everything in Nigeria now requires special interventions. “If you lump it together with the general duties of that agency, or the particular agency in charge or the police force and all that, it becomes too clumsy for them”. https://youtu.be/xR3-Y-Sps7E It has been a year and five months after the NAPTIP DG said the agency would have special courts and designated judges (before the end of 2018) for speedy trials of human trafficking cases. These promises are yet to be fulfilled.  Editor’s Note: The gospel singer’s real name is not Tunmininu. It was changed for her privacy. Photos and video recordings of the Libyan returnees are not used because the trafficking survivors didn’t grant permission to that effect.          