The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on Sunday said it did not exonerate Vice President Yemi Osinbajo of the N90 billion allegation. CAN on Friday threw its weight behind Osinbajo over the N90 billion allegation leveled against him by a former spokesman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Timi Frank. National President of (CAN), Rev. Supo Ayokunle and its members last Friday visited Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa over the alleged N90 billion and ,according to Ayokunle, prayed for him. Frank had alleged the Vice President collected N90 billion from the Federal Inland Revenue (FIRS) to fund the 2019 election. A statement in Abuja by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, Special Assistant (Media &Communications) to Rev. Samson Ayokunle said the Christian body does not endorse corruption. According to him: “The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) can never endorse corruption and has never exonerated anyone accused of corruption because we are not a court of law. “Anyone accused of corruption has to prove his or her innocence with documentary evidence before the court of competent jurisdiction as we all know before his or her innocence can be upheld. “CAN leadership visited the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo last Friday to hear his side of the story instead of rushing to the press either to condemn him or throw our weight behind him. This we believe, there is no law that is against our action. “After we had interacted with him and he said that the allegation was baseless and should be treated as rubbish, and not only that, that he said that he was going to pursue the matter legally to prove his innocence, we then assured him that if he is proved innocent, then we throw our weight behind him. “We thereafter prayed for him and our nation Nigeria. We urged him to continue to serve the nation with clean hands. “The leadership of CAN has never endorsed corruption. In our earlier visits to President Muhammadu Buhari, we had praised him for fighting war against corruption but urged him to make it comprehensive, sparing no one irrespective of political affiliation.”