Patrick Ogagbor is an ex- banker-turned fulltime foreign exchange (forex) trader. He also coaches aspiring forex traders. While working in the bank, Ogagbor looked into ways to make extra money. After many months of researching, he decided to take the leap of faith by focusing on forex. His attraction is the $5.1 billion-a-day global foreign exchange market. The primary reason is that he gets to choose the time and place he wants to trade. Since he started, he only needed few minutes to look for setups and enter a trade. All he needs is an internet connection and a laptop. After making a success, Ogagbor now equips people with trading and investment strategies that help them navigate the complex financial markets. He has trained many Nigerians who get at least 20 per cent return of their investment in six months. Others gain 10 per cent of their capital monthly. His goal is to train traders to make profits relatively quickly by using their skills to take advantage of the price volatility in financial instruments that they buy and sell. He wants to see Nigerians trading forex, leveraging their trading positions to increase their exposure, and hence potential returns. Because trading is considered riskier, Ogagbor said the market requires skills and that there are good returns for successful traders. He explained that being a successful trader is not easy and that a person needs to be knowledgeable in the instrument(s) that they are trading, and to be familiar with the markets they are in. They also need to have the right attitude towards trading. To become a profitable trader, he said one must master a strategy, the psychology and the risk factor. In addition, he said a trader must put in the time and effort to gain the experience and knowledge in a strategy. According to him, new traders are lured by the success stories they hear in the marketplace. He noted that for every success story, there are dozens of heartbreak stories they do not hear. He added that some traders think they can be profitable by just watching a few videos online or reading some books. He said forex trading is a professional endeavour. To succeed, he said starters should get a good mentor and hav a good trading system. Instead of focusing on making money, Ogagbor advised traders to focus on the process and routine, and then refine their strategy along the way according to their personality. He added that a common mistake is hopping from one trading strategy to the next after a few losing trades. The cycle, according to him, keeps one in an endless race to find a perfect system, which doesn’t exist. Instead, he advised   new traders to find an approach that suits their personality and their goals. What are the services he provides? “We run signals service, copy trade, fund management and online courses. Signals service is subscribed for on monthly bases, with entry point, stop loss and take profit target. Many are on this service at the moment. Copy trade is a remote trading technology, that allow us to take trade via this technology on a master trading account and it will copy automatically on your computer or laptop without you lifting a figure. It does not matter if your computer is on or off. Trades will be running while you’re sleeping. We do all the trades while you bank the profit.  No profit-sharing formula here. All you need to do is subscribe. “Fund Management service is also subscribed to, here there is profit sharing and risk on trade and account must be agreed upon and an MOU signed with term and condition applied. You will need the power of attorney, before we can start trading on your account. This is for very busy executives, informed investor etc.