Klaus Schwab, founder and executive chairman, World Economic Forum made this opening statement in 2016 about the new frontier the world is venturing into: “We stand on the brink of a technological revolution that will fundamentally alter the way we live, work, and relate to one another. In its scale, scope, and complexity, the transformation will be unlike anything humankind has experienced before. We do not yet know just how it will unfold, but one thing is clear: the response to it must be integrated and comprehensive, involving all stakeholders of the global polity, from the public and private sectors to academia and civil society.” We now live in an age where the impossible is becoming possible. Barriers are being broken down; innovations are coming out rapidly and dizzying rates. Older innovations are being fine-tuned and getting crazier and man is pushing the boundary of nearly everything, all because of technology. The world has witnessed three industrial revolutions and the process of the fourth has begun in earnest. Where are our tertiary institutions – and our policy makers – in the scheme of things? Are we prepared to embrace this revolution? What is the rest of the world doing right that we’re not? At the global level, industries and governments are innovating and changing their old ways of doing things. There’s no doubt that the pace of technological innovation going on around the world will pose enormous challenges to people, companies and economies as they are fast changing the way people learn, work, live and even stay alive. Schwab painted a vivid picture of the revolution we’re looking at today. He drew a parallel between Detroit (USA) in 1990 to Silicon Valley in 2014. In 1990, the three biggest automobile companies in Detroit – General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler – had a market capitalisation of $36 billion, revenues of $250 billion and 1.2 million employees. Fast forward to 2014; the three biggest technology companies in Silicon Valley had a higher market capitalisation of $1.09trn and generated $247Billion. But wait for this; they had about 137,000 employees! The implication is that more people would be out of jobs as the revolution gathers momentum. Underdeveloped and developing economies like ours would be the hardest hit. In the US where there is effective data, the expected fourth industrial revolution is projected to affect 49% of the workforce. From a historical point of view, technological changes bring with it disruption of the old system and challenges of adapting to the new because of the often superior technology involved in the processes. For example, the “New Deal” of Frank Roosevelt after the Great Depression of 1929 brought about state welfares and social safety net which was the peak of democratic standard in the 20th century. But this new revolution is about to make labour and trade unions irrelevant, big government spending on recurrent expenditure will definitely be affected. This should also serve as a wakeup call to the organised labour movements in Nigeria. The fallout from the 2016 summit in Davos, Switzerland was the all-important emphasis placed on the entrepreneur and an ‘Entrepreneurial Economy.’ I am aware that some universities in the country now have entrepreneurial centres, but how “entrepreneurial” these centres turn out to be is what matters in the long run. Also of importance is the ability of the economy to absorb the emerging entrepreneurs. For a nation that hardly plans, this emerging scenario can be scary. There were warnings in the past that crude oil price will crash and Nigeria needed to build buffers, but it was ignored and today, the economy is facing challenges because early warnings were not acted upon. We have now been forced to go back to the drawing board, but policy makers are facing challenges on the direction the economy should go. This notwithstanding, we have no choice but to face the hard task of positioning Nigeria to benefit from the revolution. Is this going to be easy? It may not because one of the most critical sectors that drive this revolution globally is lying prostrate in Nigeria. The government should move quickly with all sincerity to revitalise the education sector, because that is going to be the bedrock of the knowledge economy. It has been said repeatedly that we need to invest more in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education – other nations have added the arts and creative sector to the mix. Expectedly, the government should be the driver of this policy; all the tiers of government should invest part of their budget in projects that have technology outlook, especially in the area of research and development consistently in the coming years. The organised private sector should be encouraged to invest in research because they stand to gain even more than the government. We also have to face the frightening fact that jobs will be lost, especially routine jobs. This is a wakeup call for everyone to equip and retool himself as the present monetary policy would be jettisoned because an entrepreneur focuses on performance and result. In the long run, Nigeria may come out stronger if we understand how to positively use the high concentration of young people in our demography. It is easy for young people to learn new skills and it is the responsibility of the government to create the enabling environment toward building an entrepreneurial economy. This can be done by learning from Switzerland which laid down a plan that took off in July, 2016 to attract tech start-ups by providing financial resources and incentives. The country designed a policy called “Kickstart Accelerator” which attracts start-ups from around the world to live and work in Zurich where they will get $24,000 in ‘seed funding’ and $1,500 for living expenses. This concept allows for innovation and technology transfer to Swiss nationals. The Swiss read the global barometer right and they know too well that the disruption currently taking place around the world will focus on five critical areas of human endeavours: manufacturing, education, health, transport, agriculture and information technology. These are where most disruptions in the 21st century innovation will take place. Our government should not shy away from investing in hubs where start-ups all over the world can come and birth there innovative ideas. The United Arab Emirates has also done this with the Dubai “Internet City” and Dubai “Health Care City” initiatives. The strategy is simply to lure start-ups who through their presence will create jobs and wealth for the economy. It is instructive to note here that Nigeria are facing skill deficiency in critical areas of the economy like construction, manufacturing and innovation. At the World Economic Forum’s Summit on the Global Agenda 2015, held in Abu Dhabi, technology-thought leaders warned of the impending challenges posed by innovations in artificial intelligence, biotechnology, nanotechnology, robotics and 3-D printing, among others. The question asked at the forum is very relevant to the Nigeria situation today: “Are we investing enough in institutions that enable the platforms to accommodate different perspectives?” asked Diana Farrell, Chief Executive Officer and President of JPMorgan Chase Institute in the US. “We need a common platform to connect the dots. But we are so far away from that.” Governments can take a long time to produce legislation and implement major programmes, and once they do, the policies may already be obsolete, Farrell reckoned. Politics can get in the way too, she noted. “We have a disconnect between people who are trying to address real problems and the political show. Having closer accountability and judging politicians on their jobs rather than random political narratives would help a lot.” How apt.   Nigerians must come to the reality that the developed world is moving from physicality to a data-based world, even in warfare with the use of unmanned drones. The first Industrial Revolution used water and steam power to mechanise the production process from a largely agrarian system. The second used electric power to create mass production. The third used electronics and information technology to automate production. The fourth is building on the third, the digital revolution that has been occurring since the middle of the last century. How prepared are we? Only time will tell.