This week’s array of celebs belong to a special class of superstars who straddle two special worlds with ease. We are talking about showbiz personalities who are very well known for their voices, acting, lifestyle, fashion and so on. But only a few people know that these famous actors, musicians and OAPs also have another profession in common besides showbiz. They all attended Nigeria Law School and earned the right to don the wig and gown. Some of them studied Law before they were famous, while others did during the peak of their careers. Here is a list of famous Nigerian celebrities you probably didn’t know studied Law. Tunji Bamishigbin Veteran actor and filmmaker, Tunji Bamishigbin’s life reads like a good movie. He trained as a lawyer, worked for years in a bank and then left the two lucrative professions for acting. After his call to bar, he actually practised for a while in a law firm but left to follow his passion. “I was working with my friend, Prince Adetimoye, but I was so convinced that I wasn’t cut out for that profession. It was almost the same time that I was directing Fortunes with my colleagues, Charles Owoyemi and Ralph Nwadike,” he told NollywoodReel in an interview. Richard Mofe-damijo Former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism in Delta State, Richard Mofe Damijo, popularly known as RMD, is one of Nigeria’s most famous and accomplished thespians. He actually started his fairy-tale career at the Midwest College, Warri and Anglican Grammar School, where he was a member of the Drama Club. He enrolled into the University of Benin to continue his education and studied Theatre Arts. After school, he worked as a journalist before moving into acting full time. He returned to the University of Lagos to study Law and graduated in 2004. Ebuka Obi-Uchendu Lawyer and media personality, Ebuka Obi- Uchendu, who is best known for hosting the reality TV show-Big Brother Naija, the long running Rubbin’ Minds talk show on Channels TV as well as co-hosting The Spot and Men’s Corner on Ebonylife Television, is one of the most successful showbiz personalities of his generation. Suave and debonair, he often appears on the list of the country’s best-dressed men. He studied law for his first degree at the University of Abuja, and then moved to the Washington College of Law of the American University Washington DC where he bagged a Master of Laws degree with specialisations in Intellectual Property. Lepacious Bose Bose Ogunboye, popularly known as Lepacious Bose, was called to the bar in 2010. Before then, she had first studied Theater Arts. She studied Law at the University of Ibadan but she never actually practised. Lepacious Bose is one of the country’s most successful female comedians. Her weight loss story has inspired a lot of females who are on the weight- loss journey. She reportedly lost 70kg and emerged from her time off with a stunning figure. Lolo 1 Comedienne and actress, Omotunde Adebowale-David, better known as Lolo 1, studied Law at the Lagos State University, after which she went to Law Schoolchool and practised Law for three years before going back to her first love-broadcasting. Lolo has been quite successful in her profession and is one of the nation’s top OAPs. Funke Akindele Funke Akindele, popularly known as Jenifa, is a Nigerian actress, director and producer. Funke first studied Mass Communication, a course she abandoned after obtaining an Ordinary National Diploma in it from the Moshood Abiola Polytechnics, Ogun State. She later went to University of Lagos to study Law.  She has, however, never really practised Law. Tosin Martins Inspirational singer, Tosin Martins’ name may not have featured on the Top 10 list in a while but not many will forget his evergreen hit, Olo mi. Martins’ hit song, and a few of his other love ballads still rule the airwaves. He went to the Federal Government College, Abuja, after which he attended the University of Lagos to study Law. Falz It will surprise no one that Falz started his professional life as a lawyer. Folarin Falana, better known by his stage name Falz, is a Nigerian rapper, songwriter and actor. His father, Femi Falana, is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN)and Nigeria’s foremost human rights activist. Falz began his career while in secondary school after forming a group called “The School Boys” with his friend before his professional career as a music artist began in 2009. Perhaps Falz probably studied Law to make his lawyer parents happy, because he dropped the wig and gown immediately after graduation to pursue his passion. Femi Adebayo Femi Adebayo, the son of the veteran actor, Adebayo Salami, is a Nigerian lawyer, film actor, director and producer. He attended the University of Ilorin where he obtained a bachelor’s degree in Law, and earned a master’s degree in Law at the University of Ibadan. But like others, he never practised the profession before plunging headlong into acting in which he is an A-list star. Chinko Ekun-able God Oladipo Olamide Emmanuel, better known as Chinko Ekun-the Able God crooner, is a Nigerian singer, artist and rapper. He actually studied Law at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile- Ife (OAU). Samuel Olasehinde Actor and screenwriter, Samuel Olasehinde, son of Pa James (Ajirebi Kayode Olasehinde) also studied Law at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife. Kanayo O. Kanayo Leading actor, Anayo Modestus Onyekwere, better known as Kanayo O. Kanayo or as KOK, studied Law at the zenith of his movie career. He recently bagged a Law degree from the University of Abuja. By the way, the law degree happens to be his fifth degree. Wale Adebayo – Sango Wale Adebayo, whose first role as lead character in the epic film “Sango” produced by Femi Lasode shot him into limelight, read Law at the Obafemi Awolowo University. Kemi Adetiba Kemi is a Nigerian music video director, film make and television director whose works have appeared on Channel O, MTV Base, Soundcity TV, BET and Netflix. Kemi started out professionally as a radio presenter with Rhythm 93.7 FM while studying Law at the University of Lagos, which she later abandoned after discovering her talents in entertainment and went on to study Film Making in New York Film Academy. Kenneth Okonkwo Nigerian famous actor Kenneth Okonkwo is a multi-talented personality – lawyer, diplomat, actor, politician, entrepreneur and film producer. He graduated with a degree in Business Administration from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka in Enugu State and later studied Law at the University of Lagos, Akoka. Kelechi Amadi-Obi Renowned Nigerian creative photographer, painter, artist and the publisher of Mania Magazine, Kelechi Amadi-Obi also studied Law and was called to the bar in 1993. Omawumi Megbele Known by her stage name, Omawumi, she’s a Nigerian singer, songwriter and actress who gained fame as the 2007 runner-up on West African Idols, a reality TV show part of the Idols franchise. She graduated from Ambrose Alli University with a Law degree in 2005, before moving to Port Harcourt, Rivers State, where she worked with her family’s law firm, O.S Megbele & Associates. Funke Bucknor-Obruthe Nigerian entrepreneur, lawyer and the founder and CEO of Zapphaire Events- Funke Obruthe is regarded as one of Nigeria’s pioneering event planners. She studied Law at the University of Lagos and was called to bar after attending the Nigerian Law School in Abuja. She practised briefly before her love for event planning made her start Zapphaire Event. She is one of the biggest forces to be reckoned with in the event planning industry. Kemi Afolabi Nigerian actress, film producer and scriptwriter proceeded to the University of Lagos where she bagged a bachelor’s degree in Law after her secondary school education at Our Lady of Apostles School, Lagos. Folake Akindele-Coker Founder and creative director of the notable fashion house, Tiffany Ambe, and the beautiful daughter of Ibadan billionaire, Chief Akindele, Folake Akindele-Coker, is a qualified lawyer with a Masters degree in Petroleum Law.