A trader, Mrs Oluyemisi Adeyemi has raised the alarm over alleged harassment of her son by suspected traditionalists. She appealed to security operatives to save his son, Adekunle Adeyemi and his family from the clutch of suspected traditionalists. According to Oluyemisi, who resides in Bariga area of Lagos, some traditionalists in Omojoda (Odo Ayan) village had continued to threaten her son over his refusal to ascend a chieftaincy stool in the community. She said Adekunle, a computer engineer and pastor of a Pentecostal church and his family now lives in palpable fear of further attacks by the traditionalists. She noted that the problem started in 2010 after her son was asked to accept the chieftaincy stool, following the unfortunate occurrences that have characterised the reign of the current occupant of the stool. “When traditionalists in the village consulted their oracles, it was learnt that the bad development in the town was because the current occupant was wrongfully installed as the traditional ruler of the community; hence their search for my son Adekunle whose reign they believed would improve the situation in the village. “My son rejected the offer because of his Christian faith that goes against anything that has to do with tradition and the fact that his late father Lawrence Adeyemi had, before his demise in 1989 cautioned his children against the occupation of the chieftaincy stool of Omojoda because of the controversies that trailed the stool in the past, even as he warned of serious consequences against any erring child. ”The level of threat to the lives of my son, Adekunle, and members of his family and futile attempt by the suspected traditionalists to kidnap his wife and only daughter in 2018, forced them to relocate from their last residence in Ogun State to an unknown place. My worry is that despite their relocation, strange faces, and movements, continued to be noticeable at their former residence, heightening my fear that some people are still after them.” She disclosed that she recently received anonymous telephone calls from people suspected to be kinsmen from Omojoda village, who during their conversations with her, vowed to deal with her son, should he refuse to accept the chieftaincy title. She added: “I am appealing to security outfits in the country to come to my son’s aid by warning those who are after his life, to please leave my son alone, as he could not accept the offer given him by his kinsmen.’’