As schools across Oyo State reopen today for the 2019/2020 academic session, the government has urged teachers, especially those in government-owned primary and secondary schools, to begin academic work immediately. The directive came from the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Kehinde Sangodoyin, in a statement issued at the weekend. Sangodoyin, who urged teachers, support workers and students to ensure they resume promptly, said they must also ensure that nothing prevents academic activities, including teaching and learning, from taking off immediately. The commissioner said quality education that will yield best academic performance remains the target of the Governor Seyi Makinde administration, enjoining teachers to work hard by preparing the pupils for excellent performance. He said: “We are using this medium to congratulate our pupils in public and private schools for their resumption on September 16 and call on the teachers to engage them in academic exercises immediately. “The current administration is doing all possible best to change the tide for better in achieving the best for the state in the area of students’ academic performance and improvement in national rating of the state in external examinations. “To this end, facilities and teacher’s remuneration will be at the forefront of the government reckoning to achieve the lofty goal, while teachers are expected to do their bit to justify government’s strict adherence to providing the best enabling environment for their performance.” The foremost academic administrator warned teachers to desist from collecting any money from any parent or student under the guise of collection of levies. Shangodoyin appealed to parents to be alive to their responsibilities to make the children become valuable assets to the parents and society in future. He said the present administration was working to bring back the glory of education in the state, with a call to schools’ alumni and corporate bodies to support the current trend in the state to make education accessible to all.