Contemporary folk and roots music artiste, Segun Akinlolu, popularly known as Beautiful Nubia, is saddened over the state of his alma mater in Ibadan, Oyo State. Beautiful Nubia, after a courtesy visit to the primary school, said he could not hold back tears over the anomaly of the school. “I paid a visit to my old school the other day, St. James’ Primary School, Oke-Bola, Ibadan, the school I attended from 1974-1980. I took my children and friends with me, proud to show off the places and people who produced me. Roofs blown off, waterlogged floors, over-populated classrooms, overwhelmed teachers; poor, unimaginative curriculum. No, that was not the way it was when I was a student there,” the Jangbalajugbu crooner narrated. The 51-year-old singer, however, charged the present administration to prioritise education and healthcare in the state as many public schools are in dire need of renovations and curriculum overhauling. He opined that every nation that wants to survive, develop and make progress must invest positively in its children and youths, irrespective of their origin, social class, gender or faith. “We need to raise a clear vision of what we wish to see in 10-20 years and then develop innovative educational programmes that guide the children towards that. Out of the present crisis, we can build something outstanding by evolving creative scientific, artistic, sports and educational programmes that enrich the children and prepare them adequately for the challenges of the future. “Ennoble the young with the values of hard work, honesty, perseverance, patience, selflessness and contentment. Teach them bravery and courage; equip them to become masters of this environment. To emerge as a world-beater, the African child must be a perfect amalgam of traditional wisdom and modern knowledge.” Composer and bandleader, Beautiful Nubia was born in Ibadan, Oyo State in 1968. He studied veterinary medicine at the University of Ibadan and worked for eight years in that field before becoming a full time artist. In 1997, he adopted his curious stage name in homage to the exploits and glory of ancient Nubia. A year later, he formed a backing group of young musicians, which he named The Roots Renaissance Band. In 2010, he founded the EniObanke Music Festival (EMUfest), a multi-city annual festival of folk and roots music. In October 2016, he was conferred with the award of Doctorate in Science (Honoris Causa) in Art’ by ESEP Le Berger University, the Republic of Benin for his body of work. Some of his hit songs include Ikoko Akufo, What a Feelings, Table Turn, Ololufe, Ire-Ogo.