When a Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)-laden tanker Navigator Capricorn was attacked on August 17 by suspected pirates at position 03 33N 006 40E, approximately 56nm South of Bonny Island in Rivers State, not many knew the criminals had monitored the vessel from a shipwreck along the Bonny Creeks before she left harbour on a voyage to Lagos. The pirates, who fled as a result of the presence of a Nigerian Navy (NN) warship that responded to a distress call from the oil tanker, had pretended to be working on-board the shipwreck before they launched the attack on the target vessel. Few days ago, a Cameroon-bound passenger ship capsised few hours after leaving the Terminal C Jetty of the Calabar Port with over 100 passengers on board. Although the cause of the accident was yet unknown, there are fears that the ship might have rammed into a wreck along its route, resulting in the unfortunate incident. Instances abound where illegal oil bunkers, illegal fishers used these wrecks as anchor for their ships in order to buy time and carry out their criminal acts. The dangers posed to mariners across the country’s waterways were, Tuesday last week, brought to the fore after the Nigerian Navy (NN) raised the alarm over the presence of several wreckages on the country’s waters and the security, safety risks they pose. From Rivers, Bayelsa, Cross River through to Lagos, it is becoming increasingly difficult for ships to leave jetties in response to distress calls in good time without hitting these obstructions that ground vessels and endanger lives. Aside being good places for sea robbers and pirates to hibernate,  these wrecks which are remains of sunken, stranded ships or their parts in the sea constitute environmental pollution and defaces the country’s waterways. Findings by Niger Delta Report revealed that the NN Hydrography Department was making plans to commence survey of the Southsouth waterways in order to locate these wrecks so that agencies responsible for clearing them would move in. Already, the department had surveyed the Lagos Port and Badagry Creek channels of the Western Waters where 35 wrecks, including masts, ships and obstructions constituting threats to mariners. According to the Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) Western Naval Command (WNC) Rear Admiral Oladele, some of the wrecks show part of the hull or superstructure at the level of the chart datum. In others only the masts were visible while there are those not submerged whose depths were unknown. He lamented that an NN warship NNS CALABAR recently suffered great damage around the Kirikiri channel after ramming into a submerged shipwreck in an attempt to avoid a big vessel that was dodging another wreck inward harbour. As a result of the accident, NNS CALABAR’s base was serially perforated; causing damage to its keel. It was gathered that the navy’s concerns was further heightened penultimate Wednesday following the fire outbreak on board an oil tanker MT SEA VOYAGER around the Lagos anchorage area. Despite the closeness of the vessel to harbour, the NN could not deploy any other warship to respond to the incident and rescue the 11 Pakistani crew members on board because of the time that would have been lost avoiding the wrecks to navigate from Navy Town or Apapa Jetty to the burning ship. “The hazard associated with submerged wrecks in our body of waters is huge. These wrecks are littered along the waterways and constitute navigational hazards as well as endanger safety of shipping. “Similarly, in times of distress calls, it becomes increasingly difficult for agencies responsible for such rescue operation to quickly react, especially at night, or in poor and restricted visibility. “The Navy was able to swiftly react to the fire incident on MT SEA VOYAGER because NNS EKULU was on patrol at sea that night. “As such, it was easy to vector her for the rescue operation. If the ship was to be deployed from its base in Navy Town, it would not have been that swift, considering the danger of maneuvering through these wrecks at that hour of the day. “Fortunately, the hydrographic office of the Nigerian Navy, in line with its mandate, has identified and resurveyed these wrecks for ease of salvage. It will therefore be necessary for appropriate authorities to take urgent action in the removal of these wrecks in our waterways,” said Daji, who led reporters on a tour of some affected areas along Lagos channel. Daji noted that delay in prosecution of arrested vessels was also responsible for some of the vessels littering the channels. Aside the wrecks, Daji said the absence of navigational aids such as buoys (anchored irons with red or green flags on them indicating the depth of the water for ships) was also posing threats to mariners. “This constitutes navigational risks, especially at night or during restricted visibility. Urgent replacement or servicing of these navigational aids will greatly assist safe navigation, particularly in times of emergencies. “The Nigerian Navy, in carrying out its statutory responsibilities, will collaborate with all relevant stakeholders to ensure safety and security of the waterways and secure environment for the prosperity of our country in general,” Daji said. Although the FOC declined mentioning the agencies that were responsible for the clearing of wrecks on the country’s waterways, checks by Niger Delta Report revealed that the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) were so obligated. According to the spokesman for NPA, Adams Jato, the agency was only responsible for clearance of wrecks within its channel- Port areas. “We have started removing wrecks from areas that are critical to our channel and we commission consultants to clear them. Anything out of our area of concern is cleared by other agencies.