The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) have cleared Senator Douye Diri and Chief David Lyon to fly the parties’ flags in the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State. The two will contest the election with 50 other candidates representing different political parties in the state. In Kogi, the battle will also involve the incumbent governor and candidate of the APC, Yahaya Bello, the PDP candidate, Engr Musa Wada and 50 other candidates of various political parties. The names of the governorship candidates were contained in the lists displayed at the secretariats of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Yenagoa and Lokoja, the capitals of Bayelsa and Kogi states respectively. It was also gathered that their nomination forms were sent to the local government offices of INEC for display to enable members of the public see what each party submitted to the commission. A peep into the forms in Bayelsa State showed that out of the 52 candidates, 46 are males while six are females. The forms contained the date of primaries for each party, mode of primaries, direct or indirect, winner of the internal poll and their genders as well as number votes polled by the winners. The candidate of the All Progreesives Congress (APC) was identified as David Lyon and was said to have won a direct mode of primaries with 42,138 votes defeating six contestants including Senator Heineken Lokpobiri. Senator Douye Diri was listed as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and was said to have won an indirect primaries with 561 votes defeating 21 other aspirants. The INEC Public Relations Officer in Bayelsa State Wilfred Ifogah said it was not a list but a display of what each party presented to the commission. Ifogah said the candidates had been cleared by their parties to participate in the election adding that INEC would not hold further screening of the candidates. In Kogi, INEC released the names of the 59 political parties that held their primaries, ahead of the November 16 governorship election in the state. A release made public by INEC in Lokoja yesterday revealed that 52 candidates and their deputies will contest the Nov 16 governorship election in Kogi State. Five of the names cleared as governorship candidates are women. It was also observed that seven women were cleared to contest the election as deputy governors. Those cleared to contest the election include the incumbent governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Musa Wada of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Mrs Justina Abanida of the African Democratic Congress (ADC). Also given the nod to contest the governorship election are Miss Natadha Akpoti of the SDP, Ibrahim Itodo of ZLP, Idris Abegunde of NNPP, Abu Omogani (UPC), Abdulahi Mohammed (Accord Party), Abdulmalik Mohammed of the HDP, Shaibu Sani Teidi (YDP) and Mr. Dele Bello-Williams of the GDPN. Others are Umar Zekeri (ABP), Chinga David (YPP), NdakoTanko (ADP), Mr. KabirAbdulwasiu (AAC), Mr. Abdulhamid Yusuf (AAP), Mrs Anne Oluwaseun (DPC), Mr. Danjuma Mohammed, (MRDD), Mr. Mohammed Dangana (NCP), Mr. AlongeMethusela, (Mega Party of Nigeria, Mr. NiyiEjibunu (AGAP), Mr. AbdulrazakEmeje (UDP) and Mr. Godwin Atawodi (DA). Also included are Mr. Ephraim Medupin (AD), Musa Sadiq (APP), Victor Akubo (UPP), Mrs HariratYakibu (LP), Alfa Oboy (JMPP), AtikuIsah (ANP), AyodeleAjibola (PRP), Sheik Ibrahim Jibril (APGA), Samuel Abolarin (ASD), Okpanachi Nichol (KOWA), Rev. Moses Dridu (PPN), Ikwueje Samuel (PDC), and Mr. Jimoh Yusuf (MAJA). INEC also cleared Mr. Orugun Emmanuel of the ANRP, Mrs Grace Adepoju, (MMN), Idris Isah (CAP), Sule Daniel (SNG), Mohammed Aliu (NPC), Noah Abiodun (PPA), Obagaye Raphael (BNPP), YisufDantale (APM), Usman Imam (DP), Victor Akubo (GPN), Ukuwonu Joseph (PPN), Elegbe Amos (PDC), Usman Salifu, (ANDP) and Yusuf Nagari of (APA).