The Nigerian Navy (NN) has said it has been using military grade phones with inbuilt tracking facilities to tackle maritime security challenges. Already, Commanding Officers of NN warships carry such phones to enable them track vessels and their locations within the country’s territorial waters for improved operational efficiency, Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas said. Ibas spoke in Lagos during an aside interview with reporters at the opening ceremony of a transformation workshop on performance thinking, leadership and organisational agility for naval officers within junior, middle and senior cadre. The CNS, who was represented by the Chief of Navy Transformation (CTRANS) Rear Admiral Ifeola Mohammed, said the Navy was running its operations with technology. He noted that the Regional Maritime Awareness Capability (RMAC) and Falcon Eye facilities, which cover the entire stretch of the nation’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), were also practical examples. The Nation reports that 60 officers, from Commander to Rear Admiral, were undergoing the training organised by the naval headquarters in conjunction with the EMPRETEC Nigeria Foundation at the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) QUORRA in Apapa. Ibas said: “Indeed, the Nigerian Navy has infused technology into most of its operations and, as I speak to you, we are able to cover the entire maritime space of Nigeria with the Regional Maritime Awareness Capability (RMAC) infrastructure. With this facility, we are able to see up to 200 nautical miles to sea. “We also have the Falcon Eye, which gives us not just the radar signature but also the live pictures of ships. With that, we are able to vector our various platforms to go and intercept any criminal activity that is taking place at the sea. “As I speak, most of our commanders carry phones with facilities that are able to track both our vessels at sea and vessels that are of interest to the Nigerian Navy. With this, we will know at any time where a particular vessel is and then deploy platforms on a particular operation and get feedback in real time. “The Nigerian Navy operations have improved significantly and we can beat our chests and say indeed our operational efficiency has improved through the transformation planning.” He expressed optimism that the workshop would improve the performance thinking, leading for organisational performance and transformational leadership of the participants. Ibas explained that 40 senior officers would benefit from two trainings in Abuja next month.