Back in New York City – the place where Ruiz Jnr stunned the world by knocking Anthony Joshua to the canvas on way to victory – the Briton has renewed confidence ahead of the pair’s December rematch in Saudi Arabia. Many see the rematch as a defining moment in Joshua’s career, with another defeat at the hands of the Mexican likely leaving him in disarray. But for Joshua, he has been around the sport for long enough to know his strengths and his shortcomings but he is confident in right now to restore normality on the heavyweight division. ”There were times when I faced defeat as an amateur,” he said at the New York leg of the press tour on Thursday. ”My third fight; imagine I stopped then, there would be no now. I lost in the European Championship quarter-finals. Imagine I stopped then, there would be no now. ”I lost in the World Championship finals. Imagine I stopped then, there would be no now. Stopping isn’t in my DNA. As long as I have breath, I will keep fighting for the passion of boxing and more so as an ambassador for championship-level fighting. That’s where I belong. ”I was born with a fighting spirit. I know how to fight. People say, ‘you lost your titles’. I say, ‘to lose something is to never get it back’. I have a second chance on December 7. I didn’t have a warm-up fight, I’m not gun-shy.” While Joshua was accused of taking Ruiz Jnr lightly the first time they met, the belt holder has no such plan to underestimate heavy artillery from a fired up Joshua in Diriyah. New York brings fond memories for Ruiz, as he became the first heavyweight champion of the world for his nation and he is determined not to end the year with a return of the belts he took so spectacularly this summer. ”This is where I became the first Mexican heavyweight champion of the world,” he said, wearing a black sombrero as a nod to his country. ”But I know Joshua wants his belts back. I know how it feels to lose – I lost to Joseph Parker when I thought I had won. Joshua can bounce back. My job is not to let him get the belts back. ”I’ve had doubters my whole life, telling me I’d do nothing because of my appearance. Just because of how I looked. People can now say, “if he did it, I can do it”.”