A suspected robber arrested by operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) has said he broke into a Lagos nighclub to raise bail money for his colleague in Kirikiri Prison. Sadiq Yinusa, 25, a resident of 24, Oluwalogbon Street, Shomolu, was said to have broken into a nightclub in Igbobi at the wee hours of Wednesday while attempting to rob the supervisor of the club. He was said to have shot at the supervisor after he refused to handover his wallet, adding that he was arrested after the supervisor raised alarm. Yinusa, the police said, had a locally made short gun, four live cartridges, a socket wrench, a chisel and a plier with him at the point of arrest. He was said to have told detectives he was desperate to raise money yo perfect the bail conditions of a member of his gang identified as Prince Chika. The police also arrested alleged accomplices and receivers of the items Yinusa stole identified as Jubril Adamu and Korede Baki. Yinusa said: “Prince Chika is currently in prison Kirikiri. He was arrested for robbery. He called me last week to help him hustle for funds to secure his freedom from prison. “I visited him in the prison a week ago and he later called me from prison to appeal for my assistance. He gave me the location of this gun and some of the arms he used. “He assured me he will pay back within the first few weeks of regaining freedom. I retrieved all these arms from the bush where he kept them before heading for the operation. “He told me that he bought the gun in Anambra State for N5000. This is the first time I am firing a gun during operation. “I got to the club on Morocco Road, Igbobi when clubbers have left. I scaled the fence and saw the supervisor. I pointed the gun at him and requested for his wallet. “I felt he was wasting time, so, I shot at him but he dodged it. He raised alarm and I started running. That was how I ran into RRS patrol team that responded to the gunshot and noise from the club.” Yinusa confessed that he used to pickpocket and burgle people’s homes, businesses before taking to armed robbery. “Last week, I broke into three houses in Somolu. From each one, I collected two mobile phones. I also got three laptops as well as jewelry. I sold them to Adamu Jubril. “Whenever, I collected ATM cards and pins from victims, it is Korede Baki, 22, that assisted with the withdrawals,” he said. In his statement to the police Adamu alias Ango said he has been buying stolen items from Yinusa for over six months. Adamu, a trader at Tejuosho market, told the police he has bought over 15 mobile phones, laptops and jewelry from him.
“I bought laptops from him at N30,000 each,” he said. Reacting to the arrest, Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu appealed to residents to see policing as everyone’s business and ensure they knew their neighbours. Attachments area