THE Director General of the Governorship Campaign Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress  (APC) in Kogi State, Senator Smart Adeyemi, on Wednesday said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will struggle to get 25 per cent of total votes in the November poll. He said PDP has no candidate yet since its governorship primaries is still being disputed in court. The APC chieftain also said more than 15,000 defectors from the opposition and other parties will be received by the ruling party in the next few days. Adeyemi, who gave insights into the preparation for the poll, said even if PDP’s candidate, Musa Wada, survives the court hurdles, he cannot defeat the incumbent Governor Yahaya Bello. He said: “The PDP cannot defeat APC in the forthcoming governorship poll in Kogi State. The main opposition in the state will strive to secure 25 per cent  of the votes. “In any case, PDP has no candidate because about 35 leaders of the party are in court to seek the nullification of the results of their party’s governorship primaries. Even ex-Governor Ibrahim Idris, who should be the backbone of the party’s campaign, has rejected any offer from the party. “The PDP is in disarray in Kogi State; it is too weak to win the governorship poll. But we are interested in PDP resolving its dispute to enable Governor Bello win in a free and fair poll. “APC wants a candidate to compete with at the poll. We are fully on the ground. It will be difficult for PDP to defeat Governor Bello. Adeyemi  noted that although more than 15,000 defectors from the PDP and other parties will defect to APC in the next few days, the party will not make any commitment to anybody. “As the election is fast approaching, APC is receiving more defectors on daily basis. We are not going to make personal commitment to any defector. We will not promise anyone slots of being a commissioner or Special Adviser or other personal gains. “We will accept people to join our party on the basis of vision, needs and aspirations of the masses. We want those who are committed to the ideals of  the APC,” he said. Also, the APC has appointed three deputy directors general for its campaign committee. They are:  Haruna Isa (Kogi West District); Abubakar S. Adagu Danguruma (Kogi Central District) and Idoko Musa Haruna (Kogi East District). The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed Kogi governorship poll for November 16. Although 22 candidates are jostling for the governorship seat, the battle appears to be between APC candidate and his opponent in the PDP.