Two students of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Inegbedion Sebastine and Alabi Joshua, who were arrested on suspicion of being members of Vikings Confraternity, have said they are sorry and have asked the school authorities and the Nigeria government to forgive them. The two AAU students were paraded alongside 92 others by men of the Edo State police command for engaging in cultism. Inegbedion who is a final-year law student is expected to graduate this month while Alabi is a 100-level student in the department of Electrical Engineering. Paraphernalia of Vikings Confraternity such as regalia and other things used for initiation were allegedly found in Inegbedion’s room. Speaking to our reporter, 24-year-old Inegbedion said he was forcefully initiated into cultism when he gained admission into the institution and all efforts by him to renounce were met with death threats. Inegbedion said his father learnt about his involvement in cultism and was aware of the threat before he died. He stated that he opted to lie low to complete his studies. He said, “I was apprehended while writing my final examinations. My apartment was searched and they found Vikings regalia. I am not their number one man. It was my fellow cult members that brought them to my room. “I barely stay in my rented apartment. I stay inside the campus because of my studies and fear of attack. I have never been aware of any student recruited into cultism because I am an inactive member. “I hope this will not affect my studies. If it did, I will look for a better life and move on. I will get a decent job and live a responsible life. I gave my members my key and they have access to my room. “I need a chance to renounce cultism and not thwart my education. I need to round up my study by Monday next week if the state could grant me amnesty to enable me finish my studies. “I barely stay at home and so the cult members requested for my key to enable them have access to my room.” I appeal to the school authorities to forgive me. I was scared. I plead with the school authorities to show mercy. I don’t have anything to do with these regalia.” Spokesman for the institution, Mr. Edward Aihevba, said the Senate of the university would decide their fate after getting a report of the disciplinary committee. Aihevba stated that the institution has zero tolerance for cultism and cult activities.