IF it is true that there is a strong connection between cleanliness and efficiency, then it is obvious that the filth, waste and decrepitude of Phase II of the Federal Secretariat in Abuja are clear reflections of the ineffectiveness for which the Nigerian civil service is notorious. Phase II is the epicentre of the Federal Civil Service. It houses the offices of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, the ministries of information and culture, science and technology, special duties and intergovernmental affairs, and the housing sector of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. It also accommodates the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, the Office of the Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, and the Bureau of Public Service Reforms. Tragically, the poor state of the complex stands in stark contrast to its critical importance to policy formulation and national development. Its gleaming exterior conceals a sorry tale of non-functioning lifts, clogged drainage systems and foul toilets, all testifying to a virtually non-existent maintenance culture, which contradicts any claims to efficiency. Lifts, essential in an 11-storey complex, are either non-functioning or restricted. This compels workers and visitors to resort to the stairs, despite the obvious challenges it poses. Toilets are similarly unavailable; most are locked up and few meet the sanitary standards expected of any workplace, to say nothing of the headquarters of the Federal Civil Service. In July 2018, the Federal Government signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with a construction firm for the renovation of the ground floor and car parks in Block A of Phase II. One thousand office spaces and 800 parking spaces were to be created in a pilot project that was to set the template for a more extensive programme of rehabilitation. The project was due for completion in January this year, but the present dilapidation of the complex clearly shows that its objectives have not been met. If Phase II of the Federal Secretariat in the country’s national capital is so poorly maintained, the condition of the various federal secretariat buildings across the country which are farther away from the seat of power do not bear thinking about. The implications for the nation are obvious. A Federal Civil Service that cannot keep its own toilets clean is unlikely to be the driver of national growth that it is supposed to spearhead. A Federal Secretariat whose lifts are non-functional cannot superintend the upliftment of society that is its prime directive. Ministries, agencies and departments that are unable to ensure a conducive working environment for themselves clearly lack the capacity to create it in their areas of responsibility. Any attempt to reform the Federal Civil Service must start from the proper maintenance of its buildings. The 2018 National Budget appropriated N239,016,098 for the rehabilitation of Phase II of the Federal Secretariat Complex. An additional N76,970,237 was budgeted for the retrofitting of buildings in the housing sector of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, and three other federal secretariats. Another N34,636,606 was also set aside for the rehabilitation of fire prevention and fighting systems in the Federal Secretariat Complex. Exactly how were these funds spent? Who oversaw the various projects and signed them off? If there were any discrepancies, why were they not thoroughly dealt with? A closer monitoring of the maintenance budget for the Federal Secretariat Complex is vital to ensuring that it is used for what it is meant for. The reporting system in the Federal Civil Service also needs to be overhauled. Apart from the various laid-down procedures for handling complaints as specified in the Civil Service Handbook, the secretariat has several units of the Service Compact With All Nigerians (SERVICOM) agency. What have they done about the complaints they must have received about non-functioning and dilapidated facilities in the Federal Secretariat Complex? A nation cannot transcend the limitations of its civil service. If Nigeria’s development process is to truly take off, it must start by ensuring that its civil servants are able to work in a conducive environment.