Next Friday, the 27th of September, Pa Ayo Fasanmi, leader of Afenifere, the Yoruba socio-political group, will turn 94. He joined the Unity Party of Nigeria in 1978 and was a candidate in the Ondo State gubernatorial primary election but lost to the late Chief Michael Adekunle Ajasin, the former governor of Ondo State. In 1979 and 1983, he was elected member of the Senate representing Ondo North. He had earlier served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Old Western Nigeria Housing Corporation. He was a member of the Federal House of Representatives in the First Republic. During the Fourth Republic, he served as the National Vice Chairman of the Alliance for Democracy, Southwest zone. In this interview with Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, at his Osogbo home, the Iye-Ekiti born ardent disciple of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo recalls how he was told 55 years ago that he had just four months to live. Excerpts AT 94, you are still very firm and sharp for your age. What will you ascribe your good health to? Welcome to my house. I take it as a great honour for your newspaper to send you all the way from Lagos to come and talk to me. Please extend my greetings to all your bosses. And I thank you to for coming all the way. Talking about my health, like every old people, I have my fair share of health challenges but it is a great privilege made possible by only the grace of God to be alive today at 94. Let me recount an incident in 1964. I fell ill while I was running around contesting for a seat in the House of Representatives. I was referred to an English doctor in Ilesha. When he examined me, he shouted “My boy, what have you been doing to yourself?” I answered him that I had been running around to contest an election. He said, “If you keep running around, you have just four months left to live.” He then asked me to sit down for 30 minutes and think about what he just told me. My wife was with me there on that day. I told him I have no single minute to sit down and think about what he said. “Give me treatment in just 30 seconds because I need to go. And give me treatment to last me for the four months,” I told him. That was the only government hospital in the whole of the entire Osun and Ogbomoso back then. “If you have decided to commit suicide, I cannot stop you,” he said as he treated me that day. I didn’t even think about what he said for long. I went back to my campaign and electioneering. I contested and won the election and many more after that. So, you can see that it is only by the grace of God I am alive today. It is not by any special way of living. Me, who was given four months to live 55 years ago. You are one of the ardent followers of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. How did you meet him? I met Awolowo before I contested the House of Representatives election. I think it all started with a statement I made when I was being interviewed for television back then. I was a member of Otegbeye’s National Youth Council back then. We did a lot of things as youth agitators in those days. During the London conference, I recall that we demonstrated against the defence pact with England until it was removed from the charter of independence. It was a very vibrant group and we the members were well known. I had read and heard about Awolowo severally before I met him. I liked and adored Papa long before I met him. Just like (Dr. Nnamdi) Azikiwe. Anywhere Awolowo or Zik was going to be then, I will be there to listen to them talk. So, on that particular day, the reporter had asked me if I was a member of the Action Group led by Awolowo. In response, I said, “I am an independent member of Action Group.” He asked me how and I sad, “I am not a card carrying member of the group but because of my love for Awolowo, I will always be part of anything he is doing.” This caught the attention of Awolowo. He got the then administrative secretary of the A.G to write me a letter inviting me to a meeting with him. That came to me as a pleasant shock. Little me got a letter from the great Awo for a meeting? We met. He asked me what I meant by my statement and I told him reading and hearing about him convinced me that he was the messiah of our time. He was impressed by my submissions and I think he took a liking to me too, immediately. Later events were to further cement our relationship. When the crisis between Awo and Akintola broke out, Awo invited me again as the party was trying to solve the problem. I was made a member of the National Reconstruction Committee of the party. Professor Akin Mabogunje was also a member of that committee. I think he is the only other member still alive today.  I cannot recall the names of other members now. The committee met extensively and discussed at length each day. At the end of our assignment, we came up with a document, “Democratic Socialism”. The entire document was later debated by party leaders extensively and democratically with Awo presiding. I fell in love more and more with Awolowo during these contacts. That was how it started for me and Awolowo. I met Ayo Adebanjo and other persons whom were already with him at that time too. I became so enamoured to Baba that during his trial, I was one of his witnesses. When he was at Broad Street prison, and he was bereaved, I went to condole with him and when I got there, he didn’t allow me to say a word till it was time for me to leave. He kept talking to me, moving from one issue to the other but not mentioning the reason I came. The next day, I repeated the visit and made sure I offered my condolence. He looked at me and said “What has Segun done for me as a son that you have not done?  I was moved to tears. That was how close my relationship with Papa Awolowo was. And it was so till he died. More so, in keeping with my love for him, I have never had anything to do with conservatism, conservative parties or conservative politicians. Never! This is because I cannot imagine any believer in Awolowo dining with conservatives like the PDP. It is not possible. Looking back, what was it like being identified as a disciple of Awolowo in those days? Soon after, I was elected the National Chairman of the Action Group Youth Assembly. I didn’t see it coming. I was just invited to the group’s meeting at Papa’s house and after all said and done, I was returned as the national chairman. Another pleasant surprise it was. You can see in that picture over there. I am in the middle and others like Professor Banji Akintoye, are seated with me. I doubt if you can recognize any of those in there. The position was given to me because of my loyalty to Awolowo. Also, I was accused of a lot of things because of my closeness to Awolowo. I recall that I was once accused of planning a revolt. They claimed in Ipoti-Ekiti, I had a camp of guerilla fighters being trained to carry out the revolt against the government. They made so much effort to get at me at all cost all because I would not budge or rescind my allegiance to Awolowo. Even when Papa was in prison, efforts were made to implicate me but God saw me through a lot of persecution and traps in those trying days. Something happened in 1965 at Ede. After we had formed UPGA, Dr. Michael Okpara and some other Eastern politicians wanted to visit as part of the sensitization drive for the new alliance. Many of our people were arrested and taken to a court in Ede to be arraigned. I made sure the trial didn’t hold that day. I will not tell you how or what I did, but the trial didn’t hold. After that, three lorry loads of policemen invaded my house to take me away. I was lucky I had a crowd of easterners with me at the time. They prevented my abduction that day. The police searched everywhere but they found nothing. I was later warned that I would be arrested if I stay around longer. I managed to escape and moved to Lagos. But they were determined to get me. So they announced it in the news that I owed a friend of mine some money which I borrowed to contest election. It was everywhere and that my friend allowed himself to be used to trap me. All these, if I remember well, was because I had made a statement which was not palatable to the government of the region at the time. Were you always lucky to escape arrest in those days? No. there were times I got picked up. I recall that in 1965, I went to Ghana to visit the late Nkrumah. I was in the plane and it took off. Ten minutes later, it descended again and while I was still wondering what was happening, the whole place was filled up with policemen. They were looking for me. I was arrested and taken to the then Inspector General of Police. He asked me if I had taken my breakfast, I said no and he got me a cup of coffee and a couple of slices of bread. Later, he told me I would be taken up north to be detained. I was bundled into a police truck and the journey started. But when we got to Ibadan, we stopped for a while and it appeared they got another directive while we were still waiting. I was then taken to Agodi prison. I was there for about three to four months. I was actually in detention at Agodi till the 1966 coup. Even when others were released after the coup, I was not released. I had to write a letter to Adekunle Fajuyi, the then governor of the Western Region. It was after my letter that Fajuyi released me. I had not met him before then but I knew we were both from Ekiti. Aside politics, there were other times you had confrontations with the police and the government back then. Can you recall some of these? When I came out of prison in 1966, I founded the Anti-bribery and Corruption Committee. The police people were not happy with this because many of their men were exposed by my committee. The revolution we were doing by exposing corrupt public officials didn’t go down well with the police hierarchy. So, they were out to frustrate and implicate us, especially myself.  I recall that earlier in 1964, I was arrested because as they claimed, a girl had come from Ogbomoso to buy drug from my shop which she allegedly used for abortion. I was taken to Ogbomoso for trial. Then, the plan was to use the trial to stop me from contesting the election. But God bless the late Mallam Aminu Kano. He had given me a small recorder earlier which I cherished a lot. That small gift saved me from jail that year. The policemen were happy that I was being tried. They saw the man who had been exposing them also being disgraced. They wanted to see to it that I go to jail. But one day, the mother of the girl called me and was apologizing for being used against me. I told her to come over to where I was and she did. She told me how some police chiefs taught them what to say against me. She said they told her and her daughter that I was exposing and disgracing senior policemen. She apologized and told me the amount she and her daughter were given. I recorded everything she said and that was what I played when I was being questioned and that ended the whole thing. The offence carried 14 years minimum sentence back then. I contested the election and won in spite of the many obstacles placed on my way by the police and the government. It was Brigadier Oluwole Rotimi who appointed me as a member of the Western Nigeria Housing Corporation with powers to allocate houses in some estates including Ikeja, Bodija, Abeokuta and one here in Osogbo. I don’t have a plot in any of these estates. I didn’t think it was fair for me to use the opportunity given me to enrich myself. I have served the country in many capacities before and after then. I went to the Constitutional Assembly in 1978 with the likes of Chief Bisi Akande and got elected into the Senate in 1979 and 1983. I had been elected as the National Chairman of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria in 1977. During the Abacha regime, 19 of us from all over the country were appointed to serve in the Constitutional Assembly Commission. We were like ministers in those days and we were treated as such. Former governor of Niger State, Babangida Aliyu, was my Special Assistant back then. Lateef Jakande and Ebenezer Babatope were then serving in the federal cabinet. I didn’t want to accept the position but I was prevailed upon to see what they had in mind, so I went to work with them hoping they are sincere about handing over after the talk shop. One day, he gave me an envelope and said it was from the Presidency. I tried asking him questions but he disappeared. I asked some of my colleagues and they confirmed they got similar envelopes. The next day, it turned out that there was a clause, a particular clause (I think it has to do with then Sharia law) that Abacha wanted to be inserted into the draft Constitution. He came up with it at our meeting with him and 12 of our members supported the clause. He was asking us one by one and I was the 13th person to be asked. I started responding by telling him I got an envelope of money the previous day and I hope it is not because of the clause being discussed. I said no self-respecting Nigerian will support his recommendation. I declined to support and I could see I had caused serious discomfort for many people in the meeting. The meeting ended abruptly. I was warned to leave Abuja immediately. I got back to my accommodation and packed my belongings and told my orderly I was going to Ondo. I went straight to Adekunle Ajasin’s house and addressed a press conference. I announced my resignation from the commission and expressed fear for my life. Abacha didn’t like it. A lady working with the Head of State then who I had known before then later told me Abacha wanted me dead or alive for having the gut to expose what happened in the commission. I came home and reported to the then Military Administrator here in Osogbo who refused to take my official car and orderly from me. I went to the Police Commissioner who took them both from me after I explained that I had resigned. For this act of mine, I was listed for assassination by the Abacha junta. Tell us a little about the return to democracy in 1999. In 1998, as part of the preparations for the return to civil rule, the Alliance for Democracy was formed. I didn’t even attend the inaugural meeting but I was to hear that I was nominated as the Vice Chairman Southwest. I identified with the party because it represented the ideals I have held unto right from my contact with Chief Awolowo. I wouldn’t have joined the PDP or have anything to do with the people that spearheaded its formation at that time. So, we the progressives found ourselves in the AD at the beginning of the new republic. These are the things I try to say about the Afenifere issue. When Adesanya died, we had challenges. But the truth is that some people, because of their personal desires, fuelled the disagreements in Afenifere out of proportion. Fasoranti is my good friend. He’s one of my closest friends ever. Till this day, we are close friends. I still visited him three weeks ago. He also visited me recently. When I was made Asiwaju of Ido-Osun, he was here with me. Three weeks ago, we recalled and sang one song we used to sing together in those days. Politics can never separate us. Our friendship is different from Afenifere. We may differ in our approach to the Afenifere issue, but we remain inseparable. So, when I hear or read what people like Ayo Adebanjo say about me and Afenifere, I just smile and ignore such. I will never reply him. I won’t reply Ayo Adebanjo because I value friendship a great deal. He may not, but I value friendship, especially old friends, more than political differences. So, when they say I have taken a position because Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is giving me money, at 94 years old? I just laugh. Like I say, all what Adebanjo is saying about me is like dog biting a man, if I decide to reply him; it will be like man biting a dog. So, I will not inflame the crisis by responding to the things he say. God has been very kind to me so I must show some gratitude in the way I do things. As a Pharmacist, I served as national chairman of PSN between 1977-79. As a politician, I have been to the House of Representatives and the Senate. In the church, I am the Baba Ijo and also the Mayegun of All Saints Anglican Cathedral Church. God has been kind. Today, I hear talks about people choosing one person as Yoruba leader, and selecting or electing another person as leader tomorrow. It is God that anoints people as leaders. When I was the national chairman of Action Group Youth Assembly, Banji Akintoye was one of my team members. You can see him in that picture we took the very day I was made chairman at Papa Awolowo’s house. We were also at the Senate together. Just last week, he called and said he was coming to see me. He chose a day that is not convenient for us both, so he chose another. It is unfortunate that all these unnecessary issues are painting us all in bad light. I’ve always been with Awolowo. Afenifere founded by Awolowo is a group for progressive Yoruba. Anybody relating with PDP can never be the same Afenifere I know. This is my position on that matter. So when Ayo Adebanjo talks and people call my attention, I tell them I will not respond because of the very deep friendship and history we all share as disciples of Awolowo. And it is that belief in Awolowo’s ideologies that will never make me work with PDP no matter what anybody tells me. As a young man back then, what motivated your activism and interest in politics? I went into politics largely because I was a victim of poverty. I thought it will be an avenue to make inputs that will better the lot of people. My parents could not pay as small as two pounds six as school fees for me and I almost ended up without education until an uncle rescued me. After my primary school, I was working with my father at Oko Brick where burnt bricks are made. In 1937, I used to walk from Ebutte Meta to Casino area. It was there my Uncle saw me and decided I must be released to him. He took me with him with the rags I was wearing that very day. He took me first to Ibadan. Later we moved to Offa. We came back to Ibadan and I got into Government College, Ibadan on government scholarship. That was a rare feat for someone with my background in those days. That was how I got the opportunity to be educated. I went on to graduate as a Pharmacist later in life. I went ahead to work for the government. These are the things I have in mind when I say God has been very merciful to me. In 1951, I confronted a white Nurse who insulted me because I am black. I was reported and Dr. Manuwa summoned me. I told him I stood up to the white Nurse because of blacks like him. He was moved by my stance and instead of dismissing me he ordered that I should be put on relief duties. Meaning I would be relieving people going on leave or something like that. That was how I was sent down here. It turned out a blessing for me as far as I am concerned. And it served as a lesson that nobody should be looked down upon, black or white. My activism and pan-Africanism started from that era even before I met Awolowo. Looking back, do you have any regrets? As far as my politics is concerned, I have no regrets because I have stayed true to the doctrines of Pa Awolowo. I worked very hard. At 26, I was the Pharmacist in charge of about 30 dispensaries from here to Ogbomoso. Many of my colleagues and friends, who didn’t work that much are long dead, but here I am at 94. I give glory to God. The last time I was in the hospital, I asked to be allowed to see what a mortuary look like. I wanted to see where I will be put when I die. But they didn’t grant me that wish. I tell my children that I don’t wish for an elaborate ceremony when I am gone. Just N5, 000 coffin and I am okay. But they won’t agree. They convinced me that I deserve more. God bless them for me. I am a Christian and I believe in God. So I have no regret as such. Of course, in my younger days, I did some things I look at today and wish I didn’t do. Aside that, I have no regret because I have learnt very early to leave the future to God and wish for the very best God can give me.