Vice-chancellor of the Kano State University of Science and Technology (KUST), Wudil, Prof. Shehu Musa, has underscored the importance of having young people as drivers of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN-SDGs). Prof. Shehu addressed no fewer than 65 students during the SDGs4Universities workshop hosted by the institution. The SDGs4Universities workshop is a project by the International Climate Change Development Initiative (ICCDI) which has been taking the knowledge of the SDGs to various tertiary institutions across the country Shehu said: “You (students) have the strategic position to make a contribution. You don’t need to have a million naira or be a politician before you start making a difference. In one way or the other, you all are connected to at least one of these 17 goals; and you must know that the realisation of this is largely dependent on you.” Reiterating the university’s commitment to achieving SDGs, Shehu expressed his delight to ICCDI, for considering Kano State University of Science and Technology and for training the students on how they can practically take actions towards driving SDGs in their local communities. “We are fully receptive to collaborate with stakeholders to see the realisation of the SDGs. I hope that students of this institution will put into practice the lessons from this SDGs4Universities workshop,” Shehu added. Project Coordinator of ICCDI, Seyifunmi Adebote, said of the workshop: “This workshop is part of our continued efforts to localise the knowledge and application of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals among university students, as well as, position them to solve some of the world’s most pressing problems.” The high point of the event was the establishment of KUST-SDGs club. The event had in attendance Prof Musa; his two deputies (Academic and Administration) Prof Aminu Umar Fagge; and Prof Tijjani Saleh Bich respectively; Dean of Student Affairs Prof A. S. Ma’aji and the Dean Faculty of Agriculture, among others.