Over 200 Ijaw youths gathered at the Izon House in Yenagoa recently. They comprised mostly women who were there to begin a training programme organised by the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC), Central Zone, led by Mr. Kennedy Olorogun. They considered the gesture by the IYC as unique, as it was the first time in the history of the IYC, its leadership had undertaken what they described as a life-changing cause. Olorogun, who recently emerged the chairman of the zonal IYC, shot himself into the limelight when he led the youth to picket telecommunication companies operating in Bayelsa State over unresolved issues bordering on empowerment and lack of inclusion of those indigenous to the Bayelsa for contract awards. He further led his executive members to the office of the Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company (PHDC) following the perpetual darkness in the state and warned the firm against incurring the wrath of the youth. His intervention has led to improved electricity supply, especially to the state capital. Residents view the recent initiation of skill acquisition by the IYC as a demonstration of the new leadership’s desire to change the negative narrative against the council. Olorogun said the 200 youths would undergo training in five skills during the first phase of the programme, adding that the second phase would take off immediately. Olorogun further said the training was initiated to correct an impression that Ijaw youths were lazy and unwilling to earn a living through hard work. But he said the youth had so far proved that they were not lazy but were simply victims of lack of opportunities. Olorogun said: “Our people have been blackmailed. They always say we are very lazy and that we only beg money. They say we don’t want to learn anything at all. But since my emergence as the Chairman of IYC, I have seen the passion of our youths to learn skills. “People came to me and told me they were willing to learn something. So, I met with my executive officers and we decided to float skills acquisition programme. We decided to start with the training of 200 people. “The first day we made our intention public and invited people to apply, we thought we won’t get up to 100 people. But over 500 people besieged the Ijaw House to collect forms. Right now we are under pressure to increase the number to more than 200. That is why I said we would come up with the second phase.” Olorogun noted that the initiative was part of his leadership’s efforts to engage the youth meaningfully and divert their attention from crimes and prostitution. He argued that crimes were on the increase because many youths in the state were idle. “Most criminal activities are committed by idle minds. We are going to engage the 200 people selected for this programme for three months and within the three months; you will see that they will redirect their thinking and energy to positive things. Imagine that we are able to complete phases two and three, it will help in reducing crimes drastically in our society”, he said. Olorogun said his leadership was still making public appeals for funding. He said they decided to contribute money to start the programme. He added that most of his executive members made financial contributions from their personal purses to actualise the dreams of the programme. Nevertheless, he called on multinationals, telecommunication companies, philanthropists and others to support the programme. He said projects that would empower the youth and create employment opportunities should attract the attention of responsible firms and wealthy individuals. He said: “We have been blackmailed that our people are not ready to be trained. But with what we have done, we have demonstrated that our people are ready for it. So, we are calling on the companies and individuals to come to the aid of the IYC. We want to actualise the objectives of this programme and we want to do more to empower our youths. So, we need all the supports we can get”. Olorogun said the IYC engaged five trainers and facilitators to teach the youth all the five areas of skills selected by the IYC. But he said the number of skills would be increased to include making of perfume, soap, shoes and hairdressing. He said: “The beneficiaries should know we are doing this through pains. We taxed ourselves to do this. So, we don’t expect them to let us down. We will be monitoring them because I have already set up a committee to monitor their seriousness towards the various programmes they applied for. We won’t tolerate laziness and lack of seriousness”. Some of the beneficiaries, who applied to be trained in catering and decoration, tying of gele and computer commended the IYC for the initiative and confirmed that the training was free. They also promised to make good use of the opportunity. One of the beneficiaries, Ogadi Abraham said: “I got the information through the social media, I got interested and I decided to apply. It is free. So, I came and they gave me the form and today I’m here for orientation. “I want to thank the central zone IYC and the team entirely for giving us this opportunity. I have been involved with IYC activities, but this one is so peculiar and special I want to thank them for giving us, the less-privileged, who have no opportunity for white collar jobs, this platform to acquire skills so that we can do things for ourselves. That’s the reason I’m here. “I believe that this will help to tackle crime because crimes result from unemployment, lack of skills, service and IYC has come up with this kind of opportunity involving many youths and women. “I’m here to learn computer. If I acquire the knowledge, I will not be waiting for the next person to give me money. I can design posters for politicians during elections. I can design website and do programming for which they will pay me and I will use the proceeds to sustain myself and my family.”