The Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB) and its counterpart, the Australian Institute of Building (AIB) have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in Sydney, Australia to improve the methodology and technology of building construction. The MoU which is aimed at making NIOB and AIB have a shared commitment to become a stronger professional institute and educator within the building construction industry was signed during a construction event tagged: Constructing Our World. The event was jointly organised in Sydney by the New-Zealand Institute of Building, Australian Institute of Building and Singapore Institute of Building. According to the National President of AIB, Mr. David Burnell, AIB and NIOB will work together to raise the level of professionalism in the building construction industry and education in Australia and Nigeria. National President of NIOB, Mr. Kunle Awobodu said the collaboration among members of the two institutes would promote research in the field of construction and also encourage greater participation of members in jointly organised construction events for valuable Continuing Professional Development (CPD). The two parties have also agreed to exchange information relevant to the development of the building construction management profession in Australia and Nigeria in order to facilitate an understanding of each other’s work. In his goodwill message to the NIOB, the High Commissioner of Nigeria in Australia, Ambassador Bello Kazaure Husseini hoped that the bilateral relationship would advance construction innovations in Nigeria. Recounting his experience after a tour of building construction sites in Australia, the Vice Chairman of the Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria (CORBON), Dr. Samson Opaluwah commended the compliance with standards which the group would not relent at promoting in Nigeria. The former General Secretary of NIOB, Mr. Fadil Elegbede expressed satisfaction on the new value the Sydney event has contributed to the construction knowledge of NIOB members, taking into consideration cultural differences. As NIOB takes a giant step into global activities, expanding the scope of its construction knowledge and skills to overseas, establishing opportunities for academic and training exchange programmes, the President of the institute, Mr. kunle Awobodu  hinted that there were ongoing discussions on collaboration with the New-Zealand Institute of Building and Singapore Institute of Building to create a multilateralism for greater collective drive to technologically shaped construction products.