Barring any last-minute change, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state is concluding plans to set up members of the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) to conduct fresh elections into the 33 local government areas of the state. Additionally, the Governor said his administration will from the new academic session begin compulsory and free extra tutorials classes for students in terminal classes across all the private and public schools in the state. He said the mandatory classes is to help tackle mass failure in national and regional examinations, especially those conducted by the West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) and the National Examination Council (NECO), saying the move will also help to  boost and improve the standard of education in the state. This is as he also promised to meet with his Osun State counterparts, Governor Gboyega Oyetola on the possibility of severing the joint ownership of the institution to allow it to function better in the interest of the students. The Governor made the remarks on Thursday while appearing on a live television programme at the State-Owned Radio and Television programmes, Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State (BCOS) as parts of events to mark the first hundred days in office as the Eight Executive Governor of the state. Fielding questions on the Government plans for the local government in the face of the sack of the chairmen, Governor Makinde noted that his administration met a situation that left many litigations hanging on the legality of the last LG polls conducted by the immediate past administration but that many of the cases had been dispensed with. He said, his administration is working to ensure that it does not fall into the same trap of his predecessors who conducted election into all the 33 LGAs and additional 35LCDAs against the constitution of the country which only recognized the 33 council areas. Makinde said “We are working on the Council Chairmen. When we came in, we observed that there were lapses on the local governments and especially how the elections were conducted. But we thank God that some of the cases have been dispensed. “Within the next one week or thereabout, those that would conduct elections into the council areas will be inaugurated. Those we met there in office, we observed did wrong by conducting elections into more than the 33 LGAs known to the Federal Government and the constitution of Nigerian. “We know we have LCDAs but we can only appoint chairmen in there and not conduct elections because they have not been known to the constitutions. “We will appoint OYSIEC within the next ten days and we will conduct elections before the first quarter of next years. Give us time, local governments will not take long before elections are conducted into the council areas.” Recall that Governor Makinde had on July 4, dissolved the board of OYSIEC, promising to offset the salaries and allowance of about two years left to the expiration of their tenure. While speaking on the plans for the education sector and especially the situation with the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomosho, the Governor said his administration will do all the needful to ensure that the incessant strike actions that have rocked the institution owing to joint ownership will soon be addressed. “We have printed past questions which we are going to distribute free of charge to students in both the public and private schools across the state to tackle mass failure and poor performances of students in the state and we will start distributing to  students by next week. “We have also arranged for our teachers to give compulsory extra tutorials to students sitting for terminal examinations across all public and private schools because evaluations of general performances cut across both the public and private schools. “We will arrange a rotation of teachers across the various schools so as to add fresh impetus to teaching and learning and teaching and with all these; we can rest assured that the performances of our students will improve. I want to appeal to parents to please release their children to attend the extra classes because it is free.” On Lautech he said, “Only on Wednesday, the Governing Council of LAUTECH visited my office on a courtesy call and they told me that exams should start soon but that it might not because the staff might go on strike due to none payment of staff salaries. “When the file of LAUTECH was brought to when I assumed office, I signed all their request but the arrangement is that both owners rotate the payment of salaries in six months intervals. Oyo has done its bit but Osun has not. “I spoke with Governor Gboyega Oyetola when we had the security summit and I told him that I don’t mind a divorce between Oyo and Osun States as far as LAUTECH is concerned. Because we have students all over LAUTECH, which used to the best state university in this whole country. “If the marriage is not working, something has to be done about it especially if the marriage has produced several children who are looking forward to the parents to do what is right for their sake. I told the Governing Council that Oyo state will pay the salaries if Osun fails so that the staff won’t go on strike again. “Governor Gboyega Oyetola and I have agreed to meet to address the issues and I am optimistic that we will resolve the issues. What our people should expect is that the way they run Lautech will be different henceforth. “I didn’t want to say that I will take over Lautech from Osun state but I can say that even if it will be a divorce that would end all the crisis facing the school, I as the Governor of Oyo state will not shy away from taking the step.”   