The Bayelsa State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that a former Senator, who represented Bayelsa East Senatorial District, Nimi-Barigha Amange, did not defect from the PDP to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Chairman of the PDP, Chief Moses Cleopas, said in a statement on Thursday that Amange ceased to be a member of the PDP shortly before the last general election elections when he defected from the PDP to the African Democratic Congress (ADC). Cleopas explained that Amange defected from the PDP to the ADC to contest against the PDP when he failed to secure the Senatorial ticket of the party for Bayelsa East Senatorial District. Cleopas said that Amange’s claim that he defected from the PDP to the APC because of Governor’s Dickson’s style of leadership was unfortunate and a mischievous attempt to create a false Impression of an implosion in the party. He said: “There is a misleading report that Amange has defected from the PDP to the ADC. The fact is that Amange is not a member of our party. He defected from the PDP to the ADC, to contest against us in the February 16, 2019 National Assembly election and lost. “Sen. Amange is not a PDP leader and the public should discountenance this misleading claim. This unfortunate claim is part of a calculated attempt to create an erroneous impression of an implosion in a party that is stable. “The PDP in the state knows those who are genuine members. Amange is not one of us and he should desist from misinforming the public with the intent to cause mischief.” Cleopas said that the Bayelsa State Chapter of the PDP was too strong to be bothered by a false defection masterminded by people troubled by the strong internal cohesion within the party. Cleopas who debunked Amange’s accusation against the governor stressed that he had never seen a leader who had adopted a more consultative approach to the resolution of issues than Governor Dickson. He said that before his defection in January, Amange was the one producing the councilor from his ward. He added that the governor, who he wrongfully accused of dictatorial tendencies could not identify the PDP candidate for Nembe Local Government Area in the last local government chairmanship election, West Alalibo, until after the poll. Cleopas added Amange surreptitiously sponsored a candidate who lost to the PDP Candidate, Ms Dorcas Kuku, a daughter of PDP Board of Trustees member, Mrs Remi Kuku in his Ward in Nembe Local Government Area in the last election. He added that contrary to lies being peddled against Governor Dickson by Amange, the Vice Chairman òf Nembe Local Government Area, Alison Abel, was collectively nominated by the Deputy Governor Rear Admiral Gboribiogha John Jonah, Amange and other stakeholders.