•Although he started well, he ended badly Ousted from power in November 2017, after nearly four decades of political dominance, ex-Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe ended poorly. But he had started well. His death in Singapore on September 6, aged 95, raised questions about his place in history. Mugabe was Prime Minister of Zimbabwe from 1980 to 1987, and then president from 1987 to 2017.  His rise to political prominence is a story of courage and conviction. Born in Southern Rhodesia, he was educated at University of Fort Hare, Alice, Eastern Cape, South Africa and worked as a teacher before joining the anti-colonial struggle. Opposed to white minority rule in Southern Rhodesia, which was a British colony, Mugabe’s enthusiastic nationalism led to his imprisonment for sedition between 1964 and 1974. After jail, he fled to Mozambique, and became the leader of the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU) from 1975 to 1980, as well as its successor political party, the ZANU-Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) from 1980 to 2017. Mugabe was in the vanguard of ZANU’s guerrilla war against the white government, known as the Rhodesian Bush War. He participated in the peace talks that produced the Lancaster House Agreement, which ended the war and prepared the ground for the 1980 general election, in which Mugabe led ZANU-PF to victory and became prime minister of the renamed Zimbabwe. He announced that Rhodesia would be renamed Zimbabwe in his inauguration speech, which emphasised Africanism. The success of the anti-colonial war was a statement on black majority rule, and was expected to lift the socio-economic conditions of black Zimbabweans.  Mugabe’s transformation from freedom fighter to prime minister placed him in a position to put his governance ideas into practice. He focused on healthcare and education.  The number of secondary schools in Zimbabwe increased from 177 in 1980 to 1,548 in 2000. The adult literacy rate in that period rose from 62% to 82%, reportedly one of the best records in Africa. Child immunisation levels rose from 25% of the population to 92%. It was a measure of his revolutionary zeal that Mugabe pursued the redistribution of land previously controlled by white farmers to landless blacks. Impatient with the initial approach of “willing seller-willing buyer,” from 2000 Mugabe encouraged black Zimbabweans to violently seize white-owned farms.  This method attracted international criticism and sanctions, and was considered counter-productive. Ultimately, it affected food production and led to famine and economic problems. After seven years as prime minister, there was a twist to his trajectory that set him on the path of decline and a final fall.  The Zimbabwean parliament, under Mugabe’s influence, amended the constitution, and declared him executive president. His new position made him head of state, head of government, and commander-in chief of the armed forces. In addition, the position gave him the power to dissolve parliament, declare martial law, and run for an unlimited number of terms. Also, the constitutional amendments abolished the 20 parliamentary seats reserved for white representatives. The context supported authoritarianism. Mounting opposition to Mugabe diminished his earlier glory.  He was re-elected in 2002, 2008, and 2013, in elections characterised by violence and irregularities. Clearly, Mugabe was obsessed with power, and perhaps planned to remain in office till he died. In his nineties, he clung to power with the passion of a megalomaniac. Mugabe fell dramatically and disgracefully. He was forced out of power by a military intervention in collaboration with members of his party. His nephew was quoted as saying: “Imagine people you trusted – people that were guarding you, looking after you – (turning) against you. He was very bitter and it dented his legacy. It was not an easy thing for him to take.” Mugabe’s anti-colonial achievement and post-colonial successes and failures present a complicated picture. It is unsurprising that his legacy is a controversial subject.