Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and human rights lawyer, Femi Falana, has urged Christian leaders to lead by example by making sure justice prevails in the country. Falana gave the charge while delivering a public lecture titled: “Justice as an instrument of enduring peace in nation building” at the 20th edition of Bishop Mike Okonkwo Annual Lecture in Lagos last week. According to him, justice and rule of law are considered essential to every civilised society. He noted that a country without equality and justice is creating a dangerous society that may eventually destroy it. Falana pointed out that the lopsidedness in the judicial system is a time bomb as it favours powerful people in the society to the detriment of the masses and the concept of justice. “It is often said that the judiciary is the last hope of common man. This is a myth as the common man has no access to the court. “The poor and the downtrodden are priced out of the legal system and even when they come to courts they are worsted in their encounter with the rich and powerful. “They have come to regard law as their enemy rather than as their friend because they have always seen the wrong side of the law, law always being used against them rather than for their benefits.” Falana said while the constitution guarantees equality of rights, obligations and opportunities before the law in practice, the rich and poor defendants are not treated equally by the courts. He charged Okonkwo to use his good office and influence as a religious leader to ensure that Nigerians who have been illegally detained or imprisoned get justice, promising that he is ready to work with the church in this new crusade. Chairman of the occasion, Chief Folake solanke (SAN) applauded the organisers for promoting this crucial interrogation of critical topics for the edification of the populace. “We cannot pretend that all is well with our beloved country. However, with policies and programmes like the Mike Okonkwo Annual Lecture, the church is fulfilling its role to elevate the character of the nation,” she stated. She said the lectures over the years have visibly demonstrated that the ministry of the Church does not end on the pulpit but must reach out to the people in other dimension of the society. According to her, this focus of the lecture illustrated the holistic approach of the church to its mission. Dr. Mike Okonkwo, Presiding Bishop of The Redeemed Evangelical Mission, said the Church must play active role in the socio-economic development of the country. He added it must also set agenda for a national discourse on the way forward. He said over the years, the annual lecture has been in the forefront of agenda setting in socio-political development, noting this year’s edition will not be an exception as has the theme has rightly pointed out. Dr. Okonkwo added that it was not enough to preach the gospel without creating an enabling environment for young people to blossom. This, he said, informed the establishment of the Mike Okonkwo Educational & Youth initiative (MOEYI) aimed at empowering youths.