27 bandits have renounced kidnapping and banditry and have been granted amnesty in Niger state. The Niger state Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello presented the bandits during the second General Abdulsalam Abubakar foundation annual peace lecture in Minna. He said that they have signed a peace pact with the bandits who are from kontokoro in Magama local government area. “Here I present to you, these men, whatever name you want to call them, we have engaged in dialogue with them, they have mentioned their grievances and we have tried our best to meet some of them. “To this end, we have signed a peace pact with them and we are ready to enforce our side of the fact. They are also ready to respect their part of the pact.” The Governor then said that dialogue is ongoing with bandits in Erena, Rafi and Kontagora local governments to ensure peace in the state. He stressed on the need to use dialogue as a way to promote peace in the nation stating that military solution is not the best way of resolving crisis. “Military solution is not always the best way of resolving crisis. Dialogue provides for a win-win situation. We need to use dialogue more as a way to promote peace in the nation and there is no need for military solution.” The Governor emphasized the need for eminent Nigerians to lead the way out of the insecurity crisis bedevilling the nation lamenting that no region is safe in Nigeria today. “We cannot continue this way. No region in the country is safe today, these violent conflicts have destructive effects on the very fabrics that hold our nation together and must be dealt with utmost sincerity. “The experience so far shows that finding lasting solution to the violent conflict situation rests squarely in our soldiers. There is too little for members of the international community to do towards helping us. “I like to use this lecture to make appeals to the eminent persons in different parts of he country to come up with suggestions on how best we can reduce tensions around the country. Nobody would do it for us better than ourselves.”