Two years after controversial crowning of members tore apart the Olubadan-In-Council, they have met again to take important decisions. Their meeting followed the success of the reconciliation facilitated by Governor Seyi Makinde and some key elders in the city. The Nation learnt authoritatively that members of the council held an impromptu meeting at the Popoyemoja palace of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, on August 26 when they came to felicitate with him on his 91st birthday. The once estranged high chiefs were led to the palace by the Otun Olubadan, High Chief Lekan Balogun. He is the next-in-line to the Olubadan throne. After paying homage to the monarch and relaxed to confirm that the crisis was over, High Chief Owolabi Olakulehin was said to have informed Oba Adetunji that in addition to their felicitation visit and confirmation of an end to the two-year crisis, they would love to discuss important issues that have been held down for two years one of which was filling of vacancies that had been created by the death of two high chiefs. High Chiefs Olufemi Olaifa and Fadare Falowo died during the crisis period but the monarch could not fill the vacancies since the council was not meeting. Though there were suggestions that he could fill the vacancies independently, interpreting the council as merely advisory, Oba Adetutunji refrained from the suggested act, believing that the crisis would definitely come to an end in no distant time. Oba Adetunji was said to have obliged them and allowed the impromptu meeting to hold. The council then gave approval to the proposal and a letter requesting Governor Seyi Makinde’s consent has since been sent to his office through the local government and the state Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. While the positions of Olaifa’s Otun Balogun and Falowo’s Ekerin Balogun will now be filled by Senior Chief Isioye Dada and another senior chief, making them automatic members of the Olubadan-In-Council, their promotion will also open door to others under them on the Balogun line. A major beneficiary of the new promotion is Chief Sharafadeen Alli, a top politician in the city who will have rapidly climbed three steps within a short period to become Ekefa Balogun. He will be only two steps away from becoming a high chief which will make him an automatically a member of the council. When governor’s consent is received, the promotion will also see some high chiefs move up the ladder. They include High Chiefs Tajudeen Ajibola and Lateef Gbadamosi Adebimpe.