APPEASEMENT. That seems to be the name of the game these days, as bandits operate freely in some parts of the North. Some 10 days ago or so, the Katsina State governor, Aminu Masari, engaged bandits in negotiation to end banditry and their destabilising and disruptive activities in some parts of the state. He probably had no choice. He had cried out repeatedly that his state was under siege, inundated with banditry. And since he did not possess the security apparatus to end or even curb the menace, and because his entreaties to Abuja had also met with qualified failure, he simply damned the unethicalness of negotiating with criminals and proceeded to dialogue with the tormentors of his people. Peace at all costs. After all, a few years back, the Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, also negotiated with Fulani herdsmen whom he claimed were terrorising parts of his state, and paid them off to fend off further attacks and bloodshed. He was roundly condemned at the time, but he was too set in his ways to care what anyone thought about his methods. No one is sure Mallam el-Rufai’s tactics bore fruit, nor that further attacks had still not been executed by herdsmen who were mostly Fulani. What is important, according to his own confessions, is that he had negotiated with the masterminds of the violence against his state. For a few years, Zamfara State also became the poster boy for banditry in the North, nay in Nigeria. Weeks ago, however, the state government engaged the bandits in negotiations, gave them amnesty, and negotiated peace on certain pecuniary conditions. Banditry has since ceased considerably in Zamfara, a fact loudly celebrated by the state’s political elite and the governor. Given the rush to negotiate with bandits everywhere in the North, at least for now, appeasement may be the answer that proves durable in the short run. The negotiating state governments have, however, not been as transparent on the issue as the public would love them to be concerning just how much they have paid the bandits to secure and sustain the tentative peace the affected states are enjoying. The governors are unlikely to declare the cost of peace in the short run, believing that the alternative is far costlier and too gory to contemplate. It was telling, more than a week ago, that the Katsina State governor allowed the publication of a photograph he took with an armed bandit leader after negotiation. The gun-wielding bandit was even more tellingly sandwiched between the governor and a military officer. Perhaps the governor merely wished to illustrate what he was doing, in particular his commitment to the peace process, and his altruism. The other symbolism of the photograph — state helplessness — either escaped him and his advisers or they felt it was a far smaller price to pay for peace. Indeed, significantly, the bandits boldly told the government that soldiers and policemen, by their unprofessionalism, contributed immensely to the breakdown of peace and upsurge in banditry. According to the negotiating bandits, the unbearable extortionist inclination of law enforcement agents and their repressive and arbitrary methods had a triggering and catalysing effect upon banditry. Said one of the bandit leaders, Idris Yayande, who met and dialogued with the governor last Wednesday: “Soldiers, policemen and other security agencies are fuelling banditry, kidnapping and other heinous crimes through large scale extortion in return for their support to us. We have lost confidence in them. We prefer to work with the local vigilante.” According to a report by this newspaper, “The leader of Volunteers (Yan-sakai), Lawal Tsoho, also accused soldiers, policemen, other security agencies and some politicians in the state of working against the ongoing dialogue between the bandits and the state government because they are benefiting from banditry, explaining that he had evidence to prove his statement.” Any wonder the governor chose to negotiate? If law enforcement agents are too busy betraying their oath, as indeed everyone fears, a state governor has precious little elbow room to manoeuvre. Overwhelmed by insecurity everywhere, and still shorn of the presence of mind to recognise that lack of security both signposts and presages terrible times ahead, the government has desperately sought to involve sundry militias, some of them ethnic, in policing this vast country. Soldiers can hardly be relied on to get the job done neatly, and policemen are not any better; such a horrifying combination transmogrifies the governing paradigm from one of constitutionality and methodicalness in ruling the nation to one of peace secured at its most ignoble and expedient worst. It will be a mistake to focus on the jarring metaphor of armed bandits openly negotiating with governors and thereafter posing for group photographs, or to use such short-sighted showiness to condemn the state chief executives. The problem of insecurity is a very complex one embedded in how the country is structured and run, in this case by irresponsible and unthinking elites. Until the fundamental problems predisposing the country to anarchy are addressed, the nation will continue to witness short-term panaceas and futile solutions. In fact, these objectionable negotiations, not to say the collaborations between law enforcement and security agencies on the one hand and civilian militias on the other hand, indicate what little time the country has left to rejigger itself before apocalypse.