Lagos State Government will on Wednesday hold an agricultural stakeholders’ engagement that will address the challenges and opportunities in the agricultural sector, Agriculture Commissioner Prince Gbolahan Lawal has said. Lawal, in a statement in Alausa, Ikeja at the weekend, said the programme would prospect into the future to develop a five-year road map for the agricultural sector. He said the need to hold the engagement was informed by the desire to sustain the efforts of the government in the agricultural sector to ensure food security, considering the need to make Lagos State a 21st century economy that works in line with the THEMES Developmental Agenda of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration. The commissioner said ideas, technology and innovations that will consider the day-to-day and evolving realities of farming, agricultural production and food consumption become imperative, hence the need to hold the engagement. He added that the programme would be an avenue to connect and empower the next generation of agricultural change-makers, farmers’ associations, as well as medium and small scale players in the sector. “As Lagos State becomes a 21st century economy, there is the need to sustain efforts of the agricultural sector in ensuring food security and also introduce new solutions, ideas, technologies and innovations that will take into account the day-to-day and evolving realities of farming, agricultural production and food consumption. The introduction of these new solutions, ideas and innovations is expected to transform today’s challenges into tomorrow’s opportunities in the agricultural sector. These have necessitated the need to look into strategies to increase agricultural production in the state towards feeding the teeming population, thus the ministry decided to organise the stakeholders’ engagement,” Lawal said. He said the engagement is also expected to come up with ideas on how to facilitate the rapid development of the agro-economy of the state, particularly in the areas where Lagos has comparative and competitive advantage since the idea of making the state a 21st century economy requires a reasonable level of food security. The commissioner noted that the engagement would draw participants from multilateral organisations such as the World Bank, Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the United Kingdom Department for International Development (UK-DFID), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Call to Action (CTA), International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and Africa Rice among others; multilateral corporations such as  Olam, Dizzengof, Meatco, Elephant Group among others; prominent agro-preneurs; academia, special interest groups; government agencies such as DAWN, others; embassies and commercial/development institutions. The engagement, which will serve as an interface for stakeholders in the agricultural sector, comes up on September 11, at the Sourjoner, by Genesis Hotel, G.R.A. Ikeja.