Ever since his coronation as the paramount ruler of Iwo Kingdom in Osun state, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, is always enmeshed in one controversy or the other. The stylish and dandy monarch, known for promoting Nigerian and African culture through his outfit, is regarded as a fresh gust of summer wind in the traditional institution. For the want of a better description, Emperor Telu as he is fondly called, is a misunderstood person. However, his critics seems to forget that he loves his people so dearly that he is working assiduously to put Iwo town on the world map, by canvassing for investment and developmental projects. Apart from being controversial, the acclaimed “Alashe Lori Orisha” is a very interesting and loving man, blessed with native intelligence and witty oratory skill. Oluwo has often displayed publicly to the world his affection towards his wife Queen Channel Akanbi. He has publicly showered encomium on the pivotal role played by his wife in his life. Oluwo said: “Queen Channel left all the luxuries in Canada and relocated with me to Iwo in Nigeria, not every woman can do that. Queen Channel is indeed a blessing to me”. On the 4th of September, Queen Channel celebrated her birthday with a small palace celebration with family and friends in attendance. Oluwo’s joy holds no bound as he quickly took to his social media account to pen an emotional birthday message for his wife. He wrote: “Happy Birthday to you my Quintessential Queen… words cannot describe how you have supported and help me grow from strength to strength and glory to glory. You left all the comfort of Canada to be with me in a struggle and fight to make a better life for my people in service to a Nation that I believe in so much even if its rough, tough and hard for them now … there is a big light at the end of the tunnel !! Thank you and may you reap and eats from the sweet fruits of your labour which will definitely be joyful and will bring a lasting happiness. Thank you very much my love”.