DHL Express said following the launch its DHL Express Mobile app in Nigeria and seven other African countries, it targets to roll out the app in 40 countries across the region by the end of 2020. The app offers a number of key benefits that facilitate tracking and faster delivery of shipments with greater ease and convenience. It was an exciting new addition to DHL’s service offering in sub-Saharan Africa and was launched during the week in eight African countries including Nigeria, South Africa, Kenya, Ghana, Ethiopia, Mauritius, Tanzania and Uganda. Its CEO of Sub Saharan Africa, Hennie Heymans, said the DHL Express Mobile app was part of DHL Express’ ongoing commitment to drive innovations that enhance customer experience. He said the app, which allows customers to access valuable features on the move, will be rolled out in a further 40 countries across the region by the end of 2020. “Customers can access accurate shipping quotations, find their closest DHL service points for easy collections and deliveries and of course, track their shipments in real time. “Embracing digitalisation is the name of the game when it comes to enhancing customer experience and we are excited to introduce yet another exciting mobile application to our customers across the region,” Heymans said. A report by GSMA Intelligence revealed that mobile phones and services are enabling business growth in Africa. The mobile ecosystem has made a significant contribution to the economy in Sub Saharan Africa so far, with an economic value contribution of $110 billion, equivalent to 7.1 per cent of the region’s gross domestic product (GDP) in 2017. Heymans added that it’s not only about new technology, but also a different mindset and culture. “Our customers are constantly evolving and changing the ways that they communicate, work, travel and consume, so we need to ensure that we are providing them with solutions that are agile enough to adapt to their changing needs,” he said. With online transactions growing exponentially in Africa, Heymans says that there is a clear demand for integrated mobile solutions that allow customers to transact whenever and wherever they are. “As the global leader in express logistics, DHL is constantly working towards providing cutting-edge solutions that help to connect Africa’s consumers and business owners with the global market,” Heymans said.