The Senate on Thursday urged Nigerians to repair the damage that has been done to the nation’s economy over the years. The lawmakers said the condition of the economy was not beyond redemption. Senate Committee Chairman on Foreign Affairs, Mohammed Bulkachuwa, who spoke in Abuja, advised that the country should learn from the Ghanaian experience of economic downturn in the 1980s and how the country reinvigorated its economy. Bulkachuwa expressed confidence that the Nigerian economy would bounce back with the commitment of the citizens. The senator spoke at an interactive session with top officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. His concern came as the second batch of Nigerians returned from South Africa in the wake of xenophobic attacks on them and other Africans in the former Apartheid enclave. Bulkachuwa said: “If Ghana, whose economy was in shambles in the 1980s with over 100 Cedis exchanging for one U.S dollar can positively turn around its situation to what it is today with 4.2 Cedis exchanging for a dollar, Nigeria can also do same if the government and the governed can put their acts together in that respect.” Condemning the attack on Nigerians in South Africa, the senator said it is normal for people to move from their countries of origin to other lands in search of economic opportunities. “Not even developed or great countries of the world, like the United States of America (U.S.A), the Republic of China, among others, have all their citizens domiciled at home. But what must be addressed by us is to put things in proper shape so that those who will be traveling out will largely be for excursion or tourism reasons and not to seek greener pastures, as it is now.” In his submissions before the committee, the Permanent Secretary in the Foreign Affairs Ministry, Mustapha Suleiman, said a wide range of issues would be tabled at the upcoming Nigeria-South Africa summit. “Specifically, during the visit, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and other key agreements between the two countries would be signed on means of preventing and mitigating such attacks in the future.” “Besides that, composite wise, during the visit, the required mechanisms will be put in place for the Nigerian Commission there to have information on Nigerians resident in South Africa. “As at Wednesday, about 821 Nigerians affected by the recent xenophobic attacks have either been evacuated back home or have indicated interest for that purpose,” Suleiman said. Also, the next session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission (BNC) will hold in Pretoria in October to evolve documented solutions to xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in that country. Suleiman stated this yesterday when he interfaced with the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs in Abuja. The permanent secretary noted that the BNC, which will be attended by Nigerian and South African officials, was part of government’s efforts at ending attacks of Nigerian nationals in South Africa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission (BNC) was established in 1999 to promote trade and investment as well as enhance people-to-people cooperation and institution building between the two countries. According to its statute, the BNC, which was being headed by Vice-Presidents of both countries, was “borne out of a commitment by Nigeria and South Africa to effectively structure bilateral relations through the establishment of a Bi-National Commission”. The annual meeting of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission, which was being hosted by rotation between both countries, was last held in 2009. “Essentially, now we are trying to make sure that we have subsisting agreements that will address these issues now and in the future. “We are looking at other issues we feel should be part of the definition of the relationship between Nigeria and South Africa. “The essence of this is that it will help to determine our actions, if such issue happens, which I think in the last few years we had not had such agreements. “Because xenophobic attacks had been happening over time but, this is the climax and it has come to fore that South African government must protect Nigerian citizens. “And it requires some kind of documentation, some kind of understanding between the two countries as to how it can be remedied,” he said. The permanent secretary said President Muhammadu Buhari had directed the ministry to use the conference to bring up all the issues that are challenging and irritating Nigeria’s relationship with South Africa. He said the Minster of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyema, had also convened an inter-ministerial meeting with various ministries in Nigeria to get inputs on other issues to be brought for discussion at the conference.