ONIKAN, Lagos State has been picked as the third among the world’s 50 coolest neighbourhoods by Time Out, a report of Cable News Network Travel. Time Out described coolest neighbourhoods as places to spend a vacation, famous attractions or gorgeous natural wonders. “But if you really want to get to know a city like a local, your best bet is to look for the neighbourhoods where they hang out, where the most interesting new restaurants, art galleries and coffee shops emerge,” the report stated. Time Out stated that Onikan was chosen as a result of being home to artists, writers, designers and Nollywood actors. “You might spot some of them hanging out in cool Onikan, where “past, present and future collide effortlessly”. “The central neighbourhood on the Lagos Lagoon is home to some of the city’s most important cultural offerings, including the Nigerian National Museum and Rele Gallery, which focuses on contemporary art,” the report indicated. Onikan was picked ahead of neighbourhoods in Wedding, Berlin, Filipinotown, Los Angeles, Strasbourg-Saint-Denis, Paris (seventh), Astoria, New York (eight); Embajadores, Madrid (ninth), Pilsen, Chicago (10th), Peckham, London (11th), Soi Pridi Banomyong/Phra Khanong, Bangkok (12th), .Melbourne, Zhongshan, Taipei, Tel Aviv,  Kypseli, Athens and others. Other African neighbourhoods, which featured in the report, are Jamestown, Accra (21st) and Melville, Johannesburg (41). In list of the world’s 50 coolest neighbourhoods, CNN Travel stated that Arroios, Lisbon, which is the No.1 coolest neighbourhood, might be the coolest city in Europe. “There are lots of independent things happening, young people, artists and people from all over the world. A neighbourhood that people used to be afraid of is now Lisbon’s dynamic, intercultural hub,” the report stated. The second coolest city is Shimokitazawa, Tokyo. The publication said: “Shimokitazawa is to Tokyo what Brooklyn is to New York, only cooler. “If you’d rather bypass the speed of central Tokyo but still be near good public transit, Shimokitazawa is your spot.” Time Out gives the neighbourhood the nod for top-notch Japanese curry restaurants like Ten To Sen as well as vintage shopping. Wedding, Berlin is the fourth neighbourhood in the category. Wedding is a neighbourhood in the northwest section of Germany’s capital. “Though the city is known as a place for 24-hour partying, Wedding’s side streets are quiet enough to guarantee you’ll get a good night’s sleep once you’re done hitting the beer halls. “By day, you can enjoy the great outdoors at Plötzensee Lake and woodsy Volkspark Rehberge,” it added. Historic Filipinotown, Los Angeles (LA), which is the fifth choice of the report, is LA’s Asian-American community.”It is rich and thriving, especially for its food cultures,” Time Out indicated. Time Out noted that “the area is still in the early stages of its rise, so don’t expect five-star hotels or bespoke cocktails”. “Instead, the focus is about casual walks and bike rides along Temple Avenue, stopping for snacks and photo ops along the way,” it added. Other neighbourhood are The Waterfront, Hobart (sixth), Strasbourg-Saint-Denis, Paris (seventh), Astoria, New York (eight); Embajadores, Madrid (ninth), Pilsen, Chicago (10th), Peckham, London (11th), Soi Pridi Banomyong/Phra Khanong, Bangkok (12th) and others. 