The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)   presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, said on Friday  that he opted to go to court on the outcome of the February election  to  “ensure that the votes of Nigerians count and are counted.” Atiku, whose lawyers have indicated that they are going to the Supreme Court to challenge  the verdict of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal on his case against President Muhammadu Buhari, said: “Nothing good comes easy.” “Nothing good comes easy, and hard as the task to rid Nigeria from the forces of fascism, and be an instrument for the full restoration of the rule of law and democracy in Nigeria is, your support makes the struggle worthwhile,” he said in a series of tweets to his supporters. He said: I write to personally thank you for your support for our shared common goal. “And the solidarity I enjoyed from all walks of life and every strata of society, right from July 21, 2018, when I informed you, the good people of Nigeria, that I would contest the 2019 presidential election, to Wednesday September 11, 2019, when the PEPT rendered its verdict. “I owe so much to this great land of Nigeria that took me from the streets of Jada, where I sold firewood, to the heights I have attained, by God’s benevolence, in the civil service, in corporate Nigeria, and in public service. “If I do not play my part in making it possible for other orphaned children, indigent youths and the less privileged, to replicate and even surpass my path to significance, I would have failed my Maker. “If I do not ensure that the ladder I climbed remains accessible to those at the bottom, middle and top tiers of society, I would not have fulfilled my purpose. “And only by ensuring that democracy is not just done, but seen to be done, can Nigeria and Nigerians have a sense that this our dear land is indeed a land where unity, faith, peace and progress reside. “It is for this, and other patriotic reasons, that I am pursuing this judicial route: To ensure that the votes of Nigerians count and are counted.”