The new capital base regime announced by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) for old and prospective insurance companies operating in the country has led to a chain of reactions from different quarters with majority of the local players expressing fears of a possible worst fate for local businesses. In this report, Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, Medinat Kanabe, Ambrose Hillary and Ibrahim Al-Amin examine the issues In this clime, selling insurance policy has never been really exciting for a number of reasons which border on the superficial to the complex. But it does appear that insurance professionals operating in the country today will have to break a lot of sweat and literally get into the grind to be able to make a successful sales pitch henceforth. Reason: there is going to be more apathy for insurance by old and prospective clients because of the issue of cost. Yes, the cost of insurance is definitely going to get higher such that existing clients willing to continue with their policies have to be ready to pay more in terms of premiums. Crux of the matter Investigation by The Nation revealed that since the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) increased the capital benchmark for insurance companies operating in Nigeria, it is already generating anxieties among local players because it does appears that most of them will not be able to meet up with the new capital base. Already majority of the companies affected have hinted of plans to cut jobs. Many concerned stakeholders who are following development in the nation’s insurance sub sector hold the view and very strongly too that one of the fallout of the new policy regime is that many local players would run out of business, hence they have argued that the policy as it is should not be implemented to the letter without consideration of the local operators. NAICOM’s sledge hammer It would be recalled that NAICOM, had announced on May 20, 2019, a new capital regime for all categories of insurance companies in Nigeria. In a circular by NAICOM’s Director, Policy and Regulation Directorate, Mr. Pius Agboola, on behalf of the Commissioner for Insurance, Alhaji Mohammed Kari, the commission had said the new capital regime would take effect from June 30, 2020 for existing insurance and reinsurance firms, but with immediate effect for new firms entering into the business. According to the circular with No. NAICOM/DPR/CIR/25/2019 titled “Minimum paid-up share capital for insurance and reinsurance companies” the minimum paid-up share capital requirement of insurance and reinsurance companies in Nigeria. Under the new capital regime, life insurance underwriting firms, which currently have a minimum paid up share capital of N2 billion, will compulsorily shore up their capital to N8 billion, representing a 200 percent increase. Insurance firms underwriting general business will by the new paid-up share capital regime, shore up their capital from N3 billion to N10 billion. Composite insurance firms, that is, firms underwriting both life and general business will have to raise their capital from the current N5 billion level to N18 billion. Reinsurance firms will move up from the current minimum capital of N10 billion to N20 billion. The new guidelines are coming after NAICOM’s failure in its initial bid to shore up the minimum operating capital of insurance firms through its Tier Base Minimum Solvency Capital. The circular said that “the new minimum paid-up share capital requirements shall take effect from the commencement date of this circular for new applications while existing insurance and reinsurance companies shall be required to fully comply not later than June 30, 2020.” In reviewing the paid-up capital, the Commission noted that “in 2005/7, the insurance industry witnessed its last recapitalisation and despite the astronomical increase in value of insured assets, consequent exposure to higher level of insured liabilities and operating costs of insurers, the same capital continue to rule in the insurance industry.” However, the new capital base doesn’t apply to micro-insurance and Takaful insurance companies. Unintended consequences of the new policy regime With the new benchmark on minimum capitalisation for insurance underwriting firms announced by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), coupled with indigenous investors’ apathy to insurance stocks, foreign investors have moved to dominate Nigeria’s insurance market. Investigation by The Nation revealed that already foreign investors from Europe, America and South Africa are directing their reserved funds into the Nigerian insurance market to take advantage of the new capital regime and indigenous operators’ inability to raise funds from the Nigerian stock market to extend their business portfolios. Foreign incursion into Nigeria’s insurance space The scramble for Nigerian insurance sector by foreign investors, it was learnt, actually started two years ago when NAICOM adopted the RiskBased Supervision model from the European market. The regulator had hinted the operators that the new model would require injection of fresh capital into their business. This, according to the commission, was to give the Nigerian insurance market a global outlook and strengthen insurance firms to be in a position to underwrite big ticket businesses. In their bid to meet the commission’s demands, the insurance operators turned to the foreign investment markets in search of investors and technical partners to inject funds and technical expertise into their operations. This has seen global players like AXA, Sanlam, AFIG Funds, and Allianz, among others, acquiring stakes in insurance firms in Nigeria. The foreign investors have since 2018 acquired stakes in NEM Insurance and Ensure Insurance, among others, with the latest is the acquisition of 39.25 per cent stake in Royal Exchange General Insurance by the InsuResilience Investment Fund (IIF). It was also gathered that Royal Exchange Life Insurance, Sovereign Trust Insurance, Niger Insurance are currently shopping for foreign investors in a bid to meet the regulator’s demand. The IIF was established by the German Development Bank (KfW) and managed by Swiss-based Impact Investment Manager, BlueOrchard Finance Investment Limited (BlueOrchard). Its investment in the Nigerian insurance sector has resulted in the injection of N3.6 billion capital into the Royal Exchange General Insurance (REGIC). The Managing Director of Royal Exchange Mr. Benjamin Agili described the investment as a welcome development. He said: “As one of the leading non-life insurance companies operating in the insurance market in the country and having a strong presence in the agric-insurance space through its partnership with the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk-Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) and some state governments, this investment by the KfW is expected to have a huge impact on the company’s presence in the agric-insurance space to enable REGIC to increase its presence even further.” Echoing similar sentiments, the Group Managing Director of NEM Insurance, Mr. Tope Smart, who is also the Chairman Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA), said foreign investments into the industry, was a good development that would not only improve on the industry’s capital, but improve on technical knowhow of operators and enable them to operate according to global standards. He said the recent foreign investment into his company would help in accelerating the growth of the firm. Prior to this acquisition, a leading African Private Equity Fund Manager, Advanced Finance and Investment Group (AFIG Funds) had acquired 29.9 per cent stake in NEM Insurance Plc, just as Allianz had in July last year acquired Ensure Insurance, formerly Union Assurance. Other firms which have witnessed ownership dilution through foreign investments include NSIA, which acquired 96.15 per cent in ADIC Insurance, a former subsidiary of Diamond Bank Plc; Mutual & Federal Insurance Company, South Africa, which acquired 70 per cent of Oceanic Insurance Company Limited, formerly owned by Oceanic Bank Plc. Old Mutual Nigeria Services Company (Old Mutual Nigeria) also acquired 70 per cent of Oceanic Life Assurance Limited, a subsidiary of Oceanic Bank. Also, AXA SA acquired the majority stake in Mansard Insurance and changed the firm’s name to AXA Mansard Insurance; Metropolitan International Holdings (Proprietary) Limited acquired 100 per cent of UBA Metropolitan Life and changed it to United Metropolitan Nigeria Life Insurance Limited; Old Mutual completed the firm’s acquisition from Ecobank Group (after the bank acquired Oceanic Bank) and changed its name to Old Mutual Nigeria. According to NAICOM, more than 12 foreign investors have ventured into the country to acquire new firms between 2012 and 2018. Concerned stakeholders wary over foreign partners Expectedly, not many people are excited about foreign participation in the nation’s insurance space. Most of those opposed to it based their argument on purely altruistic motives and patriotic fervour. Speaking in an interview with a cross-section of Nigerians drawn from diverse areas of expertise, they argued that encouraging more foreign participation in a sector such as sensitive as insurance amounts to selling the country’s patrimony and especially sovereignty to foreigners, stressing that such decisions usually have bad repercussions. Firing the first salvo, Mrs. Oyinkansola Olasanoye, the National President Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) in an interview with our correspondent at the weekend gave a bird’s eye view of how the new policy regime will affect jobs, careers as well as the country’s image as a country. On how the union hopes to mediate on behalf of members that will be affected by the new policy regime requiring insurance companies to recapitalise, she recalled that the union fought , put things that are particular to paper and demand government and regulators feel concerned for our anxiety and they extended it to one year. “On the other issue of loss of our membership, yes they are affected because recession in Nigeria is still there, even if physically we are claiming that there is no recession in Nigeria, economically, going by the volume of unemployment in the country shows that there is indeed recession. Nobody is investing in stocks now, because Nigerians that got shares couldn’t get any dividend for them, and it means that indirectly we are trying to transfer these different assets to foreigners because at the end of the day, it is the foreign investors that have been able to bring in money for the capitalisation.” Expressing fears over the dire consequences of the policy, she said, “Indirectly they are making our country to lose our assets and it is like a second colonisation, because everything that Nigeria owns will soon be taken over by foreign investors, and when it comes to employees, we are going to lose our members because all these insurance companies will send them  into mergers and acquisitions but no one of them will get investors, so you are appealing to the government that wants due process and have been discussing with this union and giving these members their entitlements and another phase of  life to look forward to.” Also commenting, Mr. Adeleke Odude, Managing Director, Lektol Insurance Brokers Limited, said, “The issue and the challenge is that, first and foremost, the economy is not encouraging it although in the long run it will pay the insurance company but right now there are some challenges that the insurance company is presently facing.” According to Odude, whose brokerage firm has been in business since early 90s, “One of the challenges is that most of the compulsory insurances that have capacity are reinsured abroad and that is why they wanted to increase the capacity in Nigeria but you cannot just increase the capacity without looking at your immediate environment. You are first supposed to look at your environment and ask if people will be able to cope if you increase.” Raising some posers, he queried, “If we increase, do people have the money to put into the economy to buy shares on insurance? If not the consequences will be that there will be external investors who want to take advantage of the economy.” Odude, who also sits atop as the President, Business Club Ikeja (BCI) said, “Already there are so many external investors who have come ready to the insurance industry. Even the banks too want people to invest and people see the shares of the bank to be more interesting than that of the insurance. So a right act at the wrong time becomes a wrong act. For an act to be right, the timing must also be right. The motive is good but is the atmosphere right? That’s the question we should be a asking ourselves.” Considering the outcry by stakeholders, is there a chance that the regulator would tarry awhile or attempt to revise the policy? That is the big question on the lips of concerned stakeholders. S/N CLASS OF BUSINESS 
REVIEWED MINIMUM PAID-UP 
SHARE CAPITAL (FROM MAY 2019)
1 Life Insurance N8 Billion
2 General Insurance Business N10 Billion 
3 Composite Business N18 Billion
4 Reinsurance Business N20 Billion 
Source: NAICOM