For 31 years, Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Ade Adedeji quietly left his footprints in several areas of Law: corporate, commercial, telecoms, trademark, patents and design, etc. In this interview, he tells ROBERT EGBE why, despite the immense joy he derives from law practice, he wants to spend his retirement in a classroom. Please tell us about yourself I am a lawyer and I have been in law practice for 31 years. I read Social Science as my first degree and Law as a second degree from the University of Lagos (UNILAG). I also did my Masters in Law from UNILAG. Effectively, I was at the University of Lagos for almost 10 years. I gained admission to UNILAG in 1979, finished my first degree in 1982 and did my youth service in 1982-1983. I returned to UNILAG to study law in 1984, graduated in 1987, finished from the Law School in 1988, and I was called to Bar in 1988 the same year. I returned to UNILAG in 1990 for my Masters in Law and I’ve been in practice ever since. What informed your choice of law? I was never counselled as they do these days. By the way, neither of my parents was a lawyer. I became interested in law through my association with very good friends of mine. After we left school, we started thinking of what to do and, because we were young, we took a conscious decision that we needed to be in school for a longer period than what any Masters degree could offer us at the time. So, the first option was to consider Law, which, perhaps, would keep us in school. For a 21-year old, you probably still wanted to be in school for another three, four years. Was it because university was fun? School was fun, we were young, we were not prepared to go to the labour market. So, you can say that, but it was not until we actually got in that we started getting inspired and getting more and more interested. At least from my own perspective, I won’t say the same for my friends, Dayo Owotomo, my partner, whose dad was a very successful lawyer and another good friend of mine, Femi Fadahunsi, who is also a very successful lawyer who also convinced me at the time, considering my age, we should go and spend more time in school and acquire all the degrees and all that. He also convinced me that Law might be very interesting and that we should consider it as option. Your first day in court, what was it like? Wow, my first day in court was very exciting I must say. I still recall that my very first day in court was before Justice (Adebayo) Desalu of the High Court at Ikeja, Justice Desalu was highly admired by young lawyers in those days because he would always encourage young lawyers and if possible argue their cases for them, because once he spotted your wig as very grey, he would ask you “how did you get here?” and so on; very friendly and very accommodating. May his soul rest in peace. Tell us about your most memorable day I’ve had so many memorable days. One of them was when I appeared before the full panel of seven judges of the Supreme Court; that was a very memorable day because prior to that time, I had only appeared before a panel of five justices. This was 2012, 2011 and I was invited to come and address the full court on an issue. Other prominent lawyers were actually invited, but I was fortunate to be one of the lawyers that was invited to come and address the court on an issue to assist the court to come to a determination on what decision to take, because its previous decision had conflicted. I was invited as a friend of the court, an amicus curiae, to come and address the full panel of the Supreme Court on an issue which conflicted a previous decision it had taken in the past. This event is more memorable than when you won your first case? Yes, it was, because in this case, it was a privilege to have been identified as one of the lawyers to come and address the full court, it was like coming to advise the court on what decision to take. I think that was a privilege and it was an honour and for me, particularly appearing before the seven justices of the Supreme Court and other prominent lawyers, and for me to be on my feet actually engaging them on various issues for about 35 to 40 minutes. I was highly honoured and I think it was a rare privilege and one appearance that I cannot forget for a very long time. What is the craziest thing a client has ever done to you? That’s a tough one, but I’m just thinking now; I’ve never thought of this before, but there was a case I was handling for a top accountant, Otunba Kuforiji Olubi of blessed memory. She was one of the first female chartered accountants in this country, very articulate, brilliant woman and I was doing a lot of things for her. On this particular day, she came to court and we were handling an application which I had discussed with her beforehand, because she always wanted you to brief her from time to time. In the middle of my argument and after watching for a while, I saw somebody trying to pull my gown from behind; lo and behold, it was madam! She was calling my attention and passed a little piece of paper to me. On the piece of paper, she wrote an authority there, “you have not told the judge about this authority and you’ve not addressed the court on this authority.” (Laughs) I was embarrassed and was like wow. At that moment, my feeling was between anger and embarrassment. I was angry that she had distorted my flow of thoughts and also I was like eh! That was one of such occasions when I really felt that there was something not right here. Young lawyers often complain about poor remuneration and welfare. What was it like in your time? I was lucky to start one of the top law firms at the time in 1989, 1990, 1991; Alan and Ogunke and then Western House. They’re still there but a bit old now, the partners are a bit old now. Alan and Ogunke was one of the topmost law firms in those days and Western House was a beehive, the best lawyers in the country at the time. The reason I am saying that is  that we were better paid than most of our contemporaries, so we couldn’t complain when others were complaining. But, for the most part, our contemporaries used to tell us all sort of stories, some of them not even earning half of the salaries we were earning at the time. For those of them, yes, I can confirm that it was not too good. Things have changed a great deal, but, unfortunately, the bad habit of the past still flow into what we still experience. I believe we need to address it, I believe a lot of firms can do a lot more than what they’re doing. Your firm is a partnership but we rarely hear about your partner Dayo Owotomo. How did your partnership start? Well, the firm turned 30 this year, by the way, and it started informally. But, over the years, we developed what we call some kind of loose form of partnership because we started a New York office and my partner moved to New York and got licensed 29 years ago to practice as a New York State Attorney, and that has been the face ever since. So, my partnership is a loose form of partnership to that extent. I’m the local Nigerian lawyer here and I handle everything that we do here in Nigeria. We have two offices in Nigeria; the Lagos office and the Abuja office. Looking around your offices, you seem to have gone to great lengths to make your law firm comfortable and functional for both your lawyers and clients? I travel and I have associates, I can say all over the world, and I have seen offices particularly in Europe and in the US and I have always thought that if there is anything I want to leave behind, it is that standard and quality of what a law office should be. I have always looked forward working in an environment that will inspire you to work even harder and that philosophy invoked my decision to actually go all the way out to build this kind of law office. Yes, a lot of people have come here and have expressed the same sentiment you just expressed now, and I thank you and I’m really grateful that we have been able to achieve that. But, of course, more importantly it’s also a statement that we are trying to make, to try to encourage our colleagues that they can do something like this as well. I believe that law practice in Nigeria has gone to a level where we can no longer do work in substandard environment and environment that really does not say much, considering the nature of the services we offer, considering the expectations from lawyers and the clients, we must strive to provide the best and I believe that nothing short of that should be acceptable. What are some of the facilities here that you’re really proud of? Well, I am always very proud to say that one facility that is beyond the structure is the Library, the library is the power house of lawyers and here we spent quite a lot and to get a library that will serve the purpose in terms of the kind of business we do, so we have what we call the physical library, we also have what we call the E-library. They complement each other to be honest, but the most important thing is that there is no resources that you need that you cannot get here, if you can’t get it on the shelves, trust me, you will get it through the E-library, you get it online, and we have put in place everything that will make that happen. That is number one. Number two, we are in the electronic age, so, the office is also equipped with all sorts of gadgets to make our world a lot easier. For instance, we regularly have telephone conference with clients even outside Nigeria, we don’t have to go out there or travel out to have meetings and all that. We have all these things within the comfort of our office. We also have a gym, if you are tired and lawyers do get tired and we have since discovered that the health of the lawyer is actually very key, in terms of the output, what he is able to deliver. So, if you are tired, we always advise you either go to the gym or go to one of our rooms and take a nap if just for 30 minutes. We have comfortable rooms fully equipped, so, if you work late and you want to pass the night, yes you can do that. We have the kitchen, restroom and of course we have shower facilities and all these things. We have put in place all these things to be sure that our lawyers are always very comfortable and they are in a good environment where they are inspired so that they actually do what they know how to do best. Any other lawyers in your family? Yes, incidentally my wife is a lawyer and like my prof and brother use to say, not my kind of lawyer but lawyer all the same. Yes, we are both lawyers and that has helped me. My daughter just finished from the university. She just finished her first degree and she is looking forward to law school. I have a son, he is 14 years old, he is in college. How did you meet? How did we meet? Interesting. We met through a mutual friend and, as it turned out, she is also a cousin to another friend of mine. It was just like an arrangement that had been perfected somewhere that we were just playing out, so when we met it was just smooth running. We met through a mutual friend and we later found out even her cousin who she was living with was also my very good friend. So, the totality of that was what facilitated what we are talking about now, and we have been married for 26 years. Some lawyers prefer to hand over their practice to their children or other family member when they retire. Would you, for instance, like your daughter to succeed you at your law firm? To be honest, I wish I knew what tomorrow holds. For each and every one of us, I know as of today that, of course, my wife is passionate about what is happening here, I know my daughter is interested in pursuing a career in law, but, like I said, we never know, so what we try to do is have an open mind about it. Right in this office, we have one junior partner, I’m sure in another couple of years, we are going to have another. With that, I believe we are already setting the stage for (succession) and if I am lucky, if I am privileged that my daughter decides to follow, yes, why not? She too can follow and rise up to that level at some point in the future, but for now, nobody can say to be honest. You were 60 on September 9. As a SAN, one could say you’ve reached the heights of the profession. You also run a successful practice. What does the future hold for you? Any plans to go into politics? When I became a SAN in 2015, I remember a lot of people telling me that this is the pinnacle of your career, there’s nothing more to aspire to and I felt like sitting on my hands. But, for as long as we live, I believe there’s always something up there that you aspire to truly. To be honest for me, it’s not politics; I’m not looking forward to buying a private jet. I am saying all these because you’re going to be disappointed when I finally tell you. It’s simple, I look forward to becoming a teacher, I look forward to having an opportunity to teach somewhere and impact knowledge and be part of the success of people that are coming after me. I did not mention this, but, in between the time I had my first degree as a lawyer and my earning my Masters degree in law, I ventured into teaching. I taught at different levels. I taught on a part time basis; accountants, bankers, company secretaries in the course of their preparations for their professional qualifications and certifications and I discovered that there’s nothing as fulfilling as when you have an opportunity to impact on people and you grow people and be part of the growth, it’s something fulfilling, I look forward to that, I aspire for the opportunity of walking into the classroom and doing something like that.