The lawmaker representing Aba North and South Federal Constituency at the National Assembly under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Rtn. Hon. Ossy Prestige has attributed his victory at the National and State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Umuahia, the Abia State capital as an act of God. Candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Uzor Azubuike and Mascot Uzor-Kalu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had respectively approached the tribunal challenging the election victory of Prestige which the asked the tribunal to nullify. In their petitions, they contended that Prestige did not win the majority of the lawful votes cast at the Feb. 23 poll and urged the tribunal to respectively declare them the rightful winners. Azubuike accused the Independent National Electoral Commission of excluding results from 14 polling units in the election. In a unanimous judgment delivered by a member of the panel, Justice I.P.C Igwe, the tribunal dismissed Azubuike’s petition for lacking in merit. The tribunal held that INEC’s exclusion of some results was in order, saying that the results were submitted by people who were not election officials after collation had ended. It further threw away Uzor-Kalu’s petition, describing it as fundamentally defective because he failed to join the party that came second in the poll. “Having come a distant third in the election, the petitioner failed to join the party that came second,” Igwe said. Prestige in an exclusive chat with our correspondent in Aba, the commercial nerve of the state recalled how the powers that be in the state wanted to snatch from him, the mandate he said was given to him by the people of Aba North and South through an engineered rerun. According to him, the people of the constituency, stood by him by coming out in their numbers to not only cast their votes during the rerun, but they also stood firm to defend their votes and when such plans failed, they (opponents) resorted approaching the tribunal despite losing to him with wide margins. The Aba North and South Federal Constituency lawmaker who said that he is not afraid if the petitioners appeal the judgment of the tribunal expressed confidence of coming out victorious at the Court of Appeal as he maintained that his victory is an act of God. Prestige who said that his concern is to deliver democratic dividend to the people that elected him, used the opportunity to hint that plans were underway to roll out an empowerment exercise that will benefit most of the constituents. “You were aware when the INEC Returning officer for reasons that are best known to him, decided to declare the election for Aba North and South inconclusive. Aba people protested even going to INEC office in Umuahia where they were shot canisters of tear gas. Some of them were manhandled and others arrested and taken to police. “Some of the results were canceled and election ordered to hold in such areas. Mind you that the areas that units canceled were my area of strength. The people of Aba came out in their numbers to vote and also ensure that their votes counted. “It is the constitutional right of anyone to go to court and seek redress over any issue that he or she feels aggrieved with. But in this case, I am sure that even the Court of Appeal will definitely validate the decision of the tribunal.”