Five passengers were charred and 10 others suffered some degrees of burns on Friday when a bus conveying them burst into a hurrying flames after it had somersaulted at the Onigari corridor of the Lagos – Ibadan expressway. The lone crash occurred in the morning when the commercial bus coming from Sokoto stopped over briefly in Ibadan to pick Lagos bound passengers and shortly after taken off, the driver lost control of the wheel, smashed into the road median and tumbled many times over before balls fire erupted from the crash. The Route Commander and Public Education Officer of Federal Road Safety Corps, Ogun State Command, quoted the Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, as saying five persons died in the accident while 10 others were injured. She stated: “The lone crash involved a commercial bus that travelled all the way from Sokoto state but stopped briefly in Ibadan to pick other passengers. The bus was heading towards Lagos State before it lost control, at Onigari due to excessive speed , and collided with the road median with the bus upturning and bursting into flames. “The crash involved 18 passengers comprising 17Male Adults and 01Female Adult . “A total of 10male adults sustained injuries from the crash but five of the passengers unfortunately died from the crash comprising four male adults and a female adult. The commuter bus is a white coloured Mazda bus with registration number WWD 302CB “The FRSC Ogun State Sector Commander, Clement Oladele commiserates with the families of the crash victims and advised members of the public whose relatives travelled, requiring more information about the crash, should contact the FRSC Command at KM27 Ibadan – Lagos Expressway at Ogunmakin or the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) , Sagamu, where the injured victims were rescued to.” According to the Route Commander, the remains of those killed in the crash were also deposited at the OOUTH mortuary. She urged motorists to drive cautiously on the Lagos – Ibadan Expressway as it is still undergoing rehabilitation, recommending 50km per hour as safe speed at construction area while passengers should always caution their drivers observed driving recklessly.