Ten years ago, when the Dean, School of Art, Design and Printing Technology, Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, Dr. Kunle Adeyemi, turned 50, he donated art materials worth N50,000 each to five Lagos State secondary school students as part of his birthday celebration. This year, Adeyemi will be contributing a percentage of the total gross sales from his exhibition to Niola Cancer Care Foundation. Last Saturday, Adeyemi’s touring and retrospective exhibition tagged Quantum Leap opened at the National Museum, Onikan, Lagos, featuring 60 paintings, mixed media and prints. Also on display were souvenirs and post cards size of his art works offered at affordable price. This, he said, is to make the art works available to larger society, especially the low income group. The art teacher is a multidisciplinary visual artist with strong imprints in printmaking, painting and graphic design. “I want ot be in as many homes as possible, and that was my dream growing up,” he said. Adeyemi’s practical knowledge and thesis have become the basis for many art scholars, theoretical interest on how visual art reflects societal transformation, building a virile society through entrepreneurship and self-reliance. Expectedly, his collection for the on-going exhibition is a mixed bag of works that address issues ranging from celebration to culture, democracy, governance, security, environment and womanhood, among others. To the artist, the retrospective exhibition is an opportunity to reflect and look back at the journey so far. “Some years ago, I never knew I was doing something of importance to the community. Today, most of those things are actually for the good of the community and I can see that one has moved on to something great,” he said at a preview session. According to him, exhibition is not held primarily for commercial gains but to make statements on issues of concern to the community and the nation at large. “As at now, artists are reporting the art materially for generations to come,” he added. Some of the exhibits are Nigeria still a dumping ground, Statement and other matters, The mystery of Sambisa, Women protesting for Chibok girls, Herdsmen invasion-From rod stick to AK 47, Democracy for whom? and Ecstasy of the drumbeat, among other thought provoking at works. In Democracy for whom, Adeyemi mirrors the irony in the nation’s political system, focusing on the two chambers of legislature – Senate and House of Representatives – which, unfortunately, do not represent the people’s interest. He captures the ruled that are tied by ropes to the apron strings of the rulers who are supposed to be servants of the people. He lavishly splashes red and green colours to depict the corporate colours of both chambers. As an academic, Adeyemi who also runs an art studio in Mushin area of Lagos, said he wants to leave art better than he met it. Little wonder his studio is open to student artists on internship from arts schools across the country. The first leg of the exhibition will run till September 2 while he second phase will open at Yusuf Grillo Gallery, Yaba College of Technology, Lagos on September 26 till October 18. On the choice of two venues for the touring exhibition, Adeyemi said: “The two venues have different audiences. The first is a national museum with a broad clientele base while the second is my immediate constituency where my students and colleagues will have opportunity to appreciate my art works.” Adeyemi had his education at Yaba College of Technology, University of Benin, and Delta State University, Abraka, where he bagged Ph.D in Studio Art. He has facilitated many workshops and residencies and visual art retreats in Sweden, US, Liberia and Nigeria. 