President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed shock and grief over the death of the former Secretary to the Federal Government (SGF), Chief Ufot Ekaette. He described him as “a consummate administrator who dedicated himself to duty in the course of his distinguished public service”. In a condolence statement, the President extolled the late SGF “as a gentleman who had given his best in the service of his country”. He said: “The late Ekaette would always be remembered not only for his remarkable public service record, but also because of his immense contributions towards bringing peace in the once troubled Niger Delta region.” While condoling the Ekaette family, the government and people of Akwa Ibom State over the death of the former SGF, President Buhari regretted that “his demise comes at a time when voices like his own are needed to move Nigeria forward in the face of daunting challenges.” President Buhari, in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, assured that “his contributions would never be in vain as the country would always appreciate and remember his great contributions”. The President prayed God Almighty to comfort the Ekaette family, friends and relations, and grant the soul of the departed eternal rest. Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel has mourned the former SGF and ex-deputy governor of the state. Ekaette died on Wednesday at 79. He hailed from Onna Local Government Area and was also the pioneer Minister of Niger Delta Affairs. A condolence message by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Ekerete Udoh, hailed the deceased’s contributions to the development of the state and Nigeria. The message reads: “He was a thoroughbred public servant who was transparent, honest and a stickler for excellence, qualities he brought to bear in the execution of the key offices of public trust he held in the course of his career. “The government and people of Akwa Ibom are grateful for his contributions to the development of our state where he once served as deputy governor. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family; he will be greatly missed.”