No Shade has been a global success from the moment of release. The teaser poster and trailer arrived February 2018 and immediately raised shock, excitement and intrigue from film fans across the world due to its laser focus on the popular issue of Colourism/ shadeism. With two preview screening during the 71st Cannes Film Festival, France in May 2018, the film received critical praise from film critics and producers who hailed the films exploration of Black British race, identity and refreshing themes of love and marriage precipitated by the eagerly awaited world festival premiere at the British Urban Film Festival, the biggest British film exhibition of urban independent works. The 3 sold out festival screenings confirmed the films viability, as a romantic comedy drama from a first-time debut filmmaker, Dermatologist turned film director/ writer and actress Dr. Clare Anyiam-Osigwe B.E.M. The film was picked up for U.S distribution after receiving its Washington DC premiere in August 2018. The film was self distributed by executive producer Emmanuel Anyiam-Osigwe for a limited release into U.K. Odeon cinemas and via streaming platform, Film Doo by co-producer Jesse Quinones in November 2018. This month also saw the European premiere of the film in Holland, Amsterdam screened at the prestigious Pathe Athena cinema by DBUFF. Later that month, Clare, Emmanuel and lead actor Kadeem Pearse and supporting actress Sharea Samuels attended the NYC premiere and U.S release at The Cinema Village, Manhattan. The film’s 2018 screening ended with Clare picking up her first award from ADIFF, “best feature film by a woman of colour” for the movie. Clare gave birth to her daughter on February 1st 2019, and therefore missed the L.A premiere of No Shade at Oscar-Qualifying PAFF where the film was up for best narrative feature on Feb 16th 2019. Clare received her 2nd award, “women in film” honour from women’s empowerment Not-For-Profit Dress For Success in March 2019. The film has since been distributed to SAARC territories streaming on MX player and via Amazon Prime video in the U.K. and USA, KweliTV and also screenings in Chicago in June plus has further educational and cultural screenings requested globally. The film enjoyed its U.K. tv network premiere last Thursday via London Live channel on Freeview and Sky. This week the film finally reaches our shores, with a cross continental premiere across 25 African countries via African Movie Channel TV available on StarTimes and StarSat. Jade (portrayed by Nigerian born actress Adele Oni) is in love with her best friend, Danny, but it takes dramas to occur in both her professional and personal life to show her that the one thing keeping them from being together is the hue of her skin.