Shop owners and entrepreneurs desirous of brand visibility and increased patronage usually prefer to locate their business premises in malls of anchor tenants. Their expectation is that the footfall generated by anchor tenants will boost their businesses.This explains why malls housing Shoprite and other big brands are most sought after . But the looting of Shoprite, in retaliation to the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and their businesses in South Africa is a flip side to this business strategy, as stores owned by Nigerians were also affected. Assistant Editor OKWY IROEGBU-CHIKEZIE writes THE allure to share same trading space with big time brands, especially in merchandising can sometimes be too intimidating to be ignored. Many entrepreneurs looking to shoring up their market equity often times look beyind the cost and go for such spaces, even if it is a small space. Their interest is to fight for the footfall that throng such malls. And They have often hit the bull’s eye on such decision as such outlets become hugely profitable. Leveraging on the crowd pulled by global brand’s popularity is what is called anchor tenancy and has gained traction since big multi-national brands such as Shoprite, Spar, PEP Stores, hit the Nigerian market space. They are mainly departmental stores that trade consumer goods in various product categories, such as groceries, electronics, clothes, household appliances, food and drinks, among others. Also quite common are the retailers in the entertainment and leisure category such as cinemas and game arcades. The upsurge in the development of shopping malls and centres in the past decade is a welcome development and has changed the shopping experience from what it used to be. In addition, the product offering invariably defines the class of customers  coming to the mall. The former National Secretary of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers (NIESV) and former Chairman, NIESV Lagos, Offiong Samuel Ukpong, said anchor tenant are drivers of business anywhere they are. He said they are usually prominent, visible and huge advertisers. Ukpong said this is because of the footfalls and the bargain of varied and superior products, even though it may be intrinsic. This true of Shoprite, a South African food and grocery retailer, which made its first entry in Lagos in December 2005. It now has 25 outlets in eight states. No doubt, Shoprite brand has continued to draw huge traffic and mall developers are taking advantage of the anchor tenant to sell business spaces as other businesses in the mall usually record huge profit as a result of the traffic. But all that may be in the past. Office space seekers are more likely to count the cost today, no thanks to the loss recorded as counter attacks by Nigerians on South Africans business interests as a result of the mindless killings and Xenophobic attacks in South Africa. The blurred line between Shoprite outlets and many malls that house them across the country appeared to have contributed to the misunderstanding. Many Nigerians use Shoprite interchangeably with the mall that houses them. Most shops looted and destroyed, including two in Lagos, were a product of such mistaken identity. Shoprite and other South African businesses, including MTN, have Nigerian investors and most of their employees are Nigerians. However, the looters couldn’t care. Ukpong, however, insisted that despite the recent attacks on some foreign-owned businesses, hosting one’s business with a brand anchor tenant remains a good business strategy. He said: “Shoprite drives business, but it’s possible that as a business entity, its occupancy rate may not be more than 10 per cent in Ikeja Mall.  But it towers almost above every other business there, despite the fact that there are banks, telecom giants, cinemas, boutiques etc. It is unfortunate that the attacks happened because the Shoprite shops are franchise and owned by Nigerians”. Ukpong, who expressed regrets over the incident, noted that most of the people involved did not  fully understand what xenophobic attacks meant; they participated in the episode out of frustration, hunger and anger. According to him, the protests began among Nigerians on social media after many foreign-owned properties and businesses were touched in anti-foreigners rage in South Africa. Ukpong said the peaceful complaints among Nigerians turned into sporadic violence and looting of South African-affiliated businesses across Nigeria. The attacks angered many Nigerians who have called for a boycott of South African businesses, like Shoprite. He said a similar scenario played out at the Adeniran Ogunsanya Shopping Mall in Surulere, where police officers struggled to control a mob that vandalised locked stores and stole valuables. He insisted that no matter the odds against the concept, anchor tenants, makes good business sense for increased patronage and market visibility. The Chairman, Lagos chapter, NIESV, Adedotun Bamigbola, said the key advantage for shop owners to locate their business in malls is for footfall, which is expectedly generated by anchor tenants. He stated that the combined footfall generated by all similar shop outlets creates a multiplier effect on the traffic generated and business opportunities for each shop. Bamigbola said: “The advantage of associating with an anchor tenant is that it generates a boom in business particularly if there is a good tenant mix. “Similarly, when the anchor tenants have lower business patronage, it may adversely affect other businesses in the area.”