Lagos State Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Apostle Alex Bamgbola has appealed to the federal government to consider the xenophobic attacks against Nigeria in South Africa as a wake up calls to address youth employment in Nigeria. Speaking at the Ministers Development and Networking Support organised by Lagos CAN at Abundant Life Gospel Church, Agege, Bamgbola said there would have been lesser illegal immigrations were Nigeria truly working He said the xenophobic attacks were very unfortunate but should let government wake up to be responsibility of providing dividends of democracy to the masses. Bamgbola said the youths must see government building more industries and small business hubs centres that will help in creating jobs for them and not peanut handed out to them. He said: “Nigeria has the largest number of youths anywhere in the world. We can’t leave out the youths and not give them jobs that will make them productive citizens. “The government must pay attention to the youths of this nation before it is too late.” He also noted that the interdenominational outreach was a new movement to unite the church and prepare for the task of evangelism. “The last revival before the coming of the Lord is what we are experiencing today and we want everyone to be part of it,” the former Bank chief stated. Bamgbola applauded the programme, an initiative of The General Superintendent of the Deeper Life Bible Church, Pastor William Kumuyi in mobilising all churches to be part of the move of God for evangelism. He said that God has raised a man such as Kumuyi to see as many souls saved and prepared for Christ second coming. He appealed to other church leaders to partner with CAN in raising men that will be part of the end- time revival. In his message, Kumuyi announced that the wall of division and disunity was broken as the church has united to spread the gospel of Christ. Kumuyi, who said that he was excited to be part of the move of God in galvanizing the churches irrespective of their differences, said that preparing men for heaven and raising well- equipped church leaders for evangelism was top on his mind.