No reality show on television has received wide condemnations and criticisms like the Big Brother Naija reality show. Many are even calling for its total scrap. Many parents have forbidden their children from watching the show “as long as you are in my house” Sexual immorality remains the major reason why people ask the federal government to remove the shock from television screens. Founder of Mount Zion Ministries, Evangelist Mike Bamiloye slammed the show for its explicit contents in 2017. He reacted shortly after Efe Ejeba walked away with the N25 million grand prize. Bamiloye said: “”They kissed, they romanced, before the cameras of Africa, and they were honoured and glorified. “At times, the glory of this world makes the children of the kingdom look stupid. I hope some Kingdom children will not begin to envy this type of worldly glories “What does this teach our youths now? Glamourizing and glorifying immorality before the cameras of the world can fetch you millions and make you a celebrity overnight? “I hope some pastors will not begin to make reference to this as a work of God’s grace.” Politician, Segun Adekoya, also called for its ban in 2017, saying that Nigeria, despite her development, remained a conservative society and as such, allowing “immoral” shows like the ‘Big Brother Naija’ to be broadcast on television could corrupt the minds of the younger generation, especially teenagers. But there are positives from the show, including: Unlike other reality shows where contestants rehearse how to live their lives, the Big Brother Naija show is one where Housemates come as they are and live in the open. There are many cameras to capture every moment and every housemate, so there is no place to hide for anyone. Again, the stakes get higher every year the show is hosted. From the winner getting N25 million in 2017 to walking away with N45 million in 2018 and N60 million up for grabs for the winner in 2019, no show on television beats the Big Brother Naija show financially. This is apart from other juicy prizes housemates will walk away with from winning tasks and challenges, during the course of the show. In 2014, Nigerian Kelvin Chuwang-Pam got married to Tanzanian, Elizabeth Gupta. They have a child. They met in 2009 as Housemates of the then “Big Brother Africa”. In 2017, Olurishe Deborah Ebun (Debbie-Rise) and Bassey Ekpeyong met in the Big Brother House. Though they are not married, they remain close friends till date. On September 7, 2019 Tope Adenibuyan, also known as Teddy A and Bamike Olawunmi, popularly called BamBam, had their introduction. The world waits for their white wedding. They officially got engaged on August 4, 2019. They met in the Big Brother House in 2018. It is always a thing of pride for one to feature in the Big Brother Naija reality show. That explains why millions of youths scrabble to get into the House during the auditions. It is a show of “everyone is a winner”. One major aspect of the Big Brother Naija show is the Thursday night presentation show. Here, Big Brother brings a task for the Housemates, asking them to showcase the cultures and lifestyles of various cultures of Nigeria and other parts of Africa. This is an avenue for viewers to learn one or two things they never knew from other cultures of the world. Though it is focused primarily on entertainment, it has an effect on other industries with significant impact on Nigeria’s GDP, which is currently worth $397.472 billion. Again, MultiChoice has always insisted on an all-Nigerian production crew, which means jobs will be created for Nigerians, courtesy, Big Brother Naija. With foreign cameramen, and DJs, artists and journalists flown in to the country to perform and cover the event especially the eviction weekend, Nigerian hotels would be smiling to the banks.