The Director-General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, has warned corps members against abuse of social media and indecent dressing. Ibrahim reminded the corps members in a statement on Thursday in Abuja that they should maintain their position as role models for the younger generations in the society. The statement signed by Mrs Adenike Adeyemi, the NYSC Director of Press and Public Relations, enjoined the corps members to always adhere strictly to the approved dress code for all events. It said Ibrahim made the remarks while addressing corps members at the NYSC orientation camp, Ashaya near Kabba, in Kogi. He said that the NYSC scheme would not condone improper dressing and mis-use of its uniforms, warning that strict disciplinary measures would be taken against any erring corps member. “The director-general also appealed to the corps members to use the social media for the promotion of national unity and refrain from spreading unverified information and hate speeches. “He urged them to be patriotic and contribute their quota to the corporate existence of the country,’’ the statement added. It also quoted the director-general as tasking corps members on the need for them to maximise opportunities of the service year to cultivate team spirit, integration and unity of purpose. “‘NYSC has a lot of potentials and opportunities, take advantage of the orientation exercise and promote love and unity, though, in tongue we differ but in brotherhood we are the same. ‘Wherever you are, keep your records clean and don’t let your actions of today affect you in future,” Ibrahim emphasised. He admonished them to integrate themselves into their host communities and embark on projects that would affect their lives positively. “You must be security conscious wherever you are because your lives are precious to us and we don’t want you to go back to your parents incapacitated. “Be agents of positive change, shun every form of criminality, cyber crimes, drug peddling, cultism and others,” Ibrahim urged. Besides, he advised them to accept their posting in good faith, and warned against lobbying for posting and induced rejection, saying that there is purpose for everything in life. Ibrahim further charged corps members that would be participating as ad-hoc electoral personnel in the forthcoming governorship election in the state to abide by the electoral laws. NAN