Three persons were at the just concluded three weeks orientation course for the 2019 Batch ‘B’ stream 2 corps members in Anambra state honored by the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) for their outstanding and excellent performance during the camp. While Nneamaka Nzewi was rewarded for excelling as a casual hand on sanitation, Gregory Anaekwe, Police Constable (PC), was honored for apprehending a notorious thief that terrorized the camp. Mrs Gladys Ofurum, an NYSC Officer, on her part, bagged the award of best Platoon Officer in the camp. Four corps members were also rewarded for coming tops in the essay competition organized by the scheme during the orientation course. The corps members were Adegoke Damilola, Precious Ukeje, Ogunlana Ismail and Agada Christopher. Speaking to The Nation, the police officer, Anaekwe expressed appreciation to the NYSC scheme for finding him worthy for the honour. He said he was on permanent night shift all through the period of the camp which resulted in the extra ordinary success he recorded. He said, “I was able to chase and catch some thieves, including a notorious robber that used to terrorize the camp. “I just decided to keep night guard throughout the period of the camp, and I’m happy I did.” Earlier, the State Coordinator, Mr. Kehinde Aremu said the award presentation was introduced to encourage increased commitment and dedication among camp officials during the orientation course. He praised the recipients for distinguishing themselves for the award, challenging others to borrow a leaf from their outstanding performances. According to the coordinator, the suspected robber was immediately handed over to the Awkuzu Divisional Police for further investigations. He also applauded the corps members who excelled in the essay competition, urging them to keep it up. He revealed that all the 1,615 corps members inducted into the service on August 22, 2019, successfully completed their course without anyone being lost. While commending the understanding and resilience of corps members throughout the duration of the course amidst infrastructural deficiencies, Aremu reassured the movement of the camp to the permanent camp in the next orientation course. He also thanked the Anglican communion for making available its facilities for the scheme over the years. Aremu added that only organizations that requested for the services of corps members would have them posted, appealing to corps employers to provide decent and safe accommodation for them for effective service delivery.