The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has said it destroyed terrorists’ training camp and logistics base in Kusuma, Borno State. Its Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore, Daramola Ibikunle, announced this in a statement in Abuja. The statement said the Air Task Force (ATF) detailed by NAF destroyed a major logistics base and training camp of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP). It reads: “Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole has recorded another major success in its sustained air offensive against terrorists’ targets in the Northeast. The feat was achieved on September 25, 2019, when NAF aircraft, detailed by the ATF, destroyed a major ISWAP logistics base and training camp at Kusuma on the fringes of Lake Chad in Borno State. “The air strike was executed after credible intelligence reports had established that a section of the settlement was serving as a training camp for the terrorists, while some buildings within the camp were being used to store their fuel, arms and ammunition as well as other logistics supplies. “The pre-attack surveillance showed scores of fighters attempting to flee the location upon hearing the sound of the attack aircraft. They were engaged by the attack aircraft in successive passes, neutralising many of them. The terrorists’ logistics supply store, which was also hit, was seen engulfed in flames due to the raid. “The NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, will sustain its efforts to completely destroy all remnants of the terrorists in the Northeast.” Also, the Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj.-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, has urged troops of the theatre to show no mercy to Boko Haram terrorists or their collaborators. Adeniyi also told the troops to move swiftly and engage the insurgents in their hiding places and finish them without delay. The theatre commander was on operational visit to Sector II of the theatre in Damaturu, Yobe State. He advised the troops to deal ruthlessly with Boko Haram and anybody seeing to be supporting insurgency. According to him, the soldiers are capable of doing the job, and should not be deterred by any obstacle that will stand on their way to finish the job.