I once participated in a project: “The impact of communication on values.” I was in a sub-committee that looked at the impact of integrity, honesty, tolerance and cohesion on society, and the role that communication can play in instilling these values in our youth. Part of the strategy was to arrange focus groups meetings in tertiary institutions. In the groups I coordinated, I asked them one simple question: “what will you do if you find a missing N500, 000.00 in a bag in your institution?” I was shocked that only about five percent of the over 200 undergraduates I engaged said they would return the money to the owner, if they know who he is, or to the authorities to find the rightful owner. The responses I got were; “I’d be a big fool to return the money.” “God must have provided the money to pay my school fees.” “I’ll be a ‘happening’ guy on campus.” ”With that kind of money, I can pay for a room for myself in the hostel.” Etc. The project was about exploring the glue that holds society together thus it focused on nationalism, patriotism, tolerance, honesty and integrity, citizenship, development, cohesion etc. I was glad that at the end of each day’s deliberation, some of those who affirmed that they would keep the money eventually agreed it was the wrong thing to do. I recollect one of those on the side of integrity raising an important question: “if you succeed in keeping and spending the money then what next?” That question really got home and provided the opportunity for us to look at honesty and integrity dispassionately. Basic values are traditional and historic, reflecting aspects of the experience of a society. These values like right and wrong, tolerance, empathy, dedication etc. are oftentimes extracted from the main religious teachings of the society. In fact, a value system is based on averaging the total human experiences and producing a compromised version for all to follow. Religion is often present at the heart of a human value system. But our society is today at a values crossroad. The rate at which our youth engage in criminal enterprise has spiked in recent times. The most common is cybercrime and kidnapping. Cybercrime is ‘justified’ – by those who engage in it – on the ground that it does not ‘hurt anyone.’ Kidnapping is getting ‘dues’ from the ‘oppressors.’ This warped reasoning predominates among our youth today. As the outcome of the project I mentioned earlier stressed, communication has an important role to play in moving society in the right direction. World leaders realised this following the massive devastation of the World War II period. One of the disruptions that took place was in the area of communication. That disruption led to the evolution of communication for development (C4D) which mirrored broader shifts in theories and models of economic and social development. The basic assumption is that there are no countries or communities that function completely autonomously and that are completely self-sufficient, nor are there any nations whose development is exclusively determined by external factors. Every society is dependent in one way or another, both in form and in degree. Consequently, communication initiatives adopted a diffusion approach, which uses communication to carry out a transfer of information. This includes large-scale media campaigns, social marketing, dissemination of printed materials, ‘education-entertainment’ and other forms of one-way transmission of information from the sender to the receiver. With time, proponents of diffusion theory recognised the limitations of mass media – the way it was being run – in promoting sustained behavioural change. The new thinking thus incorporated interpersonal communication: face-to-face communication that can either be one-on-one or in small groups. The objectives are to share information, respond to questions, and motivate specific behavioural practices. The belief is that while mass media allows for the learning of new ideas, interpersonal networks encourage the shift from knowledge to continued practice. That was why the project I mentioned earlier engaged in focus group discussions. Communication for development has thus come to be seen as a way to amplify voice, facilitate meaningful participation, and foster social change. The 2006 World Congress on C4D defined it as “a social process based on dialogue using a broad range of tools and methods. It is also about seeking change at different levels including listening, building trust, sharing knowledge and skills, building policies, debating and learning for sustained and meaningful change.” Such two-way, horizontal approaches to communication include public hearings, debates, deliberations and stakeholder consultations, participatory radio and video, community-based theatre and story-telling, and web forums. While the west had known this for long, we only started imbibing them about two decades ago with the establishment of the National Orientation Agency (NOA), a parastatal in the federal Ministry of Information and Culture. If an opinion poll is conducted today, I believe most Nigerians would be shocked that an agency like NOA still exists; one can practically conclude that it is “irrelevant” because of its non-impact and the way it has been run. The NOA – because of its spread and network – is supposed to be a game changer in propagating our value system. I will advocate a disruption to professionalise the NOA by engaging professionals with vast knowledge of integrated marketing communication – who know what strategic communication is all about to assist. The NOA was established by Decree 100 on 23rd August, 1993. The Decree merged the Public Enlightenment (PE), War Against Indiscipline (WAI), and National Orientation Movement (NOM) Divisions of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture with the Directorate for Social Mobilization, Self-Reliance and Economic Recovery (MAMSER). The rationale for the merger was to harmonise and consolidate efforts and resources of the government in the fields of public enlightenment, social mobilization and value re-orientation. The main objectives are: to ensure that government programmes and policies are better understood by the general public; mobilize favourable public opinion for such programmes and policies; encourage informal education through public enlightenment activities and publications. Others include establishing feedback channels to government on all aspects of Nigerian national life; establish appropriate national framework for educating, orientating and indoctrinating Nigerians towards attitudes, values and culture which project individual’s national pride and positive national image for Nigeria; awaken the consciousness of Nigerians to their responsibilities to the promotion of national unity, citizens commitment to their human rights to build a free, just and progressive society; develop among Nigerians of all ages and sex, social and cultural values and awareness which will inculcate the spirit of patriotism, nationalism, self-discipline and self-reliance. The final set of objectives include encouraging the people to actively and freely participate in discussions and decisions on matters affecting their general welfare; promote new sets of attitudes and culture for the attainment of the goals and objectives of a united Nigeria State; ensure and uphold leadership by example; foster respect for constituted authority; and instill in the citizens a sense of loyalty to the fatherland. I doubt if there’s anyone out there who would disagree that these are not a fantastic set of objectives. The question to ask is why have they not been achieved? Why didn’t we make progress and why were Nigerians not better informed about the workings of government? The simple answer is professional incapacity and strategy. The United Nations (UN) realises the critical importance of capacity this is why it employs the services of key and knowledgeable professionals to manage its interaction with people of diverse cultures and nationalities. Managing information is fundamental toward progress because it a delicate balance between progress and anarchy; It is not “job for the boys.” One of the major reasons for the Rwanda genocide was the poor management of information. It is amazing that when the world is moving forward, we are either static or moving backward. I see this happening daily. One of the ways to address this is for the NOA to explore ways of partnering with institutions and schools – tertiary, secondary and basic – to use their platforms to communicate with the students. They already have offices in all the local government areas in the country. So what is holding the agency back? Could it be dearth of capacity and strategy?