LAST week, we gave you a peep into the professional backgrounds of our celebs whose professions are in the humanities. This week, we will be showcasing celebs whose educational backgrounds are in the other side of the academic divide. Of course, it is easy to think that some of our biggest and most successful stars in showbiz have a backgrounds in the arts. Nigerian actors and actresses may not feature regularly in Hollywood movies or feature regularly on top chats, but still they are masters of the game. They are master interpreters of simple and complex roles and crooners of the highest caliber. So, you may be forgiven if you thought that your favourite celebs either studied theater arts or went straight to the studio after high school. Wrong! The backgrounds of our celebs are very diverse. Some of our biggest stars have science, engineering, medical and technology education and degrees. For example, Banky W studied engineering, while Kiki Omeili, Beautiful Nubia and Dr Sid have medical degrees. Some like Kate Henshaw and Beautiful Nubia actually practised for some time before dabbling into the world of showbiz. So, here are celebrities who also ditched their first love for showbiz. Banky W Nigerian artist, actor and politician Olubankole Wellington aka Banky W, the Empire Mates Entertainment (EME) boss popularly known as Banky W is perhaps best known for his role in the film “The Wedding Party” and in the music industry, both of which were incredibly successful.  He studied Industrial Engineering at Rensselaer University in New York. Banky W has a reputation for interpreting his roles well. Besides being a successful musician in his own right, he is also a successful artiste management expert. So, it may surprise you to know that his background is in engineering. Okey Bakassi The former Senior Special Adviser on Entertainment Matters to the past Imo State Governor, Ikedi Ohakim, Okechukwu Anthony Onyegbule, popularly known as Okey Bakassi, is a Nigerian stand-up comedian and actor. He’s a graduate of Agricultural Engineering from the Rivers State University of Science and Technology (RSUST), Port Harcourt. Kate Henshaw – Medical Microbiology Kate Henshaw shot to fame as a model, and has since grown her brand and wealth with television and film roles. After completing her primary and secondary school in Lagos and Calabar, she spent one year at the University of Calabar for remedial studies and then majored in Medical Microbiology at the School of Medical Lab Science, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). Henshaw worked for some time at the Bauchi State General Hospital. Eldee Nigerian rapper, record producer and architect Lanre Dabiri, popularly known by his stage name Eldee, is an architect with a Masters Degree from the University of Lagos, Nigeria. Kiss Daniels Nigerian artist and Woju crooner-Oluwatobiloba Daniel Anidugbe aka Kiss Daniels has a degree in Water Resources Management and Agrometeorology (Water Engineering) from the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta. Dr Sid Popular Nigerian singer and song writer, Sidney Onoriode Esiri, well-known as Dr Sid, completed a Dental Surgery course/degree at the Universit y of Ibadan (UI) before pursuing his passion in entertainment. Kiki Omeili The next person on our list of celebrities with degrees in the medical field is a graduate of medicine, this time from University of Lagos. Omeili began performing in stage plays all through her primary and secondary school years. This continued when she got into the university as she was a member of the drama club and acted in various productions as well as taking part in several drama competitions. In 2006, she obtained a medical degree from the College of Medicine, University of Lagos. Beautiful Nubia Nigerian songwriter, music composer and band leader Segun Akinlolu, popularly known as Beautiful Nubia, graduated from the University of Ibadan with a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree in 1992 and practised as a veterinary doctor for about eight years. He also holds a Post-Graduate Diploma from the Nigeria Institute of Journalism. Tonto Dikeh Nigerian actress, singer and humanitarian Tonto Dikeh, known to many as Poko, Tontolet, Mama King and King Tonto. Tonto Dikeh got an early taste of fame when she starred in a movie titled “Dirty Secret”, which generated controversy among Nigerians due to its adult scenes. Dikeh studied Petrochemical Engineering at the Rivers State University of Science and Technology. Chioma Chukwuka-Akpotha Chukwuka’s acting career began with her debut in the movie “The Apple” in 2000 and has since bolstered her fame and wealth with television and film roles. She hails from Oraifite, Ekwusigo Local Government Area, Anambra State, Nigeria, but born in Lagos State. She completed her primary education at Onward Nursery and Primary School in Lagos State, and then proceeded to the Federal Government Girls College in Onitsha, Anambra State, for her secondary education. She then headed to Lagos State University, where she studied Banking and Finance.