It is about time the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC) addressed the issue of incessant fall of petroleum and containerised trucks, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE The fall, last Thursday, of a fuel tanker on the Otedola Bridge, Lagos, the second this year, and the attendant lock down of roads abutting the area, is the latest wake up call Federal Government agencies, especially the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FSRC), must take on the issue of safety compliance, particularly by truck drivers, to the front burner. The accident, which occurred  about 10am, caused a jam that locked down almost the greater parts of Mainland Lagos for the day. It lasted into the wee hours of Friday, with agony tales by road users. A motorist, Thomas Damilare, on Lagos Traffic Radio (LTR), lamented that he spent seven hours from his Victoria Island office to his Mowe, Ogun State home, instead of the usual one hour. Though no life was lost in the accident, the traffic snarl it caused was, for hundreds of people caught in it, enough nightmare. It was not the first time such would happen on that road, accidents are a regular feature, locking out motorists and commuters, especially those living along that corridor. Of all road users, it seems articulated vehicle drivers have almost become untouchables. They break the law and some of them drive with reckless abandon. Also, many of the trucks have long passed their service life and  have become a mere contraption and an accident waiting to happen. Take for example the container laden trailer that got stuck on the Iganmu Bridge last Thursday. The trailer exiting the port could not ascend the bridge. It blocked the road, causing a heavy traffic, until it was evacuated. June 27, last year, was a day many would not forget in a hurry in Lagos. Nine persons died and about 54 vehicles were lost to a massive fire from a petroleum tanker that exploded on the same Otedola Bridge. The FRSC said the recurrent falling of articulated vehicles, with the attendant killing of innocent citizens, was worrisome. The agency assured Nigerians that it was working to end the ugly trend. The Corps Public Education Officer, Mr Bisi Kazeem, said FRSC was concerned with the frequency and fatality from tanker crashes, especially when such involved spillage of fuel and resultant inferno. According to him, the FRSC has sustained tanker safety awareness campaign over the past few years. His words: “The majority of the tankers are old and rickety, requiring replacement. Secondy is that some of them operate without safety valves, coupled with the state of well-being of the drivers. All these drawbacks are addressed by the Corps campaign.” Kazeem said there were efforts to evolve a fleet renewal scheme, a public-private sector initiative between the government and relevant petroleum tankers unions, to create opportunities for the purchase of  new tankers to replace rickety ones. At a summit by the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, stakeholders, including the Corps, Petroleum Tanker Drivers (PTD) of the Nigeria Union Petroleum and Natural Gas (NUPENG) and Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) agreed that the Federal Government must provide access to new fleet, if Nigeria must overcome the challenges besetting haulage. In the interim, the corps, in the last three years, had been deploying men to fuel depots and facilities across the country to ensure that tankers to load wet cargoes meet minimum safety standards before they are allowed to do so. The standards, according to Kazeem, are the possession of safety valves to prevent fuel spillage, if the tanker falls. “We are also working with the leadership of the tanker unions to ensure periodic training and retraining of tanker drivers, including issues of their health status and eye test,” he said. He added that the Safe-to-load Policy, introduced by the Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, in 2017, was to ensure that there’s no spillage of any flammable products, thereby protecting the cargo for transloading and preventing carnage. Kazeem revealed that the corps was working with the Vehicle Inspection Office (VIO) to ensure that articulated vehicles were tested and given regular checks to remove unfit vehicles from the road. “This effort will help in taking expired and bad vehicles off our roads,” Kazeem said. At a the first inaugural lecture of the Lagos State University School of Transport Studies (LASU-SOT), Oyeyemi said he had to softpedal on enforcement of standards, especially of expired trucks because of their importance to the economy. Oyeyemi argued that had the Corps fully enforced the law, 70 per cent of articulated trucks on the roads would have been taken off because they have “expired engines”. A trailer head costs between N30 and N50 million. On the average, none of the articulated vehicles on the roads are below 30 years. To manage the trucks’ menace, the Corps has introduced measures such as the deployment of special patrol operations, mobile courts and others, to manage the situation until the economy is strong enough to grow that sub-sector. However, checks revealed that most tanker drivers lacked knowledge of basic safety tips and traffic regulations that could aid their movement on the road. Besides, many of them are too young. They struggle for space with smaller vehicles. Faced with this reality, the Corps said it has put in place aggressive  campaigns for drivers. At its last meeting with Dangote Group, the Corps advocated the establishment of more driving schools, especially for articulated vehicle drivers. Such schools, it argued, would go a long way in  teaching them modern driving techniques. Admittedly, FRSC has intensified its public enlightenment campaigns, training and retraining, seminars and workshops for drivers of articulated vehicles. “The Corps is highly committed to public enlightenment/education campaigns due to its impact on road traffic crash reduction on our roads,” Kazeem said. “In as much as the Corps is on its toes day and night to salvage the situation, it is important to say here that some articulated truck drivers also tend to be recalcitrant on the road, especially in areas where our men are not on patrol.The behavioural pattern of some of this difficult tanker drivers calls for concern and that is why the Corps is taking campaigns to their door steps to ensure that their orientation is changed,’’ he added.