A mother of three, Oluwatoyin Lasisi , who was arrested by the Oyo state police command for stealing a three- year- old baby in Ibadan on Thursday blamed her action on the sickness threatening her life. On interrogation, the suspect who was paraded by the Oyo Police Command on Thursday, disclosed she is suffering from mental disease and epilepsy . The three-year-old baby, Nimotallah Sulaiman, according to her was found at dump site at Muslim area of Ibadan. While explaining that she did not know when she picked the baby from the refuse dump site and took her to her personal house, Lasisi stated that the dump site was where she usually sit to beg for alms . According to her, the sickness usually affects her sense of reasoning and pushes her to do unreasonable things. Speaking on how she stole the baby, the suspect said; “I was just going to where I beg for alms in a bakery around Muslim area of Ibadan and I saw the little baby, Nimotallah Sulaiman. I reasoned that it wont be good of me to allow her be stolen by ritualists and that was why I picked her. “I didn’t know when I backed her and took her to my house. When I got to my house, a woman in my neighborhood was challenging me where I got the baby from. I told her that the baby belongs to my brother who had matrimonial problem. “When she started disturbing me, I told her that I would take the baby back to her parent that night. I was heading to police station when some people stopped me and started beating me. That was when they took me to police station,” she recalled. The father of the victim, Sulaiman Dauda who described the situation as pathetic said the baby was stolen at a refuse dump site where she went to defecate alone, an act which he blamed on his wife’s stupidity. “The baby told her mother that she wanted to defecate and she allowed her alone to go to the dump site close to her shop. When she left her in the site, this woman came and stole the baby. That was when we knew there was a problem, ” the father of the baby told newsmen . Commissioner of Police, Shina Olukolu, said; “upon information received from the people of the area, police arrested her and investigated the case.” He said when interrogated, she informed the police that she was in the area to beg for alms when she sighted the baby who was later identified as Nimotallah.