Central bankers have launched an investment scheme or mutual fund to aggregate investments in green bonds. The new global green bond fund came as Nigeria made commitments to issue more green bonds to finance its climate change initiatives. The Bank for International Settlements (BIS) launched the open-ended fund for central bank investments in green bonds in response to a growing demand for climate-friendly investments among official institutions. Established in 1930, BIS is owned by 60 central banks, representing countries from around the world that together account for about 95 per cent of world’s gross domestic products (GDP). BIS offers financial services to a broad client base comprising some 140 central banks, monetary authorities and international organisations worldwide. The BIS’s green bond fund initiative helps central banks to incorporate environmental sustainability objectives in the management of their reserves. The open-ended fund, denominated in United States dollars, is structured according to Swiss law and belongs to the BIS Investment Pool (BISIP) family, a format commonly used by BIS Asset Management for its fixed income investment products. It is managed in-house by BIS Asset Management. Eligible bonds have a minimum rating of A– and comply with the International Capital Market Association’s Green Bond Principles and/or the Climate Bond Standard published by the Climate Bonds Initiative. With the support of an advisory committee drawn from a global group of central banks, the fund pools BIS client assets to promote green finance through sizeable climate-friendly investments and support the adoption of best market practices to deepen the green bond market. “The initiative is part of the BIS’s broader commitment to supporting environmentally responsible finance and investment practices, in line with the Bank’s participation in the Central Banks and Supervisors Network for Greening the Financial System,” BIS stated. Head of the BIS Banking Department, Peter Zöllner, said the global green bond fund would help to promote and develop the green bond market. “We are confident that, by aggregating the investment power of central banks, we can influence the behaviour of market participants and have some impact on how green investment standards develop,” Zöllner said. President Muhammadu Buhari unfolded planned initiatives under Nigeria’s climate change programme during a United Nations General Assembly session including plans for more sectorial action plan and expansion of the scope of Nigeria’s sovereign green bonds. According to him, Nigeria will issue a green bond for irrigation and construct multi-purpose dams for power, irrigation and water supply. The Federal Government had in December 2017 launched Nigeria’s maiden sovereign green bond as part of efforts to diversify government revenue and deepen the domestic capital market. Nigeria’s first sovereign green bond was oversubscribed by about N100 million as investors staked N10.791 billion on the N10.69 billion maiden bond. The Debt Management Office (DMO), which oversees government’s debt issues, in July 2018, listed the maiden N10.69 billion green bond on the stock market. The five-year bond carries a coupon rate of 13.48 per cent. The issuance of the green bond and listing were sequel to Nigeria’s endorsement of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change on September 21, 2016. The Paris Agreement aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) subsequently launched Green Bonds Issuance Rules, including rules and regulations on green bond issuance and management in the capital market regulatory framework. The green bond regulatory framework defined a green bond as any type of debt instrument, the proceeds of which would be exclusively applied to finance or re-finance in part or in full new and or existing projects that have positive environmental impact. The rules indicated that green bonds would be used exclusively to finance renewable and sustainable energy, clean transportation, sustainable water management, climate change adaptation, energy efficiency, sustainable waste management, sustainable land use, biodiversity conservation and any other categories as may be approved by SEC from time to time. The regulations highlighted some special conditions that any issuer of green bond must fulfill in addition to the general registration requirements for debt issuances as stated in the Rules and Regulations of the Commission for states, local governments, corporate and supranational agencies. According to the rules, an issuer of a green bond shall also file a feasibility study and report stating clearly, the measurable benefits of the proposed green project or assets such as green house gas reduction, reduction of water use and reduction of harmful emissions. The issuer must also file a prospectus which shall include project categories, project selection criteria, decision-making procedures, environmental benefits, use and management of the proceeds as well as a letter from the issuer committing to invest proceeds of the bond in green projects or assets. The issuer must also provide an independent assessment or certification issued by a professional certification authority or person approved or recognised by the Commission in addition to any other documents that may be required by the Commission.