AN Irish firm, Process and Industrial Developments Ltd (P&ID), which got a $9.6 billion judgment against Nigeria over an aborted gas project, was on Friday wound up. The Federal High Court in Abuja convicted it for fraud and tax evasion after it pleaded guilty. The court also ordered the winding-up of the firm’s affiliate, P&ID Nigeria Limited. Both firms are to forfeit their assets to the Federal Government. The company was awarded $6.6 billion in an arbitration decision following a failed 2010 project to build a gas-processing plant in Calabar, the Cross River State capital. With interest, the sum is now over $9 billion, which is about 20 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign reserves. Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) Abubakar Malami (SAN) had vowed to prosecute those involved in the controversial deal. The firms pleaded guilty before Justice Inyang Ekwo to an 11-count charge of fraud and tax evasion. The charges were filed against the firms by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on behalf of the Federal Government. This followed the firms’ unlawful conduct in relation to the controversial Gas Supply Project Agreement (GSPA). An arbitration tribunal in London slammed $9.6billion damages on Nigeria. The firms were accused of fraudulently claiming to have acquired land from the Cross River State government in 2010 for the GSPA. The two companies were represented in court by Mohammad Kuchazi, identified as Commercial Director, P&ID Ltd, Virgin Island, and Adamu Usman. Usman, a lawyer, represented himself; Kuchazi was represented by his counsel, Dandison Akurunwua. Following their guilty plea, prosecuting counsel Bala Sanga called their sole witness, Usman Babangida, an EFCC investigator, for facts review. The defence team did not raise any objections. It also did not object to the prosecution’s tendering of documents relating to the 2010 GSPA and EFCC’s investigation activities. The judge admitted them in evidence. After Justice Ekwo convicted the firms, Akurunwua and Usman prayed the court to be lenient. They urged the court to consider the fact that P&ID showed “forthrightness and candour” by pleading guilty and not wasting precious judicial time. Sanga prayed the court to order the winding-up of the firms in sentencing them. In his judgment, Justice Ekwo held that in view of the facts, evidence and the defendant’s guilty plea, the orders to make were for the winding up of the companies and forfeiture of their assets. He ordered the forfeiture of “the assets and properties” of the two firms to the Nigerian government and wound them up. Reacting to the judgment, Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami(SAN), said Nigeria now has basis to seek a review of the $9.6billion judgment against it. He said Nigeria will meet with its legal consortium early next week in the UK in preparation for the case listed for September 26. Malami, spoke through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Dr. Umar Gwandu, said: “The implication of today’s conviction is that Nigeria has a  judicial proof of fraud and corruption as a foundation of the relationship that gave rise to a purported liability in the arbitral award. “A liability that is rooted in fraud and corruption cannot stand judicial enforceability. Nigeria now has a cogent ground for setting aside the liability. “Nigeria is expected to review its strategy in view of unfolding developments as it relates to conviction of  some of the suspects that have admitted fraud and corrupt practices in the transaction that gave rise to purported award. “Nigeria is meeting with its legal consortium early next week in UK in preparation for the case listed for 26th September.” 