One of Arsenal’s next generation of youngsters, Joseph Olowu speaks candidly about growing up and how Arsenal picked him up at as a 13-year-old and the influence of Alex Iwobi on his career. What were your dreams growing up and why did you settle for football? As a young boy growing up I always wanted to be a footballer even though I was good at many sports I was just really passionate about pursuing football as a career. Tell us about your growing up years and why did you choose Arsenal ahead of other clubs? Growing up I used to play Sunday League football at a local team called Docklands JFC for about 3 years, I really enjoyed playing in that team and I am still close to some of the boys and I also have a fantastic relationship with the manager. I was 13 years of age when I was spotted by Arsenal and I was actually playing for Charlton Athletic on a trial with them in a game against the Gunners. Later that night the scout who actually took me to Charlton called and told my parents that Arsenal had invited me on a six-week trial with them. I was playing as a defensive central midfielder but straight away I was asked to play centre back by the coaches at Hale End.  I was an Arsenal fan but was quite relaxed because I did not raise my hopes too high. I thought that Arsenal were such a big club, they have their choice of the best players from around the world so my chances of being taken on would be slim. My thinking was that I would at least have experienced the opportunity of a trial with my club.  Because I was so laid back about would happen I was able to play my natural game. I was five weeks into the trial and after a match against Crystal Palace, I was invited to sign. My parents are from Nigeria and I am eligible to play for either Nigeria or England. Alex Iwobi has really been an inspiration to me and to my team mate Tobi Omole who I also live within digs in Cockfosters. He came through the Arsenal Youth system and is doing so well. He scored against Zambia in the World Cup qualifiers the other week and his name is growing and growing in African football. My dad has also noticed that there is a lot of attention being given to Toby and I in the African football forums which must in part also be due to how well Alex has been doing. Arsenal was the first academy that gave me the opportunity to further my football education when I was 13 and it is something I’m really grateful for because I began training with world class coaches and players. What are your immediate and long term priorities at Arsenal, do you see your future at the Emirates or you are going to seek greener pastures elsewhere? Right now I am very happy at Arsenal and I am enjoying my football, hopefully I can push on and potentially get an opportunity in the first team this season. How were your sporting and football heroes, and reasons behind your choices? Growing up as a CB I was a massive admirer or both Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic because they were both very dominant CB’s that defended very well and could also be composed in possession of the ball. I was also a big fan of Joseph Yobo because he gave everything for Nigeria whenever he played for the Super Eagles. We have a lot of Nigerian-born Britons who have played for Nigeria, are you ready to take that route? Yes. I feel that I am ready to represent the Super Eagles. Who are the Nigerian players that you are familiar with and what information have you gotten from them? I’ve spent quite a lot of time with Kelechi Nwakali and he says that there are some very good players that are playing for the U23’s. Describe your style of play and how would you fit into Nigeria plans if you so desire to play for your native country and not country of birth? I always think about defending first as a CB and organising players around me throughout the game. I also like being tough in tackles and heading but when it does come to playing with the ball I am very composed in possession and like to pass the ball around a lot. Tell us about your family and what role are they playing in your career? My family has been a massive help on my career because they always try to attend as many matches as possible to show their support and whenever I need words of encouragement and prayers they are always there to provide them What do you think about the crop of Nigerian players in England, who are your close pals? The amount of talented Nigerian players in England is endless and the ones I’m closest to are Tobi Omole, Tolaji Bola, Nnamdi Ofoborh and Tom Dele What’s your life philosophy? For me they are three simple words; honestly, loyalty, authenticity.