After causing much trouble and shunning several overtures from the Katsina State government, bandits in the state seem to have had a rethink. They are freeing their captives in droves. No fewer than 51 persons abducted by the hoodlums have so far been released. This has changed the atmosphere in the state, spreading joy among families and friends of the former abductees, as well as the administration of Governor Bello Masari. People across the state have hailed Masari for the latest development, though some also questioned the idea of negotiating with criminals. Non-governmental organistions, including those helping to rehabilitate residents sacked from their homes by the bandits, have praised the administration for the new lease of life in the state. Dr Umar Dikko Radda of Gwagware Foundation said the release of the abductees has restored peace and tranquility in the state. Radda himself sent relief materials to internally displaced persons in Batsari, one of the eight hardest hit local government areas. The hoodlums made a habit of raiding those councils, going from house to house and taking anything they fancied. The attacks sent residents fleeing their homes. Governor Masari made several appeals to the hoodlums, urging them to stop the attacks and embrace peace. They paid him no attention. Masari tried again, asking them to lay down their arms and get some compensation and rehabilitation. They ignored him again. The governor kept talking to them. Eventually, the talks have begun to yield fruit. Thirty kidnapped victims were released to Governor Masari by the bandits last Saturday. The released victims are 15 women, including nursing mothers, and 15 children, most of them toddlers. A businessman in the state Alhaji Barau Mangal said the dialogue with the bandits will heal wounds and bring peace, a development that will help the Masari administration achieve its programmes. He said, “Governor Masari‘s initiative and peace efforts are moving Katsina State forward, we must all work with him, I commend his determination to take the initiative to secure peace and tranquility in the state.”