Management of the Benue State University (BSU) has been finding it difficult to run a hitch-free academic calendar because of incessant students’ protests. EMMANUEL UJA, Makurdi reports on the protests, which stakeholders say are too numerous for the institution’s good. There are two universities in Makurdi , the Benue State capital – The Federal University of Agriculture (UAM), now JS Tarka University  of Agriculture Makurdi, and Benue State University ( BSU). While UAM, a federal government institution, enjoys smooth academic calendar, the state-owned BSU is always in the news for wrong reasons as a result of its bloated students’ population. The university is shut regularly over students’ protest, such that it hardly completes a semester without students protesting and the management closing the institution. During protests, they block the two gates of the university and prevent workers from gaining entrance. In the last three years,  according to a source, BSU students have challenged every management and Senate decision. For instance, earlier this year, the students protested the management’s insistence that all students must pay school fees and complete course registration before examination. They argued that most of their parents were civil servants who were owed by Benue State government.  The university was shut over the incident. The latest protest by BSU students which has sparked anger among Benue people started two weeks ago. The Nation gathered that in the first week, a Student Union official was allegedly shot far away in the town by unknown gunmen. He was rushed to Benue State University Teaching Hospital, Makurdi for treatment but on the third day while on admission, the students staged a protest, blocking the two gates, insisting that the victim be taken to a better hospital for treatment. In the second week, the students staged another protest – this time over the National Universities Commission (NUC) directive that the university should switch to the five points Grading System with effect from 2018/ 2019 academic season. The management pleaded with the students to vacate the two gates but they refused, and finally the institution was again shut down and students directed to vacate school immediately. It was one protest too many in BSU.  A parent, James Tyover, told The Nation that students had no right to decide what standard the school management should set for them. He described the protesters as lazy youths who should be expelled from BSU. He said such students were being used against the present management. A source in management said some of the students had carried over many courses multiple times and were just staying on campus without proper registration.  The source said it was difficult to differentiate who was a student and who was not. However, a 300-Level student of Mass Communication, Paul Onoja, disagreed that students were being used against the management. Onoja pleaded with the university authorities to start the grading system with new students. Speaking on the crisis, the university’s Vice Chancellor, Prof Msugh Kembe, expressed concern that the students did not wait for the outcome of a committee set up to look into the grading system before embarking on a protest. Kembe said all stakeholders, including students, submitted memorandum to the committee and should have waited for the outcome. A non-academic staff at BSU, Mrs Mary Ukav, told The Nation that some students were behind the latest protest because of  the tussle for  Students Union leadership. Mrs Ukav explained that there was no Students Union Government (SUG) in place as their tenure had expired and presidents of departmental associations were running students’ affairs.  