Investigations by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) and furore over the attempted reinstatement of a coach indicted for bribery, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) have combined to spoil the mood at the Glass House, writes Deputy Sports Editor ADEYINKA ADEDIPE Scandal. That is one word the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has been unable to run away from. And sad enough, the scandals are self-inflicted and they continued to bring the game and the body to disrepute. For the football federation, these are definitely not the best of times. It is under heavy criticism for a blunder it made and the allegation of fraud, which has continued to hunt the hierarchy of the Glass House. Despite the swift U-turn, many have continued to slam the NFF for the move to reinstate Salisu Yusuf as the coach of the Under 23 team after serving his one-year ban for collecting $1000 ‘bribe’ to field two players in the Championship of African Nations (CHAN), which took place in Morocco in 2017. The news filtered in last week that Yusuf had served his one-year suspension and would return to his former post. According to the NFF’s communique, Yusuf was suspended for accepting a ‘cash gift’ of $1000 to feature two players during Nigeria’s 2018 African Nations Championship (CHAN) campaign in Morocco. After a thorough investigation, the coach was sanctioned by the NFF Ethics Committee with a fine of $5000 and a one-year ban from football-related activities. The NFF, in a statement, also confirmed the former Enyimba coach’s return while thanking caretaker coach Imama Amapakabo for his services during Yusuf’s absence. The statement read: “The Nigeria Football Federation has noted that the Chief Coach of the Super Eagles, Salisu Yusuf has now fully served the one–year suspension clamped on him last year. “The Federation thanked Coach Imama Amapakabo for his sterling efforts while in charge of the Under 23 national team in the absence of the suspended Yusuf, and for eventually seeing to the team’s qualification for the Under 23 AFCON.” However, the statement irked football buffs who were of the opinion that the tainted coach should not return to football despite completing his ban. They based their position on the fact that it might be difficult to trust him to make a dispassionate selection whenever he gets a new national team job. Others believe that after serving his ban, he should be allowed to return to football, which is his source of livelihood. To this group, there is no need throwing out the baby with the bath water, arguing that he should be allowed to return to his job since he has seen out his ban and should now remorseful. Another group posited that in a sane environment the coach should have resigned his appointment after the revelation instead of waiting to be investigated and banned before quitting the job. They cited the case of former England coach, Sam Allardyce who left his job in 2016 after Daily Telegraph of London said he told reporters posing as businessmen how to ‘get around’ players transfer rule. In the midst of the commotion, the NFF quickly came out with follow-up release that it would take a decision on whether or not Yusuf would return as coach, in any capacity, to any national team job after the ban for breach of professional conduct, leaving Amapakabo to continue his job with the Olympic team. According to the NFF’s Head of Communications department, Ademola Olajire, the coach, who the NFF has “noted” served his ban, would further have his eligibility to return as national team coach deliberated by the board. While Nigerians await the football house’s high-level deliberation, the general feeling is that Yusuf should stay away from the national team and football. Also, the corruption allegation, which has continued to plague the football house, seems not to be abating any time soon. Just as many were trying to get over the furore generated by Yusuf’s attempted reinstatement, top shots in the Football House suddenly had a visit from the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). The anti-corruption body sealed the Parkview residence of the NFF President, Amaju Pinnick, hours after sealing the Abuja residence of the Federation’s Vice President, Shehu Dikko on Friday. However, following more discoveries from the ongoing investigation, 15 more properties belonging to Pinnick, Dikko, NFF General-Secretary Dr Sanusi Mohammed and NFF Technical Committee Chairman Ahmed Yusuf Fresh at different locations have been seized by the commission early this week. According to the breakdown given by the ICPC, four properties owned by the Shehu Dikko  at various locations are mansIon located at No.1 River Benue Street, Maitama, Abuja;  Plot no.1276 Cadastal Zone 806 Mabushi Vide Right of Occupancy dated 2704/2007 with file number KD22878; House No. 10 Chikere Road, GRA, Ungwar Rimi, Kaduna and Plot No. 669 Cadastal Zone 895, Utako Vide Right of Occupancy dated 25/03/ 2006 with File No. KD2141. Properties  seized from Dr Mohammed as revealed are located at Plot 8001 Cadastral Zone, a property at 6A, Tangier Street, off Sudan Street, Zone 6 Abuja and a house beside the Mosque of Alheri School, off Tsafe Road, near Guiwa Lowcost Housing Estate, Sokoto. Fresh’s properties sealed are: a Bungalow situated at First House on Prison Yard Road off David Mark Road, Minna, Niger State and another Bungalow at Bosso Estate, behind State Government Orphanage Home, Minna, Niger State. NFF president has the highest no of seized properties among the quartet. Six properties have been traced to him and confiscated includes an apartment  at Regent Plaza, 8 Greville Road, North Maida Vale London  NW6 5HU, United Kingdom;   a Plot 1805, Cadastal Zone A10, Maitama, Abuja vide right of Occupancy dated 15/05/ 2019 with File No. DT 64003;  a bungalow at First House, 3rd street, DDPA Housing Estate, besides Delta Broadcasting  Service, Asaba, Delta State. Other properties of Pinnick under investigation are  a mansion located at 2C Layi Ajayi Bembe Street, Parkview Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos;  a Bungalow at No 3 Oritsejafor Close, GRA,  Warri and Brownhill Event Centre situated at Plot 67 ELF Road, Ogummu-Warri Central, Delta State. The commission said it has launched the fresh investigation into the NFF’s activities following allegations of corruption. “ICPC places under investigation, buildings belonging to Amaju Pinnick, President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) located in Park View Estate, Lagos,” read a tweet from the ICPC Twitter handle. ICPC stated that it took the action following the order of forfeiture of the property by a Federal High Court on Friday. The houses were sealed by the commission over a fresh corruption investigation on the federation. According to the ICPC, the investigation is to uncover financial malpractices in the football association, allegedly involving Pinnick, Dikko and other executives.  ICPC spokesperson Rashhedat Okoduwa said the properties were sealed following fresh corruption charges against the NFF executives. She also confirmed that the anti-graft agency would apply for interim forfeiture of their properties in court, adding that the NFF officials under probe would be charged to court after all investigations have been concluded, while the commission would ask for permanent forfeiture of the properties in court. With more facts emerging from the investigation, it was a surprise to note that the embattled NFF top shots still had access to the sealed buildings. However, while not divulging details of the fresh fact that have surfaced, Okoduwa said: “As we proceed, the facts become clearer,” Okoduwa told Sports Extra. The anti-graft agency’s spokesperson also warned members of the public against buying the seized properties owned by the NFF officials under investigation. When asked why the officials were still in their properties, she said, “Having access to the property is not a point. The point is that the ICPC has put a notice on that property. We have made it known that the properties are under investigation by virtue of the owners of those properties. There is a notice to the whole world not to deal with that property. They can stay there until we conclude our investigation.” However, with the failure in the past to get a conviction, it is not clear whether or not this fresh move to bring these high-ranking NFF officials to book will see the light of day.