GLOBAL smartphone brand OPPO, on Wednesday said opening a factory in Nigeria was possible in the long run. It said this will help to create more jobs and transfer technology to the country. Its Marketing Director, Kris Cao, who spoke on the side of the launch of the new OPPO A Series 2020 in Ikeja, Lagos, said opening a factory in the country will also safe cost to the company. He said the mobile brand is already in 26 states of the federation just in its eight months of entering the local market, adding it is a mark of acceptability of the brand in the country. He said the brand, which is already in five regions, manufactures global products, adding that the products are the same. He explained that  OPPO A Series 2020, which includes the OPPO A9 2020 and OPPO A5 2020 smartphones  are the brand’s latest offering for the mid-level smartphone market segment. With its combination of high quality and affordability, as well as superb photography, gorgeous design and a long-lasting battery, he said the brand emphasizes that the A series will continue to be the essential handset to generation Z youth. Also speaking, its Marketing Manager, Nengi Akinola, said the firm named this two handsets in celebration of the beginning of the new decade and also to commemorate the success of A series over the past 10 years while welcoming a whole new generation of mobile users. She said:  “This new name also reflects our vision for the coming ten years. It highlights the brand’s latest technologies, stunning design, superb photography, powerful performance and perfect tuning to the needs of young people.” She added that the two latest handsets offer more possibilities than ever before. She said the devices inspire users to play, with its all-purpose 48MP quad camera that pushes the bounds of creativity, and a 5,000mAh Ultra Battery that provides even longer use. It provides outstanding entertainment to users, helping them ease the stress of daily life, while inspiring them to be more positive and explore more of life’s possibilities. Tailor-made and well equipped, it’s an exciting phone for young, motivated consumers who are eager to connect with the world, discover more fun and explore their curiosity. Its impressively versatile camera technology broadens users’ creative horizons, and the whole smartphone offers an immersive entertainment experience and powerful performance. Versatile Camera Tech Brings Users Even More Photography & Videography Options The OPPO A9 2020 comes with a multipurpose Quad Camera setup, including a 48MP Main Camera + 8MP Ultra-Wide Lens + 2MP Mono Lens + 2MP Portrait Lens, while the OPPO A5 2020 also comes with a multipurpose Quad Camera setup but with a 12MP main camera. These offer all-around use that can satisfy users’ needs for all shooting angles and scenarios, including the Ultra Night Mode 2.0 and a whole host of artistic portrait styles. The A9 2020 is equipped with 16MP selfie camera while A5 2020 with 8MP selfie camera, both using AI Beautification technology for tailor-made selfies to better cater to different markets and beauty trends. This technology automatically identifies skin tone, age, gender, and skin color. It differentiates users for customised beautification. An all-new algorithm for smoothing out blemishes on the skin and sharper features create a make-up free look, allowing users to embrace a better version of themselves.   