The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State has accused Governor Seyi Makinde of having nothing tangible to celebrate for 100 days in office after he allegedly deceived voters to win the election. The party in a statement on Wednesday said Makinde had deceived voters by promising to end joint ownership of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso and stop the state’s reliance on federal allocation within months of assuming office as governor. The party added that rather than build on the sterling performance of his predecessor, Abiola Ajimobi of the APC, he has allegedly reduced governance to purchase and supply exercise. In the statement, by its Assistant Publicity Secretary, Prince Ayobami Adejumo, Oyo APC berated Gov. Makinde “for bowing to pressure and allowing his subjects to embark on a comedy show in the name of celebrating fake achievements which cannot even stand the test of public scrutiny.” It read in part:  “As a progressive entity, we are deeply concerned about the future of the Pacesetter State in view of the fact that the tempo of purposeful governance went away with the immediate former governor. We now have an administration which does not seem to know what governance entails. Obviously, handlers of the current PDP government are grossly incompetent and the earlier they realize this, the better for the future of our dear state. “If not a theatre of the absurd; how does a mere plan to purchase pleasure cars amount to a giant stride in enhancing security? How does the rebranding and unveiling of exercise books inherited from the successive administration change the face of education for the better in a state? How does a mere pronouncement change the status of Adeoyo State Hospital to meet up with the value of the University College Hospital, Ibadan? “On many occasions in the last three months, we have had Gov. Makinde speak on probing the administration of Sen. Ajimobi on the spurious allegations of graft in the morning and also come out in the evening of same day to applaud most of his policies while in office. Rather than engaging in bitter politicking and unnecessary grandstanding, we urge him to borrow a leaf from Ajimobi and come up with only programs and policies that could move the state forward in no time. “Rather than roll out drums and make noise through media patronage to cover the track, Gov. Makinde should apologize for his failure to deliver on his campaign promises. Basically, people care to know why the governor has not secured sole ownership of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso for Oyo State as promised. Why has the governor refused to pay the 30 thousand naira minimum wage to workers? Why has Gov. Makinde not been able to wean the state from being dependent of monthly federal allocations and loans? After all, it is dawned on the people that all he (Makinde) was to take an advantage of the people and make fake promises just to be a governor. “However, now that Gov. Makinde is preparing to commission most of the Model Schools built by the administration of Sen. Ajimobi, we are appealing to him to monitor and support all the contractors handling various developmental projects across the state and, at the same time, endeavor to give due credit to the APC government since government is a continuum. Since Ajimobi left office, no single pot hole has been fixed on any road anywhere in the state and this is rather unfortunate.” 