Personnel of Police Mobile Force (PMF) 55, Osisioma, under Abia State Command of the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) have reportedly arrested three members of a notorious kidnapping and armed robbery gang terrorizing the state. Two members of the gang were said to have been arrested by the Mobile Policemen who were on stop and search operation along the busy Enugu-Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway, while another member of the gang was arrested through intelligence. Also recovered from the gang members were mobile phone and Automated Teller Machine (ATM) card which were later discovered to belong to a kidnapped victim that was still in their custody at the time of interception. According to information gathered, the victim whose husband is a staff of one of the commercial banks in the state, was reportedly kidnapped from her residence at MCC road, off Aba-Owerri road, Aba, the commercial nerve of the state and kept at a location between Abia and Rivers State while they were negotiating with the family for ransom. It was learnt that the kidnappers when contacted the family were demanding N10million ransom and later reduced it to N5m before luck ran out on them. Sources within the Abia Command of the Nigeria Police told our reporter that the Mobile Policemen had flagged down the commercial bus that the suspects boarded and on suspicion, started interrogating the two passengers. The sources hinted that it was upon interrogating the suspects that the police discovered that the two boys were members of a notorious kidnapping syndicate that has been terrorizing Aba and the State as so many incidents of kidnappings were linked to them. The sources added that the Mobile Policemen on the directives of the State Commissioner of Police, CP Okon Ene handed the suspects over to the Inspector General of Police Rapid Response Team domiciled at Aba Area Command for a follow-up. Further investigation by the IGP crack team was said to have led to the release of the suspect in their custody and arrest of the third member of the gang, while others are still at large. The three suspects were said to have made confessional statements of being behind series of kidnappings in Aba and other parts of the state. When contacted, the State Police boss confirmed that the three suspects were in police custody and stated that investigation into the matter was still ongoing, while promising that the suspects would be arraigned in court as soon as they were through with their investigation. Ene, who called on members of the public to provide the police and other security agencies with useful information, used the opportunity to warn those hoping to come into the state to commit crime to think of a more legitimate business to do or risk being caught up by security personnel. This is even as he stated that the police would not fold its arms and watch some unscrupulous elements turning the state into a safe haven to perpetrate crime.