The recuperating Alara of Ilara-Mokin in Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State, Oba Aderemi Adefehinti, who was chased out of the palace a few days ago following an attack on him and his wife by some youths, has said he would not seek police investigation of the matter. The royal father,who returned to the palace at the weekend after his medical treatment, said though police were invited during the mayhem, they were asked to keep their distance and made no arrest. Oba Adefehinti said, “We have decided to keep the peace by not asking for police investigation into the matter, we are very conscious of the fact that the miscreants are still our children. “We therefore do not want to confine anyone into detention as a result of the crisis. However, I wish to appeal to the concerned youths to caution themselves against the repeat of such mayhem.” The monarch, who ascended the throne in 1998, pointed out that they were all witnesses to the peace, development and progress in the university’ community to date, stressing that they would not allow any devilish act to distrupt them. The traditional ruler said, “I have been serving Ilara-mokin since leaving university in 1968 and I will continue to seek its greatness. He disclosed that he had to go to a private hospital in Akure to treat himself and his wife(Olori) who according to him,was bleeding profusely on her forehead after being hit by the stone. Oba Adefehinti said he returned to his community a few days ago after medical treatment,while his wife was still being treated of head injuries she sustained from the attack. He assured that she would be discharged soon from the hospital. Some youths in the community last week laid siege on the monarch’s palace, accusing him of refusing to partake in this year’s new yam festival. The youths accused him of shirking his royal responsibility following his alleged ‘born-again’ stance. However,Oba Adefehinti while speaking with reporters in his palace, said the ‘Ijesu festival’ was the most important annual celebration to the sons and daughters in the community but the changes in celebrating it became inevitable for obvious reasons. The monarch said he had several meetings with his chiefs, youths and other leaders of the community earlier this year on the possible changes in the programme of event especially because of his age. The traditional ruler sued for peace in the community to facilitate progress.