IN the past week, social media was on fire with two cheerless and shameless stories that appear to, perhaps unwittingly, trace the roots of corruption to ordinary citizens. While one of the stories may have been a fiction created to serve a moral purpose, the other is strikingly authentic. Fiction or reality, both stories point to what we have always known, that citizen inordinate demands, whether out of poverty or greed, fuel political corruption, which destroys our national potential for greatness. In the first story, Honorable Akin Alabi, a member of the House of Representatives representing Egbeda/Ona Ara Federal Constituency in Oyo State declares as follows: “I bought a transformer for a community that requested for it in my constituency. When the delivery people got there, the “youths” there said they must “settle” boys before they drop it. They called and I told them to take it to another community that asked as well. Their loss.” As should be expected, many responders on social media applauded the reaction of the Honorable member. If the youth population who are to benefit more than their elders from the donation of a transformer could be so blatantly unappreciative and downright depraved in their demand, they do not deserve the help. Besides, the donor demonstrated fidelity to principle by refusing to be blackmailed by the youth. He refused to compromise. The second story does not appear as genuine; but it is by no means implausible. The writer, Honorable Aiyekooto, a “member of the State House of Assembly”, exemplifies the “join them if you can’t beat them” philosophy of life. He started out acting out his vow “to live within my lawful income and fight for the masses with the last drop of my blood.” He gave as much as he can within his modest means to charity, including his father’s mosque and his mother’s church. He angered his parents who resented being humiliated by his small donation. Aiyekooto was suspended for fighting corruption in the House. The masses mocked him, calling him “a useless politician that can’t spray money.” He finally buckled. He joined the race and he instantly became famous again. ‘I regained my “dignity”, he declares with a straight face. “I am a corrupt politician. Don’t blame me for becoming one. I am just another politician with good intention that became a monster due to the masses’ unreasonable impression about politicians.” Even if this second story is fictitious, it is instructive because it reflects reality as we know it. We are aware of official corruption by public servants and politicians through the work of EFCC, ICPC, and other agencies. These two stories point to the reality of citizen corruption. Is there a cause and effect relationship between the two? Aiyekooto thinks so: I am just another politician with good intention that became a monster due to the masses’ unreasonable impression about politicians. In other words, citizen unreasonable impression and corrupt demands fuel politician corruption. The two stories, which are by no means outliers, confirm this conclusion. So does an old account that just resurfaced as I was finishing this article. John Zibiri agonized over the state of corruption in Nigeria, insisting that it is unconquerable by humans except God is ready to deliver Nigeria: “Everything in Nigeria revolves around corruption. Nobody cares about anybody. No law and order. I looked from my left to right, everybody is only desperate about one thing “money”. They will kill anybody and anything that stand between them and money. Try starting a gate house in your village, everybody wants to profiteer from it. The bricklayer, the carpenter, the mason and even your brother who claim to be supervising on your behalf. They are corrupt, morally bankrupt and selfish. Everybody there thinks about himself and nobody is thinking about Nigeria.” In “The Challenge of Citizenship” (The Nation 14/12/2011), I observed that it used not to be so; that citizens had once been the bedrock of our democracy even at its infancy in the early sixties. I asked what went wrong with responsible citizenry. I identified two factors: “First, the period before the first military take-over of the country was the golden era of this country in many respects, the most important of which was the educational system which promised every child a proud future with a decent means of livelihood. Parents only had to worry that their children stayed in school and worked hard. Civil servants and professionals were contented with their salaries and whatever loan amount they received to buy a car. House loan was an additional benefit. “Communities were proud of their educated indigenes. Inter-community competition centered on the number of university graduates produced and the quality of the job offers their sons and daughters received. The young ones chose role models from the rank of the educated professionals. And many of the politicians of the First Republic era were the first educated folks from their communities with a heightened sense of the gravity of the burden they carried. “That period with its value system is no more. It was violently destroyed by the military, ironically not with the gun but with the destruction of the educational system, and its replacement with the emergency contractor system and a “new breed” politician model with tons of money to lavish. The idea now is that everyone has a price. This has been a most effective strategy in the business of politics since the Second Republic.” Military misrule sowed the wind. As citizens, we are harvesting the whirlwind. In that 2011 piece I also referenced a second factor which had to do with the contamination of cultural values. It used to be the case that in many of our communities, a young person that brought shame to the community through greed was treated as a leper. But that was the case when the community held sway over its value system. Local communities are no longer in charge of anything, when even a traditional ruler often finds it challenging to summon erring politicians who may exercise the power to embarrass him. Our republicanism thrives on alien value systems which are unknown to genuine republican political systems. Other republican systems are undergirded by the rule of law. Ours subscribe to the rule of powerful men and women. Young ones quickly learn to also beat the system, or they may have to resign themselves to looking up to those “God” has selected for the crumbs from their table. There is a deficit of uplifting values in this country, a disease that afflicts both leaders and followers. There is no use debating which of chicken or egg comes first. The challenge is for both leaders and followers to see declining values as suicidal for both. The country desperately needs a citizenry that takes seriously the responsibility of citizenship to serve as the gadfly perched on the back of selfish and greedy leaders. It is time to confront the misplaced value we place on a corrupt system that threatens our future; come together state by state, local government by local government to redeem the future. In “Creating citizens” (The Nation, 4/12/2009), I observed that citizens are neither saints nor Satan; they are neither perfect beings nor irredeemable devils. But they are morally conscious. “Citizens are aware of their responsibilities to fellow-citizens and to the state…. They are conscious of the moral wrongness of breaking the law; evading taxes; aiding and abetting corruption; and violently thwarting the will of the people in elections. A citizen will also put the good of the country above everything else because he or she identifies that good as his or her own good as well.” Whatever their vocation, gender, class, status, religion, or cultural nationality, citizens must be active participants in the desirable struggle for the realization of the country’s greatness. Cutting corners and demanding graft from politicians, or politicians giving up on principle and joining inordinate ambition that compromises integrity in pursuit of scandalous wealth will not get us there. We must know that the path we have taken thus far is unsustainable because it leads to a ruinous end for everyone. 