THE U-23 Eagles on Thursday night, lost 0-1 to hosts Sudan in the Tokyo 2020 Olympics football event qualifier at the Al Merriekh Stadium in Omdurman. The winner over two legs will qualify for the CAF U-23 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. The Nigeria U-23 Eagles had a couple of chances to score in the first half but the duo of Taiwo Awoniyi and Stephen Odey were guilty of missing them. Awoniyi was fouled in the Sudan penalty area in the 38th minute but the referee refused to award a spot-kick to the Nigerians. The hosts scored through Walaa El-Din just before the half time break. Nigeria’s goalkeeper Adamu Abubakar saved superbly from a counter-attack by the Sudanese two minutes into the second half. The Nigerians made three second-half substitutions to find an equaliser, with the weak link Awoniyi, one of the key players making way and replaced by Sunday Adetunji. The Nigeria U-23 Eagles never restored parity as the match ended 1-0 advantage Sudan. The second leg holds next Tuesday at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba. THE U-23 Eagles on Thursday night, lost 0-1 to hosts Sudan in the Tokyo 2020 Olympics football event qualifier at the Al Merriekh Stadium in Omdurman. The winner over two legs will qualify for the CAF U-23 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. The Nigeria U-23 Eagles had a couple of chances to score in the first half but the duo of Taiwo Awoniyi and Stephen Odey were guilty of missing them.  Awoniyi was fouled in the Sudan penalty area in the 38th minute but the referee refused to award a spot-kick to the Nigerians. The hosts scored through Walaa El-Din just before the half time break. Nigeria’s goalkeeper Adamu Abubakar saved superbly from a counter-attack by the Sudanese two minutes into the second half. The Nigerians made three second-half substitutions to find an equaliser, with the weak link Awoniyi, one of the key players making way and replaced by Sunday Adetunji. The Nigeria U-23 Eagles never restored parity as the match ended 1-0 advantage Sudan. The second leg holds next Tuesday at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba.