Eleven-year-old Nigerian artist, Waris Kareem, has emerged the recipient of the Taiwan’s Chou Ta-Kuan Cultural and Educational Foundation 22nd Fervent Global Love of Lives Award for 2019. The Representative of Taiwan in Nigeria, Amb. Vincent Yang, made this known in Lagos on Wednesday. Yang noted that Kareem stood out among other 2,723 recommended candidates across the world. He said that Waris Kareem, who had gained global recognition for his incredible drawings would meet the Taiwanese President, Tsai Ing-wen, among other laureates. “Nigerian child Artist, Waris Olamilekan Kareem has gained global recognition for his incredible drawings. “Waris Olamilekan Kareem will attend Charity Events with other laureates and meet Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen. “Famous Nigerian Internet Bitty Artist – Waris Olamilekan Kareem stood out among 2,723 recommended candidates from all over the world earning the `22nd Fervent Global Love of Lives Award 2019’ from Taiwan’s Chou Ta-Kuan Cultural and Educational Foundation. ‘’He sketched a stunning portrait of French President, Emmanuel Macron, on the spot in just two hours, which amazed the global media. He has now become a famous Internet artist,’’ he said. According to him, Kareem will attend, with other laureates, the charity events scheduled to hold in Taipei from Sept. 20 to Sept. 28, during which he will meet the Taiwanese President. Yang said that his office and the Head of Taipei Trade Office in Nigeria had hosted and congratulated Kareem on his feat. ‘’The poverty-stricken children all call him the little artist Robin Hood. He uses his drawing talent to produce beautiful works in exchange for some food to fight hunger and also to feed the hungry companions in the slum. ‘’The works of Michelangelo motivate him and his goal is to surpass the standard set by the great artist. He intends to use drawings to depict Africa vividly and flip a new life to change Africa. ‘’Taiwan’s Chou Ta-Kuan Cultural and Educational Foundation promotes `Global Love of Lives movement’ and recognises that `Everyone is Good at Something’. “Many people refer to the event as `the Nobel Prize of Life’, ” he said. (NAN)