The use of Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), Point of Sale (PoS) terminals, web payment, online transfers and mobile phones for transactions are fast getting popular in Nigeria after years of reliance on cash payment writes COLLINS NWEZE  THE Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) introduced the cash-less payment policy seven years ago. This has promoted the use of Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), Point of Sale (PoS) terminals, web payment, online transfers and mobile phone transactions. Without this policy, Nigeria cannot be integrated into the world’s financial system. While pushing for the full use of the online payment system, CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele said for Nigeria to actively play at the world stage, “our payment system must be successfully benchmarked against the global best practices, as in most developed nations of the world.” The cash-less policy provides safe and efficient mechanisms for making and receiving payments with minimum risks to the CBN, payment service providers and end-users. The cash-less payment is catching on to the extent that even the lowly members of the society now do transactions online. There are even incentives to discourage the use of cash. The Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS), collaborating with the CBN Committee of E-Banking Industry Heads (CEBIH) and banks in ensuring that bank customers that use their e-payment cards to pay for goods and services on PoS terminals and web platforms are rewarded with a cashback of 50 kobo for every N100 spent. This scheme allows cashback rewards to cardholders for using their cards to make payments on alternate channels. The benefits of shifting transactions to web-based platforms are clear. For customers, web-based platforms offer convenience, 24 / 7 access, and freedom of location. For Nigeria’s banks, the shift promises the opportunity to improve service delivery and achieve a lower cost-to-serve. A pointer to the success of the cash-less policy is the internet and social media penetration in Nigeria. The internet is the purveyor of cash-less transfers. The country is estimated to have more than 148 million mobile telephone subscribers and at least 92 million of them access internet data services on their devices. About one-third of Nigeria’s population is now under 24 years old and the middle-class population is growing. The use of social media channels is rising significantly. Platforms such as Facebook, Watsaap, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn and Tumblr are widely used by Nigerians to communicate with friends and follow up on what is going on around the globe. Indeed, a survey showed that 77 per cent of Nigeria’s banking customers now use social media for personal purposes However, despite the campaign by the CBN and the statistics of internet access and social media use, cash is still king in Nigeria. Many people – mainly outside the big cities – want to touch their cash as clear evidence that their services or goods have been paid for. For this category of people, cash transfer is not convincing enough that payment has been made. Besides, a lot of people keep cash at home which they move around to transact their business in spite of the inherent danger in doing so. This shunning of e-payment is not limited to the financially lowly in society. A recent survey by Visa International showed that high net-worth account holders neither own nor use ATM cards. The survey showed that the more the people earn, the less they own and use debit cards. Majority of the rich, the survey showed, think that avoiding debit cards is the best way to stay protected from online frauds. Just 42 per cent of Nigerian banking customers said they use online banking platforms for one or more banking activities. And just 40 per cent said they have interacted with their banks using social media in the past. According to NIBSS data, of the 120.9 million bank accounts in the country, only 74 million are active as at January 2019 while there are 37.4 million Bank Verification Number (BVN) enrolled customers. The total active BVN across all banks is 29.4 million. However, the NIBSS data showed that Nigerian banks did N1.5 trillion worth of transactions on 56,102 ATMs between January and March this year. The transactions were done in 203 million deals. Also, N107.6 billion was transacted through web payment and N810.1 billion through mobile money. This explains that although Nigeria is racing on the e-payment track, the statistics are still low when compared with what is obtainable across the world. For instance, the cashless society is fully in action in Sweden. By one estimate, only one per cent of the Swedish economy operates on bills and coins. The New York Times reported that only about one in 10 Swedes paid for anything in cash last year. Part of the reasons why the rich shun card usage is the fear of cyber fraud. The CBN has promised safe, secure and seamless operation of the cash-less policy with the use of the big stick to sanction banks, mobile money operators, payment solution providers and other financial institutions for electronic payment infractions KPMG Nigeria reviewing a survey it conducted said the onus is on the banks to get their customers to buy into the cash-less payment system. It explained that to succeed in today’s banking environment, banks need to understand their customers. “Banks need to ask them what is important to them in a banking relationship, the channels they currently use and what channels they would like to use and how their current banks compared to their expectations,” it said. Partner, KPMG in Nigeria and Head of Financial Services Africa, Adebisi Lamikanra, said a lot had changed in Nigeria’s banking industry in the past three years. She said customers are still concerned about financial stability; but what they primarily want from their banks is enhanced high-quality service, more innovation and greater convenience.