Six persons were injured on Monday after two Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) buses collided at Asolo bus stop in Majidun, Ikorodu, Lagos. The accident happened around 7am, causing gridlock. The Nation gathered that six people were injured and were taken to hospital, but were discharged yesterday. It was learnt that a commercial motorcyclist (Okada rider) plying the BRT lane caused the accident. Officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), the police, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) and Lagos Neighborhood Safety Corps (LNSC) were among the responders. An eyewitness, who simply identified himself as Rafiu, said the accident involved two BRT buses, adding that it was caused by a commercial motorcyclist plying the BRT lane. He said: “The two buses involved in the accident were on the BRT corridor. One was coming from Mile 12 and the other from Ikorodu. The accident occurred when the BRT bus coming from Mile 12 avoided hitting a commercial motorcyclist on his lane. The bus then rammed into another BRT bus and that led to the accident.” The source said the motorcyclist fled the scene immediately, adding that the drivers were seriously injured. “The other injured persons are women.” The Managing Director of Primero Transport Services Ltd, the operators of BRT buses, Mr. Fola Tinubu, said the accident was caused by commercial motorcyclists on BRT lane. He said one of the BRT buses was trying to avoid a commercial motorcyclist, who was on the BRT lane, adding that in the process it ran into another BRT bus on the opposite direction. Tinubu said about six people were injured, noting that something needs to be done about commercial motorcyclists on the BRT lane. “The way they drive on the lane is too dangerous and reckless. I don’t know if they have another life. Thank God it was only a minor injury the victims sustained. “The government must ensure that commercial motorcyclists stop plying BRT lanes. It must be enforced and they must be serious about it because this is about life,” he said.