The Senate and House of Representatives joint Committee on Finance is in marathon meetings to beat the one- week deadline to submit a report the 2020 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper for consideration and passage. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan had given the Senate Committee on Finance Chaired by Senator Solomon Adeola till Wednesday to submit their report. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, also referred the document to the Hon. James Faleke-led House Committee on Finance and given them a week to turn in the report for consideration as approval. The haste to get the report on the MTEF back to plenary and its possible passage is to enable President Muhammadu Buhari to present the 2020 Appropriation Bill to the National Assembly possibly within the week. Lawan had asked the Presidency to submit the 2020 Appropriation Bill September ending or first week of October to enable the National Assembly to pass the budget before Christmas. Checks by THE NATION on Sunday revealed that following the directive from both chambers, the two National Assembly committees on Finance have resolved to hold joint sittings to consider the document in order to save time and meet the submission deadline already handed down. A source, who spoke in confidence, told our correspondent that Adeola and Faleke have been meeting non-stop to be able to meet up with the deadline. The source said: “The Senate Committees on Finance and its House of Representatives counterpart have decided to hold joint sittings to consider the MTEF/FSP instead of the Senate committee doing its own and the House Committee doing its own. “They want to do a joint sitting so that they can meet that deadline of maybe Wednesday or Thursday. “You know, the deadline the Senate President gave was Wednesday but they are working to meet the deadline or if they miss it, it would just be by a day or so. “That is the much they can do because unfortunately or fortunately, Tuesday is a public holiday. “So that was why they decided to work through Saturday, even today (Sunday) they are still meeting over the same matter. “So it is like even today, Sunday, they are working on it. So there is every possibility they will meet the deadline or maybe miss it narrowly. “You know they gave them Wednesday but I don’t think they took cognizance of Tuesday which is a public holiday that is October 1st and the weekend. But apparently the committee of the two chambers are working all through the weekend.”