The governorship election will hold in Edo State next year. Correspondent OTABOR OSAGIE examines the activities of a group within the ruling All Progressives CongrAess (APC), the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), which has unfolded plans to sponsor a candidate for the poll. Ahead of next year’s governorship poll in Edo State, anxiety has gripped many members of the  All Progressives Congress (APC). There is tension in the chapter because of the House of Assembly crisis. Although nobody has declared intention to contest for the party’s ticket against Governor Godwin Obaseki, it is certaibn that he has rivals. Obaseki’s body language and infrastructural projects are signals that he will run for a second term. The Edo Peoples Movement, a pressure group and opposition movement within the Edo APC, is yet to state its stand on who it will back at the primary. The EPM said its two major objectives are the re-positioning the Edo APC and getting a replacement for Obaseki. The APC aspirants are Chris Ogiemwonyi, General Charles Airhiavbere, Solomon Arase, Solomon Edebiri and Captain Hosa Okunbor. Ogiemwonyi, Edebiri and Airhiavbere. They are supporters of EPM. As part of plans to achieve its aim, it was gathered that the EPM was plotting to discredit Obaseki’s powerful loyalists and create APC factions in local government areas. It had began mobilisation by inaugurating leaders in Auchi, Estako West local government area while other meetings were held in Ovia North East local government. In Ikpoba-Okha local government, the EPM targeted Secretary to the Government, Osarodion Ogie by attempting to dislodge him and asking Obaseki not to regard as the leader of the local government. One of their argument was that Ogie is interested in contesting the 2020 governorship ticket against Obaseki. Ogie is taciturn. But, he is a great mobiliser and master strategist. His Bénin City residence is open to all, whether he is at home or not. His gates are not locked and there are seats available for visitors. As his house is open to all so his is office that is visited by different persons on a daily basis and they are all attended to. Ogie served as Chief of Staff to former Governor Adams Oshiomhole and later, Commissioner for Works. As a Chief of Staff, he used his office to woo many admirers to the state government. He is patient and ready to listen to anybody irrespective of status. Ogie was a trusted confidant of Oshiomhole. When he was made Commissioner for Works in Oshiomhole’s second term, he was among the team that drafted the Edo dream template, even before the court delivered judgment in favour of Oshiomhole in 2008. It was perhaps, his strong willed nature and ability to deliver as directed that made Oshiomhole to entrust him to oversee certain activities, especially during elections and after the polls election activities. Ikpoba-Okha local government where Ogie hails from is the most secure local government for the APC in Edo State because of his leadership style and ability to groom young politicians. In 2016, Ogie was tipped as a replacement for Oshiomhole, but when Obaseki was favoured, he accepted to become the Director-General of the campaign organisation. Following the victory, Ogie was named the SSG, but some APC members said Oshiomhole made him SSG to keep a close watch on Obaseki. Apart from Ogie, the deputy governor, Philip Shaibu, and Chief of Staff to Obaseki, Mr. Taiwo Akerele, were close allies of Oshiomhole. Ogie, it was gathered, gained the confidence of Obaseki by keying into his vision and mobilising supporters for him. A day after the EPM’s failed attempt to create APC factions in Ikpoba-Okha local government, Obaseki paid an unscheduled visit to the residence of Ogie where he affirmed his trust in him. He said he remained the recognised leader of Ikpoba-Okha local government area. Obaseki said plans by some few persons to cause disunity in the Edo APC would fail as only God makes leaders and not men. He said his administration was working with the APC structure and delivering result to Edo people to make it the strongest in the country. He reiterated that thuggery would not be allowed in the party and in the whole of Edo State, adding that anyone who wants to be involved in anti-party activities would be thrown out of the party. Obaseki said his administration would not be distracted by the antics of few members, adding that he would continue to deliver good governance. “I am bringing jobs for the youths, especially in Ologbo-axis of Ikpoba Okha. Youths should organise themselves into units and I will empower you with different skills and trainings to do the jobs we are creating. For the ongoing renovation of basic schools, youths will be in charge of the fencing work while women will be in charge of furniture,” he said. Obaseki expressed appreciation to the people of Ikpoba Okha LGA for believing in the leadership of the SSG and for fully supporting his administration. Ogie, who was elated by the presence of the governor and the youths at his residence, said he will continue to attract development to the area. “Until I came into politics, Ikpoba Okha had no commissioner. I promised you that my coming into politics will change things for the better. “I am not perturbed by detractors who go about denting people’s image. The Obaseki-led administration would continue to deliver good governance to citizens of Edo State.” Sources closed to Ogie said he is not interested in contesting next year’s governorship election as being speculated by members of EPM. The source added: “Let me tell you. Ogie is not interested in the governorship race. You cannot expect him to be joining pigs in the mud. He has told us that he is supporting Obaseki to succeed and that is our focus. Remember Ogie helped Oshiomhole and now he is for Obaseki.”