A former Cross River State governor Mr Donald Duke yesterday denied ever owing the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) N537,334,360.77. He said what he owed AMCON was N350 million which, which he has since repaid, but that people used the opportunity of the news to have fun at his expense. Duke said AMCON claimed that he owed an extra N137,334,360.77 and when he disputed this figure, it filed a suit against him so as to arm-twist him into paying the disputed sum. AMCON on August 8 sealed off Duke’s Ikoyi home and gained interim control of his bank accounts, after obtaining an order from a Federal High Court in Lagos. But Duke, a presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the just concluded 2019 general election, accused AMCON of merely making a “media circus” with the suit. In a statement yesterday, Duke said: “Recently, an obligation I had to AMCON has made the news. Whilst I do not understand the excitement this has generated, bearing in mind that debts far far in excess of this have not received a whisper, clearly some people are having fun at my expense. “Nevertheless, I think it appropriate now that the issue has been laid to rest, to state my side of the matter, considering the fervour the story generated. “AMCON made a claim of N569m against me which I disputed. I guess to arm twist me they proceeded to court and created a media circus. Having done what I consider their worst, I insisted on what I believe is the correct amount. We have since agreed to this amount and the sum of N340m has been paid. “I hope this takes the air off the sail of those who made a mountain out of a molehill. There was nothing to be excited about after all.” On September 11, 2019, vacation judge Justice Nicholas Oweibo cleared Duke of the N537,334,360.77 debt after he paid N350 million as final settlement. The court discharged its August 21 interim order which had permitted AMCON and the United Bank for Africa (UBA) to seize Duke’s properties and funds in his accounts. Justice Nicholas Oweibo cleared Duke following settlement terms filed and moved by AMCON’s legal team from Benson Reeds Legal Practitioners, Abuja. “All orders in the case stand discharged,” the court said. AMCON’s counsel, Mrs Juliet Benson had told the judge that Duke had fulfilled the terms of the out-of-court settlement and both parties had agreed to the terms.