A couple of Nollywood actresses have dumped their Christian faith to follow Islam. These actresses have their various reasons for doing this. Here is looking at five of them. 1.      Vivian Metchie  Vivian Metchie was born to a Catholic father and a Deeper Life Mother. She married a man who was a member of the Redeemed Church but the marriage eventually failed leaving her with four children. According to her, she switched religions because, at a point in time, she got confused as various Christian churches had something bad to say about one another. Explaining her actions, the screen diva said, “It is a personal decision. I understand the Koran more than the Bible… I was probably looking for peace. Yeah! That was what I was looking for and I found it in the Koran.” Vivian adopted the name Fareedah as her Muslim name and according to her, her parents were supportive of her decision to switch religions. 2. Liz Da Silva  Popular actress, Liz Da Silva was known to be a Christian up until the time she allegedly had a child for former NURTW Oshodi boss, Musiliu Akinsanya better known as MC Oluomo. When things did not work out between them, she married a Muslim man named Olaoye. Because of the birth of her son, Roheem and her new family, Liz became a Muslim and adopted the name Aishat. “In case you want to know I have a good relationship with my baby’s father and that is why I had to convert to Muslim and got a new name Aishat before the baby was named. I was a Christian, but I had to convert to Islam because of my baby,” Liz Da Silva revealed in an interview. 3. Lizzy Anjorin  Lizzy Elizabeth Anjorin is a household name as far as Nollywood is concerned. She was brought up in a Christian family however she found solace in Islam. In 2013, she came out to state categorically that she is a Muslim and soon after her revelation, she jetted off to Mecca for Hajj. Addressing her faith to critics, Lizzy explained that she has always had ties to the Muslim world judging from the fact that her mother is a Muslim. She once said in an interview, “Although my name is Elizabeth, which is the Christian name my dad gave me because he was a Christian. Then, I also have a Muslim name, Aishat, given to me by my mother, who was a Muslim.  Also, some from my mother’s family members also named me Sekinat.  Even my daughter’s name is Rufaidat.  So, I grew with the two religions.” She added, “Islam has been in me for long.  I only kept it to myself.  It is my private life.” However, certain unconfirmed sources suggest that her conversion happened after a relationship with a certain Alhaji in Lagos. 4. Laide Bakare  Ace actress, Laide Bakare was Christian up until the time she left her Christian husband and started dating an alleged money bag in Lagos named Alhaji Tunde Orilowo fondly referred to as ATM. Laide had to convert to Islam after marrying him and becoming another one of his wives. 5. Lola Alao  Actress Lola Alao converted to Islam in July 2016 and many were taken by surprise. Alao was a Christian before her conversion. Alao converted during just after the burial of her father who was a Muslim before his death. She has adopted the name Rohdiat. 