The Niger state government has disclosed that there are plans in place for civil servants who are close to their retirement age to go into farming. The Permanent Secretary of the State Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Garba Musa Ibrahim disclosed this in Minna at the Value Chain Development Programme Additional Financing (VCDP-AF) Sensitization and Mobilization Visit at the state Ministry of Agriculture. He said that the retirement plan is to encourage civil servants who are about to retire to go into farming so that they can have a soft landing after retirement. According to him, this would also help in decongesting the civil service and allow new ones to be recruited. “We are encouraging civil servants that are about to retire to go into farming si that they will have a soft landing even before they retire. “The Niger state civil service has become bloated and cannot hold everyone. We are encouraging the old hands to go into farming so that new ones can come in.” Ibrahim said that little incentives would be given to the civil servants who indicate interest in going into farming. “We will train and teach them into how they can key into some of the projects so that they can enjoy the benefits of farming. And if possible, if they are satisfied with what they are gaining, they can disengage from the service before their retirement and go into farming. This will go a long way to reduce the burden on the civil service. “We are also into talks with some financial institutions to give loans to the civil servants who want to turn into farming.” The IFAD-VCDP Coordinator in Niger state, Dr. Mathew Ahmed said that the Value Chain Development Programme (VCDP) Additional Financing project has been extended for three more years. He added that the additional financing program would focus on empowering and training over 30,000 women and youths and is targeted at addressing dry season farming, provision of tube weeks, provision of irrigation facilities, common users infrastructures, roads, and support processing activities to ensure that the rice processed in Niger stage meet international standards. Ahmed further said that there additional local government areas have been added in the new program which would bring the number of beneficiaries local government areas to eight.