SIR: I wish to appeal to Governor Seyi Makinde to come to the aid of residents of Bioku Aladun, Bolorunduro Alapata, Jagun Eleshin (all in Ona Ara LGA) down to Adegbayi in Egbeda LGA, of Oyo State. The residents of the areas mentioned lack basic social amenities like good roads, hospital, potable water to mention but a few. The road connecting the areas together, right from Idiroko by Ekefa Alimi Petrol station to Adegbayi is an eye-sore. The road is not only untarred but also not motorable. Residents with cars do not derive any joy using the road as it causes more damages to their cars than expected, forcing many to put their faith in motorcycles (Okadas) plying the road with its attendant hazard, since Okada can still manage to find their ways through the rough road. The situation of the road is worse during raining season. There is also no medical facility to cater for the health of the residents except they get to Idiroko, which takes a lot of time to achieve, because of the bad road. Another basic infrastructure that is lacking is potable water for the people of these areas, leading to serious hardship during dry season and capable of leading to health hazard, even when everybody agrees that “water is life.” These areas need more transformers for effective power distribution within the communities. The few infrastructures being enjoyed by the residents are through the communal effort which is not enough, as the residents on zonal basis have to be tasking every house and even undeveloped plots. The assistance of the government is therefore imperative. All previous chairmen of Ona Ara LG were approached for assistance, but all the residents got were unfulfilled promises. One of the promises was to provide health centre in the area, for which the residents laid the foundation and even donated building blocks to make the dreams come true, but nothing came out of the promise. The same unfulfilled promise in the case of borehole, especially during campaigns for elections, but those promises are often buried as soon as the elections were over. The residents of Bioku Aladun, Bolorunduro Alapata, Jagun Eleshin and Adegbayi will therefore be happy and grateful to Engr. Seyi Makinde if something urgently can be done to provide lasting solutions to the above problems being faced on a daily basis.  Bolorunduro Alapata, Zone C. Oyo State.