Ogun and Lagos States have requested for the handover of the Lagos-Sango Ota-Abeokuta expressway for reconstruction, rehabilitation and management. Ogun Governor Dapo Abiodun disclosed this on Saturday. Abiodun disclosed he and Governor Jide Sanwo – Olu had put the request in writing, which he personally presented to Buhari few weeks ago. He expressed satisfaction the President too had seen the propriety of their request to take over the strategic road to bring succour to motorists, travellers and residents on the long corridor. Abiodun spoke in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, at his investitures as the honorary Patron of the Abeokuta Club during the 2019 induction of 30 new members into the Club. He said the planned joint takeover of the Lagos – Sango Ota – Abeokuta was part of his strategies to develop infrastructure in Ogun. He said the two governments of Lagos and Ogun intended to use Public Private Partnership approach to fix that road. He explained that the road would be commercialised and tolled for easy maintenance to ease movement of people and goods as well as drive development to Ogun state. Abiodun lamented that the last contract for the Lagos – Sango Ota – Abeokuta expressway was awarded and signed in 2001 with about N26bn debt still hanging on it. He said given the N1b annual budget for servicing of the road every year and paucity of funds at the Federal level, that road may never be completed without PPP. Abiodun said: “You cannot expect people to come to our state if they can’t move around with ease or they can’t even begin to move from Ogun state and get to other state. “We all know that the Lagos-Ibadan expressway is ongoing and the truth is that the road won’t be completed until December of next year. “However, as a government, we have done a lot of road count and have come with the fact that if that road is completed, it does not have the capacity to transport the population of people that pass through that corridor. “Consequently, I met with my counterpart, Sanwo-Olu and we decided that as a matter of urgency we need to take over some road, which includes Epe-Ijebu road, Ikorodu- Sagamu road and Lagos-Ota Abeokuta road so as to reduce the population of the people passing the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. “I and Sanwo-Olu met with the President to hand over those three roads to us, we sat down with the President and explain things to us. He told us to put it in writing, we wrote a joint letter which have our two logos on that letter, we both signed it and I personally hand it over to Mr President few weeks ago, asking the President to hand over the road to us. “The Lagos-Ota Abeokuta was signed in 2001 and today there is a debt of about 26 billion hanging on that road, the servicing of that road is exceeding 1 billion every year and that road would never be completed by this government and it is because of the pulse of fund at the federal level. “What we intend to do is to commercialise this road and turn it to a private-public-partnership and we have people that are awaiting to enter a PPP with us so that they will fund the road, they will toll it and this would allow the people to move from Lagos to Abeokuta with ease. It will open Ogun for further development.”