The Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA) partnered Trashusers, a plastic waste collection organization, and Lagos State government in ridding Agege community of plastic waste as part of its strong commitment to environmental preservation during this year’s World Clean-up Day. The clean-up exercise focused on cleaning drainages, streets and the major canal in Agege was held recently to mark this year’s World Clean-up Day. It resonates FBRA’s resolve in intensifying awareness on waste separation for recycling and measures of curbing environmental pollution caused by food and beverage packaging waste. The exercise was embarked upon by volunteered staff of member-companies of the Alliance (FBRA), which is the Producer Responsibility Organisation for the food and beverage sector in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility. Other partners include Trashusers, a private plastic waste collection organisation, the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LASESC), the Community Development Association (CDA), Olusanya, Oke koto, Agege, members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and volunteers. Commenting on the clean-up initiative, the Technical Lead, FBRA, Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, said the initiative was aimed at reinforcing the consciousness on responsible waste management to Nigerians that the environment should be free from waste pollution, especially those from food and beverage packaging which hardly degrade. Onyemelukwe, who is also the Head, Public Affairs and Communications of Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited, explained that if proper waste management is adopted, diseases, flooding that come with indiscriminate waste disposal will be eliminated thereby promoting a healthy lifestyle. On the partnership with FBRA, the Managing Director, Trashusers, Seun Bode, said it is an opportunity to advance his course on waste collection and recycling in the pursuit of a cleaner Lagos. Attesting to FBRA’s level of commitment, the Chief Scientific Officer, LASEPA, Agboola Muyideen, who was satisfied with the waste cleared from Agege canal, commended the Alliance and Trashusers for keeping to their vision of ensuring environmental conservation. While eulogising the clean-up exercise, Head of Olusanya, Oke Koto, CDA, Bishop Julius Olusanya, who was present with his members, affirmed “it is a good thing and that is why we have lent our support to it. I have the belief that people in my CDA are very reasonable and they will adhere to measures aimed at curbing waste pollution Founded in December 2013, the Alliance has membership drawn from responsible and forward-thinking companies which include Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (Manufacturers of Coca-Cola brands), Nigerian Breweries Plc, Seven-Up Bottling Company Limited, Nestle Nigeria Plc, Guinness Nigeria Plc, Intercontinental Distillers Limited, International Breweries Limited, Tulip Cocoa, and Prima Caps and Preforms. 