The Lagos State Gubernatorial Election Petition Tribunal on Monday reaffirmed the victory of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu as the Governor of Lagos State in the last March 9 poll. The three-man tribunal led by Justice T. T Asua, in a unanimous decision, dismissed the petition filed by the Labour Party (LP) and its candidate, Chief Ifagbemi Awamaridi, declaring that the petition failed. It held that its earlier decision to dismiss the petition, which was later appealed by the petitioners, was still valid because the petition was not filed according to the electoral laws. The tribunal further described the petition as a “futile and wasteful exercise.” It noted that the petitioners could not prove their allegations of mental incompetence against Sanwo-Olu in their evidence placed before the tribunal. The panel also held that the petitioners failed to prove their allegations of election malpractices against Sanwo-Olu and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). Asua said: “The Petitioners have failed to meet the requirement of the law. The Petitioners have failed in our humble view to discharge the onus of proof which would have been placed on the Respondents. “We confirm the return of Babajide Sanwo-Olu as the duly elected Governor of the State.” Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday described the victory of Governor Babajide Sanwoolu at the Elections Petitions Tribunal as a re- affirmation of the people’s mandate. The party said in a statement by its Assistant Publicity, Abiodun Salami, that the victory was a validation of the trust of Lagosians in the governor’s capacity. The Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Lagos had on Monday dismissed the petitions filed by the Labour Party and reaffirmed the victory of Sanwoolu as the duly-elected governor in the March polls. The Tribunal described the LP’s petition as a “futile and wasteful exercise,’ ‘noting that the petitioner could not prove their allegations of mental incompetence against Sanwo-Olu. Justice T.T Asua, while delivering the judgement, said the petitioners (LP and Ifagbemi Awamaridi) also failed to prove the allegations of electoral malpractices against Sanwoolu and his party, APC. Salami said the victory was a validation of the support the people have for Sanwoolu and proof that the petition was all along ‘’a wild goose chase.’’ The Lagos governor’s spokesman, Abiodun Salami, congratulated Lagosians on the victory as it was not only victory for the governor but also for the people and good governance. He said: ‘’We are happy at the victory; it is a reaffirmation that the governor got the mandate and support of the people in the March election. ‘’We congratulate the governor and the good people of Lagos on the judicial vindication of this electoral victory. This verdict is not only a victory for democracy; it is a victory for good governance and a more prosperous Lagos.” Salami assured residents that the verdict would further inspire the Sanwoolu administration to render impactful governance in the state. He said the governor was justifying the confidence reposed in him with his many achievements since he was sworn in over 100 days ago. The APC spokesman listed the achievements to include fixing of potholes across the state to tackle the nagging problem of gridlock. Salami said the efficiency of the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) had improved as a result of increase in their allowances by Sanwoolu . He added that the Sanwoolu administration had commenced work on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, a project which had suffered delays before now, noting that the sufferings on the road were being alleviated. He said the Sanwoolu administration had achieved great results in addressing the gridlock in Apapa. Salami urged residents to keep faith with the present administration to deliver more dividends of democracy.