What would our social media look like without the stiff fights that often distract us? Boring! 2019 is not over yet but it has had its own fair share of drama and fights. Most of these fights played out on social media. Our package this week is on the top celeb beefs and tiffs this year. Lizzy Anjorin vs Toyin Abraham It’s time to get the popcorn ready because the feud between Nollywood actresses Lizzy Anjorin and Toyin Abraham is still a running tiff. As things stand, this very emotive fight might enter a new phase soon. The court drama that it gave birth to is yet to be resolved. Anjorin has feuded with more celebrities than we can count – simply because she can’t hide her feelings, and it seems as though we can now add Toyin Abraham to her shortlist! Their social media feud began after Abraham put to bed, and some fans accused Lizzy of not sending her a congratulatory message. This sparked a debate on Toyin’s page during which some of her fans reportedly rained insults on Anjorin. There was a lull and then everyone thought the dust had settled. But it was the calm before the storm. Shortly after, Anjorin launched a blistering attack on Toyin and the social media went crazy as the fans of both actresses rallied to their defence. Anjorin alleged that Abraham always incited her fans against fellow colleagues and celebrities in the entertainment industry. It has been hell ever since. Tonto Dikeh vs ex-hubby This rather public feud probably should not come as a surprise. That is because Churchill Olakunle is the ex-husband of hard-hitting, non-nonsense actress, Tonto Dikeh. For most couples, separation or divorce is like a declaration of war. This assertion also holds true for this celeb couple. Most of their fights played out on social media. Dikeh accused her ex of being irresponsible, incapable of meetings the needs of his family, domestic violence and some other sundry issues.  After their bitter separation war on social media last year, sometime in the early part of the year, Tonto Dikeh, again came out to drag her ex-husband, Olakunle, on social media and this time around, she revealed more than what a lot of people were expecting to hear. During her interview with media personality, which has to do with an issue of the bedroom. Olakunle, who was mute all through the period Tonto Dikeh was ranting and rainy insults on him, opened up, saying it was all a lie. He described himself as  ‘a tireless machine’ with a woman when one of his followers had commented on one of his posts, saying “40 sec makes one.” He wrote: “Of course not, don’t be deceived; you cannot undermine an ex-military boy… I am a tireless machine during marathon…” However, we hope that the two will settle and eventually become friends again for the sake of their son. Lizzy Anjorin vs Ronke Oshodi Oke Although you would think that Lizzy and Ronke would get on well; thanks to their shared interests-Nollywood Yoruba, it seems as though the complete opposite is the case. Last year, actress Liz Anjorin took to the social media to slam actress Ronke Oshodi-Oke for allegedly poking fun at her at a party they both attended. Before then, Ronke had taken to the social media to caution her colleagues for excessively display in their worldly possessions on social media. Though she didn’t mention names, Liz Anjorin felt the video was directed at her and she replied, describing Ronke as in some unprintable terms. Although things cooled off after a while, a new twist was introduced to the conflict soon enough when Ronke, while handling the mic, alluded to the tantrums heaped on her by an actress. The disclosure made Lizzy uncomfortable as she felt harassed. Ronke, on the other hand, put out a long video saying she and Liz were not mates and she will continue to ask for money at events because she’s doing her job as an MC. Liz didn’t allow that to go unchallenged. She replied Ronke: I’ll rubbish you anytime you do that. We hope the two actresses will sheathe the sword soon. Iyabo Ojo vs Kemi Olunloyo Iyabo Ojo has been able to work her way up over the years to become a huge name in the world of show biz and it seems as though she’s also learned a lot over that time. This has given her the opportunity to have a large fans base and to speak on personal matters and sundry issues on social media; apparently some people aren’t too happy with her posts. The controversial journalist and the Nollywood actress were engaged in a nasty war of words on social media with each party dragging the other with equal venom. Not until recently was a truce brokered by Toyin Lawani and Toyin Abraham. Kemi Olunloyo even claimed that Iyabo Ojo wasn’t married to her husband and claimed that she had evidence to land the actress in jail. The beef has, however, been settled. Davido vs Kemi Olunloyo Superstar musician Davido aka OBO and controversial Kemi Olunloyo have been engaged in a continuous social media feud for years. This feud seems not to have an end. The latest episode in the long-running fight between the two manifested when Olunloyo congratulated Davido and girlfriend Chioma who have plans to marry next year. Olunloyo remarked: “Congrats Chioma on the birth of your baby boy. I will come visit you this weekend,” she tweeted. The hip pop star reacted through a message on social media, saying: ”This one wan near my pikin, 400 dey wait you.” Kemi Olunloyo vs Linda Ikeji Linda is arguably one of the most famous bloggers in Nigeria. The dispute between Kemi Olunloyo and Linda is one of the most famous in Nollywood. Is it over? We are not sure. What we know is that Madam Kemi still attacks Ikeji fairly regularly. The renowned blogger and socialite, Linda Ikeji, celebrated her 39th birthday on Thursday September 19, 2019 in Dubai with friends and family Kemi claims Linda is not revealling her real age to the public. While wishing her a happy birthday, Kemi pointed out that Linda is 43 years old as opposed to what she and Wikipedia are saying. “Happy 43rd birthday to Linda Ikeji. Fans, Wikipedia age is 39th birthday,” she wrote. Shan George vs Femi Branch You might be wondering why Shan George is on this list, considering she just recently had a spine surgery. Well, you don’t need to worry, because the surgery is the bone of contention. That’s because, just days after the actress went through a successful spine surgery in Abuja, Femi Branch, who also happens to be a member of the Actors Guild of Nigeria(AGN), took to his Instagram page to share a picture of the AGN executive giving an envelope to recuperating  Shan George. “God bless the & Actors Guild of Nigeria for coming to the side of our dear colleague and friend @shangeorge as she recovers from her back surgery” Reacting, however, in the comment section, Shan said: “They didn’t come to my aid sir. I’m not crying for any aid/help; it was just a show of love from the AGN president towards a colleague, @chief_femibranch. I know say you hate me but this is more than low. Aid ko, Babiala ni, you either correct this wrong impression or just kuku delete this post. Thank You”.  We also learnt the actress took to the AGN group chat to blast the actor. In her words:  “Abeg, make all of una help me tell Femi Branch to stop his bile for me now! I’ve had enough of of ur display of hatred for me at every little opportunity u can scramble at..Delete that bloody wicked evil post of urs…” Femi has remained mute all through. Sonia Ogiri & Angela  Okorie vs Mercy Johnson Nollywood actresses Sonia Ogiri and Angela Okorie are said to be embroiled in a social media mêlée with Mercy Johnson. The social media has been buzzing with mixed reactions after a Nigerian actress identified as Sonia Ogiri, in an Instagram post, titled ‘healing process’, shared her bitter experience in the hands of top Nollywood star, Mercy Johnson. However, while many people attacked her for trying to start a smear campaign against Mercy Johnson due to how successful she has become, there were others who believed her. Fellow Nollywood actress, Angela Okorie, reacting to the post, revealed that the actress did worse to her and went on to accuse the actress of fighting her both physically and spiritually.