Members of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State have threatened to defect following plots by the party to retain Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor as running mate. The nomination of Ewrujakpor, who hails from Sagbama Local Government, has kept the PDP on edge ahead of the November 16 governorship election. Governor Seriake Dickson convened a stakeholders’ meeting to review the controversies surrounding the candidate and explore the possibility of substituting Ewrujakpor’s name before the September 23 deadline given by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for candidate substitution. Members were, however, not happy that no statement was made on the matter after the meeting. Besides, many stakeholders did not attend the meeting where Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei was appointed director-general of the Senator Douye Diri Governorship Campaign Organisation. Ayawei, who chairs the Bayelsa State Internal Revenue Board, was a frontline aspirant in the primaries, which produced Diri. A statement by the Secretary, Chief Godspower Keku, said Ayawei’s appointment was part of the key resolutions of a meeting by the Governorship Campaign Advisory Council. Though the stakeholders kept mum on Diri’s running mate, it was gathered that the candidate briefed them on the issue. A party member said Diri was under pressure to retain  Ewrujakpor. He added that he told stakeholders that there was no need to substitute his running mate. The source, who pleaded for anonymity, said: “Most of the party members are waiting for the decision to be made public. If the party leadership fails to make it public and the name remains till the expiration of the September 23 deadline, there will be mass exodus in the PDP. “The only way to save the party is to zone the deputy governorship to Bayelsa East. We need their votes. People are not happy at the development and they have communicated their grievances. We are asking the governor and other party leaders to save the PDP.” Following Diri’s election as the party’s governorship candidate, some leaders abandoned PDP and aligned with APC. A member of the House of Assembly representing Southern Ijaw Constituency 2, Target Sekiibo, moved to APC with his supporters. Gabriel Jonah, younger brother to Deputy Governor Rear Admiral John Jonah (rtd), led thousands in Nembe to APC. Similarly, a grassroots mobiliser and Dickson’s Special Adviser on Urban Crime Management, Abednego Don-Evarad, dumped the party in Ogbia for APC. Following the running mate crisis, Dickson sacked his aide, Hellen Bob, who reportedly pitched tent with APC. The source added: “Many people are warming up to leave the party but they are waiting for the decision of the party’s leadership on this running mate palaver. Some PDP lawmakers have travelled to Abuja to meet with the leadership of the APC and negotiate their way out of the PDP. We are still begging the party leadership to listen to the voices of its members and resolve this issue.”