Four months after the Presidential Task Team on Apapa gridlock started work, residents and others have started heaving a sigh of relief, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE The song on the lips of private and corporate residents of Apapa these days is sustainability: that is, how to ensure that the ‘miracle’ that unlocked the gridlock that had seized the nation’s economic honey pot by the throat is sustained. For about a decade, many residents thought that Apapa has been sentenced to perennial gridlock. Such assumptions were reinforced by the failure of successive special Task Forces to tackle the traffic. One such resident, who never believed the government could tackle the Apapa gridlock, was Alhaji Umar Danlami, a Potiskum, Yobe State-born supplier and transporter. “I never believed the task team could make a difference when they started in May 2019. But four months after, the task team has not only solved the Apapa gridlock, but have proved that with effective traffic control system, Apapa would never slip into the ugly era again,” the Apapa-based businessman said. Danlami, a Nigeria Flour Mills (NFM) major transporter and supplier, and owner of Danlami Truck Park, praised the Presidential Task Team (PTT), headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and its Vice Chairman, Kayode Opeifa, “whose commitment to decongesting Apapa of trucks have been total”. He said: “I did not expect that this gridlock would ever go away from Apapa. If you know this Apapa before, there is no way, you’ll not be praying for this team for bringing sanity into Apapa. Everyone thought the gridlock was real, but when this committee came we discovered that it was artificial; that, it was man-made, created by those benefiting from it.” Specifically, he praised the team’s Head of Enforcement, Hakeem Odumosu, a Commissioner of Police, and an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Bayonle Sulaimon, for their commitment to riding Apapa of the nightmare. A logistics and haulage expert, Mr Tunji Olaosun, agreed that the gridlock was man-made. He urged the government to sustain the initiatives aimed at de-flooding the port area of trucks. An Apapa resident, Mr Paul Eloka, lamented that many residents, who had fled Apapa,  were returning as the traffic situation had been brought under control since the task team started work. He added that residents were praying that the team, which would be marking its fourth month in Apapa on September 22, be retained. “We would want Mr President to please retain these people at Apapa, because they have shown uncommon commitment to the cause of people.” The Councillor representing Apapa Ward B, Hon. Ishaq Ali Danbaba, said the team has brought a new meaning to governance, as the traffic has been managed and critical roads connecting the ports are being rehabilitated. “When there is a serious government, nothing is impossible. Today, Apapa gridlock, which many feared may never be resolved, is now history.” Danbaba said by managing the various traffic flows into Apapa, the PTT has been able to solve the traffic gridlock without hitches. “Every night, the team allows companies producing around Apapa, like Dangote, BUA,  NFM, Standard, Crown, Flour Mills, to go to Apapa and load and, even at that, the trucks are directed to keep to just one lane, while one lane is left for residents to have access to their homes. The area with challenges is the Tin Can axis, which still remains clogged as a result of the ongoing construction,” Danbaba said. The National Coordinator of the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA), Comrade Stephen Okafor, said by decongesting Apapa, the PTT has achieved in full the Executive Order Six of Mr President on the ease of doing business, especially in Apapa. COMTUA – an amalgam of transport unions – had decried the extortionist tendencies of previous task forces, and their protests had resulted in the composition of the task team. “We agreed to move these trucks to private parks, to reduce the number of trucks parking on the road. Of the 64 private parks that COMTUA recommended, 33 parks were approved for use and, as we speak, the NPA management is calling trucks from these parks. The NPA opened the Lilypond Terminal and the Tin Can Truck Park at the Tin Can Second Gate, where trucks on that axis are parking, from where they are called in to the Tin Can ports. These have gone a long way to reduce congestion,” Okafor said. COMTUA’s Head of Operations Malam Inua Abdullahi, however, accused shipping firms of sabotaging PTT’s efforts, adding that they have continued to show little or no improvement in their capacity to accommodate the container returns. Victor Nnatum, a trucker, urged the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) and the Nigeria Shippers Council (NSC) to enforce the laws and ensure that terminal operators comply. He urged the government and the shipping lines to review the demurrage regime which  compounded the traffic situation in Apapa traffic. Gbade Amodu, a truck fleet operator and transporter, said the Team succeeded because they balanced the road among users. “They put up a system, stating that at any particular time of the day, you can identify the traffic that is on the road. They put such a system in the morning for residents to move about freely, or go to work and their businesses. There is time for the regular truck traffic. Truck traffic has many categories. You have  manufacturers, such as the Flour Mills BUA, Crown Flour, Dangote, and Honeywell. These ones move in at all times. They have been able to segment the traffic flows given the peculiarity of their businesses and needs.” Amodu, who noted that the system, has boosted business for truckers, said “before, you’d be lucky to run one trip per week,  some make two”. According to him, before, empty containers take more than two weeks to get to Apapa from Ijora Olopa because of the obstacles. “We have the human factor and the Nigerian factor. But now, an average truck can do at least two local trips a week. That is even with the challenges of returning empty containers.” Danlami said the system has brought its challenges. According to him, many, like him, who wants to obey the PTT’s directive by moving from Lilypond, are discovering that many trucks still shunt. Danlami said: “I profitted more with the old order as I readily paid to get my trucks into the ports and my trucks could make three or four trips per week. Now because I wanted to be law-abiding, I could hardly make one trip per week, while I see some truckers shunt having paid some unscrupulous elements in the police to get ahead of others.” Nelson Ekujumi, a human rights activist,  said before the Team would leave, they must set up a sustainable system and engage the terminal operators to review the regime of container deposits, container returns and ensure that the holding bays owned by shipping lines work. Ekujumi, who said the Team has achieved so much within a very short time, added that much more could be done when the roads are completed and the electronic call up system being proposed by the NPA comes on stream. Secretary, Apapa GRA Residents Association, Bosun Talabi, wondered why the Federal Government could not have another Truck Terminal on the expressway to further ease the traffic along the Tin Can-Coconut axis. He urged the government to complement the deployment of the railway with the waterways, adding that containers could be taken by barges from the ports to any of the contiguous locations bordering Apapa, from where the trucks could pick them up for the last mile movement. The Apapa GRA Residents Association President and a member of the PTT, Brig-Gen. Ayo Vaughan, praised the Team for making Apapa liveable. “We are glad to note that many who have fled Apapa are coming back and many are looking towards Apapa to locate their businesses once again,” he said. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to further extend the tenure of the PTT as it is committed to the dream of returning Apapa’s lost glory. He, however, said for the efforts to be sustained,  all stakeholders must continue to play their part. Opeifa commended all for cooperating making President Muhammadu Buhari’s vision of a- free-flow traffic at Apapa a reality. “The Federal Government is committed to the ease of doing business and when all the plans being put in place for Apapa fully come on stream, the gridlock would be a thing of the past,” he said.