As Nigeria prepares to attain a polio-free status, experts say more commitments in routine immunisation coverage and quality surveillance are needed to prevent a resurgence of the virus, reports Vincent Ikuomola It was with euphoria that Nigeria recently celebrated three years without a new case of wild polio virus. In a country that used to record large number of victims, this is seen as a milestone. With this, what happens in the next six months means a lot, as the country tries to ensure no case of polio outbreak is recorded  to be certified polio free by the World Health Organisation (WHO). But there are questions on the lips of many: “Would Nigeria finally exit polio? What happens after obtaining the WHO polio-free certification? This is significant given the country’s unimpressive record in efforts to rid itself of the virus. Although many countries in Africa have recorded success stories in their fight against wild polio virus, eradication of the disease has remained a challenge because many countries are falling short on surveillance and immunisation. Nigeria, Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only three countries still battling to exit polio. But, in the last three years, Nigeria has gone without any record of wide polio virus incidence, something that has been described by many as a milestone, especially as it falls within the yardstick set by the WHO for declaring a country free of the virus. In 2016, Nigeria had hoped to wipe out wild-type polio before four children from Borno State came down with polio virus, thereby throwing a spanner into the country’s efforts. Not daunted, the country, through the aid of military personnel who either accompany the vaccinators or give drops of the oral polio vaccine to children themselves, is offering the drops at exit points in some of the most difficult-to-reach parts of Borno. Hence, after the last disappointment, hope rises again that Nigeria may soon attain a polio-free status. This explains why the government called out the press to announce the latest milestone achievement, even as it is still hopeful that it is able to see through the next six months. It is important to note that following the Nigeria three-year mark, the Africa Regional Commission for Certification of Polio Eradication (ARCC) will begin a rigorous process to confirm if each country in the region is wild polio-free. Nigeria will submit its final country data for evaluation in March 2020, provided there are no new wild polio cases. If the data confirms zero cases, the entire WHO AFRO region may receive wild polio-free certification as soon as mid-2020, leaving only the Eastern Mediterranean region out of six around the world where the virus still exists. Listening to various speakers on the day elicited joy and hope for a nation that has been categorised as one perpetually burdened with debilitating diseases. Among other things, Nigeria is often ranked high, if not highest in most global diseases. In the case of the wild polio virus, many find it too incongruous to explain that Nigeria ranks alongside Pakistan and Afghanistan as the only countries in the world still being afflicted with the deadly virus, despite global assistance to rid humanity of polio. But Nigeria has gone three years without any fresh case of wild polio. Hence, August 21, this year was considered by stakeholders as Nigeria’s date with history for achieving one of the first of the three milestone achievements. Consequently, following this feat, Nigeria has commenced the process of documentation towards the final certification by the Africa Regional Certification Commission (ARCC). If ARCC is satisfied with the country’s documentation, Nigeria will be certified wild polio virus free. As close as March 2020 seems to be, it is still a long way to go for the country, especially as it has come this close before. According to stakeholders, what is required of Nigeria to ensure that the milestone is not reversed is the need for the country to maintain the momentum and push that has brought the nation this far. In the words of Dr. Clement Peter, WHO Officer in Charge, the next six months is very crucial for the government and country. He called for redoubling of efforts from governments at the federal and state levels, stressing that donors and other partners need to intensify political and financial support to ensure the final success in the fight against wild polio virus in Nigeria. Speaking in Abuja at a press conference on “three years without wild polio virus case in Nigeria,” Clement said more commitments will be needed to prevent the resurgence of the virus in the country. He also said high routine immunisation coverage and quality surveillance remain the most critical things to do in the build-up towards certification and post certification. He identified improved immunisation coverage and high quality campaigns as means of boosting population immunity against all forms of polio viruses, while urging the government to remain vigilant in ensuring high quality surveillance at ward levels. Also, at the press conference, Dr. Matshiddiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa, noted that the three-year landmark sets in motion a comprehensive evaluation by the Africa Regional Certification Commission to determine if the WHO African Region of 47 countries, indeed, can be declared to have eradicated wild poliovirus. If all things work according to expectations, certification that the WHO African Region is free of wild polio is expected in early 2020. “We are confident that soon, we will be trumpeting the certification that countries have, once and for all, kicked polio out of Africa. If the evaluation process proves the wild virus is gone, Africa will join four of the WHO regions – the Americas, the Western Pacific, Europe and Southeast Asia – in holding this distinction. It will leave only the WHO Eastern Mediterranean region still working to stop the virus,” Moeti said. She praised the continent’s resilience and strong commitment to stopping the virus in overcoming the tough challenges. “The path to eradicating polio in Africa has been a monumental effort of multinational coordination on an unprecedented scale, providing vaccinations to hundreds of millions of children and conducting immunisation campaigns in some of the most remote locations in the world, with vigilance and exhaustive surveillance to timely detect outbreaks, including among people on the move,” she said. “It has involved men and women volunteering in the thousands, sometimes putting themselves in harm’s way, some even sacrificing their life for this work. These successes would not have been possible without the incredible perseverance of countries and partners in the Global Polio Eradication Initiative who have mobilised the financial and technical resources to get the job done.” But Dr. Faisal Shuaib, executive secretary, National Primary Health Care Development  Agency (NPHCDA) warned, while declaring August 21 as a major milestone in the history of the country’s’s polio eradication efforts,  that the success is one that must be managed with caution, not euphoria. Shuaib said what the situation calls for is continuous vaccination of children, stressing that it has become imperative that all stakeholders continue to support the polio programme through technical and financial support as well as political oversight to prevent the reoccurrence of the virus and stop the spread of all other types of polio virus in all states and local government areas in Nigeria. “We need to collectively address the remaining challenges facing the programme, including the poor access to children in some parts of the country due to insecurity, poor health seeking behaviour of our people, vaccine hesitancy, malnutrition, poor sanitation, inadequate funding for primary healthcare, especially at the state and local government levels,” he added. Giving assurance that NPHCDA will ensure that the gains were not reversed, Shuaib said one critical issue at this last stage is surveillance. He stated that WHO is expected to ensure that there is a robust surveillance system in the country to be certain that there are no further cases of the wild polio virus. The Country Director, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), Paulin Basinga, said Nigeria must continue its hardwork to address the remaining challenges. He applauded the government and partners for achieving the milestone, adding that the feat reflects the coordination and trust between all stakeholders and is the outcome of successfully working towards a common objective. Basinga urged the government and other partners to work towards reaching every last child with life-saving vaccines, as well as strengthening the surveillance system to detect and respond to threats of possible outbreaks. “Nigeria has made tremendous progress in recent years and must continue its hard-work to address remaining challenges, especially by continuing to improve its political commitment and domestic financing for health to improve routine immunisation coverage to ensure no child anywhere in Nigeria ever dies of vaccine-preventable diseases again,” he said. In some parts of the country, stakeholders say Boko Haram insurgency continues to be an obstacle for the country’s polio eradication efforts. Apart from insurgency-ridden Borno, Kano State has also been at the centre of a multibillion-dollar initiative to eradicate polio. For Nigeria to be declared as polio free, 19 years after the first deadline set by WHO to eradicate it elapsed, efforts need to be intensified especially in states that used to be epicenters for polio. It is believed that Nigeria has reached this point because of concerted efforts of vaccine advocates and volunteers, including influential traditional and religious leaders who have stepped up to take the oral form of the vaccine door to door and act as reliable mediators to close the trust gap. Poliomyelitis (polio) is a highly infectious viral disease, which mainly affects young children. The virus is transmitted by person-to-person spread mainly through the faecal-oral route or through contaminated water or food and multiplies in the intestine, from where it can invade the nervous system and cause paralysis. In 1988, there were about 350,000 cases of the virus when the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI)—a collaboration between WHO, UNICEF, the U.S. Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Rotary International, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation—set out to immunise every child in the world against polio. However, just 12 years later, the number of cases had dropped to under 1,000 worldwide. Between January and August, this year, the world has seen 65 cases—all of them in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In Nigeria, the milestone is not just a complex victory over the deadly virus; it is also a defeat for distrust, misinformation and an insurgency that used to allow the virus to fester. This means stakeholders can’t stop yet until the country reaches the finish line. If Nigeria is certified polio-free next year, stakeholders say it is just the beginning, for the country needs to muster the needed political will to increase resources required to reform and strengthen its moribund health systems.