Kogi State All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Alhaji Abdullahi Bello spoke with JAMES AZANIA in Lokoja, the state capital, on issues that will shape the November 16 poll. The PDP has said that APC cannot win the November 16 poll. What is your take on this? That’s a huge joke coming from the PDP in Kogi State. In fact there’s no aspirant in the opposition party, the PDP, that can defeat Governor Yahaya Bello and the APC in the election. Not even Wada that emerged as their questionable candidate in the November gubernatorial election in Kogi State. PDP as a party is in disarray in Kogi State. This is because everyone of their key elements are fighting for themselves, and their immediate family, and not the overall progressive interest of the vast majority of our citizens in Kogi State. They have merely turned Kogi State into family socio-economic stroke political chess game, where father and son are fighting to force their personal choice of candidate on us, and elder brother stroke the junior one from same family were frantically trying to outdo each other. And or in-law versus in-law kind of political brawl. The PDP in Kogi State is a symbol of acute failure overtime, and thus their present quest to establish family political dynasty in a diverse social setting like ours is bound ‘to’ fall like pack of cards. This is the foundation of their failure now and in the years to come. This scramble for the apple pie in the PDP by their so called well to do, has fragmented them to the extent that our impending victory over them in the coming election will be devastating. PDP in Kogi State will be defeated in such a convenient and humiliating manner, that they will not be able to challenge our victory at the election tribunal. Aspirants, including Admiral Usman Jibril (retd.) and Alhaji Mohammed Audu, were perceived to have been unjustifiably screened out from primary. Are you not mindful of a possible backlash? There’s none among these mentioned individuals who were disqualified, that has come forward to present to the party any concrete evidence that they were unjustly disqualified from partaking in our party primary election in which Bello emerged victorious. APC, just like all other political parties have laid down rules and procedures for obtaining and filling their nomination forms. Some candidates presented unconvincing bio-data. Can you blame Bello or the party for such inadequacies from them? Some of these people were never bonafide member of our party, but simply rushed to purchase the APC governorship nomination forms, hoping to run on an outdated distasteful platform; that only candidates from a particular part of our state can stand and win gubernatorial election in Kogi State. To some whom we toiled in the 2015 election for their late father, they were of the opinion that we will line up behind them again. This is where they got it wrong. Prince Abubakar Audu was a leader with distinction and we followed him. His political shoes are just too wide for any of his children and his brother who we never know with our leader while he was alive, to wear at this time. We don’t believe in political family. dynasty, either in PDP and or APC. The election will settle some of these issues by the grace of Almighty Allah. Coming to the question of backlash, let me allay any concerns in the above regard, that most of these people were not actively involved in the last general election process in Kogi State, where our party recorded tremendous success under the leadership of Bello and Chief Edward Onoja. They thought by their non-participation in that election, APC will not do well. And, their absence was great mark for us, for if they had been involved, they would have claimed credit of our political victory. I’m not implying that they are irrelevant, but if they wish to be of political substance in our state, it is in their best interest to join a moving train which is heading for triumphant victory. The PDP came up with a candidate from the Kogi East, to exploit the numerical strength of the Igala people. How is the APC going to counter this? The November 16 election in Kogi State is going to represent the followings: One, incumbent with experience against the unknown and the questionable. Two, Bello and APC, symbolise unity, as against the PDP and its candidate that believes that one family is destined to govern forever in Kogi State. Three, GYB is a symbol of youthful empowerment across Kogi State, as against the PDP and its candidate which held on to placing the younger generation in our state at the background in perpetuity. Today, in Kogi State, so many young people has broken the ceilings by virtue of Bello’s government policy of giving the youths preference in terms of appointments and recognition. Four, under Bello’s administration, the erstwhile cries of ethnic marginalisation is gone. While GYB believes in competence and quality of mind, the opposition PDP is clinging to ethnic considerations in most of her choices. And, this easily explains why they found no other competent person from the other two senatorial districts, to run on the ticket of their party, except an Igala man Wada. Fifthly, GYB and APC represent the oneness of Kogi State as one big family, while the PDP and its candidate is clothed with outdated ethnocentric ideologies. PDP will be easily defeated in the coming election, for picking Wada, a junior brother of the former governor of the state, who failed in all ramifications when he held sway for good four years. We will not allow the son of former Governor Ibrahim Idris to force his candidate on us, just the manner he did with Capt. Idris Wada in 2011/2012. Kogi is for all Kogi citizens, not for in-laws. Other brilliant and tested capable young men and women abound in all the three senatorial districts in Kogi; who are competent enough to govern our state. This cannot be an exclusive preserve of just one or two families. Bello’s victory in the coming election will be total. Bello is the preferred beautiful bride in the coming election; for the fact that serious political leaders from the Kogi West senatorial district are quite aware that his successful second term in office is the nearest to them having a taste of Lugard House, while his huge followers from Kogi East are working hard in order to see to it that political power is back to them in four years time. So, it’s work and reward time as we all strategise for the coming election. What has the APC done for Kogi that will speak for it at the poll? So many roads have been completed in Kogi East and many are ongoing, reaching advanced stage. In Kogi Central, huge road construction have been accomplished too. We just saw the governor last week on site tour of the gigantic Kogi rice mill at Ejigba in Kogi West, which is being set up in tandem with President Muhammadu Buhari’s drive towards local food production, as part of the Next-Level agenda, and this is coupled with many other ongoing road construction in his political senatorial district. This young governor did not concentrate projects in his enclave, as against what previous governors before him did during their time. Bello has commenced a positive generational change in terms of human development. Today, his achievements in this regard is unparalleled. Bello’s decisive intervention in curbing our terrible security situation when he assumed duty is quite commendable, and his committed efforts has made Kogi State a none fertile ground for criminals. We should not forget that the primary purpose of government is the protection of lives and property. And, GYB has obtained distinction in this area. The governor personally led security forces to chase out known criminals and their properties destroyed in line with our state anti-thuggery and kidnapping law across the three senatorial districts. There’s religious harmony in Kogi State, while the citizens local culture are being treated with commendable respect. The Kogi State traditional institution was positively uplifted by this New Direction government of Bello. Traditional rulers who were abandoned by previous governors have been promoted across the state without sentiments. Don’t forget that this governor is the only one with courage to wipe out the scourge of ghosts workers from our state workforce. Those who benefit from this, and who are in the minority, in and or outside our state, will continue to shout on top of their tiny purposeless voice against the government of GYB. The governor has paid all genuine state workers and pensioners up-to-date. If any Kogi State worker is claiming otherwise, he or she is either being economical with the truth, or may probably have been weeded off from the payroll for certain infractions which have been communicated to them. The third category are the mischief makers. We will defeat them. Kogi State has attained political relevance with balance at the national scene, due to the effective leadership qualities of Bello. The coming election is not whether are we going to win, the huge margin is what we’re working on at present. We’re comfortably ahead of the PDP and all other mushroom political parties in kogi state. Allegations by the deputy governor, Simon Achuba, that the governor aimed to eliminate him, and sundry others, it is believed will tell on the party’s fortune at the poll. What is your take on this? It’s unfortunate that Mr. Simon Achuba has driven himself into this political cul-de-sac. My advice for him is to resign and leave the scene quickly. May be he thought he was still a member of the Kogi State House of Assembly, an institution he left many years ago. I said this, because from all his public comments, only a member of the state legislature can face his governor in the manner he did. Any member of the executive arm who in my opinion decides to go the way he did should have resigned and presented his case to the public. His various media outbursts contravened our nation’s Capital, which he swore to uphold. You can’t be beneficiary of a government that you are equally working hard to undermine at the same time. To remain an opposition within his own government is nothing short of ingratitude to the man who brought him to his current political status. I particularly thank Almighty Allah that He gave a better substitute in the person of Chief Edward Onoja. This is another young man in our state, whose outstanding output has amazed me personally. With him as the deputy gubernatorial candidate to Governor Yahaya Bello in the coming election in kogi State, we shall attain victory without stress. All indices in kogi State as we head towards the election are in favour of Governor Yahaya Bello and Deputy Governor to-be, Chief Edward Onoja by the grace of God.