Mama Africa, aka Yemi Alade as she is fondly called, has signed a global licensing agreement with Universal Music Africa, an affiliate of Universal Music Group, in partnership with Universal Music France (UMF). The agreement proves UMG’s readiness to strenghten its position in Africa, building upon Yemi’s success so far with Effyzzie Music Group. Under the multi-year agreement, UMA will serve as the exclusive worldwide recorded music partner for Yemi Alade and her label Effyzzie Music Group, and UMF will serve as the international roll-out partner for the project. The “Oga” crooner broke African women’s record, emerging as the first African female artiste to hit over 100 million views on YouTube and VEVO with hit single ‘Johnny’. She was also the first of her kind to have over one million subscribers on YouTube. Announcing the licence agreement, UMA’s MD Moussa Soumbounou said: “Yemi Alade is one of the few artists in the history of African urban pop music to reach such a high level of notoriety. We at Universal Music Africa are all huge fans of Yemi Alade and her music and with what she has already accomplished with Effyzzie Music Group, we believe that our new partnership will only further elevate her superstar status globally. We are excited and proud to support her in this new phase of her career and help her reach even greater heights”. Olivier Nusse, chairman and CEO of Universal Music France, said: “It is a real opportunity for Universal Music to have the confidence of such an artist. Her talent and impact on African and even world pop music are undeniable, and it is with great humility but even more ambition that we will support his project, with the help of the other subsidiaries. Africa is more present than ever on the world music scene, and Universal Music Group through such a partnership, confirms its ambitions, but also its leadership”. Taiye Aliyu, CEO and founder of Effyzzie Music Group, reportedly added: “We at Effyzzie Music Group and Yemi Alade are pleased to be working in partnership with the Universal Music Group, changing the narrative of African music, one artist at a time. The Future is Africa”. Yemi Alade recently took to social media to announce the release of the short movie available for streaming on YouTube “Home”. The movie title got its name from a song in her WOS album and works in conjunction to prove the prowess of Mama Africa in both fields. “Home” is directed by Clarence A. Peters and stars Nollywood actress Clarion Chukwura alongside actor Frankincense Eche Ben.