Over the years, illegal oil activities, including oil theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal crude refining, have continued to be a clog in the wheel of growth of the economy with huge economic losses, environmental degradation and health hazards in oil producing communities. In this piece, the Marine Diesel Suppliers Association of Nigeria (MADSAN), highlights the impact and proffers solution to the rising illegal oil activities in the Niger Delta region. EMEKA UGWUANYI reports. Illegal oil activities have for long become a menace to the economic development of our country, especially in the Niger Delta. According to the Human Rights Watch Short Report, October 2002, “Under the Nigerian constitution, all minerals, including oil and gas in Nigeria, belong to the Federal Government. Oil extraction outside the framework of an agreement with the Federal Government is illegal, as is the possession of crude oil by anyone not licensed to do so. Specific crimes have also been created relating to damage to oil installations, including for the purpose of siphoning of crude oil or petroleum products. Bunkering is the supply of fuel for use by ships; it includes the loading fuel and its distribution among targeted bunker tanks. Today, the word ‘bunkering’ sounds awful because people understand it as illegal, just because in the actual sense, going by incessant oil pipeline vandalism, the word has become unanimous with theft. On www.wikipedia.org/wiki/bunkering, in the article titled: “Bunkering”, Nigeria is the only country used as a reference to explain bunkering as theft. That is dismal. The reason hoodlums vandalise oil pipelines is not just because of their animosity towards the government for marginalising them, but because they want to get rich quick by peddling the crude they illegally harnessed and refined. Despite the hard economic condition of the country, there is no justification whatsoever for oil theft. This is extended to those who also patronise those who are into this criminal act because, if there is no market for illegally mined oil, products, the venture into it will seriously reduce. This condemnable act has caused this country more harm than good. It has affected the economic climate of this country because crude oil exploration and exploitation is the major resource of our country. This act has also made it difficult for the relevant authorities in this sector to channel resources to its development; instead, they spend the resources on repairs and replacement of destroyed pipelines. The interests of investors into this sector are also affected by the insecurity and incessant vandalism of oil pipelines. The British think-tank ‘Chatham House’ reported that over 100,000 barrels of oil were estimated to be stolen daily. Also, the United Nations Security Council estimates that Nigeria lost about $2.8 billion of revenue to oil theft in 2017. In his paper entitled: “Illegal oil bunkering and oil theft in Nigeria: Impact on the national economy and the way forward,” Felix Anyio of the Department of Public Administration,  Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, said illegal oil activities have continued to threaten the  survival  of  the economy. “The combination of crude oil theft, illegal refining and pipeline vandalism has become a major threat to Nigeria in meeting its revenue projections in recent time. Findings revealed that the nation has incurred colossal losses of oil revenues estimated at N1.29 trillion to industrial scale theft yearly, withdrawal of foreign investors and companies, degradation of the local environment, increased acquisition  of light  arms and  ammunition, high incidents  of school dropouts among primary and secondary schools pupils and students, while the government has not done enough to combat the negative trends. Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) also noted that the facilities operated by both indigenous and international oil and gas companies continue to be affected by attacks and other illegal activities, such as crude oil theft. This led to disruptions to oil and gas production last year, particularly for indigenous producers and incidents of environmental contamination. Disruption to production also impacted revenue for the Federal Government of Nigeria and to gas supply to power electricity for industry, businesses and public-sector services. Besides, safety of staff and contractors is a concern and remains top priority. Shell Companies in Nigeria aim to mitigate security risks that may impact people, the environment and assets – thus operations are carried out only where it is safe to do so, the company added. Oil spills due to crude oil theft and sabotage of facilities, which Shell referred to as third party interference, as well as illegal refining, cause the most environmental damage from oil and gas operations in the Niger Delta. Beyond the economic losses incurred through crude theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal refining, illegal oil activities in the Niger Delta result in devastating environmental degradation, especially illegal refining. Oil spills and explosions are regular occurrences in the Niger Delta, as pipeline vandalism from bunkering leaves pipes especially vulnerable to leaks, spills, and major accidents. Illegal artisanal refineries in the Niger Delta derive only 45 per cent value from the stolen crude while the remaining 55 per cent of crude is wasted. When these illegal refiners pour residues of the poorly refined crude into the creeks, rivers, farmlands, ponds, lakes, the environment is degraded, farmlands devastated and waters polluted making fishing in such communities useless. According to the Public Relations Officer, MADSAN, Valentina Atiki, “It is out of deep concern that we  proffer these lines of suggestions to tackle and reduce oil theft activities: 1. “The Federal Government should as fast as possible recognise and partner with all the Marine groups/associations, especially those in the Niger-Delta areas. “We believe that by so doing, all the stakeholders will know that anybody who would want to carry out vessel to vessel transfer must get to Marine Diesel Suppliers Group STS point before carrying out any operation. This, among other plans, will certainly help to reduce oil theft.” 