By now, traducers must have recoiled to their cocoon or go into perpetual obliteration. The simple reason is not far fetched. Just recently, Barrister Chikeluba, the Executive Chairman of one of the sprawling lounges in the Metropolitan city of Lagos, Kohinoor Lagos, hosted his longtime friend, Kenneth Ahia, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) to a private dinner at his Kohinoor Lagos Lounge. Chike is a socialite and businessman while Ken is a remarkable and reputable SAN at law. But distinctively, both men understood the tenets of friendship. The duo bond was dated back 35-years ago at the prestigious Nigerian Law School in Lagos. During their hey days, the much-talked-about friends junketed the streets of Lagos in pursuit of their careers. This profitably earned them detribalised friendship with who and who matters on the soil. For them, friendship is virtuous and sacred. Despite their deposition to wealth, status, connection and affluence, it is never an intoxicating factor to these dudes. Still, both have developed friendship; good manners and right attitude that has endeared countless friends to them like a honeycomb. In a world where friendship is made for personal exploits; but theirs has transcend beyond just hearsay and became worthwhile. Unilaterally, these attributes have earned them respect and trust in the high place of the society. These two South Eastern resourceful sons rode and command values, panache across every strata of life. That gives credence to having two notable personalities such as the gubernatorial aspirant of Abia State and former managing director of defunct Diamond Bank Plc., Sir. Alex Otti as the Chairman of the event and former MD/CEO of United Bank For Africa (UBA) and Chairman of Nova Merchant bank, Phillips Oduoza, who graced the evening in honour of Ken and his host, Chike. Like tapping into the blessings of biblical Abraham, no doubt, Chike is born into a rich home with a splendorous story of his father being a successful businessman of repute. Instead of eroding the known family business name into mud like a prodigal son, he had built on it to a place of reckon where many of his contemporaries wonder little of where he got his entrepreneurship traits from. All thanks to providence. Chike sits as the Executive Chairman of Kohinoor Lagos. A one-stop centre with a business Hub on Elegushi Road that has about 10-business unit which hosts a supermarket and a lounge where shoppers and fun-seekers usually have day fulfilled. While Ken sits as the lead counsel of Ken Ahia and Associates. A law firm birthed in 1994 both as a matter of calling and avenue to assuage the feelings of loss of a beloved father. He is presently, an Assessor to the Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria as the appointee of the Chief Justice of Nigeria.