OVER 150 communities are said to have been ravaged by flood across nine local government areas of Kogi State. The Kogi State Commissioner for Environment and Natural Resources, Sanusi Yahaya, made this known in Lokoja, on Saturday at the state Emergency Operation Centre (EOC). He noted that the EOC had been activated as the state was already experiencing flood emergency as a result of river flooding. Yahaya, who doubles as the state coordinator, EOC, said out of nine local government areas along the banks of the rivers Niger and Benue, seven are severely affected. He listed the severely affected LGAs as: Ibaji, Kogi/Koton-Karfe, Lokoja, Ofu, Ajaokuta, Omala and Idah, saying over 90 percent of Ibaji communities have been submerged. “Particularly, majority of communities at Ibaji are under water, and many households have been affected and displaced. “As we speak, the water level has risen very high to about 10.60m today in Lokoja, from the report of the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA). “In the last few days, many communities, settlements have been displaced as a result of flooding,’’ he stated. He said that over 20 camps had been opened to accommodate flood victims. He advised residents of flood-prone and affected communities to relocate to safer places or move to the nearest camps opened by the state and local governments, to avoid loss of lives and properties. “With the activation of the state emergency centre, the state is collaborating with all the relevant stakeholders to make timely appropriate responses. “The state needs help. While we are working within the resources available to us, we need temporary shelter provision, food, non-food items and water, which the affected victims will need.” According to him, the number of households as at yesterday, around the Gadumo axis is 215, Ganaja 176, Galili 272 and Adankolo 246, all under Lokoja and Ajaokuta LGAs. He, however, noted that no human fatality had been recorded. He urged the federal government, through the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), to come to the aid of the state. He also appealed to individuals, organisations and other relevant stakeholders to assist the state.    