The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has berated President Muhammadu Buhari for his failure to take decisive steps to end bloodletting and guarantee a stable, peaceful and secure nation. The party said it’s completely inexcusable that as an individual, occupying the seat of the Commander-In-Chief, President Buhari has failed to organise his parade and articulate a decisive and operable strategy to effectively end violence in the nation. In a statement Sunday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the opposition party noted with dismay, that the Presidency only stops at issuing condemnations, publishing commiserations and embarking on condolence visits with empty assurances, but has failed to take definite steps to address the situation and bring culprits to book. “At most, Presidency officials sit in the safety and comfort of Aso Rock to task state governors and traditional rulers, without concrete security measures to rout perpetrators. “This complete failure of leadership and abdication of the statutory duties of the President indicates that the Buhari Presidency has no solutions towards ensuring the security of lives and property in our nation”, the statement added. The PDP observed that failure by the Buhari Presidency in tackling insecurity, has emboldened perpetuation of violent acts against defenceless citizens by insurgents, bandits, marauders and kidnappers freely pillaging defenceless citizens in various parts of the country. The statement further said, “Each passing day, our nation is jolted by shocking news of avoidable violence, mindless killings, preventable bloodlettings, loss of breadwinners and murder of promising citizens. Indeed, this is not the way to go. “Our party notes as saddening that under President Buhari, who promised to lead from the front, only to withdraw to the safety of Aso Rock, Nigerians can no longer move freely around their country as insecurity pervades on all fronts. “The PDP laments that instead of seeking help and yielding to competent and patriotic counsel from well-meaning Nigerians, the Buhari Presidency has remained heavy on propaganda and false performance indices. “The PDP, as a party, immensely commends the sacrifices of our gallant troops who are risking their lives in the front to secure other citizens. Nigerians indeed appreciate their sacrifices at this trying time in our national history”. The party called on Nigerians to be more alert and prayerful; continue to be their brother’s keepers and remain steadfast in the collective quest to retrieve the “stolen presidential mandate” at the court as the only option to pull the nation out of the woods, which the PDP said the Buhari administration plunged the nation into. END