Ex-BBNaija 2018 housemate, Leo Babarinde Akinola Dasliva, simply known as Leo and currently the campaign ambassador for premier cool, revealed that his entrance into the reality show was to showcase his business potentials to the world. In this interview with SAMPSON UNAMKA, he speaks on why he avoided having sex in the house, among other issues. HOW has the journey been since you left the Big Brother house? The journey has been quite fulfilling and good and I went on the show having my structure already on ground. It’s just that I needed a platform to amplify it and Big Brother was the platform. A lot of people felt that the show was an entertainment show and you being a serious business man would not really mix, but at the end of the day, I was in front of Africa; so it was up to me to show Africa what I wanted to show and I chose to show them my business, which is what is kind of my life. Lets talk about your business… Right now I run my holding company; what we do is that we try to get investors and we help invest in small in small businesses as well; so that is the mix of what we do and we try to provide business support for businesses that we invest in. So, how long have you been in the business? Formally, I have been doing it for over a year now. But informally, I have been doing it for close to three years. Since I have my platform on what not, I decided why not make this a proper structure? You know employ people under it, instead of doing everything by yourself; why not make it more efficient? So that was what I did in July last year; set up the office in Ikoyi. We decided to start doing things properly, documentation and we signed the partnership with an international edge funds. So, it’s a thing where you can get funding for businesses up to millions of dollars. It’s just a thing where we just speak to you and tell you what we are charging from you, forgetting the amount  of money and if entrepreneurs come to meet us as well, you can tell our investors that we have these guys that have ideas and this is how much they have.  Sometimes we use our own funds to invest. Many people went into the show for entertainment purposes, but yours was strictly business? Hmmm yea! It was not just strictly business;  I just wanted people to know that I am a serious person and it kind of worked. For strangers to give me money to help them invest, they need to know you are a serious person and you need to have a  form of integrity. So, that is what I have benefited from the platform.  The fact that I was able to show that I went on the show to show that this is me, so that the people that will like me would like me and the people that will relate with  me would do so. For me, it was more of a journey thing. I wasn’t thinking about a sprint; I was thinking about longitivtiy. There was a lot of pressure to probably act, to probably to do a lot  of entertainment, hosting a lot of that but I think what it is, is: you don’t want to be known for too many things; you need people to know exactly what you are doing;  not a thing where I  need a plumber; yes, let’s message him; they need to know if you are messaging me. It has to be about  something serious. It has to be about business. So that’s what I’m doing. Along the line, if entertainment gig comes along, you’ll turn them down? Yeah, I have turned down acting roles; I have turned down a lot of hosting roles, hosting like Mc. The thing is for me, it has to be something that aligns with what I want to do. For example, I do a lot of public speaking; I do a lot of mentoring and if I get roles that say ‘Come and speak at this conference and host something that has to do with unity depending on what business that aligns with what I’m doing. You cannot tell me to come and host a pageant; it has to be something I can relate to; there is no pressure for me to be who I’m. When you were in the house, you had a thing with one of the ladies. Tell us about it No, I don’t want to speak about anyone. I want to speak for myself. What do you think about sex in the Big Brother house and how were you able to abstain from sex because we know you had no scandals? For me, it’s just about understanding what you want. You know, it’s not as if  people who want to have sex are bad people; if you want, you can. So,I don’t think sex is a big deal. If an adult wants to have sex; he or she can.  So for me, it’s about the way I was able to do it; didn’t want to do it. Who did you miss most in your Big Brother set? I won’t say I miss anybody most because all the people I was close to, I’m still close to them. Can a contestant do without smoking, alcohol and romance in the house? Yes, of course, it’s all about you as a person. Who is your favorite Big Brother housemate in this current show? I liked Cindy, but I don’t really have a favourite because I have campaigned for Seyi and I have voted for Mike as well; I also voted for Cindy. So, there is no particular favourite. Who do you think will win? I think it’s going to be a lady. Khafi had this issue about sex with Gedoni. What is your take on the issue? I think Gedoni came out and said they never had sex. I think they never did have sex. Whatever, maybe they were making out or what not, I don’t know if they actually did have sex but it’s unfortunate that it really spread like wildfiree fire and someone started the allegation that they actually  they had sex and it got to the Police Force in England and it’s unfortunate that it’s going to ruin Khafi’s career as a Police woman and that makes me really sad. So, that was one of the reasons, while I was in the house, I tried  to stay away from assumptions. You understand? You try to stay away from things that will make people talk about things like that,  so you don’t find your self in that kind of position. So, it’s unfortunate but I think she will be okay at the end of the day.