BRITISH American Tobacco Nigeria Foundation (BATNF) has okayed  N700 million  to tackle youth unemployment through agriculture under a five-year plan. This will be achieved through its Wealth is Here Campaign which will last till  2022, its Executive Director, Ms Abimbola Okoya said on Thursday in Lagos while launching the programme. Okoya said the programme aims to increase employment opportunities for youths, adding it provides them guidance and training in value adding and food processing practices. According to her, Nigeria has the potential to become the food basket but to achieve this, efforts must be channeled towards harnessing knowledge and skills to realise the potential. Ms Okoya reiterated that the foundation was committed to turning the massive natural endowment of the sector into competitive advantages that create wealth and sustainable agribusiness jobs for youth. The strategy, according to her, will also guarantee food security and inclusive growth by involving more women and youth and promoting improved resilience to climate variability and shocks. She said the foundation is determined to work with the government to  radically transform agriculture into a business-oriented and commercially viable sector that guarantees food self-sufficiency and puts an end to food insecurity, malnutrition and other related challenges. The Managing Director, BAT Nigeria, Yorub Al-Bahrani said the foundation was established in 2002 to support the socioeconomic  development. According to him, with an investment of over N1.6 billion in sustainable agriculture,  the foundation  has reached over 36,000 farmers. The impact was  threatened by the  mass migration of youths to other countries that promise economic liberation, he lamented. He said the country is rich in agriculture.  In the second quarter of this year, he said the sector contributed 21.9 per cent to the gross domestic product (GDP) and was ranked third highest of a non –oil sector. He said the campaign is an initiative to promote agricultural development and support the establishment of agricultural enterprises for improved livelihood. The  Chairman, Board of Directors, BATNF, Chief Kola Jamodu called for efforts to connect smallholder farmers to value-chains to improve their food-security and livelihoods, as they produce the majority of the food consumed in the country.  