Disqualified 2019 housemate, Tacha on Saturday stated that getting disqualified from the Big Brother Naija reality show was not her intention. The self-acclaimed ‘Port Harcourt first daughter’ made this known in a post on her verified Instagram handle. She also begged for forgiveness and expressed her gratitude to her fans, who stuck by her, regardless of her “imperfection” She said: “Dear Titans,
Words cannot readily express how much your love and acceptance means to me at this point. Even my imperfection could not sway your support.
THANK YOU! “Coming out of the Big Brother House disqualified was never my intention. Unfortunately, my weakness played against my strength and cut short what should have been a grand ending, with or without the prize. “I sincerely apologize for every action on my part that led to this point and I take full responsibility for it all.
“I am an adult and ought to be in control of my emotions, but I’m human and I failed time and again. Please “forgive me. I sincerely wanted to make it, at least to the 99th day. “The fight to be seen and heard takes its toll on everyone of us irrespective of where, when or how it comes. What counts is what we make out of a seemingly ugly situation.
“I know I need to work on my emotional health… That’s a fact as I have become conscious of it now. Being on this show has shown me that, I am not just a work in progress but I have the chance to become a better me on all fronts, if I give myself the chance to heal.
“And this I promise to give due diligence. “So for what you have been to me, I heard some of you even cried and held vigil for me. I cannot thank you enough. You all became my mother, friends and family and this means so much to me right now. Your prayers, time and resources spent to push me through to this point cannot be quantified in any form, but i sincerely thank you from the depth of my heart. “Against the odds, you all are the reason why I stand and remain hopeful that everything will fall into place, that I can make it through this storm and come out on the sunny side in time. “My social media official handles are open and I can be reached there for now. “Thank you Titans, Thank you to everyone who supported me privately and openly, Thank you Africa, Thank you Nigeria, THANK YOU WORLD!
“I saved the best for last. Thank you to the organizers of Big Brother Nigeria for this platform, it may not have ended as I hoped and wanted, but it gave me the opportunity to rise. It was worth it and for this reason, I am grateful.
Biggie, @bigbronaija Thank you!
Blessings” Tacha was butted off the show on Friday night September 27, 2019, for violence and intent to harm fellow housemate. She had a heated argument with fellow housemate, Mercy Eke and pulled her hair twice in an attempt to get physical. 