The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) team will this month conduct its annual Mutual Evaluation on Nigeria. The exercise allows it to assess Nigeria’s compliance with the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) rules. The team will be assessing banks’ and Bureaux de Change (BDC) operators’ compliance level, writes COLLINS NWEZE. The sorry state of public institutions in the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) is disturbing. In many public schools, students learn while sitting on the floor, hospitals lack basic drugs, while road networks are little better than death traps. These societal ills thrive where corruption and illicit financial flows are rampant and Africa has remained one of the biggest losers, with over $30.4 billion ferried out of the continent annually. To tackle Illicit Financial Flows (IFFs) in Nigeria, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) will, this month, conduct stringent country evaluation and monitoring process in Nigeria during which banks and Bureaux de Change (BDCs) will be visited and assessed. The FATF, the global standard-setter in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, conducts peer reviews of each member on an ongoing basis, providing an in-depth description and analysis of each country’s system for preventing criminal abuse of the financial system. The BDCs are conversant with the threats and dangers posed by Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) in Nigeria, Africa and globally, and are helping to tackle the menace. President, Association of Bureau De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON), Alhaji Aminu Gwadabe, said the group, in collaboration with regulatory agencies and key government parastatals, conducts series of trainings to ensure compliance by its members. With over $30.4billion ferried out of Africa annually, ABCON is intensifying its commitment to fighting money laundering and terrorist financing by ensuring that its members comply with regulations in doing their business. Gwadabe said the group is already equipping over 4,500 BDCs with the right technology and skills to tackle illicit financial flows within the country. He said the BDCs meet regularly with regulators, government agencies/officials and experts to analyse, monitor and identify strategies for effective implementation of Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) measures. He said the BDCs would welcome the FATF Mutual Evaluation team to Nigeria, saying the FATF assessment was designed to evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of the laws, regulations and other measures required to ascertain the effectiveness of the AML/CFT regime. The Mutual Evaluation will equally provide information on the progress made by Nigeria in meeting its obligations towards the FATF Recommendations. ABCON has, over the years, established itself as a key player in the Bureaux de Change (BDC) industry, and has also made several commitments and sacrifices to ensure that the sector continues to thrive and its members follow global best practices in the retail of foreign exchange to end users. The Inter-Governmental Action Group against Money Laundering in West Africa (GIABA) is at the centre of the fight against the menace and terrorist financing across the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). According to the group, about $30.4 billion is illegally transferred out of Africa yearly.  To stem the menace, GIABA is empowering key institutions to tackle illicit financial flows within the region. GIABA information Manager, Lagos Office, Timothy Melaye, said the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) requires countries to identify, asses and understand the Money Laundering/Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) risks to which they are exposed, take measures and mobilise resources to ensure that such risks are mitigated. “GIABA is a change agent. We build capacity, collaborate and sanction countries when they refuse to comply with the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) 40 recommendations. We also promote the economies of member ECOWAS states,” he said. FATF Mutual Evaluation and BDCs’Preparations Gwadabe disclosed that ahead of the FATF Team visit, the ABCON, in collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is organising a sensitisation workshop for over 4,500 licensed BDCs in Nigeria. The workshop will hold in the six geo-political zones. He said as the global body that sets standard for AML/CFT efforts, the FATF team will assess banks and other financial institutions’ compliance with the AML/CFT measures, saying like in other previous visits, the FATF team will carry out checks at the branches of selected banks and BDCs across the country, as well as the airports and land borders. Gwadabe said Nigeria, which has been in the forefront of mentoring other member states in the development of their AML/CFT systems, has largely addressed its action plan by enacting legislation to criminalise money laundering and terrorist financing. The country is also implementing procedures to identify and freeze terrorist assets and ensure that customer due diligence requirements apply to all financial instructions. BDCs’ Compliance/Digitisation of Operations Gwadabe said BDCs have met a number of compliance requirements specified by FATF and local regulators, saying they have conducted enhanced due diligence, a major compliance requirement on some high-risk customers. He said the collation and reporting of foreign currency transactions and suspicious transactions by BDCs are now fully automated. He saud ABCON had in February, launched its Live Run Automation Portal in Lagos, stating that the technology automates all BDC Operations with those of Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS), Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), enabling improved compliance of the BDCs with set regulations. The platform allows BDCs send their reports online real time, thereby removing the challenge of manual rendition of reports. The project has given a favourable rating in the perception index of BDCs in Nigeria especially in the eyes of international investors. Gwadabe said we are in the digital age, BDC operators under his leadership are committed to staying ahead of the competition by deploying time-tested technology to deliver effective services to customers and ensure compliance. He said the Live Run portal has enhanced BDCs compliance with set regulations and promoted market integrity, pointing out that the portal has sustained transparent transactions in the BDC corridor, boosted members morale  and ensured their continuous operations. Continuing Anti-Money Laundering War Gwadabe said public institutions in ECOWAS region have suffered immensely from the corruption going on in the public and private sectors, saying  ABCON is aware of the growing concerns over illicit financial flows (IFFs) from West African economies and the need to tackle them by key stakeholders within the region. He acknowledged the Inter-Governmental Action Group against Money Laundering in West Africa (GIABA’s) 2016 – 2020 Strategic Plan, which showed that the Global Financial Integrity (GFI), the World Bank, the African Development Bank (AfDB), the Africa Progress Panel and the African Union’s High Level Panel on Illicit Financial Flows from Africa all paint a grim profile of the problem. A joint study conducted by the GFI and the AfDB showed that between 2000 and 2009, about $30.4 billion was illicitly transferred out of Africa each year. Over a longer period of 30 years, calculated from 1980, the resource drain was between $1.2 and $1.3 trillion. Outflows from West and Central Africa stood at (37 per cent), followed by North Africa (31 per cent) and Southern Africa (27 per cent). The IFFs are derived from various predicate offences of money laundering. Partnerships/Capacity Building for BDCs ABCON, severally, organised trainings for its members, and at other times, partnered NFIU and the EFCC to build capacity for operators. They have educated BDC operators on how they can help in tackling money laundering, terrorist financing and the benefits of keeping records of their transactions. The anti-money laundering training that ABCON organised with NFIU and EFCC in Lagos was meant to familiarise BDCs with the process of money laundering — the criminal business used to disguise the true origin and ownership of illegal cash — and the laws that make it a crime. Speaking during the sensitisation programme against money laundering and terrorism financing campaign at MM2, Lagos, which was attended by many BDC operators, the Acting Chairman, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, called for continuous sensitisation on issues around AML/CFT reporting to improve transparency in BDCs operations. He said the EFCC would continue to campaign for financial integrity and transparency in BDCs’ operations. Other stakeholders at the event also spoke on the use of BDCs for illicit political transactions, illegal border cash evacuation, reporting of suspicious transactions, fraud accounts transactions and cash dollar deposits on domiciliary accounts. The NFIU/EFCC/ABCON goal is to ensure that BDCs are not used to launder funds by Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs). Their target was also to upscale BDCs’ compliance with the AML/CFT for Banks and Other Financial Institutions in Nigeria, Regulations 2013. These capacity building workshops have helped BDCS to understand how to raise and submit both the Suspicious Transaction Reports (STRs) and Currency Transaction Reports (CTRs) to regulators. Report Filling by BDCs ABCON has continued to ensure that BDCs file their reports as and  when due. They file reports on all transactions from N10 million for companies and N5 million for individuals. The reports are sent on weekly basis  to NFIU, CBN and EFCC. The BDCs also do customers Know Your Customer (KYC) and due diligence reports. Daily Transaction Returns (DTR) gives details of the total sales made for the day by the BDC and comes in as DTR 202, DTR 217, DTR 305 and DTR 315. The DTR 217 return gives the information of the customers of whom the forex was sold to. Information like, the name, the international Passport number, Bank Verification Number, address, TIN number, email address among others while DTR 305 provides details of the customers as well their destination and reason for the purchase of forex. The total amount of forex sold to them is also mentioned with the transaction date.