Commuters in some communities in Imo State are daily passing through hell because of dilapidated road network, writes CHRIS NJOKU, Owerri The sorry state of roads in Imo State evokes tears from the people who daily experience agony in their quest to earn a living. Roads, such as Douglas to MCC-Uratta, Fed Poly Nekede-Ihiagwa, Okigwe and World Bank, tell tales of dilapidation and abandonment. Okwu Uratta community in Owerri North has been cut off from the neighbouring communities because of erosion, which has ravaged it over the years. A visit to the community shows a picture of gloom and hopelessness as the people are battling to save their houses from collapse. Gully erosion has eaten deep into the soil. The president-general of the community, Val Okara, told The Nation that people sleep with their eyes half-closed each day it rains. “The gullies have taken its toll on the environment including houses that have caved in due to the threatening soil erosion. “Our community, which is about two kilometres to Owerri, needs urgent assistance from the state and federal governments, spirited individuals as well as private organisations. “We don’t want to resort to protest or be a thorn in the flesh of the government. We are pleading to Governor Emeka Ihedioha, the Federal Government and other spirited individuals to urgently come to our rescue and rehabilitate our road; our houses are at the verge of collapsing as the edges of our buildings have been eaten by erosion. “Our community is the landowners of Imo State University, Aladinma Estate and Owerri Club and traditional owners of Lake Nwaebere. It is however shameful that some prominent individuals in the state are living in this area and are doing nothing to attract government presence to the community,” Okara said. An indigene of the community, Okay Osuji, applauded Governor Emeka Ihedioha for his interest in the rehabilitation of some dilapidated roads in Owerri, urging him not to lose sight of the fact that Okwu Uratta owns the land housing IMSU. He noted that most of the student hostels are located on the road leading to the community. “It is a crying shame that the all-important Ikenegbu-Okwu Road has been abandoned by successive administrations for long. We believe it is time the government rehabilitated this important road for benefit of the community, students, and state. “Road rehabilitation to and inside Okwu Uratta willsave the community from the scourge of perennial soil erosion,” he added. Like Okwu-Uratta, the road that leads to Federal Poly, Nekede, Ihiagwa, and FUTO is now a nightmare to motorists, commuters and traders. A trader at the Industrial Cluster market, Uche Ekewho, who regularly plies the Nekede Poly-Ihiagwa Road, said the people have suffered so much as a result of bad roads. “Our businesses are affected as motorists have doubled their transportation fare. We need palliative measures because the situation has worsened our plight,” he said. Some students of the two federal institutions say they can no longer bear the pains arising from the bad roads as the transport fare keeps on increasing each day. The 45-minutes journey from Owerri  to Ihiagwa now takes an hour due to deep potholes on the road. Following this, commercial drivers have doubled the transport fare from N100 to N200 while Okada riders charge as much as N300 a trip. Kelechi Emetoh, student of the Federal University, Owerri (FUTO), says he spends N500 a day on transport to the school, adding that most times buses do not ply the road because of deep gullies that dot the road. Drivers are also complaining of visiting mechanics frequently due to damages caused by the potholes to their buses. Apart from this, a driver, who gave his name as Emeka, said: “Sometimes, we pass through the villages to avoid these potholes but street urchins who barricade these adjoining pathways, collect N150 each trip to compound the hardship.” The traditional ruler of Umudibia, a host community of Federal Poly, Nekede, Eze Godwin Merenini, appealed to Ihedioha to come to the aid of the people. He said the condition of the road has negatively influenced economic growth in the community. Ihedioha appealed for patience and understanding. Flagging off one of the critical roads marked for rehabilitation recently in Owerri, he promised to begin work on these roads as soon as the rains stop, adding that the government had approved the award of contracts for the reconstruction of 14 critical roads across the state to reduce the suffering of the people, with a flag off of one of the most ambitious rural road construction projects in the country. He said the project valued at N13.5 billion “is the World Bank Assisted Rural Access and Mobility Projects (RAMP) involving over 70rural road networks with a cumulative distance of 381 kilometres across most of the 27 LGAs of the state.” Until his promise is fulfilled, the agony continues for the people. They need good roads to travel.