Allowing a mob to dictate the tone of engagement in international relations is very dangerous- Olusegun Adeniyi IN a week when xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and their business premises in South Africa reached boiling point,  sparking national outrage in Nigeria ; came a grim report by the UN on our own extrajudicial killings- back home. The recently released report was  on Nigeria’s extrajudicial killings by security operatives .And as if to buttress their point , barely 24 hours after the release of the UN report, in a dark twist , a Nigerian policeman shot dead a Nigerian  outside Shoprite in Lekki , Lagos after protesters invaded the premises in a reprisal attack and lit bonfires around. The police PRO has tagged the killing ‘ a rumour ‘ , even as a police van was consequently set ablaze.  Sadly , the police PRO does not see how he damages our case , before the South Africans. The police could have used water jets , rubber bullets or other forms of crowd control , and not have shot to kill with live bullets- killing one more. Now,  Nigerian celebrities are announcing  that Nigerians are not safe at home or abroad . Concerning South African attacks, Mr President had a sheer chance interaction  and not a deliberate meeting  with the South African President on the side-lines of a Japanese-African summit in Japan , not many days back. It was largely opportunistic , and could only have been perceived as such by the South African Head.There were no statements issued , or follow up at the diplomatic level. Even from the cheerful press photos released after a discussion on a matter of such gravity , it was clear that the xenophobic attacks were merely mentioned in passing.  I imagine platitudes were jocularly made and just as soon accepted, and the ‘little’ matter was forgotten , even before they both returned from Japan. It ought  to have been that the Nigerian ambassador was seeing the South African President immediately upon his return from Japan- on the directives of the Nigerian President. On the contrary  , there was no such engagement. The Nigerian ambassador did not even send in a report. He wasn’t even asked for one : or else blame- game would have started now. Rather , all attacks on Nigerians are only ever highlighted by the press. Should  you want to know how many Nigerians  have been killed over the last 5 years in South Africa , you would  have to get that from the president of the Nigerian Association in South Africa ; not from the government representatives there, like the ambassador…And so of course,  the xenophobic  attacks continued! In this escalation now , Mr President has declared only one course of action- sending a special envoy over there. Maybe even as you read this , our “Special Envoy “ will be in South Africa where he will have tea with senior officials there , who will assure him that ‘the matter would be taken care of ‘, and then the Special Envoy would fly back home , with not much else done. Perhaps he will see some of the Nigerians living in South Africa , to round off his trip. But Nigerians at home are tired now of protesting peacefully , something they have been doing over the years . They have seen the limitations of the Diaspora Commission. They have decided to take action , and for that , there will be consequences. However, there is hope that this action will spur a reaction from our President. He is the one who needs to act! Banda ayita dogon turanci meye za’ayi. (Next edition will feature an overview of the UN report) Responses sms/ whatsapp 07055547031 Twitter @mikky_princess