Twenty- four primary and secondary school pupils will be rewarded for excellent storytelling and poetry skills in the Rising Star Writing Competition and Awards (RSWCA) in Lagos Tuesday next week. Announcing the winners at a press briefing held at Greenlife Pharmarceuticals, Ilupeju, Lagos, CEO of The Writers’ Corner, Mrs Uche Udoji said the competition achieved its aim of improving creativity, critical thinking and writing skills of children in the target group. Mrs Udoji said the pupils were required to write poems and short stories (of 200-500 words) on the theme: “It’s OK to say NO.” She said: “The Theme was a well thought out and intentional move to inspire the children to have a voice as important individuals of the society and stand up for their rights at all times against issues pertaining to all forms of pressure and abuse. This we have achieved by making the children think deeply and write at length about having reasons to say no and mean no even if it means standing alone.  Some of the popular  trends as seen  from the entries include but not limited to bullying, sexual related abuses, physical abuses, verbal and emotional abuses, drugs , alcohol and peer pressure.” Mrs Udoji said 12 winners, made up of the top three winners in the poetry and short story categories in primary and secondary schools, would get prizes, while 12 others would get honourable mentions. She also said their works would be published by the Writers Corner online and in book form. She thanked Greenlife for sponsoring the competition since inception in 2015. Also speaking, the Executive Director, Greenlife, Mr Ebuka Chukwuka, said the firm supports the competition to improve literacy level of young children. “We are very proud of this competition and hope it grows bigger and bigger,” he said. The Head, Human Resource and Public Relations, Mr Amak Nwosisi, said she was happy with the increase in the number of schools participating in the competition.  She also hoped public school pupils would participate in future editions. Sales and Marketing Director, Mr Derrick Osondu, said the competition would groom better writers for the society. he said.