At the 23rd General Assembly of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) in St. Petersburg, Russian Federation, last week, Minister of Information and Culture Alhaji Lai Mohammed explained that the Federal Government was planning a national summit on the role of youths and women in tourism as part of efforts to harness their talents in developing the sector. Some stakeholders in the creative industry, however, think differently on how best the sector can be repositioned, Assistant Editor (Arts) OZOLUA UHAKHEME reports Some months after assuming office in 2015, Alhaji Lai Mohamed held consultative meetings with many stakeholders in the creative industry on how to chart a new path for the development of the sector. Among such was the national summit on culture and tourism held in Abuja in May 2016 and the economic forum in Lagos. What were the outcomes of these forums and why plan another? According to the minister, “it’s incontestable today that the industry that creates jobs fastest is tourism. It’s one industry that creates jobs for women, and it’s one industry that encourages youths.” He said it was clear from presentations at the meetings that tourism was gradually overtaking other aspects of the economy as a major player for development and equality. Stressing the need to harness talents, he said Nigeria would leverage its comparative advantage, which includes a rich culture and a blooming music and film industry, to take its tourism sector to the next level. But as Nigeria continues to seek new ways of diversifying its economy from dependency on oil revenue, stakeholders believe the sector is capable of providing veritable means of creating wealth, generate employment opportunities, increase revenue and growth. According to a report, in 2016, the film industry contributed 2.3 per cent (N239 billion) to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), while music industry grew by nine per cent in that same year to reach a value of $39 million. “It is also set to grow by 13.4 per cent by 2021, with an estimated worth of about $73 million…The value of video game industry is put at $150 million, while mobile gaming estimates are to surpass $147 million by 2020,” the report added. How can the nation raise the bar as well as achieve these projections during the second coming of the Information and Culture Minister? Renowned playwright, director and former Deputy Editor, The Guardian, Mr. Ben Tomoloju, observed that Mohammed’s first tenure witnessed some positive marks in the interaction between the ministry and certain segments of the creative industry. He, however, noted that it was rather inconclusive, adding that Mohammed’s second coming should set the sector on the path of administrative and professional excellence and national relevance. “The government policy of financial empowerment and capacity building of the sector should be pursued to a phased logical conclusion this time around. Some people never agreed with us that government had a vital role to play in establishing structures for the development of cultural productivity in the visual, literary and performing arts. They treated such idea with disdain and made it look beggarly. “Today, virtually everyone on both sides of the argument is celebrating the Lagos theatres to the high heavens. Mohammed dropped a hint of a possible collaboration between the Federal and Lagos State governments to rehabilitate the National Theatre, Iganmu. Good intention, but he must attend to the demands of the theatre monument in the same manner as Lagos State is delivering on Community Theatre project. “Really, the untimely death of our dear colleague and former GM of the National Theatre, Dr. Stella Oyedepo (May her soul rest in peace.) seems to have slowed down the pace of redeeming public respect and patronage of the facility. She was right on course before death snatched her away, ” he said. Tomoloju, who earlier in 2015, expressed optimism about the capacity of the administration to propel arts and culture to greater heights, noted that with the benefit of hindsight such expectations were only partly because the minister oftentimes allows his political partisanship to override the objective variables of cultural nationalism. He said the vacuum at the headship of the National Theatre following the sudden death of Mrs Oyedepo requires a critical and sagacious succession plan to fill. According to him, the minister must not allow the cultural sector to experience the kind of retrogressive political appointment that brought up the current occupant of the headship of the National Troupe of Nigeria. To him, ‘the troupe as at today, is in a total state of inertia which, unfortunately, seems to suggest that the head was appointed to ‘come and kill’ (permit my local lingo) the Troupe.’ “Alhaji Lai Mohammed must do his best to redress this ugly, I mean really ugly situation considering the noble efforts of eminent Nigerians towards establishing the troupe exploratorily pre-FESTAC and practically in 1986, that was 33 years ago. “The right experts should man the various agencies to bring forth positive results. Such experts should include tested culture administrators within the agencies even as there are considerations for technocrats outside the ministry,” he added. Tomoloju expressed concern about succession and delivery because of the flow and ebb, the rise and fall in the fortunes of the cultural sector as indexed under one administration or another. He noted that, for instance, the fortune of the National Gallery of Art during the tenure of Joe Musa would have to be re-examined and duly acknowledged as a standard bearer, which can provide a template for rejuvenation. “I once read a report quoting the new Acting Director-General, Dr. Simon Ikpakronyi, saying that the National Gallery of Arts will not be dormant again. This is a seasoned administrator in the system who was a contributor to the successes of the past until intrigues took over,” he said. Tomoloju described the mandate of Mohammed as a wide terrain which, he said, covers not only the regular professions, but also in the areas of culture, the arts and education, arts and social mobilisation, culture and national economy, among others. “Lai Mohammed’s second coming should set the sector on the path of administrative and professional excellence and national relevance… “He is in the saddle and we must wish him the very best. But, this is also with the insistence that the Honorable Minister devotes attention to his dual portfolio – Information and Culture – on the basis of equity and not see the latter as a political afterthought,” he added. Professor Emeritus, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, USA, Prof. dele jegede,  urged the Minister of Information and Culture to stir the spirit of the country towards lofty heights by focusing on initiatives that will entrench culture not as abstract and fugitive concepts, but as concrete manifestations that reinforce the dynamics at play in a diverse, creative and multitalented state. The challenge, he said,  is to focus on constructing memorable projects that are guaranteed to stand as signature accomplishments during his tenure at the ministry. Towards this end, he advised the minister to build a befitting edifice for the art and give Nigeria-the country whose ancestors created the exquisite works in Nok, Igbo-Ukwu and Ile-Ife, and whose scions at home and abroad have continued to bring accolades to Nigeria-a lasting edifice in the form of a befitting National Gallery of Art. “Pull out all the stops. Shake loose the trees. Roll up your sleeves and put your shoulders to it. Nigeria needs, as an index of the Next Level agenda, nothing less than an erection, not the Okorocha type, a functional edifice to the art. A nation without a national gallery indirectly contributes to the effacement of its own culture and the marginalisation of its own history,” he said. The absence of such facility, he said, tells the world that its critical archives of creative history are available to be taken on the cheap. According to him, the institutionalisation of structures that stand the test of time is a credible way to demonstrate that governance is not a zero-sum act. “It is more than sloganeering; it could, and should, especially at the Ministry of Information and Culture, be all about commitment to the entrenchment of those aspects of our culture that have the potentials of attesting to the present while inspiring the future,” Prof jegede said.