THE Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) is engaging regulators to deepen governance in financial reporting. Its President, Prof. Muhammad Mainoma, who disclosed this, said ANAN has engaged the legislature  to improve the national budget process, adding that in the past 24 years, members of the association met to discuss national issues. He said the association was  upgrading the Nigerian College of Accountancy, Jos, Plateau State, to ANAN University of Accountancy to contribute to the advancement of the various fields of accounting and research. Mainoma spoke yesterday at the 24th Annual National Conference of ANAN, which opened in Abuja. “We have undertaken strategic initiatives. We have secured a five-storey building ‘ANAN House’ as permanent Head office in Abuja to enhance closer collaboration with key stakeholders. “ANAN has commissioned her Education and Training Committee to conduct a maturity assessment to receive feedback from members on 16 key success Areas (KSAs) across four broad characteristics: Sustainability, Relevance, Professionalism and Member Value to support ANAN strategic envisioning at 40 years. “ANAN has improved her advocacy in public policy. The Research Committee would soon release her two technical reports on Nigerian Public Financial Management and Professional Accountancy Skills gap. Capacity is being built on contemporary issues in Accounting. He said the easiest way to build the nation and sustain it is through Learning, Entrepreneurship, Goal Convergence, Accountability, Collaboration and Youth Development (LEGACY). “There seems to be an agreement that development that cannot be sustained is not development at all. We must not only be bothered about the present but the future should be of concern to us. Here comes the issue of Legacy. In welcoming you to this special conference at 40 years of existence of ANAN, we cannot shy away from the legacy we shall leave for the future generation,” he said. “Let me remind us that as accountants, we are not new to this issue of sustainability. At ANAN, we are committed to building professionals that would make meaningful contribution to society and its sustainability. ‘’ 