A 300-level student of Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti, Bukola Odeyemi has allegedly stabbed and killed her lover, John Iju at their Treasure Base Hostel, Iworoko-Ekiti. The suspect, a 20-year-old student in the Department of Biology Education, allegedly stabbed her boyfriend to death after the suspect had demanded a sum N2,500 from the deceased to plait  her hair, which the victim could not provide. The incident occurred at about 10pm on Monday, causing panic in the hostel area. An eyewitness, who craved anonymity, wondered why a girl would kill her boyfriend over money to plait hair. He said the refusal of the boyfriend to give her N2,500 to plait her hair culminated into a hot argument, which infuriated the lady and they started fighting . “During the fight, the deceased had the upper hand and the lady seeing a sharp knife on the tray, immediately brought it out and stabbed the deceased in the chest. “The deceased who could not survive the deep cut fell on the floor with blood oozing out of his chest. The people around there cried for help but that could not help. The man died on the spot.” The deceased’s friends were said have rushed to the police station at Iworoko to incident the case. The deceased’s cry for help was said to have attracted residents to the scene. They reported the incident to police station at Iworoko. Ekiti police spokesman, DSP Caleb Ikechukwu who confirmed the incident, said the suspect has been arrested and now being detained at the criminal and Investigative Department of the police headquarters. Ikechukwu explained that investigation has begun into  the matter and the suspect will be charged to court once investigation is concluded. He said, “It is so unfortunate somebody stabbing her boyfriend just because of 2,500 for hairdo. “Parents should be careful to always look out for their wards to know what they are doing in higher institution. Sometimes parents should pay surprise visits to their wards to know where they stay and monitor their activities.”