The Lagos State government has assured residents of Ayobo of its determination to tackle activities of land grabbers in the area. The assurance was given in a statement issued in Lagos on Wednesday signed by the Coordinator, Lagos State Special Task on Land Grabbers (LSSTF/LG) Owolabi Arole. Some residents of Ayobo and other communities in the area had staged a demonstration to protest against activities of land grabbers allegedly led by one Moruf Owonla aka Kaka who have been allegedly terrorising their communities. Arole, in the statement, assured them that government has already started investigating the incident. He said government, through the Special Task Force on Land Grabbers, is committed to reducing to the barest minimum, the activities of persons who use force and intimidation to dispossess or prevent any person or entity from acquiring legitimate interest and possession of property acquired. Arole advised persons and communities whose land is forcibly taken by land grabbers to formally file their complaints in writing to the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice. The statement further stated: “We receive with serious concern, the land grabbing reports levelled against certain persons in Ayobo area and we have since commenced Investigation into the allegations. “We would like to assure affected residents of the area that the Lagos State Property Protection law of 2015 would take its full course in this regard. “Although, the Lagos State Special Task Force on Land Grabbers has not received any formal reports from the affected communities, the Lagos State Special Task Force on Land Grabbers in conjunction with the Lands Bureau and Directorate of Public Prosecutions will look into the matter and ensure appropriate actions will be taken. “We therefore use this medium to call on representatives of the affected communities in Ayobo and all residents of the State, that in the event of any illegal dispossession or attempt to dispossess them of the rightful possession of their land, a formal complaint in writing should be made to the Honorable Attorney General & Commissioner for Justice”, the statement added.