They are paid handsomely and are expected to always deliver. Some have the weight of a nation’s expectations hanging on their shoulders. But, footballers are not robots. Yet, some have paid the price for their errors. ADEYINKA ADEDIPE recalls some talented footballers who lost their fans’ favour. Sportsmen, especially footballers, are some of the best paid athletes in the world. Their astronomical transfer fees and weekly wages are some of the highest. The best among them take home as much as a million pound/dollars weekly. Also, the huge pay from their endorsement deals is mouth-watering. They live a luxurious life due to the humongous wealth they command and they become the envy of everyone. However, the burden of expectation weighs them down as they need to perform at optimum level all the time. Some view them as superhuman. They are not expected to make mistakes especially at the sports ground as it could have dire consequences. It could lead to being ostracised from the team; some could be demoted to the junior team as well as placed on transfer as the club becomes desperate to ship them out. The most harrowing outcome for failing, however, is fans apathy. Supporters who once idolised them would turn their back on them and even demand their removal from the team. If the management or coaches are reluctant to remove them, the fans would vent their spleen on the footballers by booing them while in action, while the consequence for the reluctant coaches and management could be fatal. Neymar…a football genius who divides opinion History is replete with players who suffered from poor judgement while doing their jobs. On the international scene, Brazilian superstar, Neymar, a genius can single–handedly wreck any team on a good day. He has been the poster boy of Brazilian soccer since his emergence at Santos. He is renowned for mesmerizing runs and artistry on the pitch. He ghosts past opposition players with the speed of light. However, his penchant for showboating and selfish play has pitted him against his teammates, especially in his current club, Paris Saint Germain FC in France. The first altercation he had at the club was trying to take over penalty duties, albeit rudely, from Edinson Cavani, who was the regular penalty taker before the Brazillian joined the French club. He also incurred the wrath of Barcelona fans when he forced a move away from the Spanish club. The club fans who once supported him were happy to see him leave rather than have a divided team due to the overbearing attitude of the Brazilian megastar. Neymar tried to force his way back to the Catalan club in the last transfer window but the move failed as Barcelona came up short of PSG’s valuation of the player. At PSG, the fans are asking Neymar to leave. Though the club’s sporting director Leonardo said on the eve of the season opener that talks about the Brazilian’s exit were “more advanced than before”, fans held up a banner telling Neymar to “go away” during the opening game. However, he stays for now and might be leaving Paris in January if the deal goes through. Ozil…mercurial but inconsistent German International Mesut Ozil has increasingly come under fire at Arsenal due to what the fans perceived as a ‘laid-back’ attitude when playing for the Gunners. He is a genius who can destroy any team on a good day just like he did when he dribbled the entire backline of Ludogerets of Bulgaria including the goalkeeper to score a memorable goal in a UEFA Champions League game. The former Real Madrid man also has a knack for spraying defence-splitting passes to teammates. It was the same allegation that led to his exit from the national team when he was fingered for the German’s first round exit at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. The Germans were the defending champions and many had thought that the well-oiled German machine would retain the title. But it was not to be as the team unceremoniously and surprisingly exited the competition in the first round to the dismay of their teeming fans who vent their spleen on the winger. Ozil, who is still on Arsenal’s books, may not be there for long as the London club hopes to ship him out as soon as possible to balance its book. The German is currently on a £350,000 weekly wage. Bale…in and out of Madrid team At the time of his transfer to Real Madrid on September 1, 2013 for a reported fee of between €91 million and €100 million, former Tottenham Hotspur forward Gareth Bale was tipped to be one of the greatest Galaticos. Moreso, he had the mercurial Cristiano Ronaldo as his teammate who he also played against in the Premier League. His sojourn in Spain started well as he warmed himself into the hearts of Bernabeu die-hard fans with eye-catching displays. He scored beautiful goals along the way, some of them screamers after mazy runs. But after a successful first three seasons, the former Southampton man has been blamed for most of the problems of the team especially after Ronaldo’s departure to Juventus. He was accused of not being friendly with teammates, as well as not speaking Spanish despite his long stay in Spain. He also fell out with the fans, with his gesture during games not going down well them. And with the return Coach Zinedine Zidane, who continuously said that he was not part of his plan for the new season, it was almost inevitable that the Welsh strong man would leave. However, after the Galaticos were pummeled 7-3 by city rivals Atletico Madrid in a pre-season friendly, Real President Florentino Perez halted Bales transfer to the Chinese league, saying that he could not leave on a free transfer. Luiz…good with long passes but erratic Brazil international David Luiz, who joined Arsenal in the last transfer window, was actually told by Chelsea fans to leave. His offence: His horrendous performance against Salzburg in one of the pre-season games, which Chelsea won 5-3. It was too much for the Stamford Bridge faithful to take and they duly told the curly-haired Brazilian to leave. Luiz was not in his best form for the Blues in that game that was played on July 31 and fans took to social media to express their anger. They were of the opinion that Luiz is not the type of player that should be on Chelsea’s book following his horrendous performance against Salzburg. Some fans also believe that the former Paris-Saint-Germain star is the worst ever defender to play for the London club. Apart from falling out with the fans due to his erratic style of play, reports emerged few days before his sensational transfer to Arsenal that he did not get along well with his former team mate, Frank Lampard, who is the current coach. It was also gathered that he was not guaranteed playing time hence the need for Luis to move. Balotelli…talented player full of antics Mario Balotelli’s antics and indiscipline are well documented. The talented Italian’s penchant for getting into trouble has seen him fight with his former coach Roberto Mancini at Manchester City, where he won the Premier League crown.  He is currently with Brescia, a club too small for his prodigious talent. Balogun, Aiyegbeni…good players who made costly mistakes On the home front, Leon Balogun’s schoolboy defending in the final group game against Madagascar at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) has earned him the name ‘robot’, with some fans wondering whether the 31-year-old has a future in the team, while others are calling for his exit from the team. To be fair to the former Mainz defender, he did not get much game-time in his debut season with Brighton and Hove Albion in England, which could have made him rusty for the AFCON, but Coach Gernot Rohr kept faith him. However, his terrible mistake which gifted Madagascar their opening goal in the 2-0 defeat of the Eagles will hunt the defender for a long time. Balogun misjudged a pass and what should have been a routine clearance by the defender was wrongly executed, giving the Madagascar striker the chance to bury the Eagles. The mistake may have cost him his place as Rohr is already shopping for his replacement. Yakubu Aiyegbeni might have score 172 career goal in 428 games but missing from three metres out against South Korea was unpardonable for fans. Nigerian lost the first two games at the tournament but still had a chance to progress if the Eagles defeated the Koreans but the former Julius Berge FC attacker sensationally lost the chance from three metres to the relief of the stunned Koreans, while the entire stadium watched in disbelief. The former Everton man scored a penalty, which earned Nigeria a 2–2 draw, but was not enough for Eagles to progress out of the group stages. However, the Nigerian fans had had enough and they were equivocal on the need to find a better striker for the team. After playing sparingly for the Eagles, Aiyegbeni took a bow from the team in 2012, giving room for the emergence of new point men for the Eagles. With few clubs already solely owned by fans, it is clear that the decision making power is gradually shifting to the terraces where faithful football fans will begin to take decisions in the best interests of their darling teams.