Mrs Maryam Abacha, widow of a former Head of State, Gen. Sani Abacha, has expressed concern that the National Hospital in Abuja (NHA) may have lost its original focus on women and children. She said it was becoming a secondary care provider, instead of playing the role of a national referral facility. Mrs Abacha spoke yesterday during a lecture for NHA’s 20th anniversary celebration in Abuja. Amidst praises for the management and board of the hospital for the infrastructural facility development and other expansion efforts since its inception, there were also knocks where the hospital was found wanting. Mrs Abacha said: “Conceived as National Hospital for Women and Children, this hospital is a principal and cardinal outcome of the Family Support Programme (FSP) as outlined by the blueprint in the Health sector. “The hospital has carved a niche for itself, institutionally, not only within our nation but beyond our shores, especially in ECOWAS sub-region and the African continent. “I have, since its establishment, even after leaving office, taken keen interest in the activities, progress and developments at the hospital. Please, permit me to highlight equally some other developments which I think do not augur well for the image and progress of the hospital. “Some of these developments include alleged negligence. There have been other complaints, such as improper or inadequate attention to patients, long registration processes and waiting time by patients, attitude problem by hospital workers towards patients, unavailability of prescribed drugs, among others. “It must be acknowledged that these complaints may not be peculiar to only the National Hospital. However, the National Hospital, as a centre of excellence, needs to do better in service delivery that is devoid of complaints of this nature. “Added to this is the pain I have that the hospital, with its original focus on women and children, is seemingly losing focus and becoming a secondary care provider, instead of playing the role of a national referral facility.” The former First Lady said the hospital was a product of FSP, which was one of her husband’s policies on heath development, and meant to cater for women and children. “The National Hospital, as well known, is a symbolic national monument for all Nigerians, which should be devoid of prejudices, politics, creed, religion, ethnic bias or sentiment. “Also, through my interaction with some persons who frequently attend this hospital, I got to know of some other observations. “The hospital is not fully information technology-compliant as it does not have area network arrangement among prescribing doctors, laboratories, pharmacies and other departments, such that patients do not have to physically hand-carry lab examination results to the doctor for action,” she added.