A traffic advisory issued by the Ogun State TRACE Corps has urged motorists who may be in a hurry to stay away from the Ojodu-Berger to Ogun River section of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway for now. This is due to the rehabilitation works beginning from today on the expressway, which might slow down traffic along the route. The repair, being handled by Julius Berger, is expected to last for four months. The statement signed by the TRACE spokesman, Babatunde Akinbiyi, urged motorists in a hurry to make use of alternative routes like the Iyana-Ipaja/Ota/Ifo/Abeokuta/Sagamu-Benin-Ore expressway; Victoria Island/Lekki/Epe/ijebu-Ode-Benin//Ore expressway or the Ikorodu/ Itoikin/ Ijebu-Ode-Benin/ Ore expressway. The advisory reads: “In view of the imminent closure of inbound Lagos traffic along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway for reconstruction and rehabilitation work on the 600km stretch of the corridor to be carried out from Berger (New Garage Bus Stop) – Ogun River (Kara Bridge), scheduled for Monday, September 2-Sunday, December 15 , the public, particularly the motoring public, is hereby apprised of the need to plan their journey, add more time to their travelling time and take necessary precaution. “From Monday, 2nd September 2, inbound traffic (movement) from Kara Bridge to Berger would be sealed off and diverted into the same carriageway along the expressway conveying traffic outbound Lagos, thereby making both inbound and outbound traffic to be accommodated on the same section of the expressway. Moreover, traffic will then be diverted back into the road going inward Lagos at Berger intersection linking River Valley Estate, where normal journey resumes inward Lagos. “Furthermore, outbound Lagos traffic would be divided into two lanes, both ways from the intersection linking Isheri/Olowora Kara Bridge, where the road diversion ends and normalcy resumes inward Sagamu. But, the Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Mr. Adedamola Kuti, said the project is still 40 per cent completed. Kuti, who spoke in Lagos, said the project, which began in 2013 and earlier scheduled to end in 2017, would now be completed by 2021/22, because the Muhammadu Buhari administration included some missing features. He listed the additional features to include underpasses, footbridges, flyovers, toll plazas and road expansion. Kuti said the additional features shifted the completion date. He added that the additional features made the completion level to still be at 40 per cent, which it recorded months ago. On the Ikorodu-Sagamu road, expected to serve as an alternative route as construction work progresses on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Kuti said the project was about 18 per cent completed. He, however, added that critical sections of the highway likely to cause gridlock had been stabilised.