DR Abdulwaheed Abayomi, the Chief Medical Doctor\CEO of Crest Hospital who just turned 50 years recently marked his golden jubilee birthday by offering 50 days-free surgery to patients as well as unveiled a schools’ debate competition. At a public forum orgainsed in Lagos to herald the two-pronged programmes, Abayomi said it was his own modest way of giving back to the society. Justifying the need for the surgery, Abayomi who boast of over two decades experience as a general medical practitioner, said, it is to reduce the high rate of death due to dwindling health facility across the country. “These initiatives are borne out of the need to respond to the critical needs of the disadvantaged Nigerians and deliver on our corporate objective of promoting health with focus on access, affordability and demand and as well contributing our widow’s mite to the eradication of poverty through supporting government efforts in the provision of affordable and qualitative education,” he said. While speaking on the debate titled, ‘The STEMCELL Schools debate,’ he said, the programme aims to encourage the learning of sciences and technology related subject among secondary schools. “This is going to be the first edition of this programme and would start with a limited number of schools in the area of Alimosho, Lagos State for a month and 32 schools have been shortlisted to participate in the programme. And there are rewards for the students who win and the schools they attend.” According to the Dr. Abayomi, the first edition of the 50-days free surgery per day started in April 2019 when President Muhamadu Buhari won his election to celebrate his victory. “The programme would start with registration and examination of participants and the operation is going to start on the September 9 and end on the 28th of October.” While acknowledging the fact that the simple gesture was his own modest contribution, he however impressed on the government at all levels the need to strengthen the healthcare facilities as well as increase the domestic resources to cater for healthcare in terms of curative and preventive services. 