Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has said that his administration was on course. He urged the people to cooperate with him to deliver democratic dividends to them. Shortly after Ortom was re-elected for a second term on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), he dissolved his cabinet ahead of  the May 29 inuaguration. Ortom set up a transition committee headed by former Senate President Iyorchia Ayu to produce a policy   document on how to govern the Food Basket of the Nation in  the next four years. He tagged the policy document: ‘ Our collective vision for a new Benue.’ The committee comprise prominent Benue sons and daughters. He said his success and failure in office would depend largely on the implementation of the Ayu-led transition committee report. The committee has submitted its reports, and based on its recommendation, the governor has constituted his cabinet . Ortom said he was no longer under the  yoke of a godfather, adding that only men of integrity will be appointed as commissioners. He lamented that his previous appointees  were foisted on him . There are 15 commissioners. Only four former commissioners were retained-David Olofu, (Finance),  Professor Dennis Ityavyar (Education),  Mike Gusa (Justice) and Bernard Unenge (Lands and Surveys). On the day of his  inauguration,  the governor announced the reappointment of his Chief of Staff, Terwase Orbunde, and Secretary to Government (SSG), Professor Tony Ijoho (SAN). The  re-appointment  of the SSG was a huge disappointment to the people of Benue South, as they hoped the governor would appoint someone from the zone. Within the 100 days of the administration, Ortom said it will no longer be business as usual. He said he was ready to make life better for Benue, adding that the people will feel the impact of his administration. Ortom also said he will not  sit down and wait for aides to tell him stories about developmentsin the state. He visited more than 10 ministries and some agencies. During his visit to the Water Board and Benue Sanitation and Environmental Agency, he sacked the two General Managers (GM) for poor performance. Since then, Ortom’s visit to any government agency has been the beginning of wisdom. The governor is also giving attention to infrastructural development, including like roads, electricity, education and health. He is expected to inaugurate some projects to mark his first hundred days. But, the low point of his administration is payment of salary arrears. While salaries are now paid promptly, the issue of arrears lingers. Pensioners, civil servants and local government employees are appealing to the governor to pay them. The anxiety over the governorship election is not over. The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Emmanuel Jime, is challenging the victory of the governor at the tribunal However, the people are thirsty for more dividends of democracy. They want Ortom to develop agriculture in the largely agrarian state. A farmer, Tyowua Ugo, said attention should be given to the procurement of fertilisers and modern farm implements . Insecurity in some parts of Benue, especially cultism and banditry, are also worrisome to the governor, and he has vowed to tackle them.