Some yet-to-be identified students of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti (FUOYE) yesterday allegedly attacked Ekiti State governor’s wife Erelu Bisi Fayemi’s convoy while returning from a tour of some local governments. The students allegedly barricaded the Oye-Ikole-Abuja highway to prevent the convoy from passing, to express their anger about poor power supply in the town. The students were said to have engaged the security operatives detailed with the governor’s wife in a clash. Some vehicles in the convoy, including that of the security operatives, were burnt and two pump rifles seized. The Nation learnt that Mrs. Fayemi was rescued and taken away in a commando-like manner in a marked white Hilux van for safety. She was taken away through Ayegbaju-Ekiti, with civil servants, journalists and policemen on her entourage severely injured. The students were said to have gone on the rampage a few hours after they had protested against incessant power outage. FUOYE students had gathered at 6:39am in front of the gates of the twin campuses of the institution in Oye and Ikole. It was gathered that they dispersed after a few hours and normalcy had returned on the campuses and their environs, but suddenly they allegedly regrouped. Police spokesman Caleb Ikechukwu confirmed the attack on the governor’s wife. He said the students protested in the morning and blocked the Ifaki-Ikole-Omuo highway, preventing free flow of traffic. “The students did not allow vehicles to move freely and they vandalised the property of Benin Electricity Distribution Company. “When the police went there to appeal to them, they resisted. The governor’s wife who went on local government tour ran into the barricade mounted on the road. “The students were reported to have been destroying cars and smashing the windscreens of vehicles. “We want to warn that the command won’t tolerate hooliganism under any guise. We want to assure the public that the police are on top of the situation and our people must go about their normal businesses”.