Okoroafor: I am Mrs. Okoroafor. My late husband Mr Okoroafor was with Stanbic IBTC Pension. His last work place, before he passed away on June 22, 2013, was the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) headquarters, Abuja. We have done everything possible, but have not received any payment in the last five years since his death. The details are attached2 STANBIC IBTC PENSION: With regards to your enquiry on the payment of the late Mr Okoroafor‘s benefits, we would like to clarify the following: That a prerequisite for processing payments due to public sector employees (retired/deceased) is the remittance of the accrued pension benefits attributed to such employees by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) as well as the reconciliation of their Retirement Savings Account (RSA). That the late Mr Okoroafor worked with the Nigerian Immigration Service prior to his demise, hence, a request was made by Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited to the National Pension Commission (PenCom) for the remittance of his accrued pension benefits and the reconciliation of his RSA upon submission of the notification documents by his beneficiary. Upon receipt of the deceased’s benefits from PenCom, efforts were made to contact the beneficiary, Mrs Okoroafor, via her mobile number on our database without success. At the moment, we are yet to receive the death benefits application documents from the beneficiary to enable us seek payment approval from PenCom. We request that you kindly assist in informing Mrs Okoroafor to visit the nearest Stanbic IBTC Pension office to submit the documents listed on the attached checklist to apply for payment. OYEKALE: I registered with Stanbic IBTC Pension, but my money is going to ARM Pension Manager, which I did not register with. My request is that they should transfer my money with interest to Stanbic IBTC. PENCOM: Please visit your PFA to undergo data recapturing to solve this issue. MRS OGENE: My name is Mrs Bridget, wife and next-of-kin to the late Ogene, who died on September 15, 2011. Until his death, he served in the Federal Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development, Mabushi, Abuja for 28 years. Till date, the group life insurance has not been paid. I was directed to the Head of Service for payment and all required documents were submitted. Whenever I called, I was told that the government has not released money for payment. Many files have been approved for payment at each PFA and my name is not among them. I have been waiting since 2011. Kindly help me. PENCOM: Please contact the office of the Head of Service for payment of your late husband’s Group Life. EKELEME: I work with the University of Nigeria, Nsukka and I registered with First Guarantee Pension. I have not received any update on my pension since 2013. Please what can I do? Their website is not too good. Thanks. PENCOM: Please contact the nearest First Guarantee Pension office (PFA) to you and notify them of this. They can be reached on 012715505. REUBEN: I was promoted to the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) after the pension verification on July 20, 2017.  I sent my  evidence of promotion dated  December 15,  2017 after the verification through Southsouth Zonal Office of  your commission in Calabar, Cross-River State. But I was paid below my grade and step. What can I do? PENCOM: Please we would require your PIN in order for us to assist you further. OLAYORI: My name is Olayori Oladapo Fasiu. I am a retiree of the National Assembly Commission.  I worked as a Legislative Aide to a former Senator. We left the National Assembly in 2011 and I have been collecting N7872.87 monthly as pension. However, since last November, the payment has stopped. My pension company is IEI Anchor Pensions. It would be appreciated if you could assist to find out why the payment was stopped. Thank you for your anticipated cooperation. PENCOM: Please we would require your PIN in order for us to assist you further. ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff member of Yaba Local Council Development Area (LCDA). I have been with Stanbic IBTC PFA since its inception but just this month my pension fund was transferred to Leadway Pension without my authorisation. Please what can I do because I want IBTC as pension manager. PENCOM: Please visit your PFA to undergo data recapturing to solve this issue. FATIMEHIN: My name is Fatimehin. I am the next-of-kin to the late Mrs fatimehin. She passed away on July 10, 2014. She was a staff member of Federal Polytechnic, Offa. Her PFA is Leadway Pensure in which little amount of money was paid in May 2017 and since then, nothing has been paid again. All the documents requested have been submitted. PENCOM: Please note that the Accrued Right was paid under Deceased Batch No. 47 in May 2017. You may please contact your PFA.