Governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) plan to adopt uniform policies in their states  with a view to creating  a distinct identity for the party. They have already  set up a Governance Programme Steering Committee to examine how to go about the plan, advise them on improving  the governance structure in the states and at the federal level  and  ensure synergy between the states and the federal government. The committee is headed by the Governors of Jigawa and Plateau. Speaking at the inaugural meeting of the Steering Committee in Abuja yesterday, Governor Simon Lalong of  Plateau State said the APC governors needed  to aggressively settle all public debates around the distinction between the APC and other parties including the main opposition, the Peoples’ Democratic Party  (PDP). Lalong, who was represented by his Deputy, Prof. Sonni Gwanle Tyoden, said: “Given the challenge of ensuring that we achieve the vision of making our party, the APC, emerges as a distinctly social democratic party, the policy initiatives of all APC governments, particularly at the state levels, will be the defining credentials. “In addition, ensuring uniformity of policy initiatives among the APC states is a fundamental requirement. “Between 2015 and 2019, as Progressive Governors, we made quite some efforts to adopt common initiatives. Based on assessment of initiatives from our states and critical assessments of the challenges facing our states, the forum has already agreed to some priorities, which include revenue mobilisation, funding for security, education and health. “Through the work of our Secretaries of Governments of APC States, facilitated by the Governance Programme Steering Committee, the forum has already adopted Prototype Bills in the four areas mentioned above for domestication in our states.” Also speaking, Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of  Jigawa State said the performance of the APC governors was   in line with the progressive credentials of our great party, the All Progressive Congress, and “fulfils our campaign covenant of ‘Change’ to our compatriots.”