Nigeria is a country that has global impact in more than one ways.  It is not just about oil and gas.  “As of 2019, the estimated population of the country is over 200.96 million, ranking 7th in the world” (http://world population review.com/countries/nigeria-population/).  World Population Review also says Lagos has a population of around 17.5 million. For Nigeria, and for Lagos in particular, malaria is a major health and economic consideration. If I may do some maths, if each Nigerian should buy an antimalarial drug (e.g. an artemisin based drug) once a year, that would be 200 million purchases. If each round of medication costs N1000.00, that would mean a total of N200,000,000,000.00 being spent.  The actual cost of malaria treatment in Nigeria is actually much more than this figure because many  people take antimalarial drugs almost monthly or at least more than once a year.  A reader just called me from her home in Lagos and told me she has had malarial regularly all her life, taking drugs almost monthly, and she is now 73 years old.  Some people may prefer herbal medicine but many Nigerians take the surer NAFDAC approved medications. This vast expenditure is a significant consideration for Government and Big Pharma, one for the pain and the other for the gain. When I sit back to do the maths and conclude on the cost of malaria and the gains to malaria industries, I decide to keep the answer to myself.  I am sitting on the fence. Apart from the use of antimalarial drugs, there are many other consumer products used for prevention or for treatment that make malaria formidable industry. To begin with, we must take preventive measures because malaria can be fatal.  For example, malaria in pregnancy is a common cause of low birth weight, infant mortality, maternal anemia, and maternal fatality. A scary malaria fact is that “an African child dies of malaria every 30 seconds” if we do not take preventive measures (Roll Back Malaria, a World Health Organisation, UNICEF, and UNDP partnership founded in 1998). One of the chief means of prevention of malaria is to avoid being bitten by the mosquito.  Mosquito nets are important and effective barriers when utilized properly.  Mosquito nets on windows and doors of buildings are compulsory in endemic regions of the world.  Mosquito nets on the bed are necessary for people who are vulnerable, especially infants under the age of five, pregnant women, and the sick who are already weakened. Insecticide treated nets (ITNs) have been laced with long lasting insecticides such as permethrin or deltamethrin by the manufacturers and are effective in preventing mosquito bites during sleep. My 73 year old reader just told me that she does not like the mosquito net on her bed because she feels encaged with it like in a coffin and, besides, she gets us frequently to urinate and the mosquitoes have a way of slipping inside. Do not let your elders be trapped in a net with mosquitoes. Mosquito repellant skin creams or sprays are also important for people who spend considerable time outdoors for business or leisure. Mosquito coils and repellant incense are burned to keep mosquitoes away.  They may simply repel or in addition kill the insects.  They can be used indoors and outdoors. Homes, offices, and other buildings need to be regularly sprayed with insecticides to keep killing the mosquitoes that keep coming in. Water bodies and natural habitats of mosquitoes need to be sprayed with chemicals or injected with chemicals to keep the mosquitoes from breeding. Inside our homes, we place electrical mosquito zappers, insect repelling or killer lamps, electronic insecticide injectors, and whatever can keep mosquitoes out or dead.  Some people may even allow the spiders and wall geckos to stay as mercenaries in the war against mosquitoes. However with all our barriers and preventive measures, mosquito genes mysteriously continue to mutate and generate mosquito species with new resilience and invasion techniques.  They get to bite people, especially innocent infants.  The genes of the malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, also continue to mutate and produce plasmodia that are resistant to know antimalarial drugs.  For these reasons, we invest in research to produce malaria vaccines. Manuel Elkin Patarroyo (born November 3, 1946) is a Colombian Professor of Pathology and Immunology and a scientist with vision.  He produced the first synthetic vaccine for the prevention of malaria and transferred the patent to the World Health Organisation (WHO) (https://www.fpa.es/en/princess-of-asturias-awards/laureates/1994-manuel-elkin-patarroyo.html? texto =trayectoria &especifica=0). After his first vaccine of 1986 which was partially effective, he devoted his career to producing a 100 percent effective malaria vaccine. In an interview, this scientist was asked: “What messages might you offer to policymakers based on your experience of research in the developed and developing world?” He replied: “Talent is without doubt equally distributed in all parts of the world. The difference lies in the possibilities which such talented people have. I endeavor to convince governments and institutions of the importance of creating centers in situ, in each country, in order to increase the possibilities for talented people to develop their potential, and to produce solutions in those places where problems are endemic. Governments in many developing countries have little awareness of science. They have not integrated science into their discourse and daily tasks. But this is not only a matter of government policies. Our own mothers can stimulate and plant in their children the desire to be scientists. This is where everything begins. Science must be given social importance. And there must be a kind of pressure. Nowadays in Colombia 0.2 percent is invested in science and technology; and in the United States of America 2.5 percent. This gives rise to an enormous difference” (World Intellectual Property Organization https://www.wipo.int/wipo_magazine/en/2005/05/article_0002.html).  Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635