It is shocking that residents of a disability care home, who should be insulated from the troubles of the outside world on account of their pathetic conditions, are targets of robbers and rapists. “In the space of the past five months, thieves have broken into the home and assaulted residents on four occasions,” according to  an Assistant Coordinator at  Cheshire Home, Ibadan, Oyo State,  Mr. Kayode Lawal. The violation of the space and the residents reflects social degeneration. It is a disturbing signal of anomie. Lawal’s account raises questions about the state of mind of the violators. He lamented: “In fact, between April and May, we have had four robbery incidents. They came in to steal and also raped some of our girls. Our community seems isolated from other members of the public. So, some people take advantage of this to harass us at night. Anytime they see people visiting us to make donations, they gang up to hijack the gifts given to us.” Officials of the Nigerian Shippers Council, South-West zone, who heard the sad story when they visited the home to make donations on September 14, must have wondered whether their gifts would also end up in the hands of thieves. Obviously, security is a problem at the home, and the security situation has been exploited by hard-hearted invaders. Lawal said the home’s management reported the incidents to the police, and had requested that the police should patrol the home to ensure security. No doubt, police presence will improve security at the home. The police authorities should pay attention to the security of the home. The Cheshire Home, Ibadan, is one of the five Cheshire facilities in the country, founded “to help people with disability live a full complement of life and acquire education or vocational training as their God-given ability permits.” Cheshire Homes were established in Nigeria by people inspired by the charity founded in 1948 by a British Royal Air Force officer, Group Captain Leonard Cheshire. The first home was opened in Ibadan in 1959. Another one was established in Lagos in 1961, followed by others in Enugu in 1962, Orlu in 1968, and Port Harcourt in 1973. It is unclear whether the other Cheshire homes are also faced with a security problem. These homes have been in existence for decades, and provide important social services by caring for disabled people and promoting positive social attitudes to disability. They must be protected and encouraged. In cases where such homes are located in exposed localities, relocation should be considered. Generally, homes for people with special needs should be shielded from those who take advantage of soft targets. Robbing a disability care home is bad enough. Raping females living with disability compounds the evil. The possibility of disabled rape victims contracting sexual diseases, or even having to deal with unwanted pregnancies, underlines the need for prompt action to safeguard the residents of such homes. The rapists were insensitive to the conditions of their disabled victims. Such insensitivity mirrored the country’s rape problem. In July, for instance, mounting cases of sexual abuse across the country, particularly against minors, led to an extreme proposal by some senators who argued that convicted rapists should be sentenced to death. This shows that there is a need to punish rapists severely, to serve as deterrent. It is curious that there were no reported arrests concerning the incidents at the Ibadan home. Does this mean the police didn’t investigate the crimes? It wasn’t enough that the home’s management reported the incidents to the police. The police were expected to find the criminals and prosecute them. 