The Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Sokoto State, Mr. Sulaiman Usman (SAN) has  alerted  the Nigerian Bar Association ( NBA) on the need to educate its members on multi-disciplinary professional network services  as a major component of firms. This, he said, will enable them to understand the transformation the legal profession is undergoing globally and to appreciate  the urgent need for regulation. He presented a paper, ‘The incursion of multi-disciplinary firms, any regulation’ at the last Annual General Conference (AGC), in Lagos. Usman said: “There is the need to create a Multidisciplinary Committee to advise the NBA, the General Council of the Bar and Body of Senior Advocate (BOSAN) on the need to consider whether it is in public interest and in the interest of clients,  to allow multidisciplinary firms, practice and partnership in Nigeria.  And whether so doing will not impede and prejudice lawyers ethical obligations. “Changes need to be proposed, if need be to the Rules of Professional Conduct (RPC)  for legal practitioners  as well as the Legal Practitioners Act (LPA)  following the example of American Bar Association (ABA). Experience from United States, United Kingdom,  France, Canada, Spain and Australia point to the need for careful examination of the nature and extent of the activities of multidisciplinary firms in deciding the proper regulatory architecture to be put in place.” He went on: “The legal profession must be the straw that stirs the drink in regulating multi-disciplinary firms, and should be the one who will bundle professional services in Nigeria. “It is noteworthy that while law practice is regulated in Nigeria, there is a complete absence of regulation for establishing law firms except the regulations under the guidelines for award of the rank of Senior Advocates of Nigeria. “This is one valid lacuna that needs to be filled as obtainable in other jurisdictions  and the proper body to address this is the Nigerian Bar Association, so I recommend that the President should set up a committee to advise the NBA on the need for law firm regulation in Nigeria as well as enhance public confidence and respect for the rule of law. “Moreover, law firms are the main contact point between lawyers and clients. “In terms of client intake, retainer agreements, conflict of interest and billings, law firms are intermediaries through which legal services are delivered. “Multidisciplinary firms and practice are part of the future, the legal profession will face in Nigeria, it beckoning unto us and we have to prepare to  face the future that it brings to legal practice,” Usman said. Quoting  Professor Peter Grabosky, Usman said “’Those who fail to anticipate the future are in for a rude shock when it arrives.’ He continued: “All I have tried to say is that the incursion of the multidisciplinary practice is real, and it affects the future of legal practices in this country and we need all hands to be on deck with Body of Benchers, Body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria, General Council of the Bar and the NBA in the saddle to fashion out a proper regulatory architecture and amend the Legal Practitioners Act and Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners and make them modern and up to date in line with new realities brought about the incursion of multidisciplinary firms and the impact of technology.”