The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), at the weekend, renewed its call on the Federal Government to exit the fuel subsidy regime. The group stressed the need for increased local production of petroleum products in the country. Speaking with The Nation, its President, Comrade Ndukaku Oheari, said  production could be achieved through the establishment of more refineries and revamping and upgrade of existing ones to end to product importation. He said: ”We have been following activities in Port Harcourt Refinery with keen interest as critical stakeholders and looking forward to its eventual extension to Warri and Kaduna Refineries. We have also, in our various submissions and presentation at public fora, recommended the adoption of the NLNG model in addressing the issues of the refineries. NLNG model is likely to address all the inherent challenges anticipated in a government private partnership approach of running the refineries.” Oheari commended the managment of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for rehabilitating and restoring some of its key assets such as tank expansion at Atlas Cove Depot, re-opening of depot facilities at Mosimi, Ibadan, Enugu, Aba and Kano. ”We have also appreciated the crude oil tracking initiative which has reduced leakages and crude oil theft. This same technology should be extended to the Pipelines monitoring,” he said. He urged the NNPC to cooperate with the National Assembly and the Federal Government to remove the grey areas hindering the smooth passage and signing into law of all the parts of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), stressing that the development will restore investors’ confidence in the country’s oil and gas sector. He said with the uncertainty surrounding the passage of the bill to law, investors are wary of long term investment in the industry thereby affecting the creation and retention of jobs which is one of the cardinal principle of the current administration. “Aspects of the bill that will revolutionalise the industry, such as the Petroleum Industry Administration Bill, the Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill and the Petroleum Host and Impacted Community Bill should be vigorously looked into and passed into law in order to restore investors’ confidence,” he said. He solicited the support of NNPC to assist his union to curb the recklessness of some key operators whose numbers are growing rapidly, in the struggle against anti-labour practices. ”This include short term contracts, usually a year, which can be rolled over for the next 15 to 20 years thereby promoting slave labour as it is difficult to enthrone a working collective bargaining agreement within such a short period, misinterpretation and blatant refusal to honour signed agreements, non-remittances of statutory deductions like pensions and taxes to relevant agencies in fact, outright efforts to prevent or extinguish the presence of unions in such establishments,” he said. He lamented that the companies are also notorious in the practice of casualisation, contract staffing, outsourcing and off- shoring of jobs, as well as other unfair labour practices and under hand tactics in their labour relations activities.