Consumers have expressed concern as the price of rice has continued to increase, a development, which has left vendors and consumers bitter, JANE CHIJIOKE writes Early this year, former Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Audu Ogbeh said the country had attained 90 per cent of rice production. He said the country had moved from being a major importer of rice to being self-reliant in its production. He said it did not only have the capacity to feed itself, but had also become a major player in agricultural export to other countries. Like Ogbeh, the Rice Farmers Association (RIFAN) said the country had attained a yearly production of eight million metric tonnes of rice, with a target of 18 million metric tonnes by 2023. The contrast These indices seemed to be farfetched from what was obtained in some markets visited. Rice vendors lamented the shortage. Since the border closure, they claimed that manufacturers and distributors had distributed short supply and the goods were rationed to get an even distribution in various markets across the country. They said sometimes they were  out of goods because the manufacturers did not have rice to sell.  The shortfall they noted has been the major cause for the constant increase in price as manufacturers cannot meet up with the demand. Barely three weeks after the closure of the border, the price of Nigerian rice skyrocketed from N12,000 – N13,300 to N15,000. At the moment, it is being sold for between N17, 000 and N19,000, depending on the brand. Brands, such as Famous, Lake Rice, Bigbull, Al-hamzad, Humza, and Olams Labana fall in this category.  A  derica of rice sells for N350 to N400. It is believed that, in few days, the price would go beyond N20,000. Following the disappearance of foreign rice from the market, some rice vendors refill empty foreign rice bags with the local rice, branding it as ‘foreign’.  Such rice is sold for N21,000 and N23,000. At various markets visited, traders and consumers lamented the increase. They said it had become difficult to eat rice, adding that the food item was going out of their reach. They appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to reopen the borders as the country was yet to attain self-sufficiency in food production. For a consumer, Mrs. Gift Maduka, the increasing price of rice is a nightmare to cope with in her family of six. Traders lamented that rice had become a scarce commodity. A trader at Iddo Rice Market, Mr. Yemi Jelil said: “I requested for 25 bags of one brand of rice, they refused to sell to me. I only got 10 bags at N17,800 per bag. There is no rice. What they have is not sufficient. They ration the ones they have. It is not just about the popular brands, the scarcity affects all brands. When you request for a particular quantity, you get something lesser or, at worst, they tell you they don’t have. “On our part the sellers, we make do with the little we have pending when we are able to get some to sell. So the scarcity inflates the price and this is greatly affecting us. Our customers are complaining. They buy at a particular price, by the time they come again, the price would have increased. There is no regulation on the price. Going by the way the price is rising, it will surely exceed N20, 000 in few days,” he said. Another wholesale trader at the market, Mrs. Suliat said she had not been able to buy rice since last week. “I have booked for supply since last week, but no response yet.  At the moment, I don’t have rice to sell. I am a wholesaler that supplies to other traders in the market. So, imagine me unable to get rice, so how much more for  traders who buy in little quantity from me to resell in the market?” When it eventually becomes available, the price will skyrocket.” A trader at Orile Market, Iyana Ipaja, Lagos, who refused to mention his name, said the government ‘s initiative to force Nigerians to consume homegrown rice was not  realistic given that there is shortage of supply and production  nationwide. Though a good initiative, he said the escalation of price was a testament to the short fall of basic requirements needed in the rice value chain. “How many rice farmers or millers do we have? How much of rice is produced on a daily basis.  In   what ways is government making agriculture attractive for the young one to venture into?  Are there seed or soft loans for them? Do we have enough mills in the country? Is the government subsiding rice paddy or regulating  price? he asked. He lamented that  a state with large  population, such as Lagos, depended on rice produced in the North. Also, the infrastructural deficit makes it difficult  to ferry  goods cheaply to their destinations. He advised the government not to depend on data from rice farmers, millers and distributors but also monitor the markets to get feedbacks from sellers and even consumers. This will help them to get robust information to use to boost rice production, he added. There is no scarcity of rice The Iyaloja of Daleko Rice Market, Mrs Jumlar Solaja, said there was no shortage of rice. She said new rice paddy would soon be out. She remarked that the market always received trailers of rice. Asked why the price is constantly on the increase she said: “The issue is that many people are not on the farm. We need more hands in the farm because there is market for it. When we have enough hands producing rice, there would be enough rice paddies and the price will crash. This is our reality.” On his part, the National Vice President of Rice Farmers Association (RIFAN), Mr Segun Atho, explained that there was no scarcity of rice as farmers were growing rice almost four times yearly. He noted that there was surplus rice paddy. Asked why the price is high, he said: “I will not speak on that. What I am sure of is that there is rice in the country. Let us be patient with ourselves.”