The Army on Thursday urged members of the public to disregard rumours of impending attacks on Maiduguri and its environs by Boko Haram Terrorists, saying there is no cause for panic. The spokesman of operation Lafiya Dole Theatre Command in the northeast, Col Ado Isa said in a statement that troops are on patrol and effectively in control of the situation. He dismissed as ill founded rumours of impending attacks within and outside the city, asserting that troops would take advantage of the super camp strategy to deal with the terrorists. Col Isa said:”Information circulating on social media revealed that some mischievous elements are insinuating and peddling rumours of ‘terrorists’ plan to execute deadly attacks on some selected populated areas and key facilities in Maiduguri town and neighboring areas in order to cause panic and inflict casualty on innocent Nigerians. “Headquarters Theatre Command, Operation Lafiya Dole, assures the public that necessary measures have been put in place to checkmate the purported evil plans of the criminals. “Accordingly, troops in the Theatre, have been committed to ensure movements and activities of the marauders are effectively thwarted. ” Troops are also in staging positions in line with the Super Camp Concept to destroy the bandits whenever they are seen. “Consequently, members of the public are urged to disregard the rumor of ‘deadly attacks’ on Maiduguri and environs. “The fake news is circulated by mischievous elements and other collaborators of the criminals with the aim to instil fear and panic in the minds of the people as well as to sabotage the efforts of the military and other security agencies in the struggle to end the menace. “Members of the public are therefore enjoined to disregard the alleged attacks on Maiduguri city and environs and go about their routine lawful businesses without fear or hindrance. “The public are also advised to be more vigilant and report unusual/suspicious presence or movements of persons especially at important public places like markets, schools, mosques and churches as well as venues for occasions to security agencies.”