Former Ondo State Commissioner for Environment and delegate to the 2014 National Conference, Chief Sola Ebiseni, has joined the governorship race on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He urged party to unite so that the party can return to power after the 2020 governorship poll. Ebiseni told PDP leaders and supporters at Igbotako, the headquarters of the Ilaje Local Government Area, that the abysmal performance of the APC government in the state will make it easy for the main opposition party to return to power. The lawyer and former  hairman of the old Ilaje/Ese Odo Local Council ssid he joined the race to serve the people. Ebiseni said APC lacked a clear-cut programme for developing the state and the country, adding that  the general insecurity had made life miserable to Nigerians. He accused Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of destroying the positive impacts of the social welfare programmes of the previous PDP administration. The former commissioner, however advised the PDP, at all levels, not to take the people of the state for granted in the selection of its candidate for the 2020 election. He said the party should be  “united and fair to all aspirants.” Reacting to the demand of the people of the area for zoning and power shift, Ebiseni said from his experience, no party had ever officially zoned the slot. However, he said if the shadow poll is free and fair to the three senatorial districts and the component groups, all will be well. The aspirant said equity and justice  remain essential features of emerging political cultures. This, according to him, was the reason no party had been able to hold power in the state perpetually. Ebeseni urged the people to put forward their best candidate who could win both the primary and the election proper, adding: “Having the ticket of the party and winning the governorship election go beyond social media agitations, some of which may even be annoying and offensive. It is the constitutional right of every person or part of the state to aspire to the office of the governor. “To get it, we must work hard, engage other local governments, tribes and groups in a friendly manner with mutually beneficial assurance and put forward our best candidate, in whom other people have confidence, based on robust relationship. “This game is not an Olympic event which essence is participation. It is a political World Cup, where only the champion can win both the qualifiers and the ultimate trophy for any nation.” He called for the support of the people, assuring them  of his capacity to win the party’s ticket and the 2020 election. All the leaders, who spoke at the event lauded his sterling leadership qualities as well as his capacity to win the election for the party.