PZ Wilmar Food Ltd has stressed the need for entrepreneurship in the food sector. As a demonstration of its commitment to promoting entrepreneurship Mamador, a brand within the organisation has launched a programme tagged:  Mamador Empowerment Programme. The brand kick-started the initiative by empowering a food hawker in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The food hawker, Josephine Adegahi, who is a university graduate selling food with the aid of a wheelbarrow, went viral on social media. She was subsequently contacted by the Mamador team and given a branded Mamador Mobile Kitchen as well as Mamador products ranging from the cooking oil to the recently launched seasoning and spread for bread. Speaking during the presentation, Category Development Manager, PZ Wilmar Limited, Toyin Popoola-Dania,  expressed delight at the launch of the empowerment programme. “I am particularly excited at the launch of this programme as it presents another opportunity for Mamador to support individuals and families. The mission of the Mamador Empowerment Programme is to provide equipment, products, materials and other supports for entrepreneurs within the food sector to help take their businesses to the next level profitably while improving access to healthy and tasty amongst consumers,” she said. Popoola-Dania said the brand was impressed by Josephine’s drive to support herself, her family and also improve her standard of living. She said: “We came across Josephine’s story and were impressed by her resourcefulness and positive personality. As we have done in the past – providing support for small businesses such as hers, we would like to press forward with our empowerment programme. This is in line with Mamador’s purpose to ensure consumers have access to healthy and tasty meals at all times.’’ reach more people and be more productive. Through her, healthy and tasty made possible by Mamador will be made accessible to more Nigerians.” Mamador will continue to provide support for small-scale businesses within the food sector, and will be creating opportunities for deserving candidates nationwide to benefit from the brand. Mamador is a premium food brand that guarantees healthy and tasty meals.