A body that calls itself the Southern, Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) just came out with fresh fears over the National Livestock Transformational Plan (NLTP) and a proposed piece of legislation, the National Waterways Bill. But with its clear fixation with “Fulani” Armageddon,  which  appears to have captured and thoroughly eaten up its psyche, it is doubtful if this body is not driven more by a mere bogey, than by sound reason or even common sense. The National Economic Council (NEC) just endorsed the implementation of NLTP (voluntary to states); while the National Inland Waterway Bill is before the National Assembly for processing.  But SMBLF opposes both because of anti-Fulani hysterics. As far as the body is concerned, there is no fundamental difference between the NLTP and the RUGA project earlier shot down, despite ample explanation that the NLTP was much more robust; captures almost the entire animal husbandry value chain; seeks to modernize livestock farming; and to halt open grazing, which has led to farmer-herders conflicts, consuming thousands of lives. But SMBLF is predicting nothing but more Armageddon.  It declared: NLTP “will only escalate the clashes between the indigenous communities and cattle settlers as experiences in southern and Middle Belt areas of Nigeria have shown that the Fulani imports do not assimilate …” On the bill, the SMBLF thunders: “the Waterways Bill is another land-grabbing move like RUGA by ethnic supremacists who are working against the unity of the country. Major rivers in Nigeria can be made available, by federal law if the bill is passed to Fulani pastoralists and there is nothing the indigenous people within such vicinities can do about it.” How the irony of this statement escaped the SMBLF beggars belief.  It dubs others “ethnic supremacists”.  Yet, its own very words, in this release, ooze ethnic supremacism, fired by blind hate!  That exposes a disturbing Freudian slip, which projects the body as no better, in basic principle and temper, than the Fulani it scalds and loves to hate!  Besides, its explosive and emotive diction is a threat to “national unity”. A harvest of hate helps no one. Such blighted activism only pollutes the ethnic waters and breeds needless tension; which could yet lead to more loss of lives. SMBLF is at liberty to criticize policies.  But it should do so with facts and figures, not scalding hate.  It has projected too much ethnic toxins in the Nigeria cultural air, such that no one is sure if it hadn’t even planted a huge seed of future ethnic slaughter.  Yet, no people develop, nursing perpetual grudges and hate. Let SMBLF — a presumptive pressure group with no elective mandate — switch to a saner path, of hard reason, love and tolerance. It started wishing to be part of the solution.  But now, it has clearly become a part of the problem.  The tragedy is it can’t even see it!