The All Progressives Congress (APC) has lashed out at its counterpart in South Africa, the Africa National Congress (ANC) over its prolonged silence on the attack on Nigerians in South Africa, saying it was too early for them to forget the sacrifices of Nigerians in the fight against apartheid. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu said in a statement in Abuja that South African leaders cannot exonerate themselves from what the APC described as cowardly act by south African youths in constantly attacking Nigerians and their businesses in that country. “After what appeared to be a break, South African youths again attacked Nigerians and their businesses in that country on Monday and the APC is saying Nigeria and Nigerians does not deserve such treatment from South Africans. The statement reads “the All Progressives Congress (APC) strongly condemns the recent South African xenophobic attacks on foreign nationals, particularly on Nigerians, their property and businesses. “As a party, we are deeply saddened by these unwarranted attacks. Nigeria deserves better from South Africa. It is too early for South Africans to forget their country’s history. Many of the key players in the struggle against apartheid are still alive and active in the country’s national affairs. We therefore cannot understand why there seems to be a conspiracy of silence on their part. “The barbaric attack on citizens of other countries points to a failure of leadership. South African leaders cannot exonerate themselves from this cowardly act. We call on the South African ruling party, the African National Congress (ANC) to urgently step in. This is completely at variance with what ANC stood for. The ANC government can no longer pretend about this obvious contradiction. “The violence being meted to Nigerians under ANC calls to question the very essence of the struggle against apartheid in which Nigeria was a frontline ally of South Africa. How can those who supported you and made huge sacrifices for your freedom become fair games to be murdered in cold blood? “Perhaps there is a disconnect between the younger and older generations of South Africa. The older generation cannot sit back while the uninformed youths and some South African public officials in their quest for inordinate populism destroy what we collectively achieved over several decades of sacrifice and brotherliness. “Today, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs summoned the South African High Commissioner to Nigeria over the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians. This is one of the first steps in this government’s proactive response to this unfortunate incident. We assure Nigerians that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration would continue to take decisive measures. The safety of Nigerians – home and abroad – is non-negotiable to the APC administration.”