Love is a beautiful thing. The Holy Book says that it is not good for a man to be alone, and that a man must leave his father and his mother and will get married to his wife and the two of them will become one.  IGBO One quick advantage to mention about Igbo girls is that it is widely argued that they are extremely beautiful and considered the best when it comes to cooking. Other advantages may include: 1.            She will raise your children with love and teach them local language If you marry an Igbo girl, you can be sure that your children would speak the Igbo language whether you like it or not. She would raise the children with love and instill the right values and morals into them. The Igbo people value their culture a lot and would make sure they pass something from it onto their children- your children. 2.            Her family members will always visit There is nothing like total privacy if you marry an Igbo woman. Her family members would always visit and the house will always be full. This has advantages and disadvantages as you may spend more seeing to their affairs while playing the perfect in-law but you can be sure it would be fun all the way. This would make your wife happy and more contented. 3.            They are very religious Igbos are very religious people and their preferred religion is Christianity. Most Igbo girls are brought up in strict religious homes and as such, they have the fear of God and the belief in His supremacy instilled in them. Even when they leave their parents, they still carry those values with them into their marriage and homes. So prepare yourself for church every Sunday, and get ready to observe religious holidays and church programmes once married to an Igbo girl, because they hardly compromise on this or convert to other religions 4.            Do not cheat on an Igbo girl if you still want to live They may not kill you physically but be sure that life will be very difficult for you and your mistress if you get caught. If you want to marry an Igbo girl, then you should know that as subtle and sweet as they are, they could be highly venomous when pushed and taken for granted. They are not ladies who would fold their hands while you cheat on them. They would confront you and your lover with their findings and would deal with both successfully.  YORUBA 1.            Yoruba girls are very respectful The moment a child is born in Yorubaland every elder around him or her suddenly becomes his/her parent as he or she is not only restricted to receiving discipline from the biological parent. This has made it very easy to inculcate habits like being respectful in the young child. Yoruba girls are brought up to totally give respect to whoever it is due. The Yoruba culture says that when a youngster meets an elder, she must kneel down to greet as a sign of respect. This is a major reason why Yoruba ladies top the list of respectful tribes in Nigeria 2.            Yoruba girls are hardworking A lot of Yoruba girls grew up with the teachings of self-reliance. This is because at a tender age, they get taught how to do major household chores and how to exceptionally take care of the house, the man of the house and the children.  So, it is safe to call a Yoruba girl a better “helpmeet”, as she would help with her hardworking, enterprising spirit in shaping your life. 3.            Yoruba girls are highly Intellectual A high percentage of Yoruba girls take school and education seriously. This gives them an edge over other ladies from other tribes in Nigeria. A typical Yoruba girl would prefer to go to school, get her degrees and certificates before thinking of marriage, which is rare in some tribes. This help them plan their lives well enough; get prepared for the future before jumping into it. 4.            Yoruba girls age gracefully Because most Yoruba girls keep themselves before marriage, there are better chances for them to look way younger than their real age. They are ever agile even in old age to tend to their family. Just like fine old wine, Yoruba girls get stronger as they grow older. So, guys, which one do you want?