Many Nigerians perceive the ember months — September, October, November and December- to be synonymous with mysterious happenings. Within these four months, a fever, perhaps sort of anxiety, grips most Nigerians. Without doubt, the ‘ember’ months are always the busiest on roads for many reasons and the air of festivity within these periods makes everyone ecstatic. From the religious perspective, many people believe these tragic occurrences are caused by evil spirits associated with these months. They argue it is a season when prayers should be intensified to curtail the incidence of evil. While this fear for the ‘Ember months’ seems to be a natural phenomenon, it is important that we also pay attention to the dangers that have now been associated to what is now termed “the ember months”. Fire Outbreak – Fire is one of the major causes of accident during Ember months because the air becomes dryer, thus encouraging chain reaction of fire. Ember months usually come with gradual subsiding of the rains and encroachment of the Harmattan haze. These Harmattan hazes fuel fire outbreak in marketplaces, offices, worship centers, farms, bushes Accidents – In Nigeria, the ember months are known as a period of hectic activity on roads. People use this end of year period to engage in business and travel to visit loved ones living far away. According to the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC), a total of 5,181 Nigerians lost their lives in road traffic crashes (RTC) in 2018. Further analysis revealed that the top five causes of road accidents are: Other factors that also cause road accidents during this period are: excessive speeding, overloading and impatient passengers making passive comments to the driver while driving. Many drivers place their safety at risk by overloading their vehicles. Kidnapping – Though insecurity and kidnapping are not new in Nigeria, there are always on the increase in during the ember months. Kidnapping has evolved into a lingering, pervasive security threat and fast-paced and multifaceted criminal enterprise. It is now perpetrated by diverse armed groups and criminal gangs operating across the country Young and old have been victims; others have had the gruesome experience of loosing loved ones to these kidnappers. Robbery and other criminal activities – Some of the most common types of robberies experienced in Nigeria are home robberies, car robberies and bank robberies. Today, armed robbery is not only one of the biggest threat in Nigeria, but also a social scourge Robberies can occur almost anywhere at any time, but tend to occur more often in anticipated settings and at expected times. All that is necessary is a motivated robber and an unwilling victim at the wrong place at the wrong time. Excessive alcohol intake and smoking – Alcohol is a major factor in many speed-related crashes. Sadly, manufacturers of alcoholic beverages have not been very supportive of anti-drink drive campaigns. Small-sized bottles of alcoholic drinks are being consumed by drivers without a thought for safety on the road. In some advanced nations such as the United Kingdom, members of the public have adequate information about the legal alcohol limits. Reckless driving of commercial vehicles – Some drivers are very reckless. They see themselves as the kings of the road. So, they park, stop and swerve the car indiscriminately. Funny enough, they involve themselves in a car race to know who is a faster driver. While doing this, they mistakenly hit pedestrians crossing, traders or even bystanders. This can result in grave injuries or even deaths. All these acts are very dangerous to road users and needs to be looked into if we want people to be safe. As it has done over the past several years, it is expected that the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) will once again embark upon its annual road safety campaign. In all that you do during this Ember months, remember to stay safe, be watchful and careful