Eleven persons were reportedly killed on Monday, while others sustained injuries in a fatal accident on the Lafia-Akwanga Road in Nasarawa State. The accident occurred at Endehu hill, popularly called “Many have gone”, the same spot where the Nasarawa State deputy governor’s convoy was attacked recently. The accident, which happened some few minutes to 11am, involved a trailer loaded with cement, a Sharon car and a motorcycle. Our correspondent, who visited the scene of the accident, reports that the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), the police and travellers helped in the rescue operation. The Nasarawa State Sector Commander of the FRSC, Ismaila Kugu, confirmed the accident to reporters in Lafia. He said of the 11 victims, nine were men while two were women. An eyewitness said the trailer with number plate Kano-KMC 523 YD, loaded with cement and heading for Lafia, crushed the Sharon car marked Nasarawa-LFA 497 ZY, killing the nine occupants. The eyewitness said the trailer also crushed the motorcyclist to death, while one of the occupants of the trailer died in the accident. He said the trailer allegedly had a brake failure and hit the rear of a moving truck with registration number Gombe-GME 466 XA, conveying beans from Gombe to Aba in Abia State, before it lost control and crushed the Sharon car, killing the occupants. The bodies have been deposited at the General Hospital in Akwanga, Nasarawa State. One person has been reportedly killed in a crash on the Bauchi-Jos Road at Miri village, on the outskirts of Bauchi. This followed a head-on collision between a commercial Vectra and Sharon car. The incident, which occurred yesterday, left seven students of the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi injured. Federal Road Safety Corps(FRSC) spokesman Rilwan Sulaiman, while confirming the accident, said the Sharon was conveying ATBU students to Bauchi before it collided with the Vectra car. The driver of the Vectra car died on the spot. He said the body has been deposited at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi.