Nigeria’s pioneer private broadcasting company, Daar Communications Plc has grown its revenue from  N 3.712 billion in 2017 to a N4.637 billion in the 2018 financial year. However, the increase in revenue of 25 per cent did not result in profitability for the company as it suffered a loss of N2.169 billion after its tax obligations to the Nigerian Government. The Chairman of the Group, Chief Raymond Dokpesi Jnr. made the revelation at the weekend in Abuja at the broadcast Company’s 10th and 11th Annual General Meeting [AGM] . Dokpesi blamed the loss on the Company’s adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standard  [IFRS] Accounting policy  which is different from the previous accounting model in use by most companies in Nigeria before now. According to the Daar Communications Plc Chairman: “I the midst of operating challenges, your company recorded gross earnings of N3.712 billion in 2017as against the 2016 earnings of N3.733 billion , representing a marginal decline of 0.56 per cent revenue. Conversely, the earnings of 2018 increased to N4.637 billion , representing 25 per cent increase over 2017 earnings.’’ He continued : “ However, the loss after taxation in 2018 was N2.169 billion while 2017 loss after taxation was N0.482 billion , representing an increase of 350 per cent.  The astronomical increase in operating losses in 2018 was mainly as a result of of the adoption of of the IFRS – 15 on Revenue Recognition on contracts from customers.’’ Dokpesi Jnr. then informed the shareholders that in order to comply with the dictates of the IFRS -15 models the Board has agreed to review all her revenue contracts and consequently make appropriate  provisions for all delinquent  accounts  in line with the new accounting standard. He also told shareholders that the sum of N1.3 billion was provided for in the 2018 financials for possible doubtful debt which they represent. He assured them that  every necessary action including legal option was on the card for the recovery of any of its  their debtors. Another challenge that contributed to the loss, according to the Chairman was the ever escalating cost , particularly  as it relates to energy cost  which is heavily dependent on diesel and foreign exchange for broadcast equipment which are sourced from overseas which is sourced from the parallel market at a very high cost. He assured shareholders that the Board was optimistic that in  a matter of time, following an on-going restructuring in the Group, “shareholders will smile as all indications points to a return to profitability very soon.” According to Dokpesi, “as part of the repositioning programme of the Company, we have acquired the latest modern studios and other other broadcast infrastructure that the industry can bost of. We are also integrating our operations with the most robust software in order to fully automate our operations to cope with modern broadcasting anywhere in the globe . the Company has also signed on various content production agreements with reputable producers for the production of high- end content necessary to increase its audiences  and market potentials . these investments will no doubt position the company for cost effective management , increased viewership / listenership  and adequate rating for increased revenue generation,’’ 