The food giant, Mamador, a premium brand of PZ Wilmar, has once again demonstrated its commitment towards promoting initiatives that encourage tasty and healthy nutrition in the country. The company demonstrated this commitment when it hosted its consumers to a Master Class session at its headquarters in Lagos. The colourful event, which was held to commemorate this year’s Fried Rice Day, treated guests to sumptuous meals of the different varieties of fried rice dishes, courtesy of its new seasoning cube range. The celebration also featured two celebrity chefs and food bloggers, Ifeyinwa Mogekwu – Ify’s Kitchen, and Winifred Emmanuel – Zeelicious who engaged the audience on tasty and healthy ways of preparing their favourite variants of fried rice dishes. The chefs described Mamador seasoning cubes as a perfect substitute for key spices such as turmeric or curry with even better results, especially the chicken cube variant which was specially formulated to give fried rice the curry appeal. Speaking at the event, Ipsit Chakrabarti, deputy managing director, PZ Wilmar Ltd., reiterated the company’s commitment to providing Nigerians with healthier and tastier cooking options. “We want to enliven and encourage tasty healthy nutrition amongst Nigerians, and most importantly demystify the myth around healthy meals. Many people think that they cannot enjoy both, but the truth is that with Mamador, they can. This event provided us with the opportunity to demonstrate this possibility and we are quite pleased that our guests enjoyed the meals by our chefs and also learned healthier options for cooking, which for us is the ultimate goal,” he said. Chioma Mbanugo, marketing manager, PZ Wilmar, said Mamador is promoting healthy nutrition because it lowers the risk of diseases and promotes wellbeing. “We are committed to providing food that is healthy for you and tastes good as well. So we fortify our high-quality products with essential vitamins and minerals. We are here to walk you through your desire for more rewarding meals breaking all the myths around healthy meals.”