The entire staff and students of the Fati Lami Abubakar Institute of Legal and Administrative Studies (FLAILAS), in Minna, Niger State, have been thrown into mourning following the death of the Dean, School of Administration, Hajiya Fatima Idris Kuta. Hajiya Kuta died from complications while giving birth at a private hospital in Minna, last week Wednesdayk. The remains of Kuta, who until her death, was the immediate past Head of Department (HoD) of Public Administration, have since been buried according to Islamic rites. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the late Hajiya Kuta, who was an indigene of the state, was  a doctoral student at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). Tributes have continued to pour in from colleagues and students who described the deceased as  friendly, diligent, hardworking, caring and dutiful. Provost of the institute Dr Muhammad Aliyu Busa, described the deceased as highly cerebral, considering her academic profile. “The news of the exit of our amiable colleague, and dedicated staff was a thunderbolt. Hajiya Fatima Kuta was an unassuming colleague, virtuous woman and an erudite academic with exceptional intellectual pedigree. She was a committed mother at the home front. She was different things to many people who had an acquaintance with her. She was one staff that contributed immensely to the development of Public Administration department, the School of Administration and the institute, at large,” Busa noted while paying a condolence visit to the family. “Her humility, simplicity and piety were unrivalled. Most of us, and in fact, all her students have always described her in glowing terms. We have all eulogised her sterling moral virtues even before she answered her creator’s call. I can only urge her beloved husband, and family members to take solace in the fact that she lived a fulfilled and unblemished life,” Busa added. In a tribute posted on her Facebook page, a colleague in the Department of Mass Communication, Mrs Maimuna Babangida, described Hajiya Kuta’s death as a colossal loss to her colleagues, friends and students. “We will forever live to remember you with genuine fondness,” Babangida began. She continued: “You are a disciplined mother to your children, a loving friend to your colleagues, and a principled lecturer to your students. May your soul find tranquil rest in the Lord’s bossom. We may mourn you just for a while, but we can never stop missing you. We can never stop remembering you for the sterling ideals you always stood for, and also exhorted us to imbibe. Adieu my lovely, caring and adorable sister.” As for Abubakar Isah, a 200-Level student of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University Lapai (IBBUL), the reality of Hajiya Kuta’s death only dawned on him after he placed several calls to his friends who all confirmed news of her death. Isah, who was a student of the late Dean and graduated from the institute in 2016, said Hajiya Kuta was a teacher who usually inspired them towards success whenever she was in class. Isah said: “Mrs Fatima was a caring mentor, and also soft-hearted. She was simple, but a highly-disciplined teacher. Generosity is another virtue she truly personified. The late Dean offered financial assistance to some of her students who were indigents.”