Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) has turned out another set of 60 graduate trainees and 74 technician trainees in its 2018/19 edition, a programme targeted at improving service delivery to customers and bridging skills gap in the power sector. It also announced take-off locations for the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme in Delta State. BEDC Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Mrs. Funke Osibodu disclosed these  at the fourth graduation for trainees held at the Crescendo Conference Centre, Asaba. The take-off locations, which will be handled by Inlaks Power Solution sequentially, based on location, street by street are Government House and Cabinet area, Express, Anwai, SPC, Ezenei, SIO all around Asaba Township and Headbridge. Mrs. Osibodu said BEDC believes that the recruitment of new workforce and training of workers would help improve service delivery to customers and also build capacity in the power sector. “Our yearly recruit new employees under the Graduate Management Trainee and Technician Trainee schemes continue to grow as we lead in the drive to bridge the capacity and skills gap in the power sector. Our goal is to attract and train 1,500 young and new employees with the aim of helping to improve the quality of service to customers and also help reduce youth unemployment in our society,” she stated. Declaring that BEDC will leave no stone unturned in its desire to meet customer expectations, Mrs. Osibodu disclosed that between  last year and now, BEDC has connected 112 communities without electricity supply in its coverage areas to the national grid out of which 55 of such connections were done in Delta State. She solicited the cooperation of customers in respect of the ongoing enumeration exercise which she said was a precondition for them to benefit from the MAP scheme, stressing that this would enable the company plan properly for network expansion, improve quality of power supply, adding that nearly 400,000 households have been enumerated. In his welcome address, Chairman Board of Directors Victor Osibodu said the training schemes were conceived after the power sector privatisation in 2013 to enable BEDC respond to immediate talent needs of the sector, disclosing that within four years of its existence over 600 persons have been recruited. “BEDC aims to build a technically competent organisation with the required technical and functional competency, As such the two training programmes are blended learning experiences designed to equip new staff with the skills set needed to deliver excellent services to customers,” the chairman stated.