A good diagnostic system replete with all laboratory resources to complete medical tests locally will reduce the turnaround time, which often results in delays before treatment in Nigeria. The Managing Director, VCare Diagnostics Limited, Sanjay Mathur, said this during the launch of the diagnostics company in Lagos. Describing VCare as Nigeria’s first state-of-the-art laboratory in the country, he lamented that Nigerians experienced delays before treatment because close to 50 per cent of samples  are often sent abroad for testing, a void the new diagnostic firm said it came to fill by revamping the country’s healthcare diagnostic system with latest technology and facilities. According to him, samples that leave Nigeria is one of the problems currently affecting the healthcare diagnostic space, stressing that this causes delay of test results, thereby limiting the doctor’s ability to treat patients promptly. “Some of the results which are needed for diagnosis of patients get delayed because the turnaround time of results from countries such as India, South Africa, United Kingdom, America and Europe takes about 10 and sometimes 30 days for some of the tests report to come out,” he said. Because VCare is equipped with the best manpower and latest facilities, it is capable of carrying out all testing 100 per cent in the country, thereby reducing treatment delays and improving medical outcomes for Nigerians, Mathur said. “VCare diagnostics has established the first state-of-the-art reference laboratory to do one hundred per cent testing in Nigeria. At VCare, the model is to fill the key gaps that currently persist in the healthcare diagnostic space vis-à-vis the provision of quality reports in the least turnaround time, thereby improving patient treatment time. The vision of VCare is to become the go-to reference lab for all the customers by ensuring that no samples leave Nigeria. This addresses the current trend wherein about 40-50 per cent of the samples are sent outside of Nigeriafor testing, which increases the turnaround time and leads to delay in treatment for Nigerians,” Mathur said.