 The Federal Government is “vigorously” prosecuting Irish firm Process and Industrial Developments (P&ID) for “attempting to cheat Nigeria of billion of dollars”, President Muhammadu Buhari declared on Tuesday. He spoke during his address at the 74th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York, United States. It was the first time the President spoke on the $9.6 billion arbitration judgment obtained against Nigeria by the firm in what is generally described as a fraud. Officials of P&ID were convicted after a guilty plea at the Federal High Court. The firm and its Nigerian affiliate were liquidated by the court. An appeal against the arbitral judgment will be heard in London tomorrow. Nigeria has filled 13 grounds why the judgment should not be enforced. Presenting Nigeria’s statement as the fifth speaker on the first day of the General Debate, the President said: “We are giving notice to international criminal groups by the vigorous prosecution of the P&ID scam attempting to cheat Nigeria of billions of dollars.” He described poverty as “one of the greatest challenges facing our world,” noting that “its eradication is an indispensable requirement for achieving sustainable development,” while highlighting his administration’s efforts to overcome the challenge. He added: “In this regard, Nigeria has developed a National Social Investment Programme – a pro-poor scheme that targets the poorest and most vulnerable households in the country.” On the 2019 presidential elections, he said Nigerians “backed the politics of tolerance, inclusion and community over the politics of protest and division.” The President touched on the challenge of education in Africa, saying it was enormous. He highlighted his administration’s Home Grown School Feeding Programme as one of the strategies to address the challenge of out-of-school children. Reflecting on UNGA’s theme: Galvanising multilateral efforts for poverty eradication, quality education, climate action and inclusion, Buhari said the multilateralism has brought immense benefits to the world. He noted that current attempts by industrialised countries to help develop Africa are un-coordinated and plainly incremental. Buhari said: “We have the skills, the manpower and the natural resources, but in many instances, we lack the capital – hence my plea for industrial countries to take a long-term view of Africa, come and partner with us to develop the continent for the benefit of all.” On climate change, the President emphasised that Nigeria stands resolutely with the international community in observing agreed carbon emission targets which he signed in 2015. He said: “We have since issued two sovereign Green Bonds and have added an additional one million hectares of forested land taking our total forest coverage to 6.7 per cent through collective national effort.” Buhari spared a thought for New Zealand where a lone gunman killed 50 worshippers. He called on major tech companies to be alive to their responsibilities over social media outlets responsible for fuelling major crimes, such as mass killings. He said: “They cannot be allowed to continue to facilitate the spread of religious, racist, xenophobic and false messages capable of inciting whole communities against each other, leading to loss of many lives. This could tear some countries apart.”