The success of the Anchor Borrowers Programme in staple food production has bolstered the determination of the Central Bank of Nigeria to add cattle ranching and poultry farming to its list of intervention schemes in efforts to provide protein for Nigerians, reports Group Business Editor, SIMEON EBULU  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has not left any area untouched in its drive to ensuring adequate food production and guaranteeing food security in the country. When the CBN kick started its intervention policy, including the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) in 2015, many thought it was going to be a one-off agenda that would be wrapped up after a while, but not so. The success of the ABP and its expansion beyond rice production to other arable crops and staple foods, has emboldened the leadership of the apex bank under  Godwin Emefiele, to elongate the scope of its development finance initiatives to areas that are considered critical with respect to meeting the culinary needs of the nation’s population, as well as create employment. The ABP at inception focused on increasing rice production ( Nigeria’s staple diet), among other goals, to reducing its importation, make Nigeria self-sufficient in its production and over time become a net exporter of rice. It was intended to generate millions of jobs for unemployed Nigerians and lift thousands of small farmers out of poverty. The successes recorded in the ABP with rice, have propelled the CBN to expand the scheme to include other arable and food crops Emefiele said since the inauguration of ABP in 2015, several states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have embraced it, saying the programme has created economic linkages between smallholder farmers and reputable large-scale crop processors, thus increasing agricultural output and capacity utilisation of integrated mills. He said ABP has closed the gap between local rice production and domestic consumption, while complementing the Growth Enhancement Support (GES) Scheme of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) by facilitating the transformation of GES-farmers from subsistence farming to commercial farming. CBN Director, Corporate Communications Department, Isaac Okoroafor, said in 2018, N36.37 billion was disbursed to 155,732 farmers, while N12.57 billion was paid to 27 farmers in the first half of 2017, bringing the total disbursements to N91.90 billion. He said more than 412,037 smallholder farmers are beneficiaries in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), saying that the programme has created over 500,000 jobs and added over two million tonnes of rice to domestic rice supply. Okoroafor said the volume of rice importation into the country drastically reduced in 2018 judging by figures obtained from various official sources. “Figures obtained from India and Thailand, which are dominant rice exporters to Nigeria indicated that as at September 2018, Thailand exported about 5,161 tonnes of rice to Nigeria, while India exported only a paltry 426 tonnes to Nigeria as at July 2018, “ pointing out that CBN had not allocated any foreign exchange for the importation of rice. Okorafor said part of the success of this feat should be attributed to the concerted efforts of FMARD and Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN). As a further push to enhancing food productivity, the CBN has made available some concessionary funds to the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) for disbursement as loans to rice, wheat, maize, cotton, cassava, poultry, soybeans and groundnut farmers, the Managing Director of NIRSAL, Aliyu Abdulhameed,  said. Abdulhameed said the outcome of the venture has been very positive, as NIRSAL, through the ABP, has been able to create over 250,000 direct jobs and 1.25 million indirect jobs across the country. Also, the National President of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Alhaji Aminu Goronyo, said  more than two million rice farmers who registered for ABP were supported with funds and farm inputs such as water-pumping machines, with a view to facilitating their participation in dry season farming, saying  beneficiary rice farmers could either pay back the loans with cash or harvested paddy rice at the end of the farming season. Enter Ranching Having substantially addressed the staple food supply  need of the nation, the apex bank is now directing attention to growing the protein content in the agric sector by directing attention to cattle ranching and poultry farming. The CBN’s commitment to supporting cattle and poultry farmers is being done with the aim of improving protein availability in the nation’s food chain . The CBN chief, while announcing a new policy to end milk imports into the country, assured that the bank was ready to provide loans for those who want to go into the cattle business, stating that Nigeria could no longer continue to spend between $1.2billion-$1.5billion on milk importation, annually. He said Nigeria has what it takes to produce milk, assuring that the CBN was ready to give loans to those interested in ranching and other businesses in the livestock value chain. Emefiele said he is convinced that milk is one of the products that can be produced in Nigeria and as such, does not require that Nigeria should continue to spend scarce foreign exchange on its importation. He said for over sixty years, Nigeria has been importing milk,  saying the commodity is a very high import product into the country, “given that it’s a product that we are convinced can be produced in the country.” Former Dean, Faculty of Agroculture, University of Ilorin, Prof Abiodun Adeloye, told The Nation that  ranching will  provide a system for tracing livestock from farm to slaughter. He said  cattle ranching is a very important industry  and can provide rural employment and livelihood, saying the nation ’s prevalent cattle raising system is inefficient.  He said  ranching is one strategy that will boost the fortune of the sector. He said it would help in creating jobs, enhance growth and ensure long-term prosperity for the livestock sector, adding that building farm and ranch infrastructure is an important way to increasing producer profitability and securing a safe future for our producers’ livelihoods. Adeloye said establishing a secure source of water is crucial to the long-term success and livelihood of  farmers and ranchers and investment in long-term water infrastructure is essential to the future growth of the agriculture industry . He said supporting the sector will assist the Government in creating  jobs, while growing the economy, urging the  relevant authority to commit itself to working with farmers, ranchers and processors to ensure its continued innovation, growth and prosperity. Currently, the  most important motivation for ranching is the huge fast-food industry that has grown  across the country. The President, Federation of Agricultural Commodities Association of Nigeria (FACAN), Dr. Victor Iyam, said farming and ranching should be promoted  as staples of the nation’s  economy, saying government should support  excellence in food safety and sustainability and lay the foundation for the nation to  an emerging centre for all aspects of agribusiness. He said the government must support innovations around crop sciences and livestock to  create business opportunities, adding that agribusiness is a key sector that supports growth and diversification. Iyama commended Emefiele  for  his support through  the ABP to make the nation’s agriculture and food system a key driver of the country’s economic growth, saying  the gesture will help  the sector grow trade, advance innovation, while maintaining and strengthening public confidence in the food system, and increase its diversity. He commended the CBN’s  policy   of providing loans for those who want to go into the cattle business, underscoring the readiness of  FACAN  to work with the CBN to develop a partnership  that will benefit a wide range of stakeholders, including producers, processors, indigenous communities, women, youth, and small and emerging sectors to focus on the issues that matter most to them. He said  farmers are interested  in partnership  that deliver programmess that help them grow their businesses through research, marketing and operational support, and protect their livelihoods through risk management programmes. Loans for ranching The CBN boss has assured that the bank was ready to provide loans for those who want to go into the cattle business. He told milk importers that the bank was ready to advence credit to them whenever they were ready for backward integration. He said: “By the time we restrict you, if you need a loan to acquire land we’ll give you. If you need a loan to grow your grass, we will give you. To produce water, we will give you a loan. But that you will continue to import milk into the country, I think we are getting to the end of the road. I will repeat, we are really getting to the end of the road,“stressing that the nation could no longer continue to spend between $1.2-$1.5 on milk importation, annually. He said that the nation has the capacity to produce its milk requirements and that the CBN was ready to give loans to those interested in ranching and other businesses in the livestock value chain farm produce in the country. The CBN chief said prior to introduction of the ABP, allocation of foreign exchange to the importation of items such as rice, wheat, milk, tomato, fish, cotton and fertilizer among others, had contributed greatly to the depletion of the nation’s foreign reserves, especially in the face of low oil revenue resulting from falling oil prices. The apex bank had set aside a portion of the N220billion Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund to finance agricultural projects at a single-digit interest rate of nine per cent. Chiefly among the aims was to create economic linkages between over 600,000 smallholder farmers and reputable large-scale processors with a view to increasing agricultural output and significantly improving capacity utilization of integrated mills. Noticeably, the gap between the levels of local rice production and domestic consumption has been reduced within a space of three years.