Political stakeholders in Mainland/Yaba Local Government Areas have expressed faith in All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr Tunji Bello. They said they trusted the trio to improve the political and socio-economic fortunes of the area, the state and by extension the country. The first 100 days of Governor Sanwo-Olu, they added, were “a successful take-off with considerable promise to lift Lagos State to hitherto unattained heights.” They praised Asiwaju Tinubu for the “tenacity with which he champions the cause of progressive change in every sphere of national endeavors, across the nation and Lagos State in particular.” The stakeholders stated this at a special prayer and thanksgiving ceremony for Sanwo-Olu, Tinubu and Bello, hosted and organised by Leader Mainland Independent Group, Alhaji Ibrahim Megida. One of the stakeholders, Hon Adedayo Macaulay, said: “We are indeed grateful for Hon Tunji Bello’s appointment, because apart from his proven competence, Hon Bello has continued to empower lots of Mainlanders right from his first tenure as commissioner and even up till now. He has never been tired in his effort at making Mainland and its people better”. Others, who praised Bello “for his immense developmental strides”, include Hon Abiodun Folajimi, Hon Tokunbo Wright, Hon Segun Davies and Revered Gloria Aina. Bello’s Special Assistant, Hon Ibrahim Alao Megida, described him as “a special gift to Mainland and its people, in view of his enormous role in the development of the local government area and its people through his several empowerment programmes from which several lots of people have benefitted.” Others at the event included Hon Olanrewaju Osun, representing Mainland I Constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon Bola Aileru, Vice-Chairman Yaba Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Dr. Tokunbo Oluwole, Alhaji Jubril Emilagba, Vice-Chairman, Mainland LGA, Alhaji Raheem Ibrahim, Chairman L.G.A. Yaba. They expressed gratitude to the trio Another participant, Chief Imam Qasim M.O. Lawal led a team of 10 chief Imams and Alfas to the event which took place at the Remi Tinubu Hall, Yaba L.C.D.A. Lawal described Bello as “a God-fearing young man who will enjoy special blessings which Allah has reserved for those who are special to him.