As the closure of borders enters the second week, traders, shoppers and other stakeholders recount their ordeals. Stakeholders are, however, confident of good tidings when the exercise is over, JANE CHIJIOKE reports. Her forlorn looks say it all. With barely a week to school resumption in Lagos State, Mrs. Stella Chukwu, a mother of four, is unhappy. For over one week, she has been unable to stock her shop at the Iddo market with rice. Mrs Chukwu, a trader in local and foreign rice, has been dealt a blow with the restriction of movement across the country’s borders with her neighbours – Benin Republic, Chad Republic, Cameroon, among others. The restriction, code named “Exercise Swift Response”, a joint border patrol by the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), and the Armed Forces, aimed at ensuring security of the country, has  affected trade between Nigeria and her neighbours. Before the closure, Mrs Chukwu  got supplies of foreign rice with little or no capital. She paid back after selling the commodity. Her involvement in foreign rice sales is to augment the small quantity of local rice she sells.  But since the partial closure of the border, she barely has goods to sell. With her trade in doldrums, she has remained concerned about her children’s chances of returning to school due to lack of finance. With the borders shut against trade, primary distributors of rice have resorted to the cash and-carry, jettisoning the previous arrangement of selling on credit. “Before the closure of the border, Nigerian rice was sold at between N12, 000 and N13,500. I was able to buy 10 bags of Nigerian Rice; now that it has increased to N14,500, how many can I  buy because I don’t have the funds? Some of us here get this foreign rice on credit and pay after selling. That way, we are able to stock up our shops which also attract customers,” Mrs Chukwu explained. Now, with barely five bags of local rice and four gallons of 25kg groundnut oil in her shop, she fears the unknown. Indeed, the soaring prices of the local and foreign rice have been a devastating reality  for some sellers.  The ripple effect of the closure, this reporter observed, has been unbearable. They complained of hike cost of the goods, paucity of funds and no affordable credit facility to boost their trade. Customs smile The above captures the mood of most traders and shoppers across the several markets visited in Lagos earlier in the week. Many traders have continued to rue the pains the continued closure of the borders is taking on market activities. For instance, last Monday, the Seme Customs Command of the NCS said its revenue in the last two weeks has increased by over N40 million, coming from seizures recorded in the ongoing exercise. The command said its officers seized 269 baskets of fresh tomatoes, fresh pepper and sacks of cucumber and 16 baskets of fresh okro, all perishable products with DPV of N367,471,  imported from the Benin Republic. Also seized were 875×50 bags of foreign parboiled rice with Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N15,023,750; 12×25 litres of vegetable oil with DPV of N131,625.90; 6x50kg of refined sugar with DPV of N147,640.50; 535 bales of used clothes with DPV of N17,259,769; 20 parcels of cannabis Sativa with street value of N516,180; 16 sacks of used shoes, belt and ladies bag with DPV of N541,989; 57 pieces of textile wrappers with DPV of N367,778; 65 cartons of poultry products with DPV of N948,333.75; 137×25 litre jerry cans of Petrol with DPV of N287,700; 16 buckets of car paint with DPV of N144,530.40; 11 cartons of galvanised nails with DPV of N99,364.65; 2,566 pieces of currency (in coins) and other foreign currencies; seven cartons of condensed milk with DPV of N78,534.75; four cartons of spaghetti noodles with DPV of N15,678.97; two cartons of tin tomato with DPV of N14,589; and two sacks of coconuts with DPV of N38,714. Others include four cartons of body cream, One bag of detergent soap with DPV of N58,913; 20 pieces of sandpaper with DPV of N12,778.50; four television sets; two pieces of television stands with DPV of N187,115.25; four cartons of fuel filter with DPV of N11,669; one carton of motor spare parts with DPV of N134,631; and one piece of gas burner with DPV of N2,137. RIFAN gains? For local rice growers, stakeholders were convinced that this period provides them the opportunity to increase their output and convince the world that they could meet, if not surpass, the local rice demands. And the association seem to be ready. Obviously in support of the initiative, the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) said that over one million metric tons of rice worth $400 million (N145 billion) was smuggled into  the country since the beginning of the year. The body views this as detrimental to local industry. RIFAN National Chairman Mr. Mohammed Abubakar said when the partial closure of the borders was viewed either from the trade or security point, the action being coordinated by military and paramilitary forces was commendable. He accused neighbouring countries and some multinational companies of conniving to sabotage food security and economic prospects of Nigeria with smuggling through Benin Republic. “Only Nigerians eat parboiled in West Africa as others, including Beninois, eat white rice. And so, any parboiled rice imported into Benin Republic is only on transit to Nigeria,” he said. Abubakar expressed the delight of members that mills that were producing below installed capacity have started revving up production. “Rice paddy that have been lying idle in stores are being milled because distributors are increasing their demand. We are also assuring Nigerians that we, and other rice producers, have the capacity to fill the loophole that absence of smuggled rice would create. “We have also committed ourselves in writing to government that we will not take advantage of the situation to increase prices. A bag of 50 kilogramme rice will sell for a minimum of N13,300 and maximum of N14,000,” he stated. Biting harder At a rice market in Lagos, there were scanty goods in most shops. At Iddo Rice Market, for example, some shops were locked while other shops had few goods. Also, at Daleko market, Mushin, Lagos, some shops had few goods. However, the local rice had more prominence than the foreign rice. According to Mr Yemi Olowo-Ido, at Iddo Market, the hike in the price of the rice and unavailability of the foreign rice, have put some traders out of business. He explained that traders could not access credit because of the high interest rate; as such, they could only buy few goods. His words: “Traders don’t have goods to sell in their shops. That is why their shops are empty. They don’t have money to buy the Nigerian rice at N14, 500 per bag. How many can they buy to sell? Will you rent a shop of over N600, 000 and just have four to six bags of rice in it. They need loans, but the interest rate on collateral is quite high. They can’t afford it.Things are hard. To eat is difficult. “Commercial banks used to give us overdraft, but not anymore. To get a loan now is a task; the interest rate is a barrier. We are pleading with these rice companies and distributors to understand our plight. Let there be a win-win agreement because for now, if you don’t have money at hand, you can’t sell Nigerian rice,” he said. Corroborating him, a trader at Daleko Market, who preferred anonymity, said since the closure, some traders have been out of stock, because they can’t buy large quantities due to paucity of funds and no business agreement with rice dealers that favour them. “We barely make a profit of between N200 and N400. For some of us, who sell foreign rice, most times we collect the goods and pay them back after sales. We do not enjoy local rice dealers.  That is how we have been surviving in the business. Some of us cannot buy from the rice companies because they won’t sell in little quantities nor on credit.  Those who have the money, especially the distributors, buy in large quantities from them and resell to us.  The distributors, in turn, don’t sell on credit to us so we can only buy few bags,” the trader said. The Iyaloja of Daleko Rice Market,  Mrs Jumlar Solaja, explained that  as return on investment is important to business, rice millers would not engage in such informal trade of leasing out their goods on credit as they have invested  a lot in  processing  the rice, including buying of rice paddy. She urged rice vendors to apply for loans in banks and also take advantage of the Rice Distributors loans, which has seven percent interest rate to boost their trade. As part of reasons for the hike in price of rice, she said they pay N500 as transport per bag. She said there was the need for the Federal Government to subsidise the rice paddy for the millers, adding that more rice farmers were needed.