IN a clear defiance of Inspector General IG Mohammed Adamu’s order, members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) on Tuesday trooped to the streets in Abuja and some parts of the North, for the Ashura procession. They had insisted on the procession when the IG warned that any member of the group caught participating in the procession would be treated as a terrorist because the IMN under whose banner they were organising the protest is an outlaw. Members of the sect took to the streets in Abuja and in major cities to mark the Ashura Day. They held procession in Abuja, Kaduna, Katsina, Jalingo, Potiskum, among other places. They clashed with security operatives. The IMN leadership claimed that 15 of their members died during clashes with security operatives, with many others arrested. There was no independent confirmation because the police did not confirm deaths.. A spokesman of the group in Katsina, Dr Abdulkarim Usman, Abdulmumin told The Nation on telephone that the procession started at about 7.30 am and ended abruptly by 8.30am when police fired teargas and shot indiscriminately into the air to disperse IMN followers. Abdulmumin said scores sustained injured and many arrested. He said: “We divided ourselves into groups and peacefully, we were marching through the street around Kofar Marusa area of Katsina when the police intercepted our procession and many of our members were either arrested or injured in the ensuing fracas.” Leader of the movement in the state, Malam Yakubu Yahaya, told reporters that Nigerians should understand IMN and its orientation He said: “We are almajiris under Sheik Ibraheem El-Zakzaky; he was born in Katsina; our organisation is for the progress and growth of the religion worldwide, this procession is a yearly activity’’ “The organisation is not an association but an ideological movement for the common people, but the government does not want to understand us.” Katsina police spokesman Gambo Isah, a Superintendent of Police (SP) said the group remained banned. The IMN members clashed also with the police in Bakin Ruwa area of the Nnamdi Azikwe Expressway, bypass of Kaduna State capital. The Nation learnt that the Shiites planned to hit the streets as early as 6:00am to beat the security agents. They were outsmarted by the police who relied on intelligence report and arrived early enough to disperse the gathering. The IMN members claimed that three of their members were killed in the process and that 12 others were killed in similar circumstances in Gombe, Bauchi and Sokoto states. A statement by IMN spokesman Ibrahim Musa said: “In Bauchi, reports also have it that three people were killed during the Ashura procession when the police attacked the mourners. Likewise three other people were killed by the police in Azare, also in Bauchi state. “Three other people were killed by the police in Gombe, Gombe State. One person was reportedly killed by the police in Illela during the Ashura procession there, and another person was killed in Goronyo all in Sokoto state. “In Malumfashi, Katsina State, another person was killed. In Katsina town, however, several people sustained bullet wounds when the police opened fire on the mourners, not only during the mourning procession, but afterwards as the well-armed policemen attempted to forcibly make their way into the Islamic Centre of the Movement. “These casualty figures may however rise due to the fatal gunshot wounds sustained by some of the peaceful mourners. “This year’s Ashura procession was held in all the state capitals of the North and Abuja. It ended peacefully in Abuja, Jos, Kebbi, Minna, Lafia, Yola, Gusau, Zaria, Kano, Jalingo, Damaturu, Hadejia and Potiskum. “That the mourning procession ended peacefully in places not attacked by the police is sufficient evidence as to who the instigators of violence are whenever we are carrying out our legitimate religious duties.” The Kaduna State Police Command said allegation of killing was false and mischievous. The Command’s spokesman, Yakubu Sabo, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) said the protesters were dispersed professionally, and that no one was killed. Sabo said: “We had warned the IMN protesters proactively against their planned protest; one, for the fact that they have been proscribed, and second, Kaduna State government has placed a ban on all forms of procession, not only on the IMN. So, we warned them not to come out, but they defied that warning. “So, this morning, we received information, and our men had to go and disperse them. But, they dispersed them professionally. Police did not shoot anybody. “But, maybe in furtherance of their plan, they decided to make this claim, which has been their tradition; anytime they came out, they always make claims of casualties. So, we are not surprised that, they are making such claim again.” In Kano, the sect members stayed indoors contrary to their earlier pledge to embark on street in the state capital. Sources said that a few of their members were seen at Kurna Asabe Quarters, but when they sighted policemen they ran away. The Kurna Asabe quarters in Dala Local Government Area of the state, is reputed as one of the strongholds of the IMN. But it was all quiet there yesterday due to the presence of security personnel. “We came out as early as 6am and finished out activities within few minutes to avoid casualties”, a member of the IMN told the The Nation. The commissioner of Police in Kano, Mr. Ahmed Ilyasu told said there was no procession by Shiite members in Kano. According to him, both the soldier and policeman were deployed to strategic positions in the state to wade off any attempt by the Shiite to stage a procession.as such no procession also took place in the 44 Local Government Areas in the state. There was confusion in Abuja over whether IMN members held their much-talked procession in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Some said that members of the group were not sighted on the streets of Abuja; others said the mourning procession took place early in the morning. Musa said the procession started in Wuse Market by 8am and ended around Berger at 8:30am, saying that the procession was peaceful and well-organised. Unlike some other states, Abuja was calm, with people going about their normal businesses without fear. Security operatives, especially the police were also sighted in major areas in FCT. They were heavily armed and apparently ready to forestall any breakdown of law and order. Initially, residents of Abuja were afraid that the procession could result into violence, but they were surprised that no such thing occurred. The police were more on ground around the Federal Secretariat. No fewer than 28 IMN members were allegedly arrested in Bauchi. In a video obtained by The Nation, several Shiites members were seen around the central market in Bauchi, near the Emir of Bauchi Palace, chanting as they carry on with their procession defying police orders. The procession was said to have occurred about 10am on Tuesday at the Central Market Roundabout and Tashan Babiye area of Bauchi, the state capital. Police spokesman Abubakar  Datti Kamal, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) confirmed the arrest of the 28 Shiite members. According to Abubakar, the IMN members embarked on a procession despite warnings from the police command not to do so. He said that traditional rulers in the state were engaged as intermediary to prevail on sect members to stop the planned procession but to no avail. There was a peaceful procession in Potiskum, Yobe State. Apart from Kaduna, Potiskum is another Shiite stronghold in the North. The Potiskum procession was led by Malam Ibrahim Lawan. It started at Misau Road, Yaro Damboa junction,  through other streets in Potiskum and terminated at Ari-Kime junction. A huge crowd of followers including women and children were sighted during the procession which was carried out without any breach of law and order. The sect’s spokesman in Potiskum, Ibraheem El-Tafseer, said the Ashura procession was successful in the state. Yobe police spokesman Abdulmalik Abdulhafiz an (ASP) said all the Police Area Commands ensured peace in the state. In Taraba, members of the banned pro-Iranian Shia Muslim group said the Federal Government has no constitutional rights to proscribe their organisation. Their spokesman Nasiru Husseini spoke during the Asurah procession in Jalingo, the state capital. The demonstrators, made up of men, women and little children and numbering more than 500, were decked in all-black regalia, waving red flags. A police van was seen parked near the demonstrators, but it left shortly afterwards. And no other security personnel accompanied them. The protesters marched through the popular Hammaruwa Street to the Palace Way, down to Jalingo Market, asking the government to free their 66-year-old leader (El-Zakzaky). “Free Zakzaky; he has done no wrong,” they chanted as they marched through the streets.