The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello, are to co-chair a 39 -member Central Steering Committee to reposition the Adamawa state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and rebuild it into a winning party. The immediate past governor of the state, Mohammed Jibrilla Bindow will also sit on the committee which has one of his major opponents in the last governorship election and former EFCC Chairman, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu as member, alongside former Director General of the National Boundary Commission, Dahiru Bobbo, Sen. Jonathan Silas Zwingina, Sen. Ahmed Hassan Barata, among many others. Alhaji Abdulrahman Adamu is to serve as the main Chairman of the Committee expected to work hand in hand with the National Working Committee of the party in addressing the grievances within the party that saw it losing the governorship election in the state to the PDP. The APC in Adamawa state was divided into several camps during the last general election with groups loyal to the Wife of the President and her brother and those loyal to the former SGF, Babachir Lawal and Mallam Nuhu Ribadu working against former Governor Bindow. According to a document to newsmen in Abuja, the committee is charged with the responsibility of reconciling all aggrieved aspirants /candidates that vied for positions during the 2019 general election. The committee is also charged with the task of developing programme of action to reposition and strengthen APC in Adamawa, as well as propose modalities that ensure free and fair primaries ahead of the coming local government election and future elections in the state. The committee is also expected “to propose ways and means of raising funds for running the affairs of the party in Adamawa state, to develop an effective media and public enlightenment programme for repositioning the party to its winning ways in the state. “To co-ordinate and support the various election petitions by the party at various tribunals and courts and carry out any other functions as may be directed by the National Work Committee of the APC.”