ECONOMIC and financial experts have called for a reexamination of monetary policies of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in order to ensure that they align with the overall national economic growth objectives and the ease of doing business agenda of the government. Experts identified regulatory risks that manifest in contradictory fiscal and monetary policies and policy somersaults as major risks of doing business in Nigeria and major setbacks for the government’s ease of doing business programme. At a business forum in Lagos, experts called on fiscal and monetary authorities to embrace an inclusive consultative policymaking approach in order to ensure realisation of policy objectives and to avoid unintended negative consequences. The forum tagged Regulatory Conversations 4.0 was organised by the Convention on Business Integrity (CBi) in collaboration with Action Aid UK, Proshare Nigeria, Businessday, Nigeria Economic Summit Group, NESG and Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI). The Regulatory Conversations 4.0 particularly focused on ‘Foreign Exchange Restrictions on Food Imports and Implications for Regulating and Growing the Nigerian Economy’. Experts called on the apex bank to revisit its foreign exchange (forex) restriction policies on food imports. They noted that sustainable economic development depends on equally sustainable strategies that not only enhance the operating environment but take into consideration the current and future need of the economy. Chief Executive Officer, Convention on Business Integrity (CBi), Olusoji Apampa said Nigeria needs to consider a new value-proposition approach in the formulation and implementation of its monetary and fiscal policies. Apampa said the forex restrictions on milk imports could have more negative consequences than positive impact. He said the monetary policies by the apex bank, especially forex policies, must be comprehensively reviewed in line with the overall growth and development objectives of the country rather than sectional interests. According to him, in order for policies to serve the public interest, they must be coordinated and mutually supporting, applied fairly to all, targeted properly at solving problems in ways that minimize unintended consequences, communicated in an open and honest way and flexible enough to keep up with the pace of needs of the industries and the overall development of the nation. He pointed out that what the country needs now is a government that catalyses change through its policy directives around holistic development of the economy. “What we need is to produce a business environment that allows growth and profits whilst channelling the might of business to solving social impacts at scale and not by orders and manipulations of the CBN to take on unsustainable business practices,” Apampa said. Chairman, Proshare Nigeria, Mr Olufemi Awoyemi, called for an incentive-based policy approach not a restriction-based pattern to engender sustainable economic growth. Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Muda Yusuf noted the need for a fundamental review of the national economy, emphasizing the need for effective engagement between the CBN and other key players in the Diary industry. He cited the example of the backward integration in the cement industry as an example of how stakeholder engagement helped to shape the policy on domestic production in the country. “The emphasis should be on enriching the forex policy, building domestic capacity and addressing the structure of the policy,” Yusuf said. 