Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara state has issued strong warning to the constructor handling the proposed Ruga project to ensure that all building materials are purchased locally within the state unless they are not available. Similarly, the governor stressed that hundred percent of the labour force must be sourced from within the state. Matawalle issued the directive on weekend while watching a video presentation of the  comprehensive master plan for the new Ruga project designed  by the consultant, Mr. Emmanuel Ozigi in Gusau. The foundation of the project which is schedule to be laid this Tuesday will be located in the three senatorial districts of the state. The project will be jointly funded by the state government and the 14 local government councils of the state. Matawalle reiterated that the instruction to source labour force from the state is aimed at reducing poverty level and to motivate economic activities in the state. According to him, the Ruga project will showcase to the world that the peace process embarked upon by his administration is succeeding and to also prove to both foreign and  domestic prospective investors that a favourable climate for them in now guaranteed for attractive ventures in the state. He observes that the Ruga project will not only be beneficial to the Fulanis but will directly have positive bearing on all citizens of the state as the derivable benefits are enormous as way of boosting the economy. The governor who gave the assurance that  already the required funds for the scheme had already been earmarked and set aside, further explaained that after the pilot scheme which would commence on Tuesday, the federal government would come up with its own Ruga settlement programme in the state. In a speech during the presentation of the master plan, the  project consultant Mr. Emmanuel Ozigi said the components of the project would include facilities like access roads, landscaping, grazing reserves, primary and secondary schools. Also included in the components are Islamiyya schools, Mosques, hospitals, veterinaries, abatoir, social centers, dams and cemeteries . . 