Innoson Group of Companies Nigeria Limited has said it enjoys huge patronage and support from the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. The group’s Chairman, Chief Innocent Chukwuma, stated this yesterday in Nnewi, Anambra State, when he addressed reporters. He also listed Enugu, Ebonyi, Ekiti, Imo, Kogi, Anambra, Gombe, and Bauchi states as well as the Nigerian military among those patronising vehicles from Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing (IVM). The company chief said Innoson could transform Nigeria into a vehicle manufacturing destination in Africa, if it gets more patronage. He assured the nation that his factory has the capacity to manufacture all brands of vehicle, adding that he hoped to expand soonest. Chukwuma said: “I can say that Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing is doing well, especially with the level of patronage and support the company is enjoying under the present Federal Government. “I must equally say that some state governments, like Ekiti, Imo, Enugu, Ebonyi, Kogi, Gombe, Anambra and Bauchi, are giving us a great boost. “As at today, Innoson vehicles are being used in some West African countries, like Mali, Sierra Leone and Ghana, and some Nigerians residing abroad return home to purchase our vehicles.” According to him, Innoson Group of Companies produces motorcycle tyres, plastic containers, ceramic and vehicles. The frontline businessman said the company  has employed between 7,300 and 7,500 workers. “With more support and patronage from Nigeria, we hope to expand our vehicle manufacturing firm to help provide more employment to our youths,” he said. On the performance of youths from Niger Delta, who his company trained under the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Chukwuma said most of them had continued to bring their talents to bear towards the growth and development of the company. “Some of the youths in the Niger Delta, who we trained, are very talented. After their training, we retained some of them and they are part of the success story of Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing today,” he said. On the recent report alleging that an Anambra State lawmakers rejected Toyota Prado Jeep and demanded for Innoson products, Chukwuma denied knowledge of the report. He said anybody, including the lawmakers, were free to buy any brand of vehicle of their choice. The company chief said he enjoyed warm relationship with Governor Willie Obiano and members of his administration. He expressed the willingness to leverage on the relationship to impact positively on the state. “As we speak, the Anambra State government has ordered for 40 vehicles which they fully paid for and we hope to deliver them to the state by next week,” Chukwuma said.