The two leading African nations, and perhaps her hope for economic renaissance, Nigeria and South Africa, are in a fight to finish. Unless they come to their senses, their old colonial masters and other international hegemonic agencies may egg them on, knowing that a destabilized Africa would be more easily exploited. Whether we talk of hegemony from the East or West, disunity between the two leading nations of the continent would expose black Africa to greater danger. The African promoters of the new Continental Free Trade States, who just got Nigeria on board, after much exertions would be wandering whether their efforts would pay. Unless reason prevails, if Nigeria and South Africa goes into an overdrive in the ongoing tango, the relatively significant inter-African economic activities between the two nations may become extinct. While Nigerian should not condone the abuse of her citizens, the two countries must stop the tit-for-tat, in the interest of Africa. The government of Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa, must behave like a state authority, by calling on their law enforcement agencies to stop forthwith the xenophobic attack on Nigerians, and other Africans in their country, which triggered the crisis. They should learn few lessons from the West African experience. In the 1960s, Ghanaians chased Nigerians from their country, and in the 1980s, it was the turn of Nigeria to ask Ghanaians to go. Now Ghanaians are itching for a rematch, as Nigerians in that country are complaining of excruciating conditions handed to them by their hosts. In the West African debacle, the usual root cause of hate and xenophobic attacks is dwindling economic opportunities for the locals, after the initial boom that attracted large immigrants. So, while the people may be held responsible for the actual attacks, it is state officials who are responsible for the economic boom and bust, which cause the street wars. In South Africa, the natives have not gained the promised benefits of independence and they are visiting their frustrations on the immigrants. Clearly, the South Africa economy is contracting, and while foreigners may be the first line losers, unless there is a reversal, the entire country would eventually boil. The solution lies in increasing economic activities for the citizens and every legitimate resident. Instead of resorting to xenophobic attacks, which some misguided security personnel appear to be supporting, the country should tighten its immigration laws and general law enforcement. Agreed, some Nigerians have become nuisance in that country, such is not enough to tar every immigrant in the country. Instead of becoming international law breakers, threatening and maiming citizens of other countries living in their country, South African security agencies should deal with immigrants engaged in criminal activities. And as long as the law allow, deport such recalcitrant criminals to their home country. Clearly, the responsibility of ensuring that every person engaged in illegal activities face the law lies with the security agencies, not other law abiding immigrants. The world acclaimed oldest political party in Africa, the African National Congress (ANC) must realise that it is not living up to the high expectations of her citizens, especially the blacks who hoped for better life after the end of apartheid. Part of the challenge is corruption within the ranks of government officials. As Lew Kuan Yew, said in his book: From Third World to First: “It is easy to start off with high moral standards, strong conviction, and determination to beat down corruption. But it is difficult to live up to these good intentions unless the leaders are strong and determined enough to deal with transgressors, and without exceptions.” The Nigerian government has been more effective in controlling her enraged citizens. Interestingly, South Africa may be taking away from Nigeria, more than Nigeria is taking away from that country, because of South Africans’ high-end investments in Nigeria. But on the social level, South Africa has provided a haven for the teeming Nigerians looking for better economic opportunities. So, while the large corporations are making huge profits from Nigeria, selling to her about 200 million population, thousands of Nigeria migrate to South Africa daily to start small scale businesses. In a war without end, thousands of Nigerians, many of who have failed in their economic mission, and a large number of who engage in illegal businesses may be up for evacuation, to the embarrassment of Nigeria. On its part, South Africa would suffer huge financial losses, should Nigeria nationalize the huge corporations operating in her country. Again, because South African nationals are not in Nigeria in their numbers, the country can better manage the image-fallout of the ongoing crisis, unlike their compatriots. But regardless of who may have the upper hand eventually, it pays the two countries and the rest of Africa to quench the fire. In his book: Long Walk To Freedom, the immortal Nelson Mandela described an incident concerning the Soweto uprising while he was at the Robben Island prisons. The young men who took part in the uprising were jailed and some of them were brought to the prisons were Mandela was. According to the narrative, one Patrick ‘Terror’ Lekota, then a member of the South African Students’ Organization was attacked by his compatriots when he switched over to the African National Congress. A trial was set up in the prisons for his compatriots who attacked him, but the ANC encouraged him not to formally lunch a complaint or give evidence against them, because such will favour the apartheid regime, who wants division within the struggle. In the words of Mandela: “I wanted these young men to see that ANC was a great tent that could accommodate many different views and afflictions.” When South Africa needed the support of Nigeria and other southern African states, they got it. Indeed, Nigeria was reputed as a frontline state, and contributed immensely to the success of the struggle to free South Africa from the firm grip of the white supremacists, who entrenched the apartheid regime. It is most unfair not to remember the sacrifices made by Nigeria and other frontline states. Many top South African politicians studied in Nigeria under Nigerian government scholarship. Many others lived in Nigeria, and Nigeria expended so much and lost so much fighting to liberate the country from the shackles of apartheid. Nigeria went as far as nationalising the assets of Britain, her former colonial master to force the European power to renounce her support for the apartheid government. In the final analysis, while we must all condemn the xenophobic attacks, the permanent solution lies with making Nigeria and the other concerned states, viable economic entities, so that the citizens of those countries will stay in their country and earn descent living.