Oluwakemi Ayoola, an alumna of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), undergoing her Ph.D programme in Primate Genomic Conservation and Evolution at the Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Science (CAS), has won the prestigious 2019 China Excellent International Students award. She is the only African female student with a distinction in a pool of 40 international students who won the award organised by CAS. Every year, some  international students adjudged to be outstanding in learning and character, who are  studying sciences in all China Provinces, under the aegis of the University of Chinese Academy of Science (UCAS)  are nominated by CAS institutes across the country based on their performances and academic achievements. The best of the lot are thereafter declared as winners of the Excellent International Students Award. According to the organisers, to win the award, international students must demonstrate clear purpose of learning, diligent study and consistent excellent academic performances. Other criteria include adherence to Chinese and school’s laws and regulations, respect for professors, care of public property, attention to sanitation and being good role models through active participation in school activities. The award is held yearly by China to encourage international students to study hard and also create in UCAS a brand for the training of international talents. Ayoola earned a second class upper in Tech- Ecotourism and Wildlife management from FUTA in 2014; and a Masters in Agricultural Technology with a Distinction in 2017. She served in FUTA as a teaching Assistant in the Department of Ecotourism and Wildlife Management Department between 2015 and 2017 during which she won the CAS-TWAS Ph.D. President Fellowship in 2017 to Study Primate Conservation Genomics and Evolution in China. Congratulating  Ayoola, FUTA Vice Chancellor, Prof Joseph Fuwape, said she had joined a growing list of FUTA alumni doing the university and the country proud on the global stage.