The Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron, Akwa Ibom State was established in 1979 to train shipboard officers, ratings and shore-based management personnel. After initial high performance, the Academy slumped into decadence. However, the tide is changing, reports MUYIWA LUCAS Ismail Aniemu, a maritime stakeholder of over 18 years, expressed surprise when he entered the Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, Akwa Ibom State last week. His last visit was six months ago.  Since then, things have changed in the institution. Aniemu, the publisher of Journalngonline.com, a publication with bias for maritime industry, said: “I cannot believe what I am seeing. I hope I have not missed my way.” Indeed, the story of MAN, Oron elicits much more reaction given its sorry state until three years ago. For instance, in May 2009 the academy was criticised by the Director of Lagos Channel Management. He said the  Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) had found that the academy did not meet international standards. He listed the challenges to include lack of teaching facilities to handle the number of students, and unavailability of seafaring vessels on which students could complete their mandatory one-year sea term. Students seeking proper training had to attend the Regional Maritime University in Accra, Ghana. Captain Thomas Kemewerighe, a graduate of the academy, said Nigeria does not have people qualified to provide proper training. He said most of the graduates ended up as “okada riders”. Same year, the government announced that a project launched by the Federal Ministry of Transport, the Nigerian Seafarers Development Programme, would send a first batch of 27 students to the Academy of Maritime Education and Training in India to study for a Bachelor in Science and Bachelor in Engineering  in marine-related subjects. Sadly, MAN Oron was not considered for this programme by the Indian institution. In August 2009, three human rights groups petitioned President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua to investigate alleged cases of corruption and financial malpractices at the academy. They claimed that 43 students had died in avoidable circumstances in the past year. Determined to abate this scourge of disappointments and place the institution in the right stead, the government, after a thorough study  by an  Interim Management Committee (IMC) in 2017 of the Academy, came up with recommendations aimed at  restructuring and repositioning of the institution.  Subsequently, Commodore Emmanuel Effedua (retd) was appointed Rector of the institution. “The IMC, in its report, said the bane of the Academy, among others, was its poor academic environment, numerous abandoned projects and poor application of resources that they got from the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). So, to get what we are looking for, we have to reverse those three identified anomalies. We have been able to complete those projects that have been abandoned. Now, I am correct on the appointment of Commodore Effedua as Rector of this school whose work has shown that his appointment is was done in the best interest of Nigerians,”  Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, said on May 6, this year, when he visited the school. He added that his decision to visit the institution was motivated by the rapid transformation that the new Management has brought to the 41-year-old institution. The changing fortune In the 18 months that Effedua has been in control, stakeholders agreed that he had impacted significantly on the institution beyond what successive administrations achieved in the last three decades. For instance, before now, the academy had suffered fallen academic standards with competent lecturers seeking jobs with oil firms and other government agencies. Now, efforts are said to be in top gear to increase the academy’s training curriculum in line with the Manilla Convention (Standards of Training, Certification and Watch-keeping, STCW). There was also the issue of bloated cadet’s enrolment that stretched the training manpower and facilities beyond their limits. This led to infrastructural decay with little or no attention paid to maintenance. Deplorable hostel facilities with crowded rooms not good for students’ habitation formed part of the inherited challenges begging for intervention. As many as 18 students stayed in rooms meant for four. Today, hostels and better accommodation are ready for students to occupy, following Amaechi’s order for improved hostel habitation of two students per room, starting from 2020. Indeed, a great deal of infrastruc-tural improvement, human capital overhaul, improved teaching and learning backed with technological aids and unprecedented degree of discipline now pervades the institution. As part of the drive to address infrastructural challenges and provide conducive accommodation for cadets and staff, the academy under this dispensation, has completed and inaugurated several abandoned project. A nautical science building that was abandoned for close to  15 years at foundation level has been completed and ready for use. What looked like a makeshift library being used with outdated literatures has been rebuilt with up to date reading materials in addition to high quality free books given to cadets. A modern lecturers briefing room and state-of-the-art lecture theatres fitted with teaching and learning aids have been put in place. Transportation and power system within the academy have also been boosted. The academy acquired one unit of 650KVA generator and two units of 250 KVA generator. These are, in addition to solar lightings, provided to illuminate the academy at night. The future is now Though his feats were louder than his voice, Effedua, in a chat with reporters, seems not done as he reeled out more milestones to be attained soonest in the four decades old institution. At a briefing, Effedua expressed readiness to produce ICT savvy, studious and up to standard graduates to meet industry and international standards. This is why cadets intake was reduced from 1, 800 to 256 for the 2018/19 academic session. Now, cadets are enjoying free mandatory courses with new Onboard Seatime training for National Diploma cadets. Also, under this dispensation, cadets are insured and nautical science students are being enrolled as members of Nautical Institute, United Kingdom while marine engineering students are also members of Institute of Marine Engineering, Science and Technology (IMAREST), UK. The enrolment is a further boost to their professional certification. On his watch, the academy went through some major reforms including financial audit, restructuring of departments and directorates, establishment of Directorate of Logistics, creation of course rules for lecturers and introduction of additional short courses. Other reforms include checking incidence of fake certificates with printing of new ones carrying security features thereby making them difficult to forge, improved capacity building agenda for staff and outsourcing cadets feeding to more qualified and competent catering outfits to achieve nutrition and hygiene. Improved funding Effedua added that the academy’s funding has improved in his administration. He described funds released from NIMASA as very commendable under its Director-General, Dr. Dakuku Peterside. In line with subsection 2B under Section 16 of the NIMASA Act, not less than five percent of collections made by agency is to be set aside for the academy as part of its statutory funding. According to him, paperwork sometimes delay release of the funds and the academy ends up not getting four-quarter collections  as expected yearly. This process has enabled the academy to January and September 2019, trained over 3000 students from International Oil Companies (IOCs), including Mobil. Such trainings given to IOC’s, has greatly improved MAN’s internally generated revenue (IGR). “We need more funding but we are not broke. We have saved money from our IGR with which we want to buy more simulators without any form of external financial support,” he said. Blocking leakages One early detection for the administration was the composition of its workforce. Eighty per cent of staff were from the host community contrary to Federal Character principle. Although Effedua said there were no intensions to sack them, the administration shall continue to recruit from other parts of the country to achieve some balance in future. As part of bringing solutions to chains of its problems, Effedua said: “I met a huge debt profile, which I inherited from a regime that had so much funds and I wondered why they didn’t pay. I have paid over 80 per cent of genuine claims brought  to me. I plugged revenue leakages by avoiding payment of suspected fraudulent claims, which after referring such claims to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), some of those making the claims never showed up again. In the past, funds were not properly channelled for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). It ended in private pockets and I came, determined to stop this. We don’t give money to individuals.’’ CSR He explained that the institution has provided computers to the Oron-based Methodist Secondary School. What we did for them is standard and you may not see it in any university around. “This year, we bought 100 Joint Admission and Matriculation Boards(JAMB) forms for indigent students. We are going to buy for 200 students next year. The local hospital requests for 50 litres of diesel from pregnant women coming for delivery,” he further said. Challenges But much as the CSR is beneficial to the community, yet there are challenges from the community. “A group of trouble makers brought a casket to our gate as part of protests. They also fell big trees to block the access road into the community. In the face of this harassment, we were determined to do our work. Oron people are peaceful and accommodating only a few of them gave us challenge. The Rector summed up the feat so far achieved to the cooperation and support of his management team. He described them as wonderful and part of the academy’s success story.