Lagos State government has called for an improved sanitary attitude among Lagosians, just as it restated the need for citizens’ involvement in achieving environmental sustainability. Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) General Manager Dr Adedolapo Fasawe, while speaking at an event marking the World Clean-Up Day in Lagos, underscored the need to connect citizens to the appropriate mechanism in waste management. She added that a polluted society negatively affects the socio-economic structure of the entire residents. “It is disturbing to know that part of the waste generated in the state still end up on the streets and drainage channels causing flooding and other human made disasters capable of reducing the quality of life and negatively impact the economy” she reiterated. The LASEPA boss confirmed that the clean-up initiative with the support of Green HubAfrica which took on Saturday at Sura Shopping Complex and Kid’s Beach Garden, Elegushi, Ikate, was used to celebrate the International Coastal Clean-up Day, World Clean-up Day and Zero Emissions Day. Dr Fasawe said the collaboration between the government and GreenHubAfrica is in recognition of the crucial need for a change in the mind-set of the people on proper waste disposal etiquette. According to her, the state government has begun setting efforts in motion, to tackle the dire issues of environmental pollution with the recently launched Blue Box. The Blue Box, she said, is aimed at encouraging the separation of recyclable materials from the general waste at the point of generation. She said the Clean-Up exercise was carried out with some school pupils to get them involved in the crusade for a better environment. GreenHubAfrica Chief Executive Officer Herry Bassey said the clean-up campaign was design to raise awareness on the aftermath of abusing and neglecting the environment, as well as helping communities to live a fulfilling life. “As Green HubAfrica dives deeper into the Nigeria’s need for progression in sustainable development, the media platform has partnered with the environmental regulatory body for Lagos State, LASEPA to commence positive steps in the nations’ attitude towards environmental sustainability,’’ Bassey said. Sterling Bank Managing Director Abubakar Sulaiman expressed the hope that Lagosians would take ownership of their environment and make regular cleaning exercise a lifestyle. He also advocated waste sorting from the point of generation, saying that if wastes are managed properly, the process of evacuating such waste is always easier.