Owners of Farmcrowdy, a digital agribusiness, have launched a bus hailing company, Plentywaka, which will begin operations on Monday, 16th September with 25 brand new buses. According to the MD/CEO of FarmCrowdy, Onyeka Akumah, Plentywaka is all about using technology to affect lives. He noted that unlike other transport hailing companies, it is out to make millionaires of investors and staff, including drivers and vehicle assistants. “We are building a model to empower the drivers to become millionaires, creating jobs and are particular with the values as against just business making venture.” Drivers become bus owners after three years of driving a bus for Plentywaka on the condition that the bus is left in the impeccable state in which it was handed over to them and vehicle assistants can also own buses by investing, Akumah revealed. He noted that the organsation’s decision to veer into transport business stemmed from the huge success that Farmcrowdy enjoyed in few years of operation and the need to change the way our buses are in Lagos. “We are particular about quality, safety, efficiency, time management.” Noting that Farmcrowdy investors are also investors in Plentywaka, Akumah said: “people that invested in Farmcrowdy have been moved to a platform called Crowdyvest. “The goal was to get them to Crowdyvest so that they won’t just invest in agriculture alone, but they can see investment opportunities in Plentywaka.” Akumah revealed that Ajah-CMS/CMS-Ajah and beyond will be the pilot route of Plentywaka, from where Plentywaka would expand to other routes within Lagos even as they addto their fleet. Akumah introduced Plentywaka’s Founding team in the following order, Johnny Enagwolo, Co-Managing Director, Plentywaka, John Shaibu, VP, Customer Engagement, Afolabi Oluseyi, VP Operations. Other partners are Pastor Debo Omotunde and Pastor Godman Akinlabi. Akumah called on all stakeholders in the transport sector to work with Plentywaka to make Lagos the desired mega city, adding that Plentywaka is not in completion but seeks to partner with the Lagos state government and indeed every stakeholder in the transport sector.