POLICE have paraded a man dubbed a fake prophet who allegedly killed and buried one Christopher Anoruo on his church premises in Egwe, Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State. Also arrested were three persons who allegedly took part in the act on March 2019 . Parading the suspects at the Imo State Police headquarters, Police Public Relations Officer, Orlando Ikeokwu explained that the arrest of the suspects followed discreet investigations and hard work. The police spokesman said on March 11, 2019, the suspect and some other hoodlums, numbering three, entered the house of the deceased, robbed them of their valuables like phones, laptop and abducted the same, Hon. Christopher Anorue. “They took him out and about two poles away from his house, they assassinated him,” he said. The Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo ordered an investigation into the matter. He said through painstaking and discreet investigation, the phones of the deceased were traced to Hassan Kabiru and he was consequently arrested, adding that one Chimezie and Solomon Onyemaechi were later arrested also. Similarly, the police paraded about 13 suspected cultists, arrested on their way from an initiation in an 18-seater bus. “Our stop-and-search team on suspicion decided to search them. It was discovered that they are members of the Black Axe confraternity. A locally made pistol, wraps of Indian Hemp and live ammunition were recovered from them.” Speaking to newsmen, leader of the group, Nkwocha Chinaza explained that they had initiated 13 new members the same day. He further stated that they were students of Imo State University, Owerri and Alvan Ikoku College of Education, respectively. In another development, the Police paraded a ‘Prophet’ and other suspected killers of one Princewill Ezeji in Emii, Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State. Ikeokwu said that command received an information on a missing person, one Princewill Obinna Ezeji and swung into action leading to the arrest of the fake prophet who was later discovered to have killed Princewill “who bought a Toyota Camry car and went to his Prophet with the sum of N10,000 and some drinks, to show him the car and ask for his blessings , in appreciation of God’s favour.”  