Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has said the 2015 suspended civil service employment will be revisited in one month. He spoke in Asaba when the Executive Council of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) visited him. The governor said he had directed the head of Service and the Civil Service Commission to reopen the suspended employment and identify Deltans among those affected. According to him, a need assessment would be done in the next one month and those qualified will be recalled. He said: “We need more than the 1,000 teachers that we recently engaged so we will engage more. We are also engaging 100 Extension officers to boost our drive in agriculture which will ensure food sufficiency, and generate employment for our people. “Quality persons were engaged to teach our children. The very best were taken because, in our employment drive, we are not only looking at the qualified persons, but those who have the knowledge to teach our children in the critical areas.” The governor congratulated the NLC executive and assured them that his administration would continue to partner the organised labour to ensure a progressive state. “I am ready to stay in partnership with the NLC because you believe in partnership for results rather than agitation for results. There is a lot to be done in our state and we reassure you that we will continue to stay committed to providing infrastructure. “Workers should continue to do those things they have been doing for us to have a peaceful state and the enabling environment for investment to thrive. “Most times when you hear labour leaders speak, it is not on a friendly note, but in our state the organised labour unions are very cooperative, they offer genuine advice on how to stabilise the government. I have always said for us to succeed, the political class must work with the civil service; that is why we ensure prompt payment of their salaries and promotion as and when due. NLC Chairman Comrade Goodluck Oforbruku said the visit was to thank the governor for his support to organised labour and workers in the state. “Our dear Governor, you have made workers to become landlords in Delta State; you have provided conducive work environment and you have approved the training and retraining of workers. “Your commitment to the payment of minimum wage once the circular is released; your employment of 1,000 teachers, payment of salaries and promotion of civil servants as and at when due, among others, deserve praise,” he said.