The Imo State governorship candidate of the Action Alliance (AA), Mr Uche Nwosu, has raised the alarm over the alleged refusal of the panel of the Imo State governorship election petition tribunal to release copies of its judgment, ten days after. Chairman of the three-man panel, Justice Umar Dogondaji, in his ruling, dismissed the three petitions filed by the Action Alliance (AA), All Progressives Congress (APC) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance ( APGA), against Governor Emeka Ihedioha of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Nwosu, who spoke with journalists in Abuja on Monday, alleged that the refusal to release the judgment was a ploy to frustrate his chances to appeal the judgment, which he had since rejected. According to the embittered Nwosu, all efforts to get the judgment were frustrated by officials of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), who have been playing hide and seek with the document. “We suspect a foul play here. It has been ten days since the judgement was given, but all efforts to obtain the certified true copy of the judgement has been abortive; it’s either one funny excuse or the other. Nothing tangible to hold on to. “However, I believe these people are out to sabotage my appeal efforts. They know I have 14 days to file an appeal and they know I need this CTC of the judgement to make a successful filing. This is why I have called you out, to tell the world what these people are doing to justice”, he lamented. However, when reached on Monday for reasons for the delay in the release of the certified true copy (CTC) of the judgement, Secretary of the Imo State governorship election petition tribunal, Mr Balarabe Garuba, said copies of the judgement would be taken to Owerri on Tuesday. According to him, he had spoken to the Assistant Secretary of the tribunal, Mr Muazu Lawan, who told him he already took possession of copies of the judgement and would be taking them to those who should have them the next day. “The truth of the matter is he called me not quite ten minutes that the judgement was given to him, so he will take the next available flight back to Owerri to give the respective prospective appellants. He should be travelling tomorrow (Tuesday),” he said.