Nigeria’s movie industry,also known as Nollywood is the third largest producer of movies in the world. There is no doubt that the movie industry has created a lot of opportunities for many talented actors and actresses. Nigeria; a country with more than 160 million people already offers a huge market as well as the remaining African countries where Nollywood movies are available. There are a lot of people who have taken advantage of this huge industry to create wealth for themselves. Wealth acquisition however is something that cannot be guaranteed at any given time and the values may change from time to time, but this article focuses on the 10 wealthiest Nollywood actresses. 10.Uche Jombo- 370 Million Naira Uche Jombo who recently got married to her Mexican boyfriend is one of the most popular Nollywood actress who have been around for a long time. She is a producer and a Globacom Ambassador and have been nominated for the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress In Leading Role.
In 2012, Uche married Kenney Rodriguez whom she now have a son with. She is still very active in the industry, producing and directing movies. Her net worth is N370 million and still growing. 9.Mary Remmy-Njoku – 380 Million Naira Mary Remmy and her husband, Jason have combined together to take Nollywood business to the next level. Mary started dating Jason Njoku who is the CEO and founder of iroking in 2011. They got married on August 18, 2012, in Lagos. That union was the real turning point in Mary Remmy’s career as she is now the CEO of ROK Studios which is a film production studio based in Lagos.
Mary Remmy Njoku, She is comfortably on this list with a net worth of N380 million naira 8. Patience Ozokwor —-390 Million Naira Popularly known as MamaG, Patience Ozokwor is by far, the most popular female actress in Nigeria after Genevieve and maybe Omotola. She is also one of the most decorated, having won several awards such as: Best Supporting Actress award at the 10th Africa Movie Academy Awards, Lifetime Achievement Awards in Cinema, etc. She is one of the richest Nollywood actresses.
Patience Ozokwor has featured in more movies than any other actresses in the Nigerian Nollywood history. She is also a musician and fashion design shop owner among other businesses. She is worth N390million. 7.Clarion chukwura—400million naira
Clarion is the mother of Clarence Peters, one of the most successful video director Nigeria ever had. A son she had with Shina Peters, another popular Nigerian musician. If there is an actress in Nollywood who knows how to interpret her roles exactly the way it should be, that actress is Clarion Chukwura. 6. INI EDO – 450 Million Naira  One of the $exiest actresses in the Nigerian Nollywood and one of the top five richest Nollywood actresses. She has featured in well over 200 movies (one of the highest in the industry) and won awards. She is a winner of the 2013 Nafca award for best supporting actress.
Ini Edo currently being rated as sixth richest Nollywood actress
Late last year, she bought a mansion in Lekki area worth over N50 million and a Mercedes G-Wagon worth N30 million naira. These has brought her fame and fortune that put her net worth at N450 million.  5. Funke Akindele – 510 Million Naira Olufunke Ayotunde Akindele (Jenifer) is one of the most popular actress of Yoruba decent. In 2009 she won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role following her role following her role in Jenifer. This category is regarded as the highest for actresses in Nigeria.
Funke is a actress to reckon with in Nollywood ,one of the highest paid and the most entertaining actress in the industry. It is therefore not surprising that Funke Akindele net worth is put at N510 million. 4.Omotola Jalaede Ekehinde- 550 Million Naira Popularly known as omosexy, she has made an indelible mark in the Nollywood industry.
In 2005, she won the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) Best Actress in a Supporting Role, plus hosts of other awards and recognitions. She has a massive social media followership with more than a million followers on Facebook.She has a net worth of N550 million. 3.Mercy Johnson—-  600 Million Naira The bold and beautiful actress,with well endowed assets from Kogi state has appeared in over 60 movies  but “Dumebi the dirty girl” brought her to the peak of her career and landed her the African Magic Viewers Choice Awards in 2013, maiden edition.
Mama purity has appeared in lots of movies.she revealed that growing up was tough and that she had to work as a housemaid to survive.
She reportedly charges N2 million for a movie role. Mercy Johnson’s massive home in Ajah is a multi million naira 6-bedroom duplex has a roofed car park, a swimming pool, well equipped gym, bar, terrace, a pent house and boys-quarters at the back.
The actress who drives a Lexus SUV which is worth N16m also invested in properties and reportedly owns several landed properties in Lagos making her net worth about N600 Million. 2.Genevieve Nnaji– 850million Naira Genevieve Nnaji is arguably one of the most successful and most popular female Nollywood act. The business savvy actress, singer and fashion designer has appeared in several movies and has some of the most lucrative endorsement deals like Lux, Cintrion Energy drink, Range Rover Evoque, Etisalat, Polo, Amstel Malta and MUD. The Etisalat deal alone reportedly earned her N100 million and the deal with Polo is reportedly N70 million, while the Cintron drink deal allegedly got her N50 million. The gorgeous actress has a Mercedes Benz G-Wagon worth 30million Naira, a Range Rover Evogue worth 19million Naira and houses in Ghana and Ikoyi, Lagos worth several millions of Naira making her net worth about N850 Million naira. 1.Rita Uchenna Dominic– 950million Naira
Veteran actress,Rita Dominic,hails from a wealthy family in Aboh mbaise in Imo state. She started acting as a child and has starred in over 100 movies till date.
In 2012, she produced the awards winning movie “The Meeting” a romantic comedy drama which became a blockbuster in the Nigerian box office. This ultimately put her in this position as the richest Nollywood actress, raising her net worth to a whooping N950 million.