Chichi Emenike, an oil and gas expert who boasts of over 20 years’ experience across the upstream, midstream and downstream of the sector, sits atop as Head of Gas Ventures at Neconde Energy Limited, an independent oil & gas company serving as a special purpose vehicle for the acquisition and development of petroleum assets. In this interview with Charles Okonji, she speaks on the prospects and challenges of managing oil and gas assets in a major oil-producing country like Nigeria. Excerpts: Despite the huge gas reserves that we have, just recently, ENI told us that they have made a significant discovery in the Niger Delta, but there are still gas shortages in the domestic market. What are you doing towards it? This is no longer new. So for the gas we talk about, most of it are still trapped in the ground. We don’t have sufficient gas infrastructure for the gas master plan which is the nation’s dream. This is project we started running with some years back. We haven’t fully optimised it yet. In fact I don’t think we have gone beyond 10 to 20 percent. The level we are now for all the gas reserves we have is that we have a crisscross of gas pipelines all over the country. We have got some of the big elephants in the room like the PIB. We have got an environment that is not clear to investors, whether you are international, or a local investor. We don’t have policies that are completely clear. It does not give a clear line of sight to your investment. That is not acceptable. We have a myriad of other issues. But for gas, you have the power sector that is also caught up in it. It is something else. If we do not unbundle the power sector, which happens to be one of the bigger sectors that uses gas, you can’t develop the gas space. These are some of the issues that we are dealing with, these are some of the things that have held the gas industry hostage for some years now. The federal government has announced plans to divest its equity in some of the oil investments. Do you think it’s the way to go? Neconde is a product of such bids in the past.  Yes, it is okay for a nation at a place where we are to do so. It should be encouraged if we can get more participation from private investors who can take those assets and run with them. Some of these assets as we realize are assets I referred to as marginal fields. So for some of the IOC’s, those are assets that’s really in their big picture. But a lot of individual firms have rather made successes, success stories out of those assets they have maximised. Moreover, by extension they have contributed to the GDP, they have contributed to nation’s employment. They have contributed to technology development. So if the government is looking towards doing another bid licensing round, it is good because once again I go back to the story. You have got other people in Africa; you have got Angola doing licensing rounds. You have got Ghana doing licensing rounds. These countries are putting in place transactional models, clear cut timelines, clear cut dates and they’re running with those schedules and then meeting those schedules.  For us, unfortunately sometimes we start, we stop, we stall. Those are not very good clear cut signals to investors. So yes is it’s encouraging. If the government can work with this and then just run and give these assets to Nigerians, there are other investors who are willing to work with it. What are the specific actions you wish the government to take to unbundle the sector? The first one for me would be the legal vacuum. So, we’ll get right back to where I just finished from which is the bills. This is because we have a history, I am sorry to say this. As a country that that runs on people, we don’t have procedures, we don’t have processes. So for every four years a new person comes in. If you don’t have legal documents, you don’t have bills that back up whatever you are running with. Anyone can come in and change it whenever they feel like and that doesn’t give confidence to any investor. We also need sanctity in our contracts. So if we don’t have legal documents to back this, it means you have contracts that can be scuttled at any time. I always say this, if you don’t have your legal documents in place, anyone can change the goalpost at any point in time and you can’t base your economics on that. For every investor you sit down, you have an idea when you run your economics, when you’re breaking even; you have an idea how this business is going to function. You have an idea when competition comes in, at what point would begin to do. I mean look at what happened with the GSM industry, that is what we hope can happen in the gas sector. So for me, you will start with the legal document first. Then we have to take a look at the pricing. Like I said, those two would be key. Then of course maybe advocacy. How would pricing be a tool for unbundling the sector, as it discourages investment at its present sate? Everyone knows that the government has capped the oil price at $1.50 price and the gas producers have had a running battle, OPTS – Oil Producer Trade Section of the business chambers have said the $2 is not working and for those of us at the upstream. So when you do your calculations you do, so it is an entire value chain. So if you do production, you have got transportation, we have a dearth of infrastructure as it is we don’t have too much infrastructure. You’ve got some transmission costs to deal with. Then you have the LDC, the people on the distribution end. At the entire value chain, you have a break down along and it has to add value for everyone at the end of the day because what gets to the last mile man has to be a pricing that can work, whether that gas is going to be used for power generation, or being used for industrialisation. It has to be a price that will work, to the degree that will work with Nigerians at the end of the day. The starting point is putting in place an environment also that works for whoever is producing. What role is Neconde playing to ensure that we have adequate supply of gas for domestic use? One of the first things that we started doing is what I’ve come here to do, which is the company has taken a focus on its reserves. What we are working towards now is a complete zero flare situation. We have taken some of our associated gas for now, currently we’ve already commercialized it and we currently have buyers. The short term plan is to also maximise on that associated gas. So we are putting in place more gas infrastructure. We currently have a central processing facility. We’re adding of course the associated infrastructure that’s required for that, pipelines and so on and so forth. This requires investment. OK. So part of what I’m doing, even in the short term, with the gas that is on ground is to look at the economic models that support you know boosting this gas production. In addition we’re also looking at the non-associated gas because that is where the main focus is, that is where the big business is. That is where you have investors that have to come in and we have to prove to them this is a business. So I want to take you back to the topic, what are some of the issues that we have. We might want to look at the gas pricing situation as it is today in Nigeria. Like I said to someone earlier, this is not the Salvation Army. Nobody does business just for it, I mean the typical investor posture is not you’ve come to rip off, what you’ve come to invest; you want to see economic benefits. You want to see social benefits, but it must, there must be a clear line of sight to that money you put on ground. I was also saying to someone, hey if you take a look at Africa, you have other investment destinations, you’ve got Ghana down the road Ghana has, I mean, they don’t have as much reserves as we do but they’ve done a lot of tidying up. You’ve got Mozambique that is talking of LNG today. Not far distance from where we ship our gas. Very soon, they will do first LNG. You’ve got Golar LNG who came to Nigeria some time ago, not too long ago. I mean what Golar is doing is they’ve got an LNG so what you have in Bonny, you have it in Angola. So it is more like plug and play. Now they’ve come here. I don’t know what the issues were, but it didn’t quite work for us and they took it to Cameroun. Cameroun that is in our backyard has delivered the first LNG. So what are we saying? It is time we get our act together. We talk a lot. Also the current government’s also talking of the ERGP – growth recovery plan. Those plans are hinged on moving this economy forward.  What would move the economy forward? Power. What is power hinge on? It is hinged on gas. lf we don’t put in a cost reflective tariff  that will make sense to people investing.  Even if we talk to the guys in the power sector, they would tell you if it’s not making sense, I am not investing. You’ve got people in power sector that are telling you hey, they’ve got inherited contracts that were contracted at the old FX regime and they are financing at the present FX regime. They are doing O &M – operations and maintenance. At FX values that are almost times two of that. They would tell you on a daily basis they’re losing at least anywhere between 30 to 40 percent. So we need to unbundle some of these things if we are serious, we need to move the country forward. Other countries worldwide and as we do know the conversation really is the energy space is moving more and more towards a cleaner environment. We’re not doing gas and crude is not exactly your best right now. So if we’re serious as a country, what we need to do is take a focus on gas. If you were to advise the Minister of State, what will be your priorities? We need to go back to putting in place laws; we need to pass our bills. This is because if someone gives you a framework and no binding laws to make it work, it becomes cumbersome.