The war against vandals in Enugu is yielding fruit as no fewer than 10 persons suspected to have damaged and stolen facilities belonging to Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) have been arrested. The arrests were made betweeen August and September by government security agencies and local vigilance groups across the firm’s franchise area. Three of the suspects have been arraigned in court. This was made known to reporters by the Head of Communications, EEDC, Mr. Emeka Ezeh. Ezeh expressed concern over the increasing rate of vandals’ attack on the company’s installations, despite series of engagement and sensitisation to the general public on the negative effects of such attacks on its operations. According to him, Chigozie Nwamba, aged 24, and Chibuike Igboke, 20, who were arrested for their alleged involvement in vandalising St. Dominic 300KVA distribution substation located at Umuosum  Obinagu Udi. The pair were last week arraigned before the Enugu State Magistrate Court. They were later remanded in prison custody at Enugu prison, while the matter was adjourned to 2September 23, 2019. Also, a 30-year-old man identified as Moredays Ambrose, who was arrested with some quantity of transformer oil at Owerrinta, Isialla Ngwa South Local Government Area, was arraigned before the Magistrate Court of Abia State at Umuvo/Umuika, where he pleaded guilty on the first three charges, but pleaded not guilty on the fourth charge. He was subsequently remanded in prison custody, while the matter was adjourned to  September 12, 2019. At Ihiala, five suspected vandals were arrested by a vigilance group for being in possession of some electrical materials belonging to EEDC. The suspected vandals who claimed to come from Orizu town in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State are: Sunday Nwafor, Godwin Monday, Nwafor Ikechukwu, Chinaemere Oguta and Chinonso Nwafor. Items said to be in their possession include: Bare conductor, Intermediate cables and Feeder Pillax box, which they claim were purchased from one Ebubechukwu Ebube and Chike Obijiekwu, who are currently at large. In a related development, the trio of David Okpani, Agwu Sunday Alazu and an alleged buyer of the stolen items- Siraji Abubakar were arrested through the efforts of some youths of Ukpa community in Afikpo North Local Government Area, Ebonyi State, for allegedly vandalising P&T 200KVA substation, belonging to EEDC. “We spend millions of Naira on a monthly basis to replace and repair vandalised facilities, coupled with the revenue loss incurred by the business as a result of this challenge,” Ezeh recounted.   