The National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and a chieftain of the party in Ogun State, Senator Gbenga Kaka have  congratulated  Governor Dapo Abiodun on his victory at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal on Saturday. Tinubu and Kaka in separate reactions to the tribunal judgment which affirmed Abiodun’s victory in the March 9 Governorship election in Ogun state, said  the APC candidate truly deserved the victory. The former Governor of Lagos State in his congratulatory message issued by Tunde Rahman from Tinubu Media Office, stated that Dapo Abiodun deserved the victory that came despite the intimidation, harassment and violence unleashed on his numerous supporters and other shenanigans perpetrated by known opposition elements within and outside the party, APC The tribunal, headed by Justice Yusuf Halilu, threw out the petition filed by Hon. Abdulkadir Adekunle Akinlade and the Allied People’s Movement, saying the petition “not only failed, but also irredeemably failed” to prove their allegations of over-voting and substantial non-compliance with the Electoral Act. In a congratulatory letter to Governor Abiodun dated September 15, 2019 and personally signed by him, Asiwaju Tinubu said: “Saturday’s judgment of the Ogun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal affirming your electoral victory has further demonstrated that your election was indeed a true reflection of the wishes of your people. “We were all living witnesses to the fact that despite the intimidation, harassment and violence unleashed on your numerous supporters and other shenanigans perpetrated by known opposition elements within and outside our party, APC, you emerged victorious because the people of Ogun stood by you. “Undaunted by all of that, you ran a clean, peaceful, issues-based campaign. You were, by far, the most popular and most qualified of the governorship candidates, hence your election. You truly deserved your victory. “This is now time to extend your hand of fellowship to the APM candidate and others who contested against you and indeed other stakeholders in the state. You must re-dedicate yourself to re-uniting the people and be the governor for all. “Ogun State deserves development, Ogun State deserves industrialization. Having made success in your private multi-sectoral entrepreneurial life, you are best placed to replicate this in Ogun. This you must do within the shortest possible time. “Once again, I congratulate you and wish you God’s guidance in the daunting, but not insurmountable tasks, ahead of you,” he stated. Also, Senator Gbenga Kaka said with the victory, the path is now clear for focused piloting of the State’s affairs by Abiodun to the much expected higher levels. Kaka also congratulated ions to the petitioners for exercising their inalienable rights, but said they ended up wasting the precious Judicial time, holding down the state unnecessarily for upward of four months and heating up the polity by causing distractions He equally congratulated the Tribunal members for the thorough job of systemic demolition of what they termed as lazy, frivolous, malicious, pedestrian, spurious and unsubstantialable allegations and claims. Kaka said: “The desperation is highly despicable and I hope the all-round demolition of all their claims will make them take the humble pie, by not venturing to approach the Appeal court by putting an end to   any further unpatriotic pursuit capable of holding our State down on growth and development. “Finally, I congratulate H.E. Dapo Abiodun, the State and the APC Party membership for the Tribunal  affirmation of the victory of mandate  freely given by the majority of voters in the State. “The path is now clear for focused piloting of our States affairs to the much expected higher levels. Hearty congratulations to all and sundry. “Hands of fellowship are hereby extended to the gallant losers to team up with the young Administration for the overall benefits of all.”  