The immediate past governor of Oyo, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, on Sunday said that it is unfair and dangerous to assess incumbent Governor Seyi Makinde barely three months after he came into office. The former governor, who maintained that Makinde was elected for a period of four years, insisted that it would be too early for him to access his successor, who was sworn in on May 29 this year. Ajimobi, who represented Oyo South Senatorial District between 2003 and 2007, was the governor of the state between 2011 and 2019. He said that he had done his best for the state, stating that it’s now time for Makinde to prove his worth. Ajimobi, who addressed journalists shortly after he was honoured with a meritorious award by the Catholic Archdioceses of Ibadan as part of the 70th birthday celebrations of the Bishop of the archdioceses, Reverend Leke Gabriel Abegunrin, urged citizens and leaders to continue to sacrifice for the development of the country. The event was held on Sunday at Mary’s Cathedral, Oke Padre, Ibadan, Oyo State. Ninety-five eminent personalities received the award. Aside from Ajimobi, other recipients of the award include the Asipa Olubadan of Ibadanland, High Chief Eddy Oyewole; Chief Akanni Aluko, Ayo Fasoro , Chief Aloy Obi, Prof. Mercy Veronica,  Brig Gen.& Mrs. Eze , Chief (Mrs.) Francisica Otunla, Mrs. Grace Oby, Mr. Stephen Olasupo , and  Justice O. Ige. In his remarks, former governor Ajimobi said that he would henceforth maintain silence on issues concerning the state and allow the incumbent governor to do his job. The former governor said: “I feel really elated, I feel happy, very honoured, especially when you are being honoured by the people that we serve and the people that serve God. When you are recognised by clerics, men of God, it is the best honour you can get. “Yes, I have done eight years of talking; now it is time for me to keep silent and allow the other man to do his job.” Ajimobi further said that the media makes news when prominent people speak and when they decide to be silent. He said, “This is the problem with you people. When I talk, you will say that I am talking, now that I am not talking, you will say I am not talking. You are complaining that I am not talking now. So, what do you want me to do? “It is too early for me; I have been there for eight years. It is too early to assess him. Give the man the chance to do his job. I know that he has at least four years. He has just spent three months. It is too early. “I think it is good for us to work for the development of this country. We must all sacrifice for us to move this country forward, to grow. It is easier for people to talk, sometimes I read in the news particularly, on the social media. “The problem of the social media today is that beer parlour talk is now being elevated in the media.”