A BILL to harmonise all tax and excise laws, known as the Finance Bill and Policy Note will be submitted to the Federal Government in two weeks time. The Note, when passed into law by the National Assembly will raise revenue and reduce the cost of doing business in the country. Addressing members of the Technical Committee of the National Tax Policy Implementation Committee (NTPIC) in Abuja, Executive Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) Mr. Babatunde Fowler said the sale of crude oil should not be the chief revenue generating source for the country. Flowler urged the Chairman and members of the Technical Committee with the responsibility of “accelerating the drafting and submission of a draft Finance Bill (and if deemed necessary, any draft Executive Order (s), to harmonise the various tax and excise law reform efforts.” He said government’s expectation is that the Committee “will work assiduously over the next few weeks to produce a singular set of fiscal measures that will be considered and approved by the reconstituted NTPIC.” Once agreed, Fowler said: “These fiscal measures are to be submitted to the Economic Management Team and the Federal Executive Council for approval and ultimate transmission to the National Assembly, for passage into law as part of the efforts to support the 2020 Executive Budget Proposal.” Ambassador Adeolu Dipeolu who is also the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Economic Matters in Vice President’s Office and the Chairman of the Technical-sub-Committee urged members of the committee “to move quickly so that the outcome of this work will get to government on time and keep in mind how to improve tax revenue outside oil.” The Technical Committee of the National Tax Policy Implementation Committee will present a Finance Bill and Policy Note to the Minister of Finance and Budget Planning as the committee ends its work soon. At the second sitting of the committee at the FIRS Headquarters in Abuja, the Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Dr. Bode Oyetude said the sub-committee would finish its work between the next 10 and 15 days. “This is the second committee meeting we are having and we hope to bring this meeting to a close in the next 10 to 15 days,” he said.   