As part of efforts to alleviate the sufferings of the downtrodden in the society, NASFAT Agency for ZAKAT and SADAQAT (NAZAS), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), donated cash gift and work tools valued at N20 million to 279 less privileged. The NGO, established to give succour to the needy,  also provided health insurance scheme for Missioners and their immediate families. Venue of the event was the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners, Lagos State Chapter at Ikeja. For the 279 beneficiaries, it was indeed a life-changing experience.  However, before the donation, Chairman, Board of Directors of the agency, Mr. Niyi Yusuf, presided over a general meeting during which he presented a score card for the past years. Yusuf said that the agency had received tremendous support from members and other public-spirited Nigerians for its Zakat obligations over the past one year. According to Yusuf,  NAZAS started five years ago, and has since mobilised more than N174 million from which over 676 poor individuals had benefited from both at Ramadan and Muharram (first month of the Islamic year) public disbursements and other routine and emergency disbursements. He said: “This was made possible through regular payment of Zakat and Sadaqat by you and other donors. The clamour for us to scale up our game by going beyond the regular N40 million marks in fund receipts was achieved this year as we finally crossed the N40 million lines last year and we have already crossed the N55 million thresholds this year. We hope to cross the N60 million mark. “Health is wealth. I am pleased to report that last year, the board, approved that we institute a health insurance package for Imams and Missioners (both NASFAT and non-NASFAT) to promote the health and well-being of the Imams and their immediate families. This year, we have enrolled the initial set of 12 Imams and Missioners with the Lagos State Health Management Authority. Working with the Lagos State League of Imams and Alfas, and with your financial support, we hope to enroll more Imams and Missioners in the period ahead.” Ms Mariam Amidu, alongside 37 others, benefitted from the N1.88 million set aside for education support and scholarship for the needy. Mrs Amidu, 21, and student of  the University of Lagos, said she cannot wait to share the testimony with her mother. “I never knew my father, and paying school fees has always been a problem for me and my siblings. With this scholarship, I can now pay attention to my studies and achieve my dreams of being an accountant. May the Almighty Allah continue to bless all those who have sacrificed their hard earned money for people like me to go to school. I am so grateful to NAZAS,” she said. Mr. Jubril Jimoh and 14 others with deteriorating health conditions shared N4.862 million. And six others received N510, 000 to offset their debts. Another beneficiary, Jimoh Jubril, said that in the last four years,*/ he has exhausted all he had on his ailment without healing. “I was diagnosed with acute diabetes. I have initially spent over N420, 000 managing it before I was slammed with another N400,000 bill again. But, I had no money anymore hence I resorted to call for help. “Luck finally shined on me through a friend’s wife who came to check on me in the hospital and suggested I reach out to NASFAT. I did and surprisingly, they have come to my aid. I am so grateful to them and to Allah the most benevolent,” Jubril said. Twelve NAZAS Imams and Missionaries, and one of their wives and any of four of their children were placed under the recently launched Lagos State Health Insurance Scheme valued at N400, 000 per year. While 148 petty traders, mostly of physically challenged people received cash donations, work tools such as sewing machines, refrigerators, among others worth N14.2 million. One of the beneficiaries of the items, Mrs. Silifat Daramola, who broke down in tears after receiving a deep freezer and a cash donation to support her trade said: “I didn’t entirely believe when I was informed that I would be among those that would benefit from Zakat today. This is because I have always ended up being disappointed by other groups whom I had earlier run to for help. They would call for empowerment but at the end of the day, nothing comes out of it. “But today, NAZAS has put smiles on my face. They didn’t only give me deep freezer but also a sum of money. May the Almighty Allah continue to bless everyone in the agency and wipe away their tears just as they have wiped mine.” Yusuf said that the donation is the second disbursement this year to commemorate the new Islamic year. “So, today is the symbolic disbursement of N20 million to over 250 beneficiaries reflecting the donations we have received from different donors during Ramadan period and we hope that this would help bring succour to many Nigerians. On how to apply as a beneficiary, Yusuf said: “To apply as a beneficiary of Zakat, we advise people to come  and collect form in our office, or download it online and fill it, but they would still have to come  physically to submit the forms in our office.” 