The President could not have asked for a better deputy. Any president who has Prof Yemi Osinbajo as his deputy would consider himself lucky. President Muhammadu Buhari knows that Osinbajo is God sent – not many vice presidents are made like the Professor of Law. Osinbajo is meek and humble, but it will be a grave mistake to take these attributes as a sign of weakness. He knows the true meaning of loyalty and he has stood by the President through thick and thin. His loyalty has never been in doubt and the President himself attested to this fact when his deputy turned 61 last year. In a birthday message to Osinbajo, Buhari said: “…Thank you for being a loyal and dependable partner on this journey. I join millions of your friends and well wishers around the world to wish you many more years of service to God, to Nigeria and to humanity”. Their partnership was and is still the envy of many politicians who keep on wondering how they have been working together in the past four years without any hitch, at least that is known to the public. In a clime where a leader dreads his deputy – at least we saw what happened in the Presidency in the past as well as in some states also in the past and now. Going by their cordial relations, many can swear that Osinbajo can do no wrong by Buhari. A cool, calm and calculated man, Osinbajo does not throw the weight of his office about. You will hardly notice him in a gathering except he is pointed out to you. Although he and the President are not known to be at loggerheads, Monday’s constitution of an economic team seems to tell a different story. The question is: is everything okay at Aso Rock? The question is pertinent because constitutionally, the vice president is vested with the power to oversee the economy with recourse to the President. Besides, he chairs the Economic Management Team (EMT) with the President’s consent. All these have changed, with the coming of the Prof Doyin Salami-led Economic Advisory Council (EAC). It goes without saying that the EAC has replaced the EMT, but can it take the place of the constitutionally created National Economic Council (NEC) which is headed by the vice president? According to the Constitution, the NEC shall comprise the following members – established under the Central Bank of Nigeria Decree 1991 or any enactment replacing that decree. The Constitution vests the NEC with power to advise the President concerning the economic affairs of the federation and in particular on measures necessary for the co-ordination of the economic planning efforts or economic programmes of the various governments of the federation. Now, the EAC is also expected to advise the President on economic policy matters, including fiscal analysis, economic growth and a range of internal and global economic issues working with the relevant cabinet members and heads of monetary and fiscal agencies. ‘’The EAC will have monthly technical sessions as well as scheduled quarterly meetings with the President. The chairman may, however, request for unscheduled meetings, if the need arises’’, said a statement by presidential spokesman Femi Adesina. With this mandate, the EAC will be usurping the functions of the NEC. Will it be proper to have another body performing the constitutional functions of NEC? Can the President set up such a rival body without the amendment of the Constitution? There is bound to be a conflict in the functions of the two bodies if allowed to perform side by side. Why did the President constitute the EAC? Has he lost confidence in NEC? Or did NEC overreach itself? Is there a rift in Aso Rock that the people are not aware of? Was the EAC set up to spite Osinbajo? Where does the constitution of the EAC leave us? The EAC is to perform virtually all the constitutional functions of the NEC, but without the vice president, which is empowered to head it, and all  the  state and CBN governors as its members. The President may have inadvertently breached the Constitution by constituting the EAC. I may be wrong though, giving that in a presidential system, the President has the power to do and undo. But does that power include a constitutional breach? I do not think so. It may after all be another executive order! Something must have informed the constitution of the EAC and that is likely to be political. Has the President begun to suspect his ‘loyal’ deputy? What brought about the suspicion? Is it all about 2023? The country saw the cost of a divided Presidency between 1999 and 2007 when Obasanjo and Atiku almost tore themselves apart.  Nigerians are not prepared to travel that road again. Whatever the differences between the President and his deputy are should be kept to themselves and not allowed to overheat the system. Tacitly taking away the vice president’s constitutional duty through the EAC may not serve any useful purpose. It will only compound whatever the problem is rather than solve it. Buhari and Osinbajo have come a long way to allow anything at this stage to mar their relationship. Or am I crying wolf where there is none? I will be happy if it is so. A singer’s day in court Muscians are ever too happy to perform before a live audience. When popular artiste Johnson Oyindamola aka Dammy Krane had that opportunity at an Igbosere Chief Magistrates’ Court on Monday, he grabbed it with both hands. He was in court with Merrybet Gold Ltd. Prosecuting police Inspector J. I. Enang did not want Chief Magistrate Afolashade Botoku to grant him bail. But his lawyer Adebayo Oniyelu urged the court to grant him bail being ‘’a popular musician’’ who will always come for his trial. The prosecutor quickly jumped up, shouting that he did not know Dammy Krane as a musician. The magistrate ran her eyes through the court and calmly asked Dammy Krane if he is a musician. When he answered in the affirmative, she asked him to sing one of his songs. Dammy Krane took up the challenge without batting an eyelid, as his voice rang out: Help me say amin ooo… Ama kole mole…, to which the audience chorused: amin ooo… And the singer walked away with a N50,000 bail.