Kaduna State Government on Sunday commenced reuniting the over 300 rescued inmates of the embattled Rigasa ‘Islamic Centre’ with their families. But the legal team of the centre said its intention in running the centre was pure. The state government had of Saturday taken custody of the over 300 rescued inmates of the centre from the Kaduna State Police Command. Commissioner for Human Services and Social Development, Hajia Hafsat Baba, said 140 of the over 300 victims have already been re-united with their families. She said the victims, including 77 children and 113 adults, were taken to a secured facility for proper profiling before uniting them with their families. According to her: “Initially, after they were rescued, they were brought to Ranchers Bees Stadium where they stayed overnight and given food by the state government. “On Friday, they were relocated to the Hajj Camp. And that was when we did the head count to find out and separate the children from the adults. We were able to get 190 on ground. “77 of them are children, the youngest being the age of six. There are some that are 7, 8, 9 and 10. “We also have adults as old as 30 and even up to 50. We have 113 adults as at Friday. “On that same Friday, there were about 15 children that were really sick. We had to take them to the hospital. About three of the adults were on admission where they are being taken care of,” she said. She however commended officials of the Nigeria Police, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF, the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and media practitioners for the various roles they played in the exercise. But the Legal Adviser, of the supposed Rehabilitation Centre, Sani Katu said the Kaduna state government and the police have not done well by raiding the centre. The lawyer said the development was a big loss to Kaduna state government, Nigeria and neighboring African nations. According to him, the centre which started in 2000 and duly registered with the state, has been a molder of society and should be commended instead. He said they will cooperate with security personnel on investigation but the legal team will also give the centre every cover to prove its intentions were pure.