Operatives of the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Unit (Taskforce) Wednesday morning arrested 71 miscreants around railway-line in Oshodi as part of efforts to rid the State of criminal elements, especially those operating at notorious blackspots across the metropolis. In a statement, Chairman of the Agency, Olayinka Egbeyemi, a Chief Superintendent of Police, who led the enforcement team in an early morning raid, stated that the crackdown is in line with the determination of the Task Force to curtail the activities of hoodlums who rob unsuspecting members of the public. He disclosed that some of the culprits were in possession of illegal substances suspected to be Indian hemp and other dangerous drugs such as Codeine, Skunk and Tramadol. The Chairman reiterated that all identified blackspots across the State would be continuously raided and arrested suspects would be fully prosecuted if found guilty, stressing that the present administration has zero-tolerance for all forms of crimes and criminality. According to Egbeyemi, “Lagos State is the most populous in Nigeria as well as its economic heartbeat as such; the State government is committed to providing a conducive environment for both local and foreign investors”. He, however, revealed that while 13 the 71 suspects were released after a thorough screening by the Chairman, while the only underage male among them was transferred to the Lagos State Correctional Centre for proper rehabilitation. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu has directed that the raid must be a continuous exercise in line with the State’s policy aimed at eradicating activities of miscreants and cultists disturbing innocent residents. An underage boy, Hamed Gilani, who was referred to Lagos State Correctional Centre, disclosed that he ran to Lagos from one of the neighbouring States after his parents separated. According to Gilani who is 11 years old, “I ran errand for those bigger miscreants and I was lured to be smoking Indian hemp when I started sleeping among them under the bridge at Oshodi” Another miscreant, Suraju Ademola, confessed to have been sleeping along railway line under the Oshodi Bridge for over 7 months. He confessed further to be part of those criminals who attack and rob
innocent members of the public of their valuables on Oshodi Bridge both early morning and night.