The Federal Government Monday started activities to mark Nigeria’s 59th Independence Day Celebration. Nigeria got her independence from Britain on 1st October, 1960. Speaking during the 59th Independence Day Celebration press briefing at the Radio House, Abuja, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, thanked God for preserving the nation to witness its 59th anniversary. Mustapha, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary Political and Economic Affairs in the Office of the SGF, Gabriel Aduda, said efforts have been made to keep the nation one over the years despite its diverse challenges. He recognized the fact that the country ought to be far ahead where it is today. President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, he said, is doing its best to leave long lasting legacies in the country. He said that 10 youths will have the opportunity to win N1 million each during the youth Concert scheduled for Monday 30th of September, 2019. He said “First, we give thanks to God Almighty for preserving our lives to witness this Celebration. We pay tribute to our founding fathers who exhibited patriotism and spirit of nationalism during the struggle for Nigeria’s Independence. “The struggle for Nigeria’s independence was not an easy one. It was a a result of intellectual prowess, patriotic zeal, as well as love of country that enabled our forebears to succeed in their struggle. “Nigeria’s leaders since then have made varied contributions to building our nation state. Above all, efforts have been made to ensure that the country remains united despite diverse challenges which are not unexpected in a multicultural society such as ours. “Independence Day for us is a joyous occasion, but also a sobering one because we are beset with a lot of developmental challenges looking at how far we have come. Ideally we should be far ahead of where we are right now as a people, but never the less President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is not sitting on its oars, but working to ensure better livelihoods for the Nigerian People. “It is the avowed determination of President Muhammadu Buhari to bequeath to the Nation a long-lasting legacy of improved infrastructural facilities and a better economy across the length and breadth of the country.” he stated He said that there will be Juma’at Prayer & Special Lecture on Friday 27/09/19 at the National Mosque, Abuja. Interdenominational Christian Service, he said, comes up on Sunday 29/09/19 at the National Christian Center, Abuja. On Monday 30/09/19, he said there will be National Youth Entrepreneurship Empowerment Summit (NYEES2) Independence Edition at the International Conference Center, Abuja. On the same day, he said there will be Youth Concert Independence Edition CD at the Millennium Park. On Tuesday 01/10/19, he said there will be Independence Media Broadcast by the President by 7am. He disclosed that there will also be Presidential Change of Guards and Public Lecture/Gala Night at the State House in the evening of the same day.