To commemorate his first 100 days in office, Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde will inaugurate six model schools executed under the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) and the state Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) intervention projects across the three senatorial districts of the state. Also, the governor has promised speedy completion of all ongoing UBEC-FG/SUBEB projects in the state before the year ends, assuring that pupils across the state would begin to enjoy a better lease in their basic educational pursuits. Making the disclosures, Oyo SUBEB Chairman, Dr Nureni Adeniran, said the move was part of the government’s efforts to provide quality education to indigent pupils in the state. “The board has ensured that the contractors complete at least six of the ongoing projects, which are ready for commissioning by His Excellency,” he said. The model schools, equipped with modern facilities are located in Ibadan, Oyo and Oke-Ogun region of the state. The facilities in the schools include classrooms, sickbays, science laboratories, computer rooms, libraries and halls. Adeniran attributed the fast pace of completion of the previously abandoned school projects within 100 days of Makinde’s administration to the governor’s commitment to the development of education in the state. “I can assure you that Governor Seyi Makinde’s administration would ensure that education is not only made free for pupils across this state, but would make the schools worth attending for the pupils. Our pro-activeness brought about this finished works. We ensured these projects are completed by the contractors on site”, he said. The schools to be inaugurated include, Elekuro Junior High School, Elekuro (Ona-Ara Local Government), St. Mathias Primary school, Orogun, (Akinyele Local Government Area), Community Primary School, Idi-osan (Ibadan North West Local Government Area), Baptist Primary school, Isokun (Oyo-East Local Government Area), Muslim Community Junior High School, Igbeti (Olorunsogo Local Government Area) and Ofiki Grammar School Ofiki, (Atisbo Local Government Area). 