Indigent parents and pupils in Onicha Ugbo, a Delta State community on Saturday received school kits and other education materials which were donated by a non-profit group Anioma Youth Network for Development (AYND). The group, which was founded by Odita Sunday, a journalist, has, since 2017, embarked on Back-to-School projects where items such as school bags, books, uniforms and other stationery are provided to indigent and orphaned children to boost their drive for education. Funded by savings from the Odita’s monthly income and goodwill from some of his trusted friends, he, at this year’s event held at Amed Hotel Event Centre, Onicha Ugbo said the project was dear to his heart because it was a dream he nursed since he was a child. According to him, one does not have to be a millionaire to lend a hand of care to the needy, adding that giving to the less privileged people must be done with a determined heart. “A total of 112 pupils of primary and secondary schools that are within the bracket of the less privileged people bracket benefited from the AYND back-to-school initiative in 2017. They received school bags, mathematical sets, note books, literature in English books and other learning materials. “Last year, 111 beneficiaries similarly received school materials as the new academic session was about to begin. Two widows also received N25,000. “This time around, no fewer than 100 students and pupils from Onicha Ugbo, Issele-Uku, Ubulu-Uku, Obior, Asaba, Igbodo communities shared in the school materials made available. “The programme was strategically planned to take place at a time when primary and secondary schools in the country would be resuming for a new academic session. It is a period parents are usually under pressure to pay school fees and buy all the necessary materials for their children and wards. “It is our little way of demonstrating our passion and commitment to humanity. I am not driven by any political intentions or monetary gains but rather by the passion to be my brother’s and sister’s keeper through this onerous task of trying to lend a helping hand to our less privileged ones,” he said. Speaking at the event, the monarch of Onicha Ugbo His Royal Majesty (HRM) Agbogidi Victor Chukwumalieze recalled how difficult it was for less privileged children of his generation to access western education due to poverty and lack of help. He explained that less privileged children in contemporary times were luckier than his generation as kind-hearted people such as the AYND founder were ready to render some helping hands which was not the case in his days. He advised the children to leverage on the opportunity offered them and shun vices that were ravaging the country.