The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the November 16 Governorship election in Bayelsa, Senator Douye Diri, at the weekend promised to protect Igbos investments in the state. He gave the assurance during the celebration of the 2019 World Igbo Day at the Yenagoa Boat Club and Oxbow Lake Grand Pavilion. The PDP flag bearer, who described Igbos as very enterprising, industrious and a pride to Nigeria, promised to maintain the existing relationship between them and the Restoration Government of Governor Seriake Dickson. He further promised to give them higher positions in his government if elected the governor of the state. He said: “When we are elected, we will work closely with you. We will ensure that your businesses and investments are more secured and safe. “I decided to come here today to identify with you on this big occasion of your annual Igbo Day celebration. I am excited and I also want to express my appreciation to you. “You are part of the success story of our state. That is why when we form the next government you will have a bigger role. “I know that the present administration earlier appointed one of you as Senior Special Assistant and later Special Adviser. “My government will do more. If it can happen in some states it can happen here. You people are a pride to Nigeria and so you deserve a better deal”. Diri stated that his administration would consolidate on the achievements of Governor Dickson and bring about prosperity for a better Bayelsa. He enjoined Igbos in Bayelsa to always feel at home, stressing that they were stakeholders in the state and vowing to protect their rights and privileges. He said as a lawmaker in the House of Representatives and at the Senate, he championed their cause. He added: “I am one of those who don’t see you people as non-indigenes but like I will always say that you are our brothers and sisters from other states. You cannot be a Nigerian and be referred to as non-indigenes it is wrong. “So today, I wish to remind you that I am your friend and brother. There is no Igbo speaking state that I have not been to. “Even in the National Assembly, most of my friends are Igbo people and we interact freely. That is how it should be. “Also take advantage of the social side of our relationship and allow our boys and girls to inter marry. That is how it should be,” he said.