One person was on Monday killed and others injured after hoodlums clashed in Lagos Island. The crises which were said to have disrupted the annual Egungun festival, was allegedly triggered by rancours within the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). It was gathered that warring factions of the NURTW got street gangs from Oke-Arin, Sura Apongbon and Agarawu/Idumagbo to attack their opponents, forcing people to scamper to safety. The Nation gathered that there have been tension in Lagos Island since Friday night with several violent attempts by the factions quelled by security operatives. It was gathered that another violence erupted on Sunday at Apongbo leaving a man identified as Junior dead and at least two others injured. Not satisfied, the gangs were said to have continued the fight on Monday evening, forcing people to flee theit shops and houses. According to a source, the violence continued Monday evening at Oke-Arin forcing traders and workers to flee the area. “There was crisis along Simpson by Sura. It was between Okesuna and Patey Boys. People were running in different directions. “The Egungun festival started today but there have been tension in the area since weekend. This festival will last several weeks and only God knows how we will survive the violence. “Before this Oke-Arin fight this evening (yesterday), there were attempts to attack the Agarawu/Idumagbo group early in the morning but security operatives prevented it. “But they continued at Apongbo and killed one Junior. They injured at least two people “Those responsible for this fight are the Idumota and Oke-Arin boys and they are led by Aliba and Okocha, factional members of the NURTW,” the source said. But the police denied death was recorded in the attacks, insisting they had no such record. Spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said he was only aware of the two who sustained injuries during Sunday’s clash, adding that the victims were rushed to the hospital for treatement. “The information I have is that there were issues there during the weekend and two people sustained injuries. We do not have record or death and Police did not see any corpse. “The clash is connected to the NURTW issue. The street gangs have links with the union and warring factions are using them. “Three suspects were arrested. There is increased patrol in the area. The Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Taskforce and other operatives have been patrolling the area. “The Area Commander said there was no clash today. People might have been running as a result of panic. They had issues on Sunday and Saturday but the area was peaceful on Monday because patrols have been intensified. “The patrol is still on going and they are still working on some names. There are names that were given among those that participated in it. They are working on them and picking them.”  