Institutions are the legal and to some extent, moral structures crafted by the leadership of any system or country for optimal conditions for effectivity and the reduction of uncertainty to the barest minimum.  These rules assign rights and responsibilities among other things to economic, political and social interactions.  By this token, institutions are anchored to the rule of law in order to robustly govern political and socio-economic systems.  In addition, they are not fixed once and for all, understandably because the grammar of human challenges, problems, aspirations and sensitivities is always changing with respect to its morphology and content.  Institutions or structures are about the universality of human experience.  They are also an age-long phenomenon.  No country or system can experience greatness in all its ramifications without paying sufficient attention to these structures that are a world away from a cosmetic exercise. But unfortunately, the Nigerian political leaders are yet to begin to see institutions as the solid foundations of a robust society.  This scenario which is enshrined in bad politics, and failed leadership leads to the retardation of development on a sustainable scale.  Arbitrariness and abuse of power make it difficult for our leaders at all levels to respect institutions, let alone focus on co-ordination of their activities.  Thus, for example, the manner in which the immediate past Chief Justice of the Federation –Walter Onnoghen was removed from office recently showed that Nigeria was/is on the verge of an abyss.  The role of the Nigerian Judicial Council (NJC) was thoroughly crippled by the president, while the 8th Senate that was supposed to protect the Nigerian Constitution kept mum.  In Nigeria, the president is the institution.  He is the law, enforcer of law and final arbiter.  Justice Ayo Salami was removed with ignominy as president of the Court of Appeal by Dr. Goodluck Jonathan when the latter was the number one citizen of Nigeria.  The principle of the separation of power remains alien to the executive arm headed by the president, who exerts his influence sometimes very dangerously on the legislature and the judiciary.  He does this at the peril of the generality of the people.  No respect for the rule of law. Read Also: Nigeria has many institutions which have been substantially crippled by the powers that be.  Even occasionally, the real power behind the throne makes the country more unlivable, more painful and messier than the “actual” leaders.  The bottom line is the inability of the system to make progress in a myriad of ways.  Thus, for example, the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) is charged with the responsibility of implementing policies by the National Council on Privatisation (NCP).  Other policies include the preparation of public enterprises approved by the NCP for privatisation and commercialisation.  Accounts are also supposed to be thoroughly audited or updated to ensure financial discipline among those driving these commercialised enterprises.  But in practical terms, this is a ruse as executive corruption involving top government functionaries and their business associates is increasing at an exponential rate across Nigeria.  This deviant behaviour keeps most Nigerians in a deprivation/poverty trap perpetually. Corruption in a broad sense, is the major underlying factor for not respecting institutions/structures or laws in this country. The Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) inaugurated in 2000 by the Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) founded in 2003 were/are to investigate financial crimes such as advance fee fraud (popularly called 419 fraud) and money laundering among others. These agencies have received and investigated many cases with a view to reducing corruption to the barest minimum in the country.  Huge amounts of looted monies have been retrieved while some individuals are serving jail terms.  In 2006, 31 of the state governors were investigated for corruption. There is no doubt that these two agencies are seriously needed.  Indeed, the fear of ICPC and EFCC is the beginning of wisdom to some degree.  But many Nigerians are now getting more apprehensive that these two agencies might be turned into a vendetta against political enemies. An application of a double standard of morality has the capacity to rubbish both ICPC and EFCC. The Maina case cannot be forgotten in a hurry.  Abdulrasheed Maina was alleged to have mismanaged huge pension funds when he was saddled with the responsibility of cleaning up the mess in the pension affairs sector in 2010.  He ran away from Nigeria following a public outcry against the manner in which this case was being handled by the powers that be.  Up to now, this case is inconclusive. A selective application of justice and morality by EFCC and ICPC makes a mockery of justice and fairness.  It seems to me that EFCC and ICPC have been shackled (to a large degree) to partiality.   It is an irritation to Nigerians and humanity generally to turn these two agencies into propagandist organisations.  There should be no sacred cows in the Nigerian socio-economic and political space.  Again, Nigerians deserve to know how much has been returned by the looters and how these monies are being spent by the government.  Greater transparency is of the essence. The Nigerian academia is also not showing sufficient respect to the structures put in place for robust intellectual growth.  Thus, for example, in recent times, the university council has become an avenue for making a fortune at the expense of the system.  The vice-chancellor, like an emperor controls the council who holds meetings upon meetings that involve huge honoraria without solving critical issues bordering on a healthy intellectual environment.  Not unexpectedly, the university manager today, is very resentful of criticisms no matter how constructive.  Evidence of institutionalisation of moral, academic corruption can be gleaned even from promotions exercise, where certain weak lecturers are easily elevated to higher levels at the expense of the strong ones. This has demoralising effects on profound intellectual productions in Nigeria. In April 2018, the Socio-economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) reported that the Nigerian higher institutions were notorious for corrupt practices.  These include examinations malpractices, misappropriation of university funds, and short-circuiting employment procedures.  Nobody seriously monitors anybody.  Currently, the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti is in crisis arising from alleged misappropriation of funds. The Buhari government has a lot to do to sanitise the filthy political and academic landscape in the interest of all. We cannot just continue like this.  Is Nigeria in the Stone Age period? It was reported recently in the local newspapers that a captain in the Nigerian Army went to a police station in Taraba State to forcefully release a suspect in connection with kidnapping. If this story was true, then Nigeria was in a much bigger mess than ever before. Boko Haram overlords are pitilessly mowing down some soldiers.  The remaining soldiers too are busy killing policemen while the latter group continues to harass and/or murder some innocent civilians almost on a weekly basis. The Ike Ekweremadu saga in Germany, despite its crudity was/is an eye opener for our leaders across the board.  They need to embrace selflessness and high ideals instead of the current hedonistic life-ways. Our leaders can only ignore this warning at their own peril. Amassing wealth at the expense of the ordinary Nigerians is now a highly punishable offence in the people’s court devoid of legal, technical jargon. It is the height of godlessness for our political/academic leaders to impoverish Nigerians, and thereafter begin to spend their ill-gotten monies in saner parts of the global village. Leadership is not a tool for economic, financial and political oppression and exploitation.  This underscores the reason why the political class cannot afford to rubbish established institutions.  Respect for the rule of law is critical to good governance. 