Working in the teaching profession is not easy in Nigeria. However despite the poor remuneration and incentives, some educators still give their best. SAMPSON UNAMKA met some of them in Ajegunle. Teachers matter in many different ways. They are the reason why there are engineers, doctors, pilots, and many other professionals all over the world. But in this part of the world, appreciating them seems not common. A group in Ajegunle community in Lagos, recently organised an award tagged: Ajegunle Education Award, to appreciate teachers in the area. The award, the first of its kind in the area, was organised by Transforming Ajegunle Initiative. It was designed to celebrate teachers who despite scarce resources, have been exceptional in the community. The award was not only focused on teachers, as it also had categories that recognised non-teaching members of staff as well as schools that had transformed the community. During the colourful event attended by-who-is who in the community, Mr Salami Adekola of ACF Comprehensive College, Ojo Road, Lagos, got the Best Teacher Award, which had the prize sum of N50,000. Salami who studied Mathematics Education, at Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado-Ekiti, has been teaching in the community for 13 years. He said he is driven by passion to see others improve. “I derive passion from teaching; I love to teach not only in the classroom but also outside the classroom. I love to teach people and see them do better even if they do better than me,” he said. The 31-year-old Mathematics teacher said getting the award was not easy. “I had an interview session and it was not easy.  It took a lot of effort because so many questions were asked. It is a pleasure I came out the best. It is an honour; a privilege for me.  It is also another task ahead for me to keep doing more of what I have been doing before,” he said. Salami thanked the organisers for the initiative, saying that sometimes teachers need a little motivation to encourage them to continue to give their best. The Non-Teaching Staff of the Year Community Education Award went to Mrs Iju Eze of JOMAB Premium School.  She went home with a prize of N15,000. Convener of the Transforming Ajegunle Initiative, Grace Nkwocha, said she topped the criteria for the award On criteria for selecting the best non-teaching staff, Ms Nwocha said the panel considered the person who went the extra mile; who despite pay cut or delay did not transfer aggression to pupils. Ms Nwocha said she was inspired to organise the award to motivate teachers to be more productive. “I know there are two ways to get the best out of people, first you have to engage them by giving them the right tools and then you have to reward them because to me reward is a form of motivation,” she said. Winners were selected through vote and interview session. “We also had people vote because they all have the right to be the overall best in the community after being picked as the best in their schools, based on what they wrote”, she said. Other categories of the award include: Community Education Award for the Most Innovative School in Ajegunle – Helifest High School; Most Disciplined School – Tos Fadun School; Most Environmentally Responsible School – Morits International School; Ajegunle, Education-Friendly Chairman – Hon. Fatai Ajidagba, Chairman Ifelodun LCDA; TAP outstanding staff of the Year – Linda Obidiegwu (who got a smart phone courtesy of Golden Eagle, Ajegunle).