A group, iDAF, has unveiled iAspire Data Science Fellowship Programme in the country. Data Science entails a combination of data inference, algorithms, and technology that solves complex problems. The core of this technology is data that is initially raw, then is streamlined, and stored in a data warehouse to help generate significant business values. Co-founder/CEO of iDAF, Theophilus Medeiros, said the programme will offer a comprehensive curriculum for participants and designed for the industry. He said:  “iAspire Data Science Fellowship is about the only data science program in Africa that offers the most comprehensive curriculum and a guaranteed cloud certification. The curriculum is designed and is being constantly updated to cater to industry needs by experienced data science practitioners and professors “The programme creates a portfolio of 10 mini-projects and a capstone project across industries of your choice to showcase your skills and knowledge and will definitely offer participants knowledge about the theory of current data science technologies with hands-on experience.” To participate in the programme, he said interested candidates are to visit iDAF’s website (www.idaf.ng/apply) and submit their application not later than October 5. “Therefore, we get you up to speed as quickly and deeply in just six months of current topics. Interestingly, the faculty is a mix of Top Data Scientists working for Fortune 50 companies who are passionate in teaching,” he added. Another co-founder, Prince Ogwuru, advised the government to develop policy frameworks and structures on which Artificial Intelligence can thrive, and position Nigeria as the leader of Artificial Intelligence in Africa. Leading organisations bring their Data Science and Business Intelligence practices together for timely and centralised access. To this end, the iDAF’s flagship programme aims to train and prepare Nigerian bright minds to use Artificial Intelligence and advanced machine and deep learning concepts to tackle business and social problems.