THE leadership of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State  has scheduled an expanded meeting of the  State Caucus of the party and the Elders Advisory Council for today in Yenagoa. The state party Chairman, Cleopas Moses, said the meeting would discuss the issue of the preparedness of the party for the election, strategies, approval of the campaign council and team  and other topical issues. “The meeting will also receive a brief from the party’s candidate, Senator Douye Diri, on the issue of running mate”, he said. There had been misgivings in some quarters about the sincerity of Governor Seriake Dickson to hold a stakeholders’ meeting to resolve the crisis rocking the party following the choice of its running mate for the November 16 governorship election in the state. Party members, groups and other stakeholders disagreed vehemently with  on Dickson and the PDP leadership for nominating the  Senator representing Bayelsa West Lawrence Ewrujakpor, as e running mate to, Senator Douye Diri. Critics accused Dickson of driving a selfish agenda to replace Ewrujakpor, who hails from his Sagbama Local Government Area, in  the Senate in exchange for the running mate slot. Others insisted that the governor was blinded by his ambition, which they said was against his earlier principles of equity, balance and fairness and appealed to the governor to take the slot to Bayelsa East and consider giving it to Ogbia, the local government area of former President Goodluck Jonathan. Following the hullabaloo generated by the decision, Dickson promised to convene a stakeholders’ meeting to review the decision within the timeframe of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for substitution of candidates. But party leaders were worried that a day to the expiration of the INEC September 23 deadline for substitution of candidates, the governor had yet to fix a date for the stakeholders’ meeting. Former President Goodluck Jonathan was said to have waited for the stakeholders’ meeting and left the state in anger. A PDP leader, who spoke in confidence, said there was no possibility of holding the meeting adding that Dickson only made the proposal to douse tension that erupted in the party following his choice of Ewrujakpor. He said even if the governor managed to convene a meeting, it would be mere formality as his cronies would be positioned to shoot down any opposition against his chosen running mate. He said: “The governor’s proposal for a stakeholders’ meeting was a smart but deceptive move. He discovered that the PDP was having many backlashes following his choice of a running mate. Having observed that the opposition was too loud, he decided to douse the tension by proposing the meeting. But by all indications, he has made up his mind on Erwujakpor. 