Another 100 Nigerians will benefit from surgeries sponsored by Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) Limited. The latest intervention is coming after a similar gesture a year ago for 102 patients. The annual intervention takes place from October 1-4 at the LASUTH hospital in Lagos. All patients will be expected to be cured from cataracts and some patients would be seeing clearly for the first time since being diagnosed with with the condition.
SHIN has emphasised that the annual event is open to all with limited spaces but especially caters for the most vulnerable people in the communities and aims to eradicate cataracts in as many Nigeria’s as possible. According to the World Health Organisation Cataracts accounts for 51% of World Blindness, making this annual event by SHIN a truly worthwhile cause.
SHIN’s new gesture is coming exactly one month after the company donated electrical equipment, clothing and other relief materials to the victims of herdsmen and Boko Haram insurgents’ attacks in Jos, Plateau State. A missionary group from Korea had constructed a school in Jos for the villagers in Rhizha where four missionaries were teaching about 560 children and also providing counselling to victims, mostly women, suffering from the trauma from Boko Haram insurgents’ attacks. However, these acts of violence did not deter the missionary from creating this initiative to assist the community. Since 2015, Samsung has worked with Vision Care in the yearly Eye Camp to give free cataract surgeries to individuals who cannot afford the treatment. SHIN said in a statement on Friday that the medical team that will carry out this year’s eye surgeries is expected from the United States, Republic of Korea, Nigeria and Ethiopia. “The medical volunteer team consist of doctors, nurses, volunteers from USA, Republic of Korea, Nigeria and Ethiopia. “The team will carry out cataract procedures for children and adult who are in need for the surgery,” the statement said. “We are targeting to provide procedures for at least 100 patients. Among the target, we are hoping to carry out the procedure for at least 10 children with cataract,” the statement said. The statement added that the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to Nigeria, In-tae Lee would be participating in the event in support of the company’s CSR initiative.