Imo State Governor Emeka Ihedioha and his predecessor, Senator Rochas Okorocha, are locked in a war of attrition. Senior Correspondent NDIDI OKODILI examines the predecessor–successor crisis and its implications for governance in the Southeast state. The crisis between Imo State Governor Emeka Ihedioha and his predecessor, Rochas Okorocha, has escalated. The feud has further divided the Southeast state. Supporters of the two politicians are at daggers drawn. The faceoff worsened after the Chairman of the Committee on Recovery of Government Property, Jasper Ndubuaku, Special Adviser on Security Matters, was beaten up by youths sympathetic to Okorocha, while trying to enter the former governor’s private residence in search of government property, which he claimed were hidden in there. Shortly after the video of the assault  went viral on the internet, the state government declared the former governor wanted. The Secretary to Government, Uche Onyeaguocha, ordered the youths and women to apprehend Okorocha, the Senator is representing Imo West. Subsequently, some youths stormed the Sam Mbakwe Airport to lay ambush for Okorocha, who they thought was returning to the state from Abuja. The faceoff took a new dimension after Okorocha, who left the state after May 29, returned to address his followers. The followers had been hounded and harassed by government officials who were raiding their homes and business places hunting for government properties. He charged them to resist harassment from government agents and protect their properties and businesses from “senseless looting”. The former governor debunked some of the allegations leveled against his administration. This was countered by the state government, which went on air to chide Okorocha for trying to heat up the polity and distract the governor. Many groups, including traditional rulers and religious organisations, joined forces with the state government to tackle the former governor for ordering his supporters to resist the government, describing his visit to the state as trouble-shooting. Rivalry: Ihedioha and Okorocha have been locked in political rivalry and ego battle, which they craftily concealed through the years. The mutual suspicion was evident in the tepid relationship that existed between them while Ihedioha was Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives and Okorocha was governor. Ihedioha often boasted to his supporters that he was on the same pedestal with the governor, in terms of the powers and paraphernalia of office. Okorocha saw Ihedioha’s attitude as an affront to his office. He accused him of riding on the back of former President Goodluck Jonathan to undermine his administration. During the annual ‘Iri Iji Mbaise’ in 2014, Ihedioha, a native of Mbaise, tried to stop the then governor (Okorocha) from presiding over the ceremony. A franca was averted by security men. But,  the strain in their relationship became open during the 2015 govenorship election when Ihedioha contested against Okorocha who was seeking a re-election. Ihedioha, relying on his contacts at the Federal level, dismissed Okorocha as a walkover. But, he was shocked when it was declared inconclusive and a supplementary election was fixed after President Jonathan had lost to Buhari, thereby pruning Ihedioha’s chances. Okorocha formed an alliance with aggrieved members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), led by Senator Ifeanyi Araraume, who had vowed to stop Ihedioha and he won the election. Ihedioha was embittered, especially after a shoddy attempt to challenge Okorocha’s victory at the tribunals. His petition and subsequent appeals were struck out due to technical errors. Okorocha touted Ihedioha that he has been retired from politics. He challenged him to give the scorecard of his 12-years at the House of Representatives. Ihedioha was tactically run out of the state as he stayed away and craftily avoided the state for the time Okorocha’s second tenure lasted. Okorocha’s travail The rivalry between the duo was rekindled after Ihedioha joined the governorship race. Okorocha, who was rounding up his second tenure, was supporting Uche Nwosu. Deploying the privileges of an incumbent governor, Okorocha held sway and intimidated other contestants with his massive followership. Ihedioha was ridiculed on many occasions by supporters of the former governor, who mocked him that he did not stand any chance against their candidate. Ihedioha’s demeanor during the campaigns showed that he was disturbed and intimidated by Okorocha’s swagger, even though he tried not to show it. Trouble started for Okorocha and his allies when Ihedioha was declared winner of the election and his candidate, Nwosu, came second. Ihedioha’s supporters went on rampage smashing billboards and campaign vehicles. The early sign that Ihedioha wanted a pound of flesh was his shunning of Okorocha’s invitations for a meeting to plan the handover and discuss the way forward for the state. He immediately wrote to financial institutions to desist from carrying out any transaction with Okorocha on behalf of the state government. Following his assumption of office, Ihedioha launched a massive campaign of calumny against Okorocha, detailing how he wrecked the treasury and grounded the state. He alleged that the former governor diverted N1trillion belonging to the state. The governor revoked the decisions and actions taken by Okorocha in the twilight of his administration, including land allocations and recruitment. He inaugurated a Committee, named Imo State Recovery Committee, to go after the former governor, his family members and those that served in his government and recover government property from them. A political foe of the former governor Ndubuaku, was named the Chairman of the Recovery Committee and he quickly indicted the former governor of carting away 67 vehicles belonging to the state government. For three months, the Ihedioha administration sustained the onslaught against the former governor, until he visited the state on August 20 and turned the heat on the state government by charging his supporters to come out and defend themselves. Power play: Okorocha had stepped on so many toes. At a point, he pegged the age for those aspiring to govern the state at 50, a move that was seen as a ploy to completely shut out the old politicians. Prominent among those calling for the head of Okorocha, Onyeaguocha, Eze Cletus Ilomuanya, who was sacked as the Chairman of the Imo State Council of Traditional Rulers and subsequently deposed as the traditional ruler of Obinugwu. Also notable in the Army against Okorocha is the Catholic Archbishop of Owerri, Anthony Obinna, who openly led the campaign against Okorocha’s succession plan. Onyeagucha, a former member of the House of Representatives, was appointed as a political adviser by Okorocha, but they fell apart after the governor refused to support his ambition of succeeding him, being from Owerri zone. However, apart from settling scores Ihedioha’s war against Okorocha may not be unconnected with the petition filed by Okorocha’s son-inlaw, (Nwosu), who was the first runner up and the need to decimate Okorocha’s support base in anticipation of a possible re-run. Politics of probe: Ironically, the strongest supporter of the call for Okorocha’s probe is the Imo State Council of Traditional Rulers, considering the robust relationship that existed between the governor and the monarchs. But, they were among the first group to declare full support  for Ihedioha’s plan to probe Okorocha’s  administration, which they said was characterized by unprecedented wastage of public resources. The Chairman of the Council, Eze Samuel Ohiri, said: “After the emergency meeting of the traditional rulers, we resolved to encourage Ihedioha to ensure that all the government properties illegally acquired by the former governor and his cronies were recovered to Imo”. Another group, is the Orlu Elders Council, Okorocha’s kinsmen, who are pressing on the governor to prosecute his predecessor.. The Chairman of the Council, Francis Dike (SAN), accused Okorocha of looting the state. The faceoff is far from abating as both sides are talking tough. The government has vowed to return to Okorocha’s home and continue the search for government property. Youths loyal to him are keeping vigil in the premises to wade off any attempt to break into the former governor’s stronghold.