The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) has intensified in its verification of pensioners to enable them receive their pension entitlements in the Eastern part of the country. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo reports Over 10,000 pensioners of   federal parastatals, agencies and institutes from the Southeast under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS) have been verified by the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD). This was achieved during the fifth phase of the parastatals pensioners verification in the region. The exercise, which started on Monday, August 26, was carried out in Awka, Enugu  and Owerri. The Nation learnt that owing to the large turnout of pensioners in Enugu and Owerri, the directorate approved a six-day extension for the center in Owerri and a four-day extension for the Enugu centre. PTAD Executive Secretary, Dr Chioma Ejikeme, who gave the approval, said the extension was to ensure that eligible pensioners and Next-of-Kin, who presented themselves, were verified, stating that the exercise recorded an average daily turnout of 344 pensioners. According to her, the exercise did not include Customs, Immigration and Prisons pensioners, Civil Service pensioners, Police pensioners, and  parastatals pensioners who had already been verified by PTAD. She said the next phase of the parastatals pensioner verification in the Northwest region started last Monday and is expected to end next Wednesday. Mrs. Ejikeme advised that pensioners do not have to travel to the state or location they retired from to be verified. “They can be verified at any of our centers that is within the geo-political zones where they reside. “All pensioners living outside the country will be verified whenever they visit the country provided they show proof of residency outside Nigeria. Such proof should be provided in advance via PTAD email which is info@ptad.gov.ng. “All Letters of Introduction for new enrollees (those not on payroll) must be personally signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Agency to be acceptable for verification.” Mrs. Ejikemee said continuous mobile verification would be conducted for sick and infirm pensioners. The original documents of the pensioners must be brought to the verification venue, together with proof of infirmity for authentication, before mobile verification can be scheduled. Pensioners have, however, lauded the Director’s commitment to verifying and enrolling them on the payroll. A pensioner, Adedeji Adebanjo, said he retired from federal service since 2005 but was recently enrolled into the payroll by PTAD. He said since his verification last year, he has started receiving monthly pension and also received his arrears. Mrs Florence Orji added that the directorate has become very sensitive to the plight of pensioners. She said the staff of the Directorate showed care and love to them on the day of her verification.