THE horror playing out in South Africa leading to the killing of Nigerians and citizens of neighbouring Southern African countries is, strictly speaking, not xenophobic. With nearly all the victims Africans, except in a few cases, the message is clear how the minds of South Africans work. It is pointless analysing their psychology; they are who they are, a people perhaps scarred by their history and their encounters with apartheid, oppression and poverty. Unable to respond properly to their nemesis, they have taken out their anger on outsiders, mainly blacks, as a form of catharsis. Will that resolve the underlying schisms and fault lines in their society? It is unlikely. But Nigeria and other victims of the needless slaying and looting perpetrated by South Africans against black foreigners reserve the right to find ways to curb the menace. Much has been written about how the South African mind works, and why they have turned against Nigerians and others Africans. Analysts have placed the blame on their history, particularly the apartheid era policies that disenfranchised and humiliated them. It is also of little importance now to begin to find fault with how the Nigerian government lethargically and clumsily responded to the challenge. Nigeria was at first slow in reacting, then when it jerked awake, its people and government are now probably overreacting. Consider for instance the fact that South African policemen stood idly by as their countrymen perpetrated Afrophobic attacks, and the abhorrent countervailing fact that Nigerian security agencies, in their effort to combat the attack and looting of businesses related to South Africa, managed to kill a Nigerian in Lagos. The irony neither strikes nor worries them. There is very little that can be done now to reorient the police in Nigeria and the security agencies. They will probably get far worse. And there is little anyone can do to energise a Nigerian foreign policy that exists only on paper. No matter how badly behaved a president is, and no matter how undemocratic he has become, it is important for him to develop the foreign policy he has conceived in his private studies and moments. There will be no such attempt in Nigeria in the foreseeable future, for not only has the country’s foreign policy shown no spark, the president also does not have a foreign policy conviction of any kind. In terms of the foreign policy weakness that afflicts and puzzles Nigeria, South Africa has become the other side of the bad coin. Given the inexpert way President Cyril Ramaphosa has tackled the Afrophobic rage on South African streets, it is suspected that though he is ideological, he is in fact as incompetent, malicious and anti-democratic as Nigerian leaders. Indeed, President Ramaphosa has seemed to connive at the violence against fellow Africans, believing that the victims are a significant part of the causes of the country’s national malaise. He has condemned the violence, but that condemnation has come late and is devoid of conviction and vigour, just like the Nigerian response to the killings opened up the presidency to allegations of being flatfooted on the matter because a section of Nigeria seems disproportionately the victims of the rage. With each succeeding generation, Africa is becoming more destitute of sound leaders. Gone are the Mandelas, the Kaundas, the Nyereres, the Nkurumahs and the Lumumbas. Sure they were not first rate leaders, but compared with the current crop of African leaders, including blighted Nigeria, they were really incomparable. Don’t expect the South African conundrum to be adequately resolved; Since Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki, they don’t produce disciplined and philosophical leaders anymore in their country, and their crises will probably worsen in the coming years. And don’t expect Nigeria to have the back of their citizens anywhere, for the leadership crisis plaguing the country is even far worse than South Africa’s, and seems set to become more complicated. The killings in South Africa will taper off in the coming days, until another flare-up sometime in the future. Nothing will come out of the present crisis. Black Africans have given themselves a bad name; let them wear it like a badge, if you forgive the pessimism.