Ahead the recapitalisation of the insurance companies, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has started engaging with stakeholders to ensure a hitch-free exercise, reports Omobola Tolu-Kusimo. The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) is engaging other relevant regulatory bodies and agencies of government in the financial services sector for palliatives that will reduce the cost of recapitalisation on companies, the Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, has said. Thomas, who spoke with reporters, said the response from the relevant regulatory bodies and agencies, which include the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), was good. He said the exercise was going on smoothly and that the Commission would do all that is necessary to make it a success. He said insurance firms have submitted their recapitalisation plans and it has been good. He urged sustained efforts by the firms at earlier completion of the plans. He expressed satisfaction that at the end of the exercise, the industry would have been transformed. He reiterated that with a contribution by the industry to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at less than one per cent, it has underperformed its potential, especially when compared with other sectors in the financial services industry. He said: “In the last few years, the insurance industry has witnessed series of changes owing to reforms embarked upon by NAICOM. These reforms include financial reporting, No Premium, No Cover, Corporate Governance Code, Risk Based Supervision, Information Communication Technology advancement, Financial Inclusion, Claims Settlement, Market Conduct, Expansion of Distribution Channels, Recapitalisation with all aimed at building confidence, trust and enhancing our market value and profitability. “The Commission shall continue to introduce new reforms and initiatives in line with international best practices in our march towards achieving the full potential of the industry. I believe that once we can successfully navigate this corner, we could be on our way to entrenching a financially solid, vibrant, viable and active insurance market that would bring about not only an increase in penetration but a substantial increase in the industry’s contribution to GDP. “They will also simulate accumulation of long-term funds for infrastructural financing, job creation, and an improved Return on Investment. “It is long overdue that we make changes in the right direction. Successful economies are characterised by a strong investment culture of which the insurance industry plays a vital role. So we literally need to re-energise the insurance industry and commence playing our key roles in boosting and growing the sector.’’