Comrade Quadri Olaleye, the new president, Trade Union Congress (TUC), beleives job creation should be top priority of the government. Olaleye, who is also the president, Food, Beverage and Tobacco Senior Staff Association (FOBTOB), says it is only a human-centred agenda that can boost productivity and create decent jobs, TOBA AGBOOLA met him. HOW  can the government tackle youth unemployment? In my own experience as a labour person, what should be a top priority of any government is how to create jobs for the populace, most especially the youth. I believe that there is no more important task than this.This is the very task that we have set before the Global Youth Employment Forum. Seven years ago, the impact of the financial crisis was still on. Then, the International Labour Congress (ILO) adopted its call for action on youth employment, which is pretty much the framework of this forum. And that call for action sets out basically five areas of action. These five areas are pro-employment macroeconomic policies that enable job creation among youths. That means that youth unemployment is not only a matter of the ministries of Labour or Youth, but also the central banks, the ministries of Planning, Finance and Industries. This is a government’s responsibility. The second area is policy for and investment in education and skills. These are key so that the skills we provide young people with are those that our labour markets really need. And we talk frequently about the mismatch between the skills on offer and the skills that are needed. We need to do better, and we need to make learning a life-long process. The third area of action is active labour market policies. This can vary from employment service provisions, to wage subsidies, employment intensive investments, all of which can ease the transition of young people from education to employment. These are the policies that allow the integration of young people into the labour market. Fourthly, we have to promote youth entrepreneurship and self-employment to harness the extraordinary energy and talents of our young people. And lastly, but it is not the least consideration, we have to be aware of and  respectful of the rights of young people. Because young people are workers like any other, their rights need to be promoted and respected in that regard. ILO has been working hard with its member states, including Nigeria, and we have gathered momentum along the way. We brought our sister organisations of the international system into our efforts. In 2016, the United Nations launched the Global Initiative on Decent Jobs for Youth to scale up  youth employment under the 2030 United Nations Sustainable Development Agenda. Recently, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said the Federal Government would repossess the 10 electricity distribution firms as one of the options to rescue the beleaguered electricity industry. What is your take on this? My first take on this issue is that  let us look for a simple way the private sector runs or establishes their businesses; number one is, if you must be an investor,  the first thing you must have is capital. However, in the case of these Discos, Gencos and other privatised companies, I doubt if they had the initial capital invested. It appears the government sourced the funds for them, and is also supporting them and bailing them out at every point of their problems. So, I think it is high time the government looked for people that are ready to do business like private investors. Not  people that will rip Nigerians of their money. Our take is that the government should use this opportunity of the expiration of the agreements to run the business the way it should be.The government should look for real investors that can take the risks in the business. What about the lingering issue of minimum wage.? Truly, the president signed the minimum wage of N30,000, but the government did not want to adopt full implementation. Our members were able to counter that, and I want to thank those that were able to correct this, and showed that labour is indivisible. Now, we are back to the table negotiating towards a meaningful result. Though the government is delaying the negotiation, I can assure you that we are on top of the issue because our representatives are already negotiating with the government.  The next line of action will be reviewed, if the next meeting fails to meet the demands of workers. As TUC president, what is your plan for the labour centre and your advice on how the country can move forward? One of our core responsibilities is to engage the government in all aspects of the economy. We have to engage the government on their policies, and mount pressure on it because one thing we have learnt is that, if you don’t mount pressure, you may achieve nothing. So, we are going to engage the government on vital issues that have to do with creation of jobs and also advance the interest of workers. We all know the problem of shortage of houses, and that is why we will challenge the government. I am sure the government will listen to the yearnings of our members.