Yemi Adaramodu, former Chairman of Ekiti Southwest Local Government, one-time Chief of Staff to Governor Kayode Fayemi and Chairman of House of Representatives Committee on Youth Development, spoke with Lucas Ajanaku in Lagos on the imperative of cordial relations between the executive and legislative arms of government. Kidnapping, cyber crimes, etc are as a result of youths unemployment. In your capacity as the House Committee chairman on Youth Development, what would you do to reduce these vices? When we talk of the youths,we know that the youths constitute 60 per cent of the population of Nigeria and that large population can never be ignored or can’t be treated with levity. First of all, we want to charge our parents that it is not only to give your children formal education. You should give your children informal education. What are the home training that our children are receiving nowadays? How many parents do have the time for their children nowadays? Then what about the community peer groups? Are they there anymore? So today, it’s just for us to rush a three months old baby to school, he or she starts school from three months. We want them to graduate even when they are still sucking. We produce kids as graduates who don’t even have exposure about life training which contributes to a total person, then value will be built. Then once there is value in the society, definitely we can now know which one we should do in order to gain prominence or become successful the society instead of cutting corners. Secondly, the government for me is doing well to create jobs and empower the youths. The N-power is a good example of this laudable initiative of the Federal Government whereby graduates become entrepreneurs and also become job creators. It is very good because it has taken millions of youths off the streets. Then the curriculum that is being taught in school should be the one to prepare the total mind of the child. When the total mind of the child is trained, it is then appreciated and the way the society is seen would be different from what is happening now. Today, unfortunately  what is happening is that everybody wants to have money and wants to get rich quickly. Societal values are no more inculcated either in the curriculum or in the formal training of our children.  That’s why all these cutting corners; all these idea  of wanting to make it at all cost by either kidnapping, robbery or any other notorious means are with us. There is this impression that the Ninth National Assembly will be a rubber stamp because of the rancour-free emergence of its leadership. Do you agree with this? Are they saying Rt Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, who is the Speaker of the House of Representatives, is not qualified? He has been in the National Assembly for the past 17 years. Are we saying he is not qualified to preside over  the House? What kind of rubber stamping are they talking about? Someone like Speaker Gbajabiamila who has been  Minority leader,  Majority Leader in the House. He had gone through the robes and has learned through the robes and has he the requisite experience and knowledge to lead the House.  Are we saying someone like that is going to be a rubber stamp? That is not logical. Then, the House of Representatives  elected him in a transparent election. You should know that he was popularly elected and even opposition parties voted for him. Are we then to say that the opposition parties that voted for him are rubber stamps of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)?. The lawmakers saw his leadership qualities  and his virtues, that was why they voted for him massively to be the Speaker. Even in the leadership of the committee members that have just been constitited, we have PDP member as the chairman and vice chairman, APGA members, APN members. It’s an all inclusive committee. Just like the motto of his campaign that said:  ‘United Fronts’ which is truly a united fronts. We can’t say there are no more party members because bills and motions will be raised by members and senators and definitely not by the leaders. So there’s no rubber stamp.  The legislature has its own role which cannot be compromised and  has been exclusively stated in the constitution.  So there can’t be rubber stamping. When we talk about budget scruitiny and passage, the ministry prepares and defends it. The ministry cannot build a bridge where there’s no need for one. In the 8th National Assembly, there was executive and legislative bickering that held the nation to ransom… The reason why it was like that was because everybody came through a political party which was their platform.  Once we have a parent that sends us somewhere, we must listen to them. The emergence of the 8th Assembly did not conform with that kind of parent-child  relationship. The party that sponsored you and called you together and  asked   how you wanted to pick your leadership did  the right thing. Do you think because of that, the leadership would not have the conscience to move forward and say they want to partner? There must be partnership in every arm of government. There’s no water tight separation of powers among the three arms of government. The executive can not go alone, neither can the legislature. If they decide to go alone, then, who would make the laws to be executed? So there’s no rubber standing there. The Presidency is planning to revert to January-December budget cycle. Do you see that possibility? Yes. It is quite possible because that was what Nigeria had practiced before and it was very okay. Although it had since changed. Even among Nigeria, it’s very confusing to say the new year starts in June. When you say the year’s budget, to everybody, the year starts in January and ends in December. So 2019 budget is 2019 budget and not 2019/2020 budget. So it’s supposed to be a year’s budget and it’s better like that. Is the National Assembly is ready to work with the Presidency to make this happen? We are prepared and committed to making it happen. It’s the duty of the executive arm of government to prepare the annual budget. The National Assembly’s function to scrutinise the proposed appropriation bill and give approval. So the executive arm of government too has a huge responsibility to make it happen.