The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has beckoned on the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to resuscitate the implementation of its Support to Democratic Empowerment (SDE) Phase 1, in Nigeria. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, made the call when he received the UNDP new Resident Representative to Nigeria, who paid a courtesy visit to the commission on Wednesday in Abuja. SDE is aimed at enlighten and mobilize stakeholders including the women groups, youths, traditional and religious leaders to participate massively in the general elections. The programme is also to conduct civic and voter education, as part of the media campaign, in order to sensitize and create awareness among the citizens for effective participation in the general elections. Yakubu said that the programme should have commended in 2018 but was suspended due to the challenges of time and funding. “There is one pending issue that we need to resuscitate immediately, which is implementation of the Support to Democratic Empowerment (SDE) Phase 1. “The implementation should have commenced in May 2018 through to December 2019. “The plan was not fully implemented for a number of reasons, but essentially the pressure on time on the commission because of general elections as well as the issue of funding. “I am glad to note that the plan is being revised by our technical teams. I look forward to the work of the two teams. “I wish to once again reassure you that we will jointly implement the recommendations in the current electoral circle and beyond,’’ Yakubu said. Yakubu described the UN and UNDP in particular as long term partners in support of elections, good governance and democracy in Nigeria. He said that INEC valued their partnership and it would continue to work with UNDP in promoting democracy and good governance. Yakubu recalled that in 2017 the UN Secretary General sent a Need Assessment Mission to Nigeria, as well as the Special Representative for West African and the Shahel, Mohammed Chambas who also visited before and after the last general elections. “We profoundly appreciate the support of the union and its agencies in promoting peaceful elections and good governance in Nigeria. We have worked closely with the UNDP in many areas since 2011. “These include technically and advisory support for voter registration in 2011; the formulation and validation of the commission gender policy; the formulation, validation and revalidation of the commission’s communication policy; down to support to voter education and publicity. “Induction and retraining for new Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) in Uyo in 2017: the printing of two volumes election project plan in 2018; and many other activities to build capacity of the commission both technical and human. “I want to reassure you of our continue willingness to collaborate, cooperate and work in partnership with you. We will extend the support to you that we have extended to all your predecessors.’’ Speaking earlier, the UNDP Resident Representative, assured the country of the organization’s continue support and engagement with INEC in deepening credible elections and democracy in Nigeria. He said that the UNDP recognised INEC as a critical institution for deepening democracy. He said, “For UNDP globally, electoral commissions have been a key part for the work that we do, in deepening democracy and delivering the voices of those who have voted in a way that is credible and transparent. “So, the work that you do, commissioners and chairperson, is critical for democratization to take its root in this country and across the continent. “For me coming here is one of the key aspects of my duties. “I want to thank you and your team for the work you have done in the past, but also to congratulate you for delivering 2019 general elections. “Also listening and learning from the experiences that you had in the last circle and also listening to what we can do together as we move forward,’’ Yahaya said. On his agenda in Nigeria, Yahaya said that the UNDP would supports Nigeria’s plans, including making INEC stronger. “We are a leading development agency in the UN system, specifically the work on governance, reduction of poverty. For today engagement we are focus on how to engage INEC to make it stronger than it is.’’ 