The Redeemer’s University, Ede in Osun State on Thursday graduated 379 students at its 11th convocation ceremony. Speaking at the event held at the university campus in Ede, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, advised the youths to face the future with hope and should not to allow the nation’s challenges overwhelm them. Represented by the Acting Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Redeemers University, Pastor Idowu Iluyomade, the vice president charged the graduands to be focused and face life challenges headlong. He admonished the graduating students not to join bandwagon of pessimists, “who complain daily about the nations challenges rather than face the challenges and succeed in life.” The vice president said the world itself is full of distractions “capable of luring those who are not focused away from attaining their goals,” adding that the serious minded ones will take advantage of a lot of opportunities that abound in the nation. Meanwhile, the best 2018/1019 graduating student of the institution, Mary Opeyemi Dosumu, who is the only child of her parents, secured two automatic employments at the event. She was offered job appointment as Accountant Trainee by Chairman of the AMNI International Petroleum Development Company, Dr. Tunde Afolabi, a honourary doctoral degree awardee of the university, and the Vice Chancellor of the Redeemer’s University, Prof. Anthony Enisan Akinlo, for the position of Graduate Assistantship. In his address, the Vice Chancellor, Professor Anthony Enisan Akinlo, who listed many achievements of the institution, urged the 379 graduating students to turn the nation’s challenges to opportunities. He charged them to maintain self-discipline by conquering self and above all consecrate themselves through a special covenant with God. He said: “The world is not looking for mediocre but game changers that can transform the rules of engagement. Let all that you have imbibe during the course of your studentship at RUN be your guiding principles that will distinguish you wherever you go now and throughout your lifetime.” The General Overseer of The Redeem Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, who is also the institution’s Visitor, said the vision of the school is to produce God-fearing entrepreneurs, who are not afraid of starting from the very little level like the church. According to him; “The Vision and Mission of the University has been put plainly to produce God-fearing, academically, outstanding, and diligent young men and women who are not afraid to start small like the RCCG. The University’s desire and effort to produce Godly professionals in the work place of life informed the emphasis of producing them as entrepreneurs or employers of labour rather than employees, more so in this fast paced socio-economic climate.” Also on Wednesday in the 11th Convocation lecture of the Redeemer’s University, Ede, Osun State titled “Unleashing Youth Potential : Pathway To Nigeria’s Future,” the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer , Unity Bank Plc, Mrs. Oluwatomi Somefun, advised the youths to stop over-reliance on the governments if they want to be successful in the career paths they may want to choose. Somefun further advised the youths to be focused and should have vision for themselves. The chartered banker, who also advised the youth not to pay attention to naysayers but instead focus more on putting their ideas to work, said: “Never wait for the government to do something for you. Its job is to create an enabling environment. Youth don’t have to give up, you have to keep going. When you see your business is outdated, innovate. “Discovery of your purpose gives you a vision for your life; a vision is a picture of what you want to achieve. It is important to have a clear picture of your dreams and aspirations in life, and articulate them without ambiguity. God himself told us in Habakkuk 2:2 that ” write the vision and make it plain on tablets, that he may run who reads ” Visioning is one of the most powerful tools God gave to human beings. Your vision gives you passion and provides direction. Urging the graduands to be more creative, Somefun counseled the youths to cultivate their personal and unique brand for themselves, saying “your personal brand speaks of your uniqueness as an individual. And you are a distinct personality, God’s original, specially created by Him with specific abilities and traits.” She said the young people should be the driving force and take charge to build the future that Nigeria want, charging them to work collectively and promote entrepreneurship, job creation for the better future of Nigeria. She continued: “You will want to start a business and you will find people who will tell you that it will not succeed because there is so much competition, more money, more infrastructures, and more resources. Let that not derail you. She pointed out that there were many young Nigerians recognised and respected abroad because of their success and achievements in their chosen careers, therefore asking the youths to seize the opportunities to innovate and turn their challenges into profitable ventures. Advising the youths to be determined, flexible and adaptable, she charged the graduating students not to be deceived, saying: “life outside the confines of the school environment is tough and sometimes harsh, hardly a walk in the park. Your values and morals will be tested but I encourage you to be firm, steadfast and be flexible in your thinking, and let your ultimate goals and objectives drive yours action. Difficult roads often lead beautiful destinations.”