Perturbed by the spate of insecurity in Nigeria, a socio-cultural organization, Yoruba Koya Initiative, has advised President Muhammad Buhari to tighten the security in the borders in a order to tackle the prevailing insurgency. The group said doing so will also boost the nation’s economic activities. The President of Yoruba Koya Initiative, Mr. Sunday Akinyemi, gave the advice during empowerment programme and inauguration of Senator Ajayi Boroffice and Chief Olalekan Folorunsho as Patron and Alatunse of the initiative, in Osogbo, Osun State capital. Akinyemi, who said one of the objectives of Yoruba Koya Initiative is to defend the interest of Yoruba people, expressed the readiness of the group to work with other security agencies to combat insurgency and other crimes in the country. He noted that the peace and unity of Nigeria remains sacrosanct and must not be negotiated for any other interests, urging President Buhari to mount surveillance in the zones of the country to check the proliferation of arms that made the nation insecure, check the influx of bandits and kidnappers migrated from neighbouring country. President of Yoruba Koya Initiative commended Mr.  President over the border closure policy, of his administration, stressing that the decision has further demonstrated Buhari’s desire to secure the nation from insurgents. However, he urged the President to take proactive measures in eradicating unemployment, suggesting that the Federal Government should give priority to youth empowerment, this according to him would help in reducing the menace of insecurity in the country. Speaking, the Olowu of Owukuta, Hammed Adekunle Oyelude Makama, commended Yoruba Koya Initiative for contributing  to the development of the country. Oba Makama who described the socio-cultural group as a strong and powerful initiative, said he was very glad by the empowerment Initiative of the group. He said Yoruba Koya Initiative has distinguished itself by introducing empowerment programmes apart from the security functions of the group. He, therefore, urged the group not to relent in their efforts toward making life better to the Yorubas just as he advised them no to engage in any act capable of tarnishing their good image. Seriki Fulani in Osun State, Alhaji Adamu-Mina Yahaya, who spoke on behalf of Hausa, said there is need for more holistic intervention to arrest “this felonious situation in.the.country.”