THE vicinity of University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, was thrown into panic as suspected cultists raided shops in the area. Residents of Udoette and other streets near the institution ran for safety as the assailants closed in on Monday night. The Nation exclusively reported last week that some streets close to the university and the Uyo City Polytechnic were under siege by hoodlums suspected to be cultists. Our correspondent who carried out a thorough investigation on the situation mentioned Udoette and Ikot Ekang streets as well as Itu Road as the black spots in Uniuyo and Uyo City Polytechnic areas. The report further stated that some residents of the affected areas in Uyo, the state capital, had vacated their rented apartments while landlords were selling their houses for fear of being killed. In a fresh attack which occurred Monday night between 8 and 9pm, our correspondent gathered that shop owners and passers-by were attacked and robbed by the assailants. The Nation learnt that the gangsters started their operations from Udoette and proceeded to Itu Road collecting money, mobile  phones, drinks and other valuable items from their victims. A source who pleaded anonymity disclosed that Udoette is a secret cults and armed robbers zone, adding that the hoodlums normally trooped out from Udoette Lane with dangerous weapons such as axes, guns and knives. He stated further that from 6pm the areas are very dangerous for the residents, passers-by and shop operators. The source said, ”Udoette is a very dangerous area because of these cultists who are bent on robbing, raping and making life unbearable for us. “Government should send in security men to these areas and especially Ebong Essien Street.” Also speaking, a businessman disclosed that the perpetrators usually hide at Essien Inyang Street after concluding their their operations. He expressed dismay that businesses in the affected have been adversely affected due to the high cases of insecurity. “We are now leaving here  in morbid fear and discomfort whereas it is not supposed to be so. As I speak we don’t have peace and we can’t move freely at night. “We want the government to come to our aid by sending security men to this area to protect us. “Cultists are not stronger than the government, so they should take immediate action concerning  the menace because  nothing  has been done positively to curb the situation,” he said. Efforts to reach the state police public relations officer, Odiko MacDon proved abortive as he did not respond to phone calls and text message sent to him.