Abdul Azeez Kausar, a 300-level Physics student of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto(UDUS), is combining studies with entrepreneurship. LAWAL SOFIYAT reports In recent times, entrepreneurship has become more emphasised, especially among youths and young graduates. At a time that white-collar jobs are not easy to come by, entrepreneurship has become a means of livelihood and a pathway to wealth acquisition. Despite the hurdles in schooling, one can still be a student and an entrepreneur as demonstrated by Abdul Azeez Kausar, a 300-level Physics student of UDUS. Kausar is a caterer! She is a lady with passion for baking. According to her, she started tapping the knowledge at a tender age from her mother who was then a prominent caterer. “I have a passion for baking cakes and that’s why I ventured into the business. I started baking at 17 during my secondary school days. My mum is a baker, but she didn’t take it to the next level, you know those days. I love the way she does it, and I got a passion from her skill. I picked up interest and received training online to make me improve my skill. My mother was happy and supported me in the business,” said Kausar who hails from Kebbi State. Generally, ladies are naturally not given to too much stress; however, such is not the case of this young ‘Danfodite’. Still in her 20s, Kausar said right from her teens, she exhibited the zeal to be a professional baker. Whether one begins small or big is never the question. Just try to be on top of your game first,” said Kausar, who recounted how her clientele, grew owing to referral. “There was this particular cake I baked for my first customer during a particular training. I charged her for it, though. She liked the cake more. This client confirmed that the taste was enticing. Surprisingly, she referred three people to me. That was how I began to get customers daily through referrals. Baking is a referral business,” she added. Baking, she further explained, requires more capital; no thanks to the kind of equipment, such as oven, pans, brush, decorating tools and others. Kausar would remain thankful to her parents who provided her a part of the capital. “My parents gave me some money with which to start, while I added the little equipment of my mum. Anytime I got an order, I use the profit to buy equipment. This was how I got my tools and how my work became easy.“ Kausar is a multiple award winner. She clinched last year’s  Best Baker of the Year Award by Kebbi Gorgeous. Kausar took part in the Kaduna chapter of Proud Bakers International, an association of bakers nationwide.  Her feat has earned her more baking tools and opportunity to attend more training. “I have registered my business with the Corporate Affairs Commission,” she said. She bemoaned the poor power supply which, she admitted, had been encumbering her business. “I haven’t faced any bigger challenge like that of (poor) electricity supply. I need it for my work and it’s not available most times,” she lamented. She advised young students with phobia of combining their studies with business. “Passion is the first step to success while the second is action. Be it baking or any other business, you have to grow the passion for it. Once you are in love with it, there will always be a way out,”she added.