Three Governors, prominent Nigerians, family members and members of the Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministries (MFM) have bided farewell to Janet Olukoya, mother of the General Overseer of the church, Dr. David Olukoya. The funeral at the MFM international headquarters, Onike-Yaba, Lagos filled the church to capacity. Those who could not fine space inside stood outside the church premises. Late Janet Olukoya died on 31th March, 2019. She was 95. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, represented by his Chief of Staff, Hon. Tayo Ayinde; Ogun state Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun and Ekiti state Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, represented by Prof. Dupe Adelabu led the pack of dignitaries. Others include former Osun Deputy Governor Mrs. Titilayo Tomori; wife of the Lagos state governor, Dr. Adejoke Sanwo-Olu; former Lagos First Lady Dame Abimbola Fashola; Sen. Lanre Tejuoso; University of Lagos (UNILAG) Vice Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe; monarchs, among others. Abiodun said the deceased lived 95 years of service to God and humanity. The Governor also described the late Janet Olukoya as a virtuous woman. “On behalf of the people of Ogun state, I join MFM General Overseer to appreciate God for granting our mother 95 years of grace, service to God and mankind. “She devoted her life to God and humanity. For our General Overseer, your children will honour you and you will continue to be a blessing to this generation and that to come,” he said. In his sermon, Pastor Michael Adeoye of Christ Apostolic Church, admonished the people to live a righteous life. The cleric noted that every man is afraid of death because they are not prepared, adding that everyone should learn from the lifetime of the deceased, late Janet Olukoya. He also appealed to the Governors and politicians present to fulfill their campaign promises. “You need to ask yourself how your end will look like because whatever has a beginning must have an end. “You need to understand that this world is temporary. You came to this world as a privilege. That is why you need to think about your responsibilities on earth and the day of reckoning. “Mama’s lifetime teaches us a lot which we need to learn from. If you are at a position today, always remember you will become an ex tomorrow. “As a politician, you should always create time to serve and worship God. Do not abuse your office and God will guide you to achieve your programmes,” he added. Olukoya described his late mother to be industrious, compassionate and humorous. He described the deceased as a perfect example of a ‘sweet mother’. “To live in the heart we leave behind is not to die. Mama Indo as she is fondly called would forever live in our hearts and would certainly be sorely missed. “She did not joke with Church service. Mama was an enigma. Her resolute spirit is worthy of emulation. “Our family was poor but mama was determined that her children will not starve,” he said. Also in her tribute, the deceased’s daughter, Funmi Olowoake, described her late mother to be supportive and caring, adding that she brought her children up in a Godly way. “I had felt so comfortable with her being around that I never imagined there will be a time I will not see her again. “She was what I would call my guardian angel. She was an exceptional woman.” Wife of the General Overseer, Pastor Shade Olukoya, gave account of the first day she met her later mother in-law. She described the deceased as a no- nonsense woman and tough, noting she united her extended family with true love, adding that she is honoured to be her daughter in-law.