A syndicate with alleged expertise in selling children has been uncovered by operatives of the Lagos State Police Command, spokesman Bala Elkana said on Sunday. He said a traffic policewoman attached to Ejigbo Division on August 26 while controlling traffic at Jakande Gate, Ejigbo, noticed commotion near her post and intervened. According to him, the officer discovered that the altercation was about a lady named Gift Michael, 24, found with a suspected new born baby. In her company is her ‘madam’, one Florence Nkem Douglas, 50, both of Ijegun area of Isheri. Elkana said the crowd was about to mob the duo after trailing them and reasonably suspecting them of buying and selling children for long at their maternity clinic but were rescued and taken to the Ejigbo Police station for investigation.  Elkana said detectives discovered pictures of over 50 babies in the madams’ phone suspected to have been sold off already, adding that the gang usually sold children between N500,000 to N1 million. “Investigation revealed that the said Florence Douglas, a native of Igueben in Edo State, who is not a registered nurse operates two Maternity Clinics named Flofidel Clinic and Maternity Homes with branches in Shosanya Street, I82, Ijegun Road and Okunola Ijagemo area. “On interrogation, the said Florence admitted to have been in the business of sales of babies for a while. She revealed that a baby girl is referred to as “PINK” while a baby boy is called “BLUE” and are both referred to as “MARKET”. “She further confessed that the male child found in their custody at Jakande Gate Ejigbo, suspected to be a week old was brought to her from Gombe, enroute Akure and was to be sold for N500,000. “The rescued baby who appeared sick with symptoms suspected to be jaundice was promptly taken to hospital for medical attention. Worthy of mention are pictures of about 50 different babies in the phone of the suspect, suspected to have already been sold off. “Babies are usually sold between N500,000 and N1million depending on their sex. “The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, Zubairu Muazu has ordered the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti Yaba to take over the investigation and ensure that other members of the syndicate are apprehended. Investigation is ongoing,” he said.