Since the liquidation of Nigeria Airways in 2004, attempts by the government to set up another national carrier, Nigeria Air, have been largely unsuccessful. Experts say aviation business, including airline ownership and management, is better left to the private sector. Is the idea of a national carrier going out of fashion? KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR asks The Minister of Aviation’s pronouncement that  Nigeria Air remains a priority has triggered a huge debate in the sector on the necessity, or otherwise, of a national carrier. There is an agreement, however, by experts that Nigeria needs a functional carrier. The argument is whether it should be government- driven, or left in private hands. Nigeria Airways Limited, which operated for many years as a national carrier, failed to meet the expectations of Nigerians and was shut by government in 2004. Its experience in the 56 years of its existence showed that public ownership of airlines was no more fashionable. Nigeria Airways Limited was established in 1958 as a national carrier but liquidated  in 2004. In the last few decades, efforts by the government to achieve a national carrier after the collapse of Nigeria Airways Limited have not gathered any steam. Rather than dissipate energy on a national carrier, experts say the government should flow with the global trend of empowering private sector operators as flag carriers. The Federal Government approved N47.43 billion for the Nigeria Air project in the 2019 budget. Efforts by the government to partner with many organisations to deliver a national carrier since the dying days of the Nigeria Airways Limited have not yielded any positive result. From the failed Air Nigeria, which was to come out of Nigeria Airways to Nigerian Global Airlines promoted during the Olusegun Obasanjo-led administration to Nigerian Eagle Airlines and the latest Nigeria Air promoted by Minister of Aviation, Captain Hadi Sirika, none have been delivered. Given the huge capital flight by foreign carriers, can setting up a national carrier block such gap? Should the government go ahead with the project? This debate has engaged the attention of industry experts and stakeholders. Clamour for a national carrier President Muhammadu Buhari, on assumption of office on May 29, 2015, expressed concern over Nigeria’s lack of a national carrier . He said the establishment of such a carrier was not only justifiable by economic considerations, but for strategic national interest, national pride and job creation potential. The presidential interest was fueled by the unending challenges faced by domestic carriers after the N300 billion intervention fund did not yield positive results. Buhari said his administration would act quickly to redress the situation. He directed that the committee saddled with the task of setting up the national carrier to look into the causes of the failure of the Nigeria Airways and other private airlines before arriving at the model that will meet the aspirations of Nigerians. Last week, Minister of Aviation Captain Sirika said there was no going back on the project. He stated this when Transaction Advisers submitted the outcome of their research to the government. He said the national carrier was in the pipeline as the Transaction Advisers had concluded their baseline studies and were moving to the next level. Sirika said: “Every Nigerian is asking for the national carrier. That is why the project is on course.“ It is against this background that some experts have called on the government to jettison the idea of a national carrier and embrace the model of private sector-led flag carriers obtainable in some countries across the globe. Some of them argued that the government as a regulator in the aviation sector had no business in setting up an airline, but should encourage private sector investors by creating a conducive environment for them to thrive. In an interview, Chairman of Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) Captain Nogie Meggison said the government should have no business in setting up a national carrier, but empower existing private sector airlines as flag carriers. According to the leader of the umbrella body of indigenous carriers, the government should empower domestic carriers by reducing multiple aeronautical and airport charges to actualise the bilateral air services agreement it signed with many countries. What really is the difference between a national carrier and a flag carrier? Difference between national and flag carriers According to the experts, a national carrier is floated by the government as sole shareholder, to operate in the name of the government and represent the government in all aviation-related bilateral services agreements. But, a flag carrier is a privately- owned airline that, by agreement, is designated to represent a government and fly on behalf of the government, representing it on all bilateral-designated routes. Flag carriers Since the demise of the Nigeria Airways, many carriers, including Arik Air, Aero Contractors, Medview Airlines, Air Peace, Overland Airways and Dana Air have been playing the role of flag carriers, flying the country’s flag in many countries, where they are designated. Experts’ views A former Director of Human Resources at the defunct Virgin Nigeria, Victor Banjo, recently spared a thought for the proposed national carrier. He said the project lacked the requisite structure for success. He said the proposed national carrier would lack accountability, fairness, transparency and independence. He said: “From the outset, Nigeria Air was doomed to fail because the four pillars of corporate governance were missing. In terms of transparency, too much was shrouded in secrecy for a project a huge chunk of taxpayers’ money was to be committed, and time will tell if it will move from being premature to a stillborn.” But, Sabre Travel Solutions President, Gbenga Olowo, said the government should empower existing flag carriers, rather than dissipating energy and resources in setting a national carrier. To him, existing flag carriers should be supported through policies that enable them forge alliances as global players . His words: “This is easily achievable through economic policy of cooperation, collaborations, mergers and acquisitions; review of all existing Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) through periodic schedules for equity and immediate reversal of all multiple entry points in Nigeria to single entry points.” On his part, African Aviation Services Limited Chief Executive Officer Nick Fadugba said though the idea of a national carrier was welcome, but for it to succeed, it would need a sound business plan, strategic industry partners, adequate funding, an experienced management team, well-trained staff, a fleet of modern aircraft, a comprehensive route network, on-time performance, good customer service and no government involvement. The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, Nnolim Nnaji, has said Nigeria needs strong flag carriers to enable it play on the continental sphere. Nnaji said the country had remained passive in the continental aviation market in recent years, despite its huge daily passenger traffic. However, to him, floating a fully government-owned airline might not be an alternative. According to him, the committee will work closely with the Federal Government to ensure that competent local airlines are supported to assume the status of flag carriers and operate internationally. An aviation analyst and member, Aviation Round Table, Olumide Ohunayo, said setting up a national carrier was not the best option, but empowerment of existing flag carriers to enable Nigeria actualise its over 75 bilateral air services agreements. He said: “We are on the verge of starting a new national carrier after many false starts, from Air Nigeria in 1993 to Nigeria Air in 2018. Twenty-six years, and we are still going round in circles. During this period, the best we got for our efforts was Virgin Nigeria, which within six years had all certifications and numerous offers for partnership. “We are toeing that line with the new national carrier project of acquiring five aircraft and flying to international destinations almost immediately without any base or foundation, just the government’s support without requisite funding. “If having a national carrier is felt to be a must, then the cost, risk and lessons from other airlines should be seriously considered.” More reactions Flag carriers said they could do more if they get the necessary support from the government . The support, they said, could come in the form of reducing multiple charges, improved air navigation infrastructure, establishment of aircraft maintenance facility and more involvement in international aero politics. On his part, Chairman of Air Peace Allen Onyema said: “However, we need more support from th government. We need to be protected from multiple taxation and the debilitating effects of poor airport infrastructure. We need the government to review the multiple designations given to foreign airlines operating into the country. “We need the government to appreciate the contributions of indigenous airlines. We have been exposed to unrelenting hostility. We need the government to help us play the international aero politics that have been working against Nigerian airlines for a long time. Countries protect their airlines against marauding foreign airlines. The local airlines provide jobs for the citizens of their countries hence, the immense protection they get. Recently, Airlines in America complained against the several frequencies given to the heavily-subsidised Gulf states’ airlines. The US Government responded with measures that deterred those Gulf airlines. The US Government needed to protect US jobs by protecting their indigenous airlines. “You do not need a national carrier to do the needful. You do not need a national carrier to protect your indigenous businesses. Why did the government want to establish a national airline in the first place?” Onyema continued: “Government was rightly worried that no Nigerian indigenous airline was doing well on the international scene. The government noticed a very serious imbalance in our BASA protocols and wanted to bridge it. So government went into it for a reason. Though there were genuine reasons for that plan to set up an airline, it was the belief of not only indigenous airlines but also the discerning aviation world that Nigeria should rather find out why its indigenous airlines have not been able to plug the hole. All we need is total support of our government and we will all get there. National carrier is no longer an idea the world over “America with its economic might and aviation prowess (manufacturers of world’s most popular planes) does not have a national carrier. They have flag carriers in Delta Airlines, United Airlines, American Airlines and a host of others flying the flag of America. Britain does not have a national carrier any longer. British Airways is no longer a national carrier since the 80s. “Nigeria Airways was a failed airline, it died just as other national carriers worldwide,” he said. How the government could assist flag carriers Legal luminary Olisa Agbakoba, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), a few years ago mooted the idea of a “Fly Nigeria Act” which prescribes that all government officials flying on its bill must patronise Nigerian flag carriers. He said that was one of the ways the government could retain huge funds taken out by foreign carriers in tickets sales. Agbakoba said other countries, including United States initiated the Fly America Act to support US carriers. Besides Agbakoba, other industry players, including former spokesman of  Nigeria Airways Limited, Mr Chris Aligbe, said such legislative instrument would empower indigenous flag carriers.