THE Public Relations Officer of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Mr Azeez Adeyemi, has been accused of disrupting the election of the National Association of Ogun State Students (NAOSS). A group led by Comrade Ade Bash from the University of Lagos, described as ‘spurious’ the NAOSS election conducted at Iwe–Irohin in Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital, which produced Olamileke Ogunronbi as president. It, however, endorsed another election conducted at NSCDC’s College of Security and Management, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta where Saka Azeez Abidemi also emerged president. Bash told CAMPUSLIFE that ahead of the election, Adeyemi allegedly sent some threat messages to some NAOSS contenders, asking them to drop their ambitions or be dealt with. But Adeyemi described the group as’ impostors’, adding that their action amounts to ‘impersonation’ because Ogunrunbi is NAOSS’ legitimate president. CAMPUSLIFE learnt that the accusations and counter accusations, were the fallout of NAOSS election, which appeared to be producing to parallel leaderships. CAMPUSLIFE checks revealed that the crisis started during a run up to the election, held in June after the electoral commission was instituted at a pre-convention earlier. The election produced Comrade Kehinde Olaonipekun Olusegun of the National Open University (NOUN), Abeokuta as the electoral committee chairman, alongside other members. Bash further alleged that Adeyemi mobilised some armed people to the election venue to disrupt it. “Nobody knew who they were. But, it was ascertained that they were not senators neither were they members of NAOSS,” said Bash,  a leading supporter of the Abidemi-led NAOSS. The group said the invaders were sponsored by Adeyemi who was also bankrolling a presidential candidate. “The NANS members came up with various moves and antics to disrupt the peace and serenity of the elections. They lured the security officials into dancing to their tunes to have their ways,” the group said. “While everyone was patiently waiting for the arrival of the electoral commission to conduct the elections, NANS agents were seen preparing for the election on their own and insisting that the election must hold for that day. We were wondering why they were adamant on the election holding when they are not even members of NAOSS,” he added. The source further explained that Adeyemi, alongside some NANS executive members, ensured they had access to the voting arena, while NAOSS members were shut out. Bash said as is the tradition, the outgoing president, who was also barred from entering the venue, was expected to declare the convention open as a prelude to voting. He said certain key members of NAOSS, who were observers in the election, were also denied access into the hall. “Out of 21 offices, they conducted election into three offices without the use of any ballot papers which is against the rules of NAOSS and election guidelines and the electoral chairman was forced to declare the results,” the group said. Bash noted that after the election, some students of Ogun extraction  summoned a peace meeting of stakeholders in the student unionism. The fallout was a resolution for fresh election, which held at the state Command of NSCDC, Oke-Mosan, where Abidemi emerged winner. Adeyemi, however, described the allegations as tissues of lies. Speaking through NANS Press Consultant Oluwabunmi Akinlotan, Adeyemi  said the election followed due process. Adeyemi denied ever mobilising thugs to the election venue. He described the elements behind the story as ‘irrelevant group of individuals’ desirous of heating up the polity. “The election held at the Iwe Iroyin was free and fair. It was keenly contested to the extent that it dragged till nightfall. “Many of your colleagues (refereeing to CAMPUSLIFE reporter) from national dallies as well as police and other security officers were in attendance as witnesses. In the end, Olamileke Ogunronbi from Ogun State Cooperative College Ijeja-Abeokuta won, and was declared president by the chairman of the electoral committee, who was also shielded by security officers while announcing the results. “These people later approached the Ogun State chapter Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps NSCDC College of Security and Management and misled the provost that they wanted to have a students event, only for them to conduct a kangaroo election that produced Abidemi. “We later reached out to the Provost of the college, who said the students lied to him that they wanted to organise students activities, but he didn’t know it was election they wanted to conduct. “How could you conduct election with about 15 members on ground? What they have committed is simply impersonation. “They have been going from place to place to finding legitimacy to their faction. At a point, we wanted to take up the matter with them, but it was this same that Adeyemi who felt as the chairman of NANS, he would not close his eyes while his colleagues are being harassed. “They have been going around sending fake stories with scam mails to certain media houses without revealing their identities. Let them come out as we are coming out, if they are sure they have nothing else to hide. We are ready to honour any invitation by anybody since we have no skeleton in our cupboard.” Meanwhile, a top police source, who also witnessed the election at Iwe Irohin, described the Bash-led group as ‘unreasonable’. “To the best of my knowledge, the election was very peaceful and a winner unanimously emerged,” said the source who also craved anonymity. He continued: “We ensured we mobilised enough police officers to the venue. All efforts by some unscrupulous elements to thwart the election were resisted. So, if some people are saying the election was disrupted, that was a lie from the pit of hell.’’