THE roar of cheers at the album launch of Nigerian gospel singer and songwriter, Lara Adonri, is deafening. The event, which was recently held in Lagos, was graced by fans, families and prominent personalities in the gospel industry. The album titled, Unlimited God, is a 6-track but loaded with soul-lifting melodies that include, Praise Medley, Prayer song, Iwo ni ibere and a track dedicated to her late husband, Tribute to late Pastor Oludare Adanri. The talented singer who instantly hit the limelight after she released her debut album titled, Ki Olorun Ko Oju Simi in 2009 said the latest album has continued to yield positive reward since its released to the market. “I am very proud of this album. Since its released to the market, the feedback has been good, people have been commending for the good work, we’ve gone to so many churches to minister, wedding and parties. It has continued to wins many souls, all glory to almighty God and I appreciates my fans worldwide for their support. At the event, I was so excited to see many of my colleagues in the gospel industry including veteran singers Joseph Adebayo Adelakun aka Baba Ayewa, Kay wonder, Oyindamola Adejumoke and others,” she said. Adonri, started singing at tender but became a professional artiste when she unveiled her band, ‘Lara and Her Shalom Voices’ in 2005. “I formed the band when I was a final year student at Osun State Polytechnic, Ire. Since I started professional in 2005, the almighty God has kept me going. I’ve ministered in several occasions both home and abroad and I still believe in Him that I will continue to travel worldwide with my band,” the graduate of Research Administration said. She, however, prophesied that Nigerian will redeem its glory with prayer. “We should put our trust in God, Nigeria will be good through fasting and prayer, and this I preach in many of my songs. The government needs to go back to God. You know the Bible says, ‘if the foundation has been destroyed what can the righteous do?’ Therefore, it is only God that can rearrange things for us, not by our power or wisdom.” The talented singer, further opined that gospel artistes should not sing because of fame or wealth but rather focus on winning souls. “If you are really called to be a gospel artiste, your primary assignment will be to win souls and be a blessing to people. Profit should not be the priority as a gospel singer because only God knows how to reward you. The Bible says what profit a man that gains the whole world and loses his soul, so we shouldn’t sing because of money or fame. Those things are temporary but the major thing is our relationship with God.” She continued, “Though, not all singers are called and the ones that are called, because of financial constraints, they start mingling with the secular artistes. This is one of the reasons I chose Baba Ayewa who is over 70 year-old and Mama Bola Are as my role models because over the years, their careers have stood on what they believe and God didn’t disappoint them. They might not be world famous or wealthy but God has been there for them.” On how she gets inspiration to write her, she says, “Sometimes, I get dreams of it when sleeping, reading my bible or when I am listening to preaching. I can also get a lyric from the challenges I am going through and many other things.”