National Chairman the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief Victor Oye has said that the party will spring a surprise in Kogi state governorship election with the emergence of Sheikh Jibril as its flag bearer. He said this at the presentation of certificate of return to Sheikh Jibril at the party Secretariat in Abuja. Jibril won the primary with 15, 215 delegate votes over Chief Sani Teidi 14,997 votes in the election supervised by the APGA returning officer Barrister Steve Nwoga. According to Oye, APGA remains the only party with a clean bill of health to offer the people of Kogi good leadership as evident in Anambra state stressing that the disconnect between the population and the All Progressives Congress led government in the state is an opportunity for APGA to win the election. Oye said APGA is gradually gaining national spread by the decision of the people and not out of any form of inducement but on the popularity of the candidates and party, this he expects to play out in Kogi. “Winning election in Kogi is doable the reason is this, the people are disenchanted with the current administration in Kogi state as the Governor performed woefully and APGA is ready to take over the Governorship of that State. “I have always said that PDP is expiring APC is explicating APGA is the only political party with a clean bill of health. “We won election all over Nigeria. We won three seats in the Benue State House of Assembly; we reclaim the Governorship seat in Anambra State, three members in the House of Assembly in Abia State; one House of Representatives member from Abia, one from Taraba, five councilors in Niger State and two from Kaduna State. “We are going to follow our manifesto which is a functional and pragmatic one. In Anambra State things are working well, in fact we will reenact the template of development in Anambra State in Kogi State,” Oye stated. Kogi state chairman of APGA, Abdulazeez Alikola congratulated Jibril and called on Teidi to accept the outcome of the primary and support the party’s choice. Sheikh in his response called on all party members to join hands to remove the incumbent as the task as ahead is challenge that required focused attention of all. He said come November 16, APGA would be the party chosen to steer the ship of Kogi State.