Commercial banks have been advised to make more investments in financial technology (FinTech) and the relevant specialised human capital for the growth of the financial system. Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), President, Uche Olowu who gave the advice at the institute’s investiture in Lagos,  said  investment in specialised human capital is, particularly, significant given the domination of technological solutions, which are taking over human jobs. According to a report by the McKinsey Global Institute, 60 per cent of all occupations have at least 30 per cent of activities that are technically automated. Furthermore, the report states that roughly one-fifth of the global workforce will be impacted by the adoption of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and automation and by 2030, it is estimated that robots will replace 800 million workers across the world. The World Economic Forum, further projects that by 2055, nearly half of all work in all occupations would be automated. Additionally, the PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) states that the effects of automation would not only alter the jobs available to humans but also the perceived value of these jobs. “It is also pertinent to mention that the increasing competition in the digitised banking environment would no longer be between banks but with non-banking institutions,’’ he said. FinTech and big tech firms such as Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple are now capturing more of the banking value chain.  Furthermore, payment service banking is set to further disrupt the banking industry. For example, as at July 2019, telecoms such as MTN and Airtel Nigeria had been granted licenses by the Central Bank of Nigeria. PwC suggests that from 2025 to 2035, a market economy would readily exist without traditional banks,” he said. Olowu said that any bank staff who wishes to survive and thrive within the industry over the next 10 to 20 years must adapt and become relevant to the future of banking. “Indeed professionals and would-be banking professionals must reposition themselves for relevance in the changing environment. Such statistics as stated above confirm that in the future workplace, we may not be competing for jobs with other humans but with robots,” he said. Continuing, he said that in the age of digitisation it is important to stay relevant regardless of the cadre of employment you fall under. “Banking professionals must consistently keep in touch with current trends in their field of expertise and the impact such trends would have on your job role. Aspiring bankers are also expected to gain a full understanding of the emerging technical skills sought after in the industry. Constantly keeping tabs on trends and required skills would increase your value professionally and in turn your relevance,” he added. The Guest Speaker and Managing Director/CEO, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, said that financial institutions are faced with growing technological changes and have had to respond through the adoption of and adaptation to potentially disruptive technologies in their business models and in their broad corporate strategies. This is all in a bid to remain relevant, increase convenience and productivity and make banking simple for individuals and businesses alike. He said the banking sector has undergone some changes,  will undergo added disruption. “Yesterday, we had nothing like the digital apps in use today, tomorrow we are certain of further disruption underlined by artificial intelligence, machine learning, robotics, big data analytics among others,” he said. “To reposition in a competitive environment, you must evaluate and understand the trends that would impact the industry now and into the future. Are these trends positive or otherwise? Are the impacting trends long or short term? Are they irreversible or not? Additionally, one must also be clear on what is relevant to the market, be clear on market outcomes and constantly evaluate these outcomes. We note that repositioning decisions hold positive or negative outcomes with regards to personal and vocational value,” he said.