Globally, the future of large scale agriculture lies in the adoption and integration of modern technology to boost food production. Consequently, there is need for more skilled and qualified workforce to adopt and make use of budding tech innovations designed to boost food production. The increasing demand for tech-savvy specialists across the food production value chain has put authorities in agric sector on their toes. Already, efforts to equip the next generation of Nigerians with relevant skills have taken centre stage, Agriculture Correspondent, DANIEL ESSIET, reports. For Nigeria’s agric sector, a new dawn beckons. This is coming on the strength of a strategic partnership between Nigeria and Morocco in the provision of quality education, research, and training to support a world-class fertiliser industry. It was learnt that as part of this promising collaboration between both countries, at least, three Nigerians are already participating in an International Masters in Fertiliser Management Programme in Ben Guerir, Morocco. One of the lucky participants, Mr. Nnaemeka Odionye, is currently being exposed to new automation technologies designed to boost productivity in the agricultural sector, from software that can assist with early pest detection, robotics, and artificial intelligence systems to grow crops, Odionye is optimistic that his training will prepare him for the job of the future, especially in Nigeria where the adoption and integration of modern technology to boost food production has become imperative. Speaking, an expectant Odionye confirmed that he and other post-graduate students enrolled in Mohammed VI Polytechnic University (UM6P), Morocco, are exposed to world class education that will equip them to pursue global careers in agriculture. “We are exposed to several agricultural and food industry technologies e.g. fertigation (when nutrients are incorporated into irrigation water) and precision agriculture (the use of technology to obtain environmental and crop data so as to deliver the right dose of nutrients to plants to increase productivity),” he said. He also said the university’s laboratories are equipped with lots of equipment for real time analysis. He said: “I am also aware that new laboratories are being set up for the new masters’ students in molecular biology. “Academically, it has also been fantastic. The curriculum, seminars, workshops and teaching aids are well tailored to meet the programme’s description. The laboratories are as good as you find in prestigious universities in the world, with cutting edge technologies to carry out the latest research in soil fertilisation and related fields.” Under the partnership, graduates under the agriculture faculty also deal with automation in agriculture and the demand for technology in greenhouses. They are taught how to use robotics and automation in greenhouses to create a positive impact on the sector and emerging technologies, including robotic harvesters and decision support systems. These must be why Odionye described the programme as “a game changer.” According to him, the opportunity for networking has been awesome, as he and he and other participants have had the opportunity of meeting experts not only in the fertiliser industry, but in the global food industry. He also said UM6P is the only school in the world with a specific programme in fertiliser science and technology. “I believe the opportunities out there for us are limitless. I have developed a passion to contribute to reducing global hunger and poverty. “I intend to increase small holder farmer’s income in Nigeria and Africa by improving fertiliser use efficiency through the recommendation of specific soil nutrients for different regions and crop varieties across Africa,” Odionye said. Toyib Aremu, another beneficiary of the Nigeria/Morocco partnership, is also enjoying a full scholarship at the Moroccan university. He said he hopes to deploy knowledge gained from the programme to help revolutionise Nigeria’s agriculture and enhance food security. According to him, the school brings international academics and industry experts to take participants through various aspects of tech innovation in the agric sector. He added that studying with students from other African countries such as Kenya, Egypt, Uganda, Malawi, Liberia, Rwanda and Morocco exposed him to the cultures of other people. Aremu said UM6P, which is funded by the state-owned Office Chérifien des Phosphates (OCP), provides an example for Nigeria in terms of building quality human capital and equipping the next generation of Nigerians with in-demand skills at the tertiary education level. He said although, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is currently sponsoring students abroad, he is looking forward to a time when it will invest more in local institutions. Aremu said such investment was necessary because tech innovation in agric had the potential to drive Nigeria and indeed, Africa’s economic transformation through more formal and efficient smallholder farmer value chains. It will also reduce food imports and increase agric exports. Odionye and Aremu personify the renewed thinking by industry experts and authorities in the agric sector in favour of the adoption and integration of modern technology to boost food production. This,  it was gathered, is in line with global trend that supports skilled and qualified workforce to adopt and make use of budding tech innovations to boost food production. Experts speak For instance, the Director-General, Premier Agribusiness Academy, Mr. Toromade Francis, said agric businesses are increasingly looking to groom future specialists, especially at a time when technology is disrupting businesses faster than companies can cope with. Francis, who spoke at a forum in Lagos, noted that the integration of technology into agriculture industries is already having a significant effect on the sector in terms of both the structure of the workforce and the increase in productivity that tech innovations facilitate. According to him, technology is a significant factor in increasing the industry’s ability to grow more food. As a result, there is a big demand for specialists across the agricultural production systems with skills in managing the technological system used in food production. Francis said attaining a high level of skill in the new redefined specialties could be the best way to secure a dynamic, rewarding career in the future. He said the agric industry needs professionals exposed to efficient operating practices, new technologies, and increased levels of partnership and collaboration across the supply chain. Francis said employers are hungry for well-trained supply chain graduates, with skills that are continually growing and changing, adding that technology is having greater impact on agribusinesses. The Country Manager, HarvestPlus Nigeria, Dr. Paul Ilona, also in the agric sector, said there are many Nigerians who lack the technical proficiency needed to do certain jobs. According to him, this is despite the fact that the agric sector presents tremendous opportunities for personal, enterprise and national growth and development. This is more so considering the fact that as more companies expand globally, they are also increasing their international assignments and relying on expatriates to manage their global operations. The belief is that there is a labour market failure that results, in part, from the accelerating rate of change in the global economy–making it harder for the skills supply system to keep up with rapidly changing demand. According to development experts, the education and training system continue to turn out graduates whose skills are not always a match for available opportunities. While there is shortage of locals to help international companies successfully launch new ventures and gain advantage over competitors, most of them generally bring in their own experts from other locations to lead projects on a short-term basis, rather than rely on local talent. This is perhaps, why Ilona noted that the Nigerian economy is currently experiencing a structural and long-term talent development issue. This is not limited to Nigeria though, as most countries in Africa are facing the same challange. Impulse accelerator programme to the rescue An international non-profit organisation, Mass Challenge and UM6P in Ben Guerir, Morocco, has launched the “Impulse Accelerator Programme” to support start-ups in Nigeria and the rest of Africa. The global programme aims to pool resources, integrate and accelerate start-up projects the incubator will be fostering across the continent. It was designed to equip young entrepreneurs with the skills set to develop and grow start-ups. Impulse Programme Director, Adnane Soulimani, said: “The programme was dedicated to start-up businesses, fostering innovation and supporting entrepreneurs with their projects through its acceleration programme.” The programme is going to groom African start-ups and create opportunities for talented Nigerian and international students interested in tech jobs. Soulimani said the programme was determined to instil entrepreneurial spirit through outreach programmes in different parts of Africa where youths will be exposed to inspirational talks and workshops teaching skills necessary for entrepreneurship. The start-up journey, under the guidance of seasoned entrepreneurs and network of corporate partners and investors, doesn’t only give students and graduates the confidence required to jump-start their entrepreneurial ambition, but also helps position their venture for long- term success. It was gathered that Morocco’s tech sector has matured radically, especially in agri-tech, which has skyrocketed in the region. With new start-up incubators and accelerators, the north African country has made a name for itself as Africa’s start-up powerhouse. Performance Manager, OCP SA, Sara Sabor, said the goal was not only to open up possibilities for entrepreneurs, but also cultivate a new generation of active job creators rather than job seekers. According to her, Morocco has made significant economic and social progress, which has raised the aspirations of Moroccans, especially its young people. OCP, she noted, was investing in youths to ensure they have the skills needed to drive the economic transformation, while unleashing the job-creating dynamism of the private sector. The immediate past Director, Agriculture School, UM6P, and coordinator of Agro Biosciences Research in Benguerir, Morocco, Prof. Faouzi Bekkaoui, said with more mouths to feed, the need to churn out more innovators to work in crop agriculture has never been more compelling. He said there is the urgent need for African countries to figure out how to grow more food faster, with fewer resources, by developing new technologies to scale up the planet’s food production mechanisms on a sustainable basis. Bekkaoui believes the country and the rest of Africa need competent hands to facilitate production of high-value crops. And to help the continent achieve this, he said the university created an agriculture department. According to him, the department includes a new school of agriculture, fertiliser and environment sciences (ESAFE), focused on both education and research, alongside an experimental farm featuring a 110-hectare living lab in Benguerir, with nurseries and greenhouses. To create tailor-made solutions adapted to the diversity of all African soils, the institution is also creating an experimental farm in Yamoussoukro in the Ivory Coast, while also exploring similar centres in different areas in the continent. The goal of ESAFE, according to Bekkaoui, was to train students and professionals in agriculture who will contribute to food security by advancing research and improving fertiliser, crop products, water and soil management. According to him, the Executive Master’s Programme in Fertiliser Science and Technology has been developed in collaboration with the International Fertiliser Development Centre (IFDC), alongside contributions from the International Plant Nutrition Institute, the University of Georgia and Morocco’s OCP. The aim, he explained, was to give employees a thorough understanding of all aspects of the fertiliser industry. An important pillar of the university’s agricultural research is an ongoing project to analyse and map soils in countries throughout Africa to better understand their needs and help make more appropriate fertiliser for them. Under a pact with African universities, teachers and professionals across the country are benefitting from world class educational investment, gaining tangible, in-demand skills and knowledge that will re-shape the country’s workforce and boost economic growth. Commenting on the multi-year partnership agreement the OCP sealed with IFDC and UM6P, OCP Chairman and CEO Mostafa Terrab said: “This important partnership with IFDC confirms and advances our ambition to mobilise world-class resources in research and innovation for the benefit of Africa in general.” For President and CEO of IFDC, Albin Hubscher, the partnership “will accelerate the development and large-scale production of more efficient fertiliser to increase smallholder productivity and incomes while respecting the environment.” He added that the partnership was unique because it invests in public good, which is the building of the next generation of African scientists and professionals to drive the growth of the agric sector and feed the continent. The collaboration will develop science-based interventions, produce a large body of scientific publications, and create the next generation of trans-disciplinary trained scientists who can bridge the gap between science and implementation. Digital jobs This is a $100 million initiative by the Rockefeller Foundation that seeks to impact the lives of one million people in six African countries, including Nigeria, South Africa, Kenya, Ghana, Morocco, and Egypt. The initiative does this by catalysing Information Communications Technology (ICT)-enabled employment and skills training for high-potential African youth who would not otherwise have access to sustainable employment. Launched in 2013, the initiative works in close partnership with stakeholders from the private sector, government, civil society, and the development community. In partnership with the Digital Jobs Africa Initiative, the World Bank has undertaken a number of activities to increase and enhance opportunities for digital job creation in Africa. This includes the development of an Information Technology (IT) park in Ghana, capacity building for digitilisation of public records, and online work/micro-work awareness building and training in Nigeria. Experts say the recipe for success in the country lies in its ability to increase investments in innovation, equip the workforce with relevant skills, produce higher-value goods and services, and expand trade. This, according to them, means ensuring that Nigerians, particularly youths, are well prepared to succeed as skilled workers and entrepreneurs in an increasingly digital and global economy. The consensus is that if the country does not address her talent and skills gap, it could cost the economy billions loss productivity, tax revenues, and Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In other words, it has become imperative to address the skills gap, if the country wants to secure its place as a competitive player in the global economy. To make this happen, the Chief Executive, Nigeria Climate Innovation Centre, Bankole Oloruntoba, believes the widespread adoption of renewable energy technologies would create employment opportunities across the supply chain. According to him, there is the need for policy makers and businesses to recognise the broad socio-economic opportunities and benefits that renewables can bring. Indeed, globally, the renewable sector employed 11 million people at the end of 2018, according to the sixth edition of the Renewable Energy and Jobs series of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA).