When many of the immediate past Higher National Diploma graduates of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic gained admission about three years ago, they never thought they would spend three years on programmes that should have wrapped up in less than two years. Having resumed classes in November 2016, many had high hopes that by last November, they would have been mobilised for the mandatory National Youth Service Corp. Interestingly, some of them who previously gained employment and had started earning a living after the end of their National Diploma in 2015, returned to MAPOLY for their HND in 2016. None among them ever thought that the academic journey which took off smoothly would turn turbulent halfway. At a point, it required prayers and intervention of some powerful people before the students could write their second semester exam. That was almost a year after they had written the first semester. Unfortunately, the students’ challenges were further compounded by the conversion and rechristening of the institution as Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology, and the relocation of MAPOLY to Ipokia area of the state by the immediate past administration. The development created uncertainty, especially among lecturers, who felt they were not properly carried along and that a committee set up to oversee the transition marginalised them. However, amid government’s uncompromising posture, the lecturers, under the aegis of Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic (ASUP) of MAPOLY, embarked on a three- month strike. Unfortunately, the strike started on the day students were to begin their second semester examination. Even after what seemed like negotiations and resolutions between the government and ASUP,  things have not remained the same. The union appeared to be working on their own schedule and not in conformity with the academic calendar.  Since then, releasing of results, mobilisation of students for NYSC have become an herculean task. Some of the outgone students who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE, lamented how the delay affected their NYSC mobilisation since they graduated in March this year. A student identified as Bolaji said: “I am tired of the situation of things, MAPOLY has failed to release our result. Management has failed to mobilise us for NYSC. “Nobody is ready to employ you without result. We don’t know the way forward, they should just let us go”. Another student who introduced himself as as Bolu said, “I am running away from people at home because they are already thinking I have extra year and that was why I have not gone for service. Bolu continued: “My parents are not ready to spend on me again and MAPOLY had failed to mobilise us. “Governor (Dapo) Abiodun (of Ogun State) should come to our aid so that we can do better things with our lives.”