Those indigenous to Asaba-Ase community in Ndokwa East Local Government Area of Delta State have staged a peaceful protest over the alleged abandonment of the 7km Asaba-Ase/Abari Road linking Ndokwa East, Isoko South and Patani local government areas. Ase is a coastal community on the shores of the Ase River, off River Niger in Ndokwa North. Ase River derives its name from Ase Town. Ase is an idyllic countryside with a spectacular and breathtaking natural beach, evergreen rain-forest vegetation rich in flora and fauna which overhangs the Ase Creek. It shares common boundaries with Ibedeni, Onyah, Aviara, Uzere, Patani (all in Delta State) and Trofani (in Bayelsa State). During the colonial era, Ase served as the commercial and administrative headquarters for the colonial administrators. Relics of colonial presence still dot the landscape. John Holt and the United African Company (UAC) are some of the companies that had trade offices and warehouses in Ase. The town is made up of descendants from Ndokwa speakers who have inter-married with the Isoko and Ijaw over the years. The protesters alleged that the road project (a major artery) had been abandoned for over one year ago. The scene was charged as women, youths and the elderly, singing solidarity songs trooped out to demand a return of the contractor to site. Many placards-carrying protesters decried the neglect and disruption of social life occasioned by the bad road. Placards with inscriptions such as “Asaba-Ase is suffering for lack of road”, ‘The Road Master come to our aid” “Our road have been abandoned” and “Senator Nwaboshi, Ossai, Osanebi, Okowa, Buhari, please come and help us Asaba -Ase people’’, dotted huge crowd of protesting residents. The residents lamented that farm produce could not get to the cities due to the deplorable nature of the road. Speaking during the protest, President-General of the community, Anabogu Nosike Godfrey said: “My people in Asaba-Ase community have been suffering because of the bad road. We have had this problem before 2012 and subsequent government has been coming to say they have been doing this road but thank God Ekuweme (Governor Okowa) you came to office. You awarded contract for this road three times to people but the unfortunate part of it is, the contract was awarded to people without names, signpost or whatever and when they came, the drainage we were managing before, they crushed it and the internal roads were destroyed.” Continuing, he said: “Since the award of contract for the 7km Asaba-Ase/Abari Road by you over a year ago, nothing has been done. We are begging you Ekuweme to come to our aid. We dropped our written letter with the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Works in Asaba about this road and nobody has come to verify our complaint. “The road from Uzere in Isoko South Local Government Area to Asaba-Ase was destroyed by the 2012 floods. When the community cried out, by the special grace of God, intervention came through the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) which worked on it. But last year’s flood disaster destroyed the road and nothing has been done since despite our cries and series of written letters to the concerned authorities.” He further added: “Governor Okowa, we know what you can do. Kindly help us and call FERMA on the Uzere /Asaba-Ase Road and prevail on the contractor handling the Asaba-Ase/ Abari Road back to site to resume construction on the abandoned road in the area to give us a sense of belonging. “We are also experiencing ecological problem here; erosion is affecting us seriously and if urgent measures are not taken, Asaba-Ase will be wiped out from the face of the earth. We need help or else Asaba-Ase which is the gateway to other coastal communities in Bayelsa, Rivers, Anambra and other states, will be cut off from the state.” Mr. Anagbogu said the road constructed in the late 1980s during General Ibrahim Babangida’s regime, was annually washed off by flood. Anagbogu expressed sadness that residents’ commitment to President Buhari’s call to agriculture had been defeated by their inability to move their produce out for higher economic gain, thereby rendering the local farmers hopeless and helpless. According to him, the President advised Nigerians to go back to farming which we complied with. But the state of the road has rendered us helpless. His words: “The condition we are experiencing is terrible because the place is extremely bad and any moment from now, as the flood is coming, we will not know the state we belong to; Delta, Bayelsa or Rivers. “Our only occupation is farming and if there are no roads to market our goods, then we are in danger. We are part of Delta State and we also want to feel the presence of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, Ossai Ossai and Friday Osanebi and government in Asaba-Ase. We are peace-loving people hence this peaceful protest. We are begging government to come to our aid,” he said. Mrs. Queen Obodoagu lamented the poor patronage of their farm produce because of the bad nature of the roads. She said: “Customers are no longer coming to buy our goods because of the bad nature of Asaba-Ase Road and for that reason our goods from the farm are getting bad on daily basis because nobody is coming to buy or trade market with us.” But, in a swift reaction, Delta State Commissioner of Works, James Augoye debunked the insinuation that the road project has been abandoned. He said this while briefing reporters in Asaba, the state capital. His words: “We appeal to the community, especially the demonstrators, to bear with us as the contractor will mobilise fully to site as soon as the rains subside.”