The Senate on Tuesday summoned the Ministers of Police Affairs, Muhammadu Maigari Dingyadi and Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, over the deteriorating condition of police colleges across the country. The Senate also called on the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to as a matter of national security, intervene in the deteriorating condition of the Police College in Tai Local Government Area of Rivers State. It further urged the Police Service Commission to take adequate measures and inventory of police colleges in the country to ensure that they meet acceptable global standards for efficient policing. These resolutions followed a motion titled: “The Deteriorating status of the Police College located at Tai Local Government Area of Rivers State and its implication to rising insecurity in the state and in the nation” sponsored by Senator Mpigi Barinada representing Rivers South East in the Senate and nine other Senators. Senator Mpigi in his lead debate underscored the role of the police in the provision of security in the country. He said that the establishment of police colleges was for the purpose of training effective police officers for the prevention and detection of crime. Mpigi said, “The Police College, existing in Tai Local Government Area of Rivers State, which serves for the training of police officers across the nation, has been virtually abandoned and at the brink of collapse. Poor staffing management and other facilities make the college unfit for habitation.” He said that the Senate is worried that that the College has been allowed to deteriorate despite its laudable functions. “The Police College is therefore in a steady degeneration, especially within its institutional setting and through its poorly inducted officer trainees scattered in areas of police operations across the nation,” Mpigi said. He lamed that the state of the college has become an urgent security concern instead of being there to train quality officers “primed to check and combat insecurity, law and order in Tai LGA, Rivers State and the country in general.”