The Nigerian Army yesterday said seven key commanders of Boko Haram terrorists were killed in the Lake Chad region following their bombardment by troops of the Multinational Joint Task Force and operation Lafiya Dole. It gave their names as Abba Mainoik, Bukar Dunokaube, Abu Kololo and Abor Lime, said to be an Arab. A statement signed by Army spokesman Col Sagir Musa named the others as Mann Chari, Abu Hamza and Dawoud Abdoulaye. The statement reads: “The MNJTF and the Nigerian Armed Forces are in celebrative mood today and have been basking in the successes of their combined efforts of artillery and air bombardments of suspected hideouts of erstwhile Boko Haram/ISWAP at the Tumbus of Lake Chad region that neutralised many including key commanders. “However, it was mourning and a monumental setback for the erstwhile Boko Haram/ISWAP fighters hibernating at the triangular area. “Reliable information coming out from the inner circles of the demented and criminal group’s enclave escaping to Sudan and Central African Republic indicates that no fewer than seven of their key commanders have been wasted by the superior forces of the MNJTF. “The neutralised commanders are said to be Abba Mainok, Bukar Dunokaube, Abu kololo, Abor Kime (said to be of Arab origin – likely their ISIS trainer), Mann Chari, Dawoud Abdoulaye (from Mali) and Abu Hamza. “All these were said to be commanders of various Tumbus controlling fighters before they were decisively dealt with and sent to the pit of hell by the military bombardment. “Although these names may not be real and may likely be nicknames or alias, nonetheless, it is an unprecedented feat in our quest to clear the remnants of these criminals in the area. Consequently, efforts are ongoing to get more information on their true identities. “The Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen Tukur Yusufu Buratai, had through the Theatre Commander Multinational Joint Task Force and the Commander Operation LAFIYA DOLE commended the troops for this great efforts and enjoined them to do more.”