Contracting cycle in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry is among the longest in the world. Over the years, relevant government agencies, including the regulatory bodies in the petroleum industry, have been making efforts to reduce the length of time to seal a contract for implementation. With a new Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, in the picture, will the tide change? EMEKA UGWUANYI asks. Reform and transformation of the country’s oil and gas industry should go beyond rhetorics. Considering Nigeria’s age in oil exploration and production of over 60 years, it is supposed to be the clear leader and model for other oil producing African  countries and beyond. However, the African biggest producer still battles with challenges of elongated contracting cycle that should have been addressed long ago. Delayed contracting cycle is considered a disincentive as it costs the country money in the end. In the past, it took an average of 36 months to conclude a contract process in the industry. The implication, according to an industry analyst, is that if a transaction that is meant to be closed within a period of low oil price gravitates to a period of high price per barrel, the country, not the oil firms, pays more. According to the analyst, no company does a contract at a loss; therefore, if the price of oil increases, the cost of other ancillary factors of production, including labour, will  increase and the company will have no choice than to adjust the contract sum to reflect the increase. This is one of the reasons cost variation of contracts is common in Nigeria and, as a result, the country loses money and value from many of its projects. Now, will the new Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, and th Group Managing Director (GMD) of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, who is less than two months in office, be game changers, the analyst asked. It is a fact that a transparent contracting process not only boosts investor’ confidence, it confers integrity on the nation, the analyst said. In 2009, NNPC, in pursuit of greater efficiency, best practices, transparency and cost-saving procedures in the contracting process in the industry, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with about 24 oil and gas majors in the country for the Nigerian Petroleum Exchange (NIPEX) project, which was designed to deliver value and enhance local content. The then NNPC GMD, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo, noted that NIPEX was meant to streamline responsibilities of oil firms, regulators and other stakeholders, and to prepare  the ground for the major transformation that will ensue from the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB). He explained that NIPEX was made up of both the Electronic Marketplace and the Joint Qualifications System designed to reduce the contract cycle time, improve transparency of contract decision making, improve visibility for each operator and NNPC on contract approval status as well as achieve overall contracting cost reduction for the industry. Some of the oil firms that signed the MoU  include Petrobras, Addax, Agip, Texaco, Conoco-Phillips, Shell, NPDC, CNOOC, KNOC, Total, BG, Statoil, NAOC, Pan-Ocean, Sahara, ExxonMobil, Chevron and Conoil. Ten years on, Nigeria is still struggling to cut contracting process period to less than a year, while the PIB continues to be on the table at the National Assembly and Presidency. What the government is doing Last year, the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and International Oil Companies (IOCs) under the aegis of the Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS), a section of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and some indigenous oil firms, signed a Service Level Agreement (SLA) aimed at  shortening contracting cycle. According to the Board, long-contracting cycle delays take-off and completion of projects, leading to increased costs. The SLA commits the 28-member OPTS firms to comply with the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD) Act, essentially to submit to the NCDMB documents, like their quarterly job forecasts, Nigerian Content plans, bidders lists, Nigerian Content Evaluation Criteria and Nigerian Content technical bids, among other information in relation to oil and gas industry contracting and procurement cycles. The Board also pledged to respond on specific timelines, noting that if it fails to meet the set deadlines, the companies can proceed with their tendering processes after duly informing the Board. NCDMB Executive Secretary Simbi Wabote signed for the Board, while the Managing Director of ExxonMobil Nigeria, Paul McGrath who is also the Chairman of OPTS signed for OPTS. The Managing Director of the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC), Massimo Insulla, his Chevron counterpart, Jeff Ewing and that of Total Exploration and Production Nigeria, Nicolas Terraz, witnessed the event. The SLAs with the OPTS are meant to  achieve six months’ contracting process period. The NCDMB said through its efforts, the cycle had been cut significantly to 14 months from 24-36 months in the past. Wabote noted that the SLA signed with the NLNG in 2017 has improved the turnaround time of approvals between the two establishments, adding that the Board was working to sign a similar agreement with the Indigenous Petroleum Producers Group (IPPG). Wabote had last month during the third briefing of the Board, restated that the SLAs’ NCDMB signed with the Nigeria LNG Limited, International Operating Companies under OPTS and Independent Petroleum Producers Group have helped to shorten the NCDMB interface on the tendering cycle in the industry from 36 months to nine months. Also, in April, this year, NNPC said it has  fast-tracked contracting cycle for upstream operations from 24 months to nine months with a strong commitment to further reduce the process to less than six months. NNPC’s immediate past GMD Dr. Maikanti Baru stated this, adding that shortening of the process would allow for free flow of investments into the industry with far reaching effect across all tiers of its operations – upstream, midstream and downstream. Also, Kyari on assumption of office last month, pledged to make efforts to drastically reduce the contracting cycle in the industry.