The Abba and Ukpo communities in Anambra State, are at each other’s throat over a land dispute that have remained a bone of contention. Though the Police are everywhere to ensure that both parties maintain peace, the question many are still asking as NWANOSIKE ONU writes, is who owns the land. Abba and Ukpo Communities are neighbours in Anambra state, that have every reason to be the envy of other communities in the entire Southeast. While Abba community in Njikoka Local Government area is the home of the international author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Ukpo, in Dunukofia Council Area, has as son, an oil magnate billionaire Prince Arthur Eze, whose philanthropic disposition is well acknowledged. But that is where their good parts ends. The two communities have been torn apart by a bitter land tussle that has degenerated to name calling, harassment and intimidation. Their acrimonious clashes have all trappings of the late Chinua Achebe’s classic novel Things Fall Apart, where the centre no longer holds. But one interesting aspect of the scenario in the matter, is that the traditional ruler of Ukpo, Igwe Dr Robert Eze, was one time student of Prof James Adichie from Abba and Chimamanda’s father both in Secondary and University. When The Nation visited the area, hordes of Police men both in uniforms and plain clothes were spotted, especially, towards the expressway, land and market in dispute. They are positioned by the state Command to repel any danger and to make sure those trying to foment trouble are not spared, the state Police Public Relation’s Officer, PPRO, Haruna Mohammed, a Superintendent of Police, said. There had been protests, arrests and detention of many persons, including lawyers, since the trouble erupted, by the police. The Oye market, which the people of Abba claim is their own, has been destroyed including the fence along the road that links both communities by unknown persons. The President General of Abba Community, Mr. B.C. Anaekwe, an Engineer, in the documents he made available to The Nation, alleged that the signboards belonging to Abba along the expressway, on the entrance into the community, had been uprooted by the people of Ukpo. He further alleged that Ukpo community had been mounting offending gigantic billboards bearing their name on a part of their land with the inscriptions ‘Ukpo Junction.’ The people of Ukpo are relying solely on the judgment of the Supreme Court, delivered on 15th February, 2019, by Justice Paul Adamu Galumje, and his other four brothers, who resolved the land case against the plaintiffs (Abba community) According to one of the Chiefs from Ukpo, Ichie Anayo Ejem, “Supreme Court represents the bus-stop of all litigations in Nigeria; when it rules on any case, one can only appeal to God. “In line with this time-tested legalistic wisdom, the Chief Judge of Anambra State, upon being served the Supreme Court judgment, issued Ukpo and Ukwulu the clearance (Warrant of Entry) to re-possess their land. Or, is Abba community suggesting that the Chief Judge of Anambra State does not understand the Supreme Court judgment? “The Commissioner of Police Anambra State has been served the Supreme Court judgment, as well as the Warrant of Entry; that is why the Police is on firm ground in upholding the law and enforcing the peace on the erstwhile disputed land.” “Or, is Abba community also suggesting that the Commissioner of Police does not understand the Supreme Court ruling? “Abba insists it has once again filed a suit on the same settled issues at a trial court in Anambra State. The mere fact of Abba filing another suit on same issues on which the Supreme court has ruled is itself seminal and profound” “Because what Abba is asking Anambra State trial court to do is to set aside the Supreme Court ruling! That is huge, and I am sure, Chimamanda will be able to capture this new gigantic development in her most colorful prose” Chimamanda Adichie said the ownership ought not to be in contention. “I don’t know who has a legitimate claim to the land – it has for decades been known as Agu Abba and farmed by Abba people in the often-unwritten rules that govern customary land ownership” “But that is what the courts should determine, in a process free from meddling. Court records should not disappear. No community in Nigeria should be terrorized by state machinery. No private citizen should have the power to turn the police on an entire community” “Injustice is stalking Anambra State and the rights of every citizen should be protected. It is in protecting the rights of others that we protect our own rights, because we create a system of rights from which all can potentially benefit” Adichie wrote. However, the traditional ruler of Ukpo, Igwe Dr Robert Eze, told The Nation that the people of Abba would not dictate to them, adding that Ukpo was ready to make peace with their neighbours, if they show any sign of remorse. He said, “we have given them enough rope to repent, the problem with that community is that they have prominent persons, but they left the leadership of their town in the hands of traders.” “You cannot go beyond the Supreme Court, it’s like biting the fingers that feed you. They are mentioning the name of Prince Arthur Eze to blackmail him, my subject has nothing to do with what is happening in their Community, they should know is a battle between two communities. “Ukpo is peace loving and law abiding community, we can never resort to violence in settling disputes. We have been patient since 1999 when the first judgment was delivered in our favour and after 20 years the Apex Court resolved same in our favour, hence, Abba community should allow us to peacefully enjoy the benefit of these judgments” the monarch said. The two communities are not relenting in pursuit of the said land which has created a wide gap between them. The monarch, Igwe Leonard Ezeh and his subjects, said their keeping quite in the face of provocation by the people of Ukpo, does not mean they are cowards, rather, it is because they are peace loving people. According to the President General, Engr B C Anaekwe, “we wish to make it clear that we have not clung to being law abiding and peaceful because we are cowards, but because we are convinced that it is wrong to do otherwise.” “It is common knowledge that no community has monopoly of violence or unruly behaviour. We most humbly inform you that, as we write, the patience of both our youths and elders are wearing thin with each passing day as the pressure and provocation are not only becoming most unbearable, but equally killing.” “The simple appeal Abba community is making is, for the Nigeria Police Force to secure the lives and property of the people of Abba in the objective discharge of its statutory assignment. We must not be to defend ourselves,” Anaekwe said. Despite the claims and counter claims by both communities of Abba -Ukpo and the Supreme Court ruling on the issue,  the question that needs urgent answer is, who owns the land?