Several bank documents and furniture such as tables, chairs and computers were destroyed yesterday morning in a fire that burnt a substantial part of Unity Bank Plc head office on Ahmed Onibudo Street in Victoria Island, Lagos State. The Nation learnt that the fire which began from the third floor of the building escalated to the 10th floor. The banking hall and vault, which are on the ground floor, were not affected. The first and second floors were also not affected by the fire. There was no loss of life and nobody was injured. The fire was said to have started  after the bank staff had resumed duties for the day. It was learnt that by noon the fire had been put out. It was gathered that the documents in the building escalated the fire. It was also learnt that it was the first time the building would be engulfed in fire since it was built about three years ago. The Nation learnt that the cause of the fire was not known but officials of the Lagos State Fire Service, Federal Fire Service and Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, among others combined efforts to put it out. An eyewitness, who identified himself as Tunji Ajao, said he was on the road when he saw fire coming from the third floor of the building. “The fire was much; all the bank staff and customers ran out for safety. There were major damages inside the building than can be seen from outside. Several documents were destroyed, it was the huge volume of documents on the third floor that the fire started from and it spread to the 10th floor, though from outside it seems as if only three floors that were affected.” A passerby, who identified herself as Toyin, said the bank has fire extinguishers but the fire still spread. She said the fire must have spread because everyone ran for safety and no one probably knows how to use the fire extinguishers. The bank on its Twitter page, revealed that no life was lost in the infemo and expressed its gratitude to agencies and volunteers who came to its rescue. “We are grateful to all the agencies and volunteers that supported in bringing the incident under control. Further developments regarding the incident will be communicated as it unfolds. “We regret to inform the public that there was a fire incident on one of the floors of our Head Office building early this (yesterday) morning. The cause of the fire incident is yet to be ascertained but the fire service intervened and brought the situation under control.” The bank has notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSC) of the incident. While the extent of damage is being assessed, we are happy to note that there was no casualty or loss of life as a result of the incident. From current observations, however, the Banking Hall and other strategic business areas were not affected.” A statement by Unity Bank Plc Company Secretary Mohammed Shehu, via its twitter handle reads; “Unity Bank Plc wishes to inform The Nigerian Stock Exchange (The Exchange), its esteemed stakeholders and the general public that there was a fire incident on one of the floors of our Head Office building early this (yesterday) morning. The fire, which started from the third floor of the building occupied by a tenant, has been fully extinguished. Preliminary investigations show that the damage is localized to this floor. “Consistent with our Business Continuity Framework, critical staff have been relocated to approve offsite locations and our operations are not in any way affected. Consequently customers have unfettered access to their accounts through our electronic channels and branches. “While detailed investigation and damage assessment exercise are on0going by federal and state fire service departments, the Bank wishes to extend its appreciation to Total Nigeria Plc, the Nigerian Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS), the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Lagos State Fire Service, Federal Fire Service, Eko Hotel and Tours, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and Union Bank Plc for their prompt response. We also thank our good neughbours and the FMDQ Securities Exchange, Churchgate, ALLCO Insurance and others too numerous to mention. We thank our esteemed customers for their understanding and hereby restate our commitment to providing them safe secure and prompt services.”