Innoson Group of Companies Nigeria limited on Sunday said it has enjoyed huge patronage and support from the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Chairman of the group, Chief Innocent Chukwuma disclosed this in Nnewi, Anambra State in a press briefing. He also listed Enugu, Ebonyi, Ekiti, Imo, Kogi, Anambra, Gombe, and Bauchi states as well as Nigeria Military as those patronizing vehicles from the Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing (IVM) of company. He however said the company could transform Nigeria into vehicle manufacturing hub in Africa in no distant time if given more patronage. He also said his vehicle factory has the capacity to manufacture all brands of vehicle, adding, he hope to expand soonest. He said, “I can say that Innoson vehicle manufacturing is doing well especially with the level of patronage and support the company is enjoying under the present federal government. “I must equally say that some state governments like; Ekiti, Imo, Enugu, Ebonyi, Kogi, Gombe, Anambra and Bauchi are giving us a great boost. “As at today, Innoson vehicles are being used in some West African countries like Mali, Sierra Leone and Ghana and some Nigerians residing abroad return home to purchase our vehicles.” According to Chukwuma, Innoson Group of Companies produces motorcycle tyres, plastic containers, ceramic and vehicles presently employing between 7,300 and 7,500 workers. “With more support and patronage from Nigeria, we hope to expand our vehicle manufacturing firm to help provide more employment to our youths,” he posited. Reacting on the performance of the youths from Niger Delta trained by his firm under the amnesty programme, Chukwuma said most of them had continued to bring their talents to bear towards the growth and development of the company. “Some of the youths of the Niger Delta who we trained are very talented and after their training, we retained some of them and they are part of the success story of Innoson vehicle manufacturing today”, he said. On the recent report alleging that Anambra State lawmakers rejected Toyota Prado Jeep and demanded for Innoson products, Chukwuma denied knowledge of the report. He said anybody, including the lawmakers were free to buy any brand of vehicle of his choice. He said he currently enjoyed very warm relationship with the state governor, Willie Obiano and his government, expressing his willingness to leverage on the relationship to impact positively on the state. ” As we speak, Anambra State Government ordered for 40 vehicles which they fully paid for and we hope to deliver them to the state by next week,” he hinted.