Standard Alliance Insurance Plc is unable to fulfill its obligation of claims payment, The Nation can authoritatively report. This is going by the company’s 2017 Financial Auditor’s Report which drew the attention of the public to the shortfall of N1.477 billion in assets cover in the financial statements. The auditor’s report indicated that the company was not able to generate adequate liquid assets to cover the policy holders’ funds. The  auditors, BDO Professional Services (Chartered Accountants) with offices at ADOL House, Plot 15, CIPM Avenue, Central Business District, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, said the implication of the company not being able to generate adequate liquid assets to cover the policy holders’ funds, is that the company will not be able to pay claims to policy holders who are the insured, or the public. The Nation gathered that  presently, the company is unable to pay claims to many of its policyholders, neither is it able to payback both principal and interest of matured savings’ polices. It was also learnt that the embattled company is still marketing products to unsuspecting Nigerians, despite not being able to pay backlog of claims. One of the clients of the company, with policy number (withheld)  said: “I contributed N354,000 with N5900 monthly contribution. I am meant to receive N404,823.93. This means that I have just N50823.94 as interest. “After several months that the policy matured and I didn’t hear from them, I went to their headquarters in Lekki and asked them to pay me, but they refused to up till date.” Investigation also showed that the company is not able to pay brokers, nor for reinsurance and has been owing its staff many months of salaries. The Nation learnt that the company has been struggling with financial losses, huge management expenses, over-bloated share structure and huge fines for infractions, among others. The auditor in the 2017 financials said: “Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the shortfall of N1.477 billion in assets cover in note 53 to the financial statements indicating that the company was not able to generate adequate liquid assets to cover the policy holders’ funds. “Interpretation: Policy holders are the insured (the public). It means the company has less financial assets to cover the premium received from policy holders”. The underwriter has for four years, that is, 2012; 2013; 2014 and 2016 recorded losses, while its management expenses soared. Last year, some staff of the firm who were not comfortable with the management decisions resigned, thereafter, the firm retrenched some more staff. The danger signal is the 2017 financials where their assets cover fall short of policy holders funds. According to the auditor, the company is also yet to get approval for its 2018 account. The crisis of the company which started in 2014 has snowballed into a major dilema leading the regulatory authority, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to conduct a forensic audit on the company to determine its status. Following the intervention of the NAICOM, the Managing Director was asked to resign. While the commission is yet to disclose its findings, observers have however called on the commission to reveal the forensic result. Few days ago, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) placed cautionary red alert on the company, having failed to comply fully with the comprehensive listing and corporate governance standards at the stock market. A regulatory report obtained at the weekend flagged the company with warning codes. A review of the report showed that the deficient companies, including Standard Alliance were generally in three broad categories; companies with recurring multiple deficiencies, companies that failed to submit their financial statements within stipulated timeline and companies with unhealthy concentration of shares in the hands of major investors. Under the rules of the NSE and global stock market practices, all the infractions are regarded as fundamental infractions as they impede market’s key concepts of full disclosure, liquidity and efficient price discovery. All the infractions could lead to compulsory delisting of the stocks, if not remedied. The Exchange said the flagging of the company was in line with the commitment of the Exchange to global best practices and investor’ protection. An observer who spoke under the condition of anonymity faulted NAICOM, saying the Commission should not allow companies that are unable to meet their contractual obligations to continue insurance business. Some Chief Executive Officers in the industry have also complained that companies that are unable to meet their obligations to pay claims should not be allowed to remain in business. They said that such few bad eggs among them are destroying the image of the industry, thereby making it difficult for insurance business to grow in the country. The Managing Director, Richard  Ododo did not return The Nation inquisitions on the issues and has not made efforts to pay the aggrieved client.  Efforts to reach NAICOM spokesperson,  Rasaaq Salami as at press time also proved abortive.