He was named Haruna Usman Afolayan at birth, but the world renamed him Usman Haruna Ilerika after the Lagos-born iconic footballer. After many years Usman encountered his adopted father face to face, and realized he has taken the best decision of his life by officially adopting the name, without knowing. Speaking exclusively with Taiwo Alimi, current head coach of Nigeria U-15 team described his times with the late and famous Nigeria and Super Stores striker, as memorable and inspirational. “Growing up as a little boy people just started calling me by the name Haruna Ilerika and the name just stuck to me. Those who watch me play believe that I play like Haruna Ilerika coupled with the fact that I bear Haruna; my fans just added Ilerika in front and started calling me Haruna Ilerika. Since many people don’t even remember my real name, so I decided to make it official. Haruna Ilerika is not my biological father. “It was an interesting encounter for me when I eventually met him in Lagos in 2002. I was introduced to Ilerika by my boss, the then President of Nigeria football Federation (NFF), Alhaji Sani Lulu Abdulahi. I fell in love with him that instant. He spoke to me nicely and I was impressed with his philosophy and admire what he represented nationally and globally. In 2006, we met again and we had an extensive discussion on the growth of soccer and its administration in our country. He was a man of honour and deserved everything in this world. He was loaded with great ideas on how to move football forward. My encounters with him showed me that he’s a father that every society would like to have. It is just unfortunate that death did not allow him to enjoy the fruit of his labour. When he died in 2008 I wrote a letter through the FCT FA to the family and the Lagos FA to commensurate with them. He’s my adopted father and I love him dearly. I’m happy I adopted his name and I can’t afford to let him down. ” The Kwara State-born shares his life story as a footballer, administrator and coach saying his life revolves around nurturing and developing young footballers. Excerpts: Growing up I attended NEPA Primary school, Kainji where my parents works with NEPA for 35 years. I also attended Osi Secondary school before proceeding to Kwara State Polytechnic Ilorin and eventually finished at Ahmadu Bello University Zaria (ABU) in the year 1994 with a degree in political Science. I was playing for Kainji NEPA but on getting to ABU I joined the ABU Workers FC and was playing for the team even as an undergraduate. During the World University games, Kano 1993, former Super Eagles coordinator Mr Emmanuel Atta, saw me and requested NYSC to post me and others to Abuja. He was then with NYSC Strikers FC and that was how I became their player. Soccer administration and coaching I am doing the two. My official job as a staff of Federal Capital Territory administration where my salary comes from makes me an administrator because I’m the secretary FCT Football Association and at the same time, I’m a professional coach. I went through the rigour of training as a professional coach; first at the National Institute for Sport and then studied at KMVP Training school in Netherlands where I obtained a certificate. On my return I did CAF C and CAF B coaching course respectively and I am waiting for CAF A to complete it. I also have masters in public administration. Coaching is in my blood.  Even after leaving service I was still playing for NYSC Strikers and helping the NYSC to coach the Corpers Team, which I did for 11 years. Even all the years that I played for NEPA, a pro league team then, I was still coaching the NYSC team to be able to sharpen my drive to help the youth. While working with Sani Lulu and coaching the NYSC team, we had a friendly match with FCDA Team, a national amateur side and we defeated them. The team manager, Tajudeen Tiamiyu, thereafter, drafted me as an assistant coach to his team in 2001. In that team was Juwon Osanunwa, who later played for Super Eagles. I later moved on to FC Abuja owned by EFCC and now bearing EFCC FC. I tutored the club for four and a half years before I resigned and faced administration only. I have always been into youth development and that is where my passion lies. I established an academy for my wife after attracting her from the medical profession into football knowing that with her support, the sky would be the limit for us. The academy was established in 2008 in Abuja and it is waxing stronger. It is grooming players free of charge and my joy is that I am giving back to the youth. I was instrumental to the setting up of Fosla Football Academy owned and financed by Sani Lulu Abdullahi. In-fact I was the one tutoring the boys before the institution was set up. It was the same love for youth development that took me to the U-15 national team. We started with the U-13 boys in 2008 with Kelechi Iheanacho set, Chidera Eze, Saliu Ibrahim, Udo, the goalkeeper and so many of them. Lazarus John and many others. They moved to the U-17 and today some of them are now playing in the U-23 and the Super Eagles. What gladdens my heart is the passion and training to develop a template inculcated into these young ones to turn them to great players and make something of their lives. Philosophy My philosophy as a coach is for me to be able to produce world-class players. Players that can represent Nigeria at the world stage, a player that people can appreciate in his spoken English, composure, and be able to maintain a responsible future for himself. Combining education and football is one of my biggest thinking and philosophy to life. Players should be able to have a future after football. A lot has happened that life becomes extremely difficult for people after the game. I remember the day I had injury while playing for NEPA, even the managing director and official could not understand the kind of injury I had but because I had my certificate to fall back on was my saving grace. I had injury seven years after leaving University and I was able to move on to the next stage of my life. I want to see the life of a footballer that you can still be responsible even after retirement. This game has a lot of diversification. We have people who are player agents, coaches, administrators, even within administration you have a lot of roles; stadium administration, physiotherapy and back room works that could accommodate a lot of people. We don’t have to be miscreants after this game. In my team, I use to sit with them and tell them so many things about life. What life owes them and what they owe life? I explain to them their role with their parents, coaches, immediate family and other things. This is what they can gain from me. If it is in the area of football coaching, they would meet many coaches as they move on but what they would remember me for is what I’m teaching them at a tender age. They will look back and say coach say this and coach say that. Life experience I’ve met a lot of people working for youth players. In trying not to embarrass myself and the country I try to inculcate my philosophy that must be acceptable to my assistant and my boys and to the society itself. When we were in Japan in June, the Nigeria ambassador to Japan, when addressing us said ‘coach, one of the thing that makes me a happy person today was the way people were talking inside the state box how Nigeria is getting used to doing the right thing.’ That even the character of the boys, play pattern and behavioral approach is an exemplary one worth emulating by younger generation. I appreciate the NFF. They are telling us to do the right thing and give us opportunity to be exposed and impact on the lives of others. Achievements As a player I’ve won the FCT Challenge Cup on four occasions. Twice I won with NEPA FC and once with NYSC FC and once with FCDA FC.  In the coaching area, I’ve won the Federations Cup with EFCC, and play runners up on two occasions, then was adjudged SWAN coach of the year in 2016. At the national levels, we have been able to develop a lot of youth players and most of them are in the present u-17 team. I was a gold medalist at the African Youth Games in Algeria 2014 and in silver in 2018 in Algiers. Family I was born into a family of seven. We lost our elder sister and I’m the second born of the family. All of us are graduates and we are all doing well. My parents; Mr and Mrs Usman Afolayan are late. I give glory to God that God is using all their children in a good way.  I am married with two great children; a girl and a boy.