Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, wants the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to clampdown on those he described as Yahoo politicians in the country alleging that they are responsible for breeding the internet fraudsters giving the country a bad name abroad. Frank asks the anti-graft agency to team up with international security agencies to fish out the yahoo yahoo politicians who suddenly became rich after their tenure of office. According to him, a situation where a governor, minister or any other government appointee who was nowhere financially before they get into public office suddenly become stupendously affluent after their tenure in that office need to be investigated According to him, until the EFCC and the ICPC stop protecting ‘Yahoo politicians’, both in and out of government, it will be difficult to discourage the prevalence of internet fraud being perpetrated by some young Nigerians. Reacting to the long list of internet fraudsters released by the FBI recently, Comrade Frank said “corruption is gradually becoming a criteria to get appointment, especially under the current administration. “The ‘Yahoo politicians’ are the role models of these ‘Yahoo Yahoo Boys.’ Those in government today are not immune. They have turned Nigeria to the capital of poverty in the world. “The ‘Yahoo’ appointees and governors will throw elaborate parties and dinners once they assume public office because they see it as an opportunity to loot the treasury. “When you look at the antecedent of most of the members of recently inaugurated federal cabinet, majority of them have been guests of either the EFCC or the ICPC in the past. If known criminals are accorded such privileges, then, what is the government telling the young ones? “It is only in Nigeria that an suspect and an anti-corruption prosecutor, would later become members of the federal executive council. “In a country where about 90% of citizens are living in abject poverty, the ‘Yahoo Yahoo politicians’ in the National Assembly have no qualms budgeting N5.5 billion to acquire choice SUVs for themselves. That most university graduates are roaming the streets jobless is a cause for concern. “The Yahoo presidency fights corruption only on the pages of Newspapers, labels the opposition elements as thieves while it openly and consciously protects the armed-robbers within the government. “Even the institutions established to fight corruption have been politicised and heavily compromised. They dare not torch the ‘yahoo politicians’ in the good books of the ruling party”. He, urged the FBI to help Nigeria in the fight against corruption by clamping down on the ‘Yahoo politicians’ who brazenly steal public funds and run to oversea countries like United State of America and other European countries to enjoy their booty. Frank also asked the FBI and INTERPOL to focus on Nigerian yahoo politicians and yahoo judges who award jaundiced judgements to the ‘yahoo presidency’ and the ‘yahoo politicians’ to the detriment of justice, democracy and the well-being of Nigerians.