A mobile money agent, Eniola Adenuga, on Wednesday gave insight into why and how he raped his female co – worker; Faith Jude, to death in their office around Lafenwa area of Abeokuta, Ogun State. Adenuga said the girl just joined the company and he quickly picked interest in her. He lamented that despite having made countless advances to her with promises of treating her fine, she refused to accept his offer for a romantic relationship. He added that as the affection for her kept building up, he contemplated seeking to have his way by force and an opportunity provided itself on a particular rainy evening when the victim came to the office to collect the day’s proceed for their master. A subdued Adenuga, who spoke with reporters at the Ogun State Police Command Headquarters, Eleweran, while being paraded by the Police, said he grabbed the girl, wrestled her to the ground and raped her after gagging the mouth. He however noted that he had scarcely concluded the raping act when the girl died of suffocation. The suspect pleaded for mercy, saying he never meant to kill Faith Jude. He said:”I raped her in the shop and she died in the process. She was also having her menstruation at that period. I kept her corpse in the store. “In early hours of the third day of the incident, I placed her corpse in front of the shop and went to report at Lafenwa police station that I found a corpse in front of our shop. “I had to confess during investigation that I actually covered her mouth with her underwear while I raped her to death.” The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Operations, Mr Edward Ajogun, said the suspect had on September 19 reported at the Lafenwa Police division that he came to his office and found the lifeless body of Jude in front of the office covered with a canopy. Ajogun said upon his report, detectives from Lafenwa division went to the scene, carried out forensic examination of the place, took picture of the corpse and it was discovered that there were marks of violence on the deceased body, suggesting she was murdered . Ajogun said: “Based on the recovery, the complainant was professionally interrogated and it was discovered that he was the person that actually killed the victim. “He confessed to the crime and stated that the decease , a co-worker came to the shop to collect money for their boss. “He took advantage of the heavy downpour on the day to grab the deceased, gagged her mouth with a piece of cloth while he raped her. “Having had his way with the girl, he discovered that she had given up the ghost due to suffocation.” According to the Deputy Police Commissioner, the case is being investigated by the Homicide section of the command’s Criminal Investigation Department.