• We welcome the suspension of the Jonathan-era auto policy If there is one thing to be said of the news of the suspension of the controversial National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) by the Muhammadu Buhari administration, it is that the measure has been long in coming. Tall in ambitions and a surfeit in good intentions, never perhaps has a policy been so clearly wrong-headed. Proceeding on a flight of fancy, it sought to compel local auto manufacture even when the basic infrastructure are neither present nor the marketing environment readied. To serve the quest, the struggling middle class, most of who had been reduced to buying fairly used foreign imports, had to be slammed with a duty hike plus a punitive levy of 35 percent to acquire one vehicle. The assumption – again misguided – was that this would ultimately boost the patronage of locally assembled cars, while discouraging the importation of fairly used ones. As it turned out, neither happened. No thanks to the duty hike and the levy, the cost of the imported used vehicles shot through the roof while Nigerians, desperate for cars, headed for neighbouring ports where import duties and port charges were friendlier. With cars meant for Nigerian market diverted to neighbouring ports, activities at our ports dwindled and so was revenue. Meanwhile, the so-called local operators on whom the government had pinned its hope for the revival of the auto industry failed to rise to the challenge. The operators, no sooner after, returned to their pastime of importation of fully built cars even as the few that ventured into limited assembly found out that the prices of their products were beyond reach of those they were meant to serve – and this in an environment where consumer credit is not readily available, except for corporate entities. To remedy perceived lacuna in the policy, the eighth National Assembly in 2017 passed the National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) Bill only for President Buhari to withhold assent. The bone of contention was the “pioneer status” granted to manufacturers under the bill – a provision which the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) found disagreeable. Whereas the Bill provided for a 10-year tax holiday for manufacturers, this was found to be contrary to the provisions of Pioneer Status Act which limits the tax holiday to three years, subject to an extension of one or two years. This is where the country is today. The suspension of the policy should provide ample opportunities not only to review the flawed assumptions inherent in it but also to enable fundamental corrections to be made. It goes without saying that the policy must not only be sound and pragmatic, it must cater to the interests and aspirations of every stakeholder in the industry. Surely, the auto manufacturers as primary drivers of the policy can do with all the incentives that the government can give to ease their pains and ultimately help bring down their cost of production; the dealers and consumers united in their joint quest for an enabling infrastructure of credit without which the industry can never be sustainable. The policy will, hopefully, terminate the current obsession with the quest for a wholly Nigerian car in a country where the manufacture of ancillary auto parts like batteries, windscreens, tyres have remained a tall order. If merely for the humongous amounts of foreign exchange spent on importing auto spares, the policy should seek a more effective partnership with Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) on the wide range of auto parts to save scarce foreign exchange and as a launch pad for the local auto manufacturers. We expect that the policy will help bring activities back at our ports. To be sure, the current stiff auto tariff regime does not pretend to serve the local auto industry, the economy or even the ordinary citizen, but the neighbouring ports. It should recommend a drastic downward review.