Students’ Union (SU) of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai (IBBUL) in Niger State has emerged the second best students’ union in higher institutions. This was made known at the Students’ Leaders Development Training and Tournament (SLEDT). IBBUL Students’ Union trailed the Federal University of Agriculture Makurdi (FUAM), which won SLEDT’s overall Best Students Union award while Usmanu Dan Fodio University, Sokoto (UDUS) emerged second runner-up. The yearly event with the theme: “Raising green leaders for green campus”, was hosted by IBBUL and featured some universities across the country. Announcing the winners during the grand finale, the founder and Director of Lead Transformation Initiative (LTI), Mr Titilayo Femi Kings, explained that the tournament was keenly contested. Presenting the trophies, IBBUL’s Vice Chancellor Prof Nasir Maiturare, represented by his Deputy (Administration), Prof Abu-Kasim Adamu, congratulated the victorious students’ bodies, urging them to continue exhibiting exemplary leadership qualities. Maiturare laudedLTI  for organising the competition, stressing that the SLEDT programme would help  enhance and promote the culture of academic excellence in the university system. He charged the organisers of the tournament to consolidate on their good work. Universities that qualified for the final stage of the tournament include IBBUL, UDUS, FUAM, Ekiti State University (EKSU), and Federal University Lafia (FUL). The Deans of Students’Affairs (DSAs) of the participating schools were also in attendance. Earlier, Kings led a delegation of the other contesting institutions on a courtesy visit to the management of IBBUL. He expressed appreciation for the hospitality accorded them during th event. According to Kings, the rationale behind SLEDT is to disabuse the minds of those who think unionism on campuses is about hooliganism. He said the scenario is further compounded by the infiltration of bad eggs into student bodies. Receiving the participants at the university’s Senate Chamber Maiturare charged them to use the rare opportunity given to them by their colleagues to serve their schools’ students’ associations.