Travel and tourism remained one of the key growth drivers of Africa’s economy, contributing 8.5 per cent of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) last year. This is equivalent to $194.2 billion, according to  2019 Jumia Hospitality Report Africa. It said the growth record placed the continent as the second-fastest growing tourism region in the world, with a growth rate of 5.6 per cent after Asia Pacific and against a 3.9 per cent global average growth rate. “Our focus is to continue showcasing Africa as a continent full of beauty and opportunity. Through this report, we want to help draw attention to the vast potential of the tourism industry, that we believe is an untapped lever of economic growth,” Jumia’s Head of Travel, Estelle Verdier, said. The report was made avaiable  during the release of the yearly report at the Africa Hotel Investment Forum (AHIF) in Addis Ababa, ahead of the World Tourism Day. The report said Africa received 67 million international tourist arrivals in 2018, to record a +7 per cent increase from 63 million arrivals in 2017 and 58 million in 2016. It attributed this gradual increase to the affordability and ease of travel especially within the continent, with spending among domestic travellers accounting for 56 per cent as compared to 44 per cent international expenditure. Also, leisure travel, the report said, remains an important component of Africa’s tourism industry, taking up a majority 71 per cent of the tourist expenditure in 2018. Verdier noted that the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (ACFTA) was expected to further boost domestic travel. “To realise the full potential gains will require cooperation from all industry players. Governments have to be willing to eliminate visa requirements for African nationals travelling to their countries. “Ministries and other responsible partner organisations should create campaigns that will promote their local travel destinations and tourism offerings to attract more regional travellers,” she stated.