Senator who represented Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the eight National Assembly, Shehu Sani has reacted to the action of the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, who recently took his six-year-old son Abubakar to a public school for his primary education. Sani said the governor’s intention was to deceive people outside the locality who may not know the level of decay in public schools in the State saying, it was designed to score political goals ahead of 2023 political dispensation. He, however, described the move as a badly written Kennywood or Nollywood script, designed for the media preparatory for 2023. Addressing newsmen in Kaduna, he said, the governor’s action, “was simply a 2023 political stunt set up for the media and people who reside outside Kaduna because those who reside here know what public primary school look like in the state. According to him, “It is not because I have a political difference with him, no, but whoever lives in Kaduna State knew that what the governor did with his son been enrolled into public school was just a comedy. “Though, it was a badly written Kennywood or Nollywood script, but as far as am concerned that was a bad and poorly written script for the media preparatory for 2023 and nothing else. “He would have done better by upgrading schools in Kaduna. You cannot spend N195M in a particular school and then take your son and the media to that school and think you have done anything different. “Let me tell you, we had a governor in this state, Balarabe Musa who has never lived in the government house during his reign and all the while he was a governor he lived in his private house and I also know that the children of former governor Ahmed Makarfi attended this same Capital School. “I also know that other public officials’ children go to that school too. So if you are not been cony, deceptive and comical, you would have allowed all your children to enrol into public schools. Public school doesn’t mean primary schools alone, there are public secondary schools and public universities. “He is not new in this kind of drama. It was the same person who was moving around Kaduna-Abuja road with cameras that he was chasing kidnappers. So, this is a new script but as far as am concerned, that is comedy sinnce we are in an era in this state of using public utilities, public hospitals and now public schools. “So it is also in order that public officials, both elected and appointed should also patronise public toilets in Kaduna. That is the highest form of patriotism and selfless service. You should use what the masses are using which is public toilets.” He said.