The Medical and Dental Practitioners Investigative Panel Friday sentenced an Asaba-based Doctor, Anunobi Chijoke Ralu, of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Asaba, Delta state, to a six-months suspension from medical practice. The doctor was investigated and arraigned on a two-count charge of gross negligence in the management of the medical condition of one Mrs. Rita Uchebuego, which ultimately led to the death of the patient. He was also arraigned for misconduct in a professional respect when he unethically collected the sum of N7,000 as reference fee from the husband of the deceased – Mr. Ngozi Uchebuego. On the first count charge of gross negligence in the management of late Rita Uchebuego, the deceased was in induced labour at 36 weeks on account of twin gestation pregnancy induced hypertension in her primary. From the investigation by the tribunal panel, Mrs. Rita Uchebuego, might have died from negligence by Doctor Anunobi resulting from a reaction to the blood being transfused to her. Few moments after the administration of the blood by a nurse and a doctor on housemanship (without the review and supervision of the doctor on call – Dr. Anunobi), she began to react adversely to it. She had difficulty breathing with heavy and irregular heartbeats. The blood being transfused was discontinued and returned back to the laboratory for screening. However, the negligence of the said doctor became evident when the same blood the deceased reacted to was re-used to transfuse her. She died few moments later after the consultant was called to attend to her. In the second count charge of professional misconduct, Mr. Ngozi Uchebuego (complainant) in his affidavit, said, “That I also want to bring to your knowledge that we were directed to Doctor Anunobi the same day we got the scanned result for the twin pregnancy from FMC, Asaba, just few weeks after our wedding by Doctor Yekini who is our family friend. “Doctor Anunobi then directed us to one private hospital called Up-Christ clinic and maternity hospital where he claims he partners with them. “My wife was admitted in Up-Christ after a deposit of N20,000 was paid. On the third day, I asked for discharge as we were no longer satisfied with the medical services. “That upon enquiry, she said that the Consultant – Doctor Anunobi, who referred us to the hospital called and asked them to collect the sum of N20,000 from me. So I asked why, she said it is his reference fee. I said but he did not participate in the treatment. I also told her that the hospital is to settle with him not me, however I will call him. “Doctor Anunobi’s attitude towards us changed to the point that he no longer answers my greetings even after giving him the sum of N7,000 and pleaded with him to understand with us as we have just paid the sum of N55,000 at Up-Christ clinics and maternity, but he did not say a word.” In reviewing the case, the Chairman of the tribunal, Prof Abba Waziri Hassan, said that, “the above statement by the husband of the deceased reveals a total abdication of responsibility by Dr. Anunobi C. Ralu, who knew and ought to have known that he must take full responsibility for the care of the patient as the Responsible Medical Officer. “The Honourable Tribunal hereby adjudge that the respondent, Dr. Anunobi Chijoke Ralu, is guilty of the two-count charge of misbehaviour and infamous conduct in a professional respect and is sentenced to six months suspension from medical practice with effect from the date of judgment.” Other Doctors involved in the case that were discharged and acquitted because they carried themselves professionally and did all they could with compassion and empathy to save the deceased are: Doctor Okoye Chukwuka Obumnene, Doctor Iyiola Akeem Adewale, Doctor Adigba Ese Onodjohyovwe, Doctor Okoye Nnamdi Pascal, and Doctor Oyefara Babatunde who was the Consultant on call and was admonished by the tribunal. Another doctor, Stephen Oludare Alaiyemola of Philadelphia Specialist Hospital, Ebute-Ikorodu, Lagos, was suspended for six months after being found guilty of collecting a total sum of N1,858,700 from one Mrs. Oyenike Adebajo and her husband as estimated cost of Assisted Reproductive Therapy (ART) and In-Vitro Fertilization (IVF), knowing full well that he did not have the professional requirement, expertise, and facility to carry out such medical services. The tribunal said that although he was not guilty of count six charge – fee-splitting arrangement for the purpose of referring the patient to other practitioners, he was adjudged guilty of the other five count charges against him. Also, concerning the same case, the tribunal discharged and acquitted one Doctor Nobert Ifeanyi Ekeh, who was consulted by Dr. Alaiyemola, on the ground that the prosecution did not succeed in proving that the respondent doctor took over the management of Mrs. Oyenike Adebajo, as a patient. The respondent doctor, according to the Tribunal, “did not conduct himself infamously in a professional respect. The prosecution failed to prove the allegation of fee splitting against the respondent doctor. He did not violate the Rule 64.30 of the Code of Medical Ethics in Nigeria, 2008 Edition.”