War risk surcharges on consignments are introduced to tackle attacks on ships, the  Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, Taiwo Afolabi, has said. Afolabi spoke at the fourth maritime conference held in his honour at the University of Lagos at the weekend. Afolabi, who spoke on the theme: “Innovations and practical reforms  towards sustainable growth in the maritime sector,” noted that insecurity had become worrisome in the sector and that it required strict measures. Afolabi, represented by SIFAX’s Group Managing Director, Mr Adekunle Oyinloye, said: “For our sector to grow, strict measures must be put in place both onshore and offshore. There have been various instances of piracy, attacks on ships and various terminals by men of the underworld and a host of others which led many shipping lines to introduce war risk surcharges on consignments heading to Nigeria.’’ He added that it was imperative  for the Federal Government and its agencies to strengthen the coastal areas and maritime  boundaries against crimes. He, however, commended the Nigerian Maritime and Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and other agencies for the passage of the Anti-piracy Bill, urging them to push for more funding to secure the sector. While the industry has witnessed reforms in areas, such as port concession, truck standardisation, CabotageLaw and maritime safety laws, geared towards growing the sector, he said more reforms and strong implementation mechanism were needed. On his part, the Executive Director, Maritime and Cabotage Services, NIMASA, Mr Gambo Ahmed, said the agency had acquired 17 fast-intervention vessels and helicopters, which would be inaugurated before the year end, to  fight criminality. Nigerian Ports Consulate Council Chairman Otunba Kunle Afolarin explained that the new economic agenda in the maritime sector had raised concerns on port reforms and local participation policies. According to him, the agenda also called for direct foreign investment policies, and “the transformation of the ports from a public monopoly into a landlord model organisation with a master plan that will also include green field development”. Similarly, the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) Chief Executive Officer, Hassan Bello,  said the Council, throught bills, was  rooting for reforms to boost professionalism in the freight forwarding practice and haulage system. He argued that when such bills become laws, the NSC would be able to register fleets that would carry goods from the ports to the hinterland and carriage of goods by land. Explaining that most accidents are caused by drivers’ fatigue, the bill, he said would allocate six to eight hours rest to drivers to boost their efficiency. The Executive Vice Chairman, ENL Consortium, operator of Terminals C and D, Vicky Haastrup, lamented the loopholes in the Cabotage Law, stating that the government should rejig the law.