The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike and the Muslim faithful are at daggers drawn over the demolition of a mosque in Port Harcourt, reports Southsouth Bureau Chief, BISI OLANIYI. The demolition of a Central Mosque in Trans-Amadi Industrial Layout, Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, has drawn the ire of the Muslim faithful against Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike. The Muslim faithful described the act as a premeditated one which smacked of religious intolerance. The Imam of the demolished mosque Alhaji Haroon Muhammed revealed that, on August 20 this year, officials of the Rivers State Ministry of Urban Development and Physical Planning came to the site accompanied by policemen and pulled down the structures. He added that the officials gave non-compliance to Rivers State government’s approved building plan as reason for the demolition of the mosque. In the circumstances, the Muslims in Rivers State have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene in the matter. They also called on members of the National Assembly and other critical stakeholders to condemn the demolition of the mosque. The demolished mosque was said to have the capacity for 10,000 worshippers, even as the Muslim faithful maintain that the demolition of the mosque has presented a difficult situation for the worshippers who are handicapped in terms of having alternative worship centre. The Imam of the mosque said: “In the whole of Port Harcourt, this is the most populated mosque. Muslims all over the world can see what has happened to a mosque that was duly approved by the Rivers State government. “The government of Rivers State had harassed us three times without any formal notice. First was on July 29, 2019; again on August 16 and lastly on August 20. “Today, we are denied a place of worship. We do not want to foment any trouble with the officials of Rivers State government. We want the whole world to help us beg the Governor of Rivers State to have a change of heart for us to have a place of worship, because the Trans-Amadi Central Mosque is the only mosque serving the whole of Trans-Amadi. “Members of all the armed forces, the agencies, the police, army, members of staff of oil companies and government officials who are Muslims have only the demolished mosque to worship in. We acquired the place. We did not encroach on the land, neither did we grab it. We bought the land and it was duly approved by the Rivers State government. But today, we do not know what has happened. “We are begging Governor Wike in the name of Allah, the Lord of the universe, who made him the governor to please leave the small place for us to worship in.” Imam Muhammed also revealed that the plight of Muslims worshipping at the Trans-Amadi Central Mosque began 10 years ago, when the building was first demolished during the administration of Wike’s predecessor, Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister for Transportation. Imam Muhammed further stated that the earlier demolition led to a lawsuit, in which the worshippers became victorious six years ago, stressing that armed with the court judgment, the Muslims returned to the site, thereby committing huge sums of money to the project. While also speaking on the demolished mosque, the Chief Imam of Mile One, Diobu Central Mosque in Port Harcourt, Murtala Sulaiman Abdulsalam, who is also the Khalifah Tijaniyah Rivers State, called for dialogue, urging the Muslims to remain calm and peaceful. Governor Wike, however, described as unfortunate, the alleged false information being circulated that his administration demolished a mosque in Port Harcourt, claiming that the false report was planted by mischief makers to create disaffection. Addressing some reporters at the mosque’s location on Biambo Street, off School Road by Mami Market Junction, near Rainbow Estate on August 26, Governor Wike claimed that there was no mosque at the site, insisting that nothing was demolished. Wike said: “I received calls from many prominent Nigerians on the fake news being circulated online. I have come here with reporters and you can see there was no mosque here. “It is most unfortunate that fickle-minded people will claim that a mosque was demolished at this place, when no mosque existed here. The story was concocted by mischief makers to score cheap points.” He also stated that some people started erecting illegal foundation on the disputed land, claiming that they had no approval to embark on any construction work. He said: “They came here to erect illegal structure. There was no approval from the Rivers State government for any structure to be erected here. “The people who began the foundation had already dragged the Rivers State government to court on the disputed land.  The Rivers State government won the case. What they attempted to do was to start the illegal construction, to tie the hands of the Rivers State government.” Wike also admonished members of the Muslim community in Rivers State not to allow themselves to be used by politicians to peddle false stories against his administration. He stated that many mosques constructed on the approval of the state government exist across Port Harcourt and other major towns in Rivers State, without his administration demolishing them. He said: “The Rivers State government gave them (Muslims) notice not to do anything on the land, but they went ahead with the illegal foundation and the relevant agency stopped them. “Why would we want to bring down any mosque, when there are other mosques across Rivers State? What is the special interest on this one?” The Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has called on Muslims in Rivers State to remain calm and embrace peace over their demolished mosque. He also urged members of the Muslim community in Rivers State to seek all avenues to resolve contending issues with the Wike’s administration. Peterside noted that Rivers State is open and free for all religions, tribe, and background. The NIMASA chief stated that Rivers State has always been home to all Nigerians and it is not surprising that there has never been any religious crisis in the history of the state. Peterside said: “I want to plead with my Muslim brothers and sisters to explore all options for a peaceful resolution. Rivers people are very accommodating, loving and caring. We have many Rivers people who are also Muslims. “I want to plead that we do not fan the embers of discord. I have many Muslim friends in Rivers State and other parts of Nigeria. We will continue to remain friends. We should not allow religion to divide us at any point. Rivers is home for all.” The NIMASA chief also called on Governor Wike to immediately open channel of dialogue with the Muslim community in Rivers State in order to resolve all grey areas. The Governor of Kano State, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje declared that his administration would drag Wike to court over the said demolition. Ganduje, through his Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, described the mosque demolition as shocking, vowing to contest the demolition with appropriate authorities for redress. Ganduje said: “Kano State is known for peaceful co-existence among Muslims and Christians. We should therefore improve on that and remain calm and peaceful. People should live peacefully with one another.” Wike’s Special Assistant on Electronic Media, Simeon Nwakaudu, however, stated that it beats his imagination that Kano Ganduje didn’t verify issues before issuing a statement. The warring parties should embrace dialogue and give peace a chance in the Niger Delta state.