Stephanie Okereke Linus  The beautiful Nollywood actress, film director and model was once married to former Super Eagles player, Chikelue Iloanusi. They got married in 2004 and divorced in 2012 over accusations and counter accusations of infidelity after over five years in court. Few months later, on Saturday, April 21, 2012, she married her friend and business partner, Linus Idahosa in Paris in a star studded, multi-million wedding. Funke Akindele Award winning actress and producer, Funke Akindele got married to Abdulrasheed Bello better known as JJC Skillz, in London shortly before her 39th birthday on August 24. She was formerly married to Kehinde Almaroof Oloyede with whom she tied the knot in May 2012. That marriage was over by July 2013 with the parties announcing they had resolved to go their separate ways. Monalisa Chinda Chinda’s first marriage to Segun Dejo-Richards ended in 2009 with the two citing “incompatibility and irreconcilable differences.” She later revealed that she practically ran out of her matrimonial home with daughter, Tamar, because of domestic violence. The actress and television personality was joined in traditional marriage to Victor Tonye Coker at a ceremony in Elelenwo, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on February 12, 2016. Clarion Chukwurah Veteran actress, Clarion Chukwurah’s marriage to Tunde Abiola ended in 2003. She got married again on February 14, 2004 to Femi Oduneye, a socialite, popularly known as Femi Egyptian. They separated on May 5, 2006. She walked down the aisle once again with her US-based lover, Anthony Boyd in April 2016. Stella Damasus Damasus lost her first husband, Jaiye Aboderin, to death on December 3, 2004. She married Emeka Nzeribe secretly in 2007 but the marriage didn’t last a year. She is currently married to Daniel Ademinokan, ex-husband of actress Doris Simeon, with whom she has found a home in the United States of America. Foluke Daramola She got married to Tunde Sobowale in 2005 but the marriage was over by 2008. The actress and anti-rape campaigner found love again and married Kayode Salako in 2013. The two welcomed their baby in 2015. Liz Benson-Emeye Veteran actress, Benson was married to Samuel Gabriel Etim. She lost him in her mid-twenties. She took another shot in marriage after her conversion to Christianity and married Bishop Great Emeye in 2019 in a quiet court ceremony in Abuja. Together, the two are involved in a Christian Evangelical Ministry in which her husband is a pastor while she is an evangelist. Obot Etuk  The actress- turned- Pastor Etuk’s first marriage was in 1985 when she was just 15 years and her husband, named Kirikko was 18. They had three children before separating for years and legally divorced in 2002 . It is rumoured that she has found love and married in London. Shan George George’s first marriage was in 1985 when she was 16. She had two children for her first husband, whom she left in 1991 when she was 21. It is rumoured that she married a certain man which didn’t last as well. She later met and married Anthony Nwosisi, making him the third husband but the marriage too did not last. Bukky Wright Her first husband was Gboyega Amu. The marriage brought them two children. But for some reasons, the union broke and the actress started a relationship with Rotimi Makinde, a member of the House of Representatives. After few years Bukky Wright reportedly began dating famous journalist Femi Davies. The relationship ended after a year,and she moved on. Bolaji Saheed, a music promoter, reportedly became the fourth husband of the actress. The marriage also ended. After that, she met her fifth husband, US-based Adewale Onitiri, this marriage recently crashed. Regina Asika She was briefly married to a money bag, Charles Orie but dumped him for an American man named Ruddy Willaims. She lives in USA with hubby and children where she works as a nurse. Ann Njemanze Beautiful Anne married Segun Arinze but left the marriage with a daughter who is over about 17 years. She went on to marry Silver Ojieson but the marriage have packed up on the ground of physical assualts.