The shareholders and managements of the top five banks in Nigeria have cause to smile, considering the significant return on investment in the banks’ first half year reports. The top five earned N416.55 billion in profits, within the period, arising from improved technology and enhanced efficiency. They witnessed a marginal increase in profitability from 33.35 per cent to 34.14 per cent. It is expected that the shareholders will get an interim cash dividend for the period, ranging from 20k to N1.00. The top five banks, by capitalisation, also known as Tier-1 banks, are Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) Plc, Zenith Bank International Plc, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Access Bank Plc and United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc. Their first half result showed their total gross earnings rose by 9.79 per cent, from N1.17 trillion in 2018 to N1.29 trillion in 2019, and total pre-tax profit grew from N371.66 last year, to N416.55 billion this year. Total net profit moved from N303.8 billion to N343.96 billion, and average gross earnings within the top five, from N234.79 billion in 2018 to N257.77 in 2019. While we felicitate with the banks for their profitability, we are worried that some of the profit were distilled from the blood of their employees. We wonder how the banks could be so profitable, yet their owners exploit their workforce who sweat out this profit. As we have argued here severally, it is the height of impunity that banks employ highly educated young Nigerians to do full time job, and yet treat them as casual staff. In what may amount to unlawful employment tactics, most top officials of banks in Nigeria use surrogate companies to subjugate graduate trainees to harsh employment conditions. Yet, the bank executives take home humongous emoluments. This is unconscionable. What we are saying is that while they should seek to be profitable, in other to attract more investors, the banks must also operate as ethically biased institutions. Again, the banks must seek to add more value to the economy, by lending more to the real sector. Such disposition will benefit them more, in the long run. We are worried that most of the banks in Nigeria make their profits from short term lending, and trading in treasury bills and foreign exchange, living the real sector to suffer. For instance, in a country as huge as Nigeria, it is strange that banks do not offer real mortgage banking services. What abound mainly is short term lending, dubiously termed mortgage banking service. Again, while manufacturers struggle to get access to credit facilities, importers of finished items have easy access to funds. The result is that while banks make huge profits, the real sector of the economy, which is the foundation on which the whole national economy rests, limps. Expectedly, when the national economy quakes, some of the banks go under. Unfortunately, our country has witnessed a lot of such distress in the banking sector. So, there is the need for a paradigm shift for banks, from concentrating on easy profits to investing in the substratum of the national economy, for long term survival of all and sundry. Of note, while we expect the banks to rejig their lending priorities and ensure equal pay for equal work, by abolishing casual staff, we appreciate the difficult environment in which they operate. Some of the challenges that make it unattractive to lend to the real sector, like incessant changes in policies, excessive taxation, absence of credible data, and similar hazards, are in the control of state institutions. So, while we encourage the banks to contribute to the growth of the economy, government institutions must provide the enabling environment for private enterprises to flourish.