The Chief Operating Officer of ECHOLAB Radiology and Laboratory Services, Dr. Abimbola Jimoh, has advised Nigerians to embrace regular medical checkups, saying early diagnosis is key to reducing the burden of chronic diseases in the country. She stressed that by getting the correct health services and screenings, doctors are able to detect potential health conditions or diseases early before they become a threat, advising that early diagnosis and treatment are important steps towards living a longer and healthier life. This was contained in Jimoh’s address at a doctors’ forum organised by ECHOLAB where medical practitioners gathered to deliberate on major health issues affecting Nigerians. The event was also part of activities to mark the opening of a new ultra-modern diagnostic centre in Victoria Island, Lagos, by the laboratory giant. “Early diagnosis ensures that a disease is treatable and well controlled. But when you discover a disease when it has already damaged body organs, then the prognosis at that point is poor. For instance, renal disease has trends that should have been picked up earlier. That’s why we are on this campaign to encourage people to check themselves out early enough. Routine medical investigation is key such that diseases are picked out early and addressed quickly so the individual can have a good quality of life rather than allow complications,” she said. Jimoh decried Nigeria’s medical landscape which he said was littered with infrastructural decay, one of the causes of inaccurate diagnosis. She, however, added that ECHOLAB has come on stream to bridge the gap by leveraging technology to ensure prompt and accurate medical diagnosis for Nigerians. “We have gathered practitioners in the medical space here today to have a discussion on how to provide more qualitative medical services to Nigerians. We are leveraging opportunities to make our presence known via forums and participation in conferences as well as health related activities. We want to let Nigerians know that they can get world-class diagnostic services here in Nigeria. “At ECHOLAB, our radiology and pathology services are technology driven to ensure accurate and prompt diagnosis in line with global best practices. We are committed to total quality management systems which culminate into global best practice standard across all services, with one thing in mind: to ensure our quality is not compromised. The word ‘care’ in our tagline is what we take seriously,” she said. Issues discussed at the forum included the need for early, accurate, and prompt diagnosis, and adherence to best practices in the delivery of medical services. The doctors’ forum heralded the launch of the new  laboratory facility in Victoria Island, which provides full-scale pathology and radiology services, including CT and MRI scans. At the unveiling, Dr. Benson Ayodele Cole, chairman of ECHOLAB, said the technology-driven facility is a manifestation of the company’s strategic partnerships with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), MAN Capital, and Integrated Diagnostic Holdings (IDH) who hold the majority stake in the business. According to him, the three international partners provide ECHOLAB with the finance, equipment, and technological know-how needed to deliver world-class diagnostic services. Established in 1998, ECHOLAB, which started as Echo Scan in Kaduna to provide radiology and pathology services, runs 12 branches, some of which are private-public partnerships. It has stand-alone branches in six states.