Educated youths under the auspices of the Bayelsa Forward Movement (BFM) have declared support for the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the November 16 governorship elections, Douye Diri. BFM Coordinator Alfred Kemepado, and other leaders of the group, also promised to work against the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief David Lyon. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei quoted Kemepado to have made the declaration during a solidarity visit to the Government House, Yenagoa. Kemepado, who described the choices in the forthcoming election as a contest between good and evil, said that the enlightened youth populace would not allow Bayelsa to descend on a pitiable mission to Egypt after tasting the soothing air of restoration. Kemepado said that the Nigerian system created an unacceptable situation that foisted servitude and deprivation on the inhabitants of the Niger Delta, who are the original owners of the oil. He explained that the oil firms encouraged the creation of armed militia groups in the Niger Delta in the guise of oil surveillance contractors to perpetrate instability in the region. Kemepado said that it was an aberration for the oppressive system to deprive indigenes of the area of ownership rights only to use them as some glorified pipeline security servants. He said tha Bayelsa youths would not vote those who would celebrate an arrangement that foists oppression on the region. He said that the BFM comprising graduate youths, would take the message to all the communities of the state to ensure the sustenance of the PDP legacy of development in Bayelsa State. He said that the Bayelsa Youth populace would not allow the state to be taken over by agents of darkness and gun-wielding youths come November 16. He praised the governor for his developmental exploits in all the critical sectors of the state and for the opportunity given to the youths to serve. In his remarks, Governor Seriake Dickson, said that the state was almost in the promised land and would not retrogress to Egypt. He said that the group of highly educated and enlightened youths would not be deceived by fake promises from insincere politicians using deceit as their most potent political tool. He recalled that some politicians were behind a rumour that the APC candidate paid electricity bills for the people of Yenagoa when nothing of that nature occurred. He said that he would drive in a convoy to Aguobiri in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area in October and do the ground breaking for the Oporoma bridge. He called on the youths to be firm and not to allow their state to be taken over by darkness.