The contradictions in the northern part of the country is escalating. Politically, the north has dominated leadership of the country for better part of Nigeria’s independence, and for some, under President Muhammadu Buhari, that domination is more entrenched. Those who argue as such, point at the political appointments as a confirmation of the agenda to dominate. While President Buhari’s minders would use the ministerial list, to contradict this point, it is disheartening that instead of the appointments helping to elevate the north, rather, it is stymied in deeper existential crisis. Unfortunately, the greatest challenge facing the region presently is no longer its political battles with the south, but rather the war amongst its constituent parts. The banditry by the so-called cattle rustlers may actually be a war between the indigenous Hausas and the wealthier migratory Fulanis. While it may be preposterous to theorise an organized rise by the indigenous Hausa against their more sophisticated Fulani masters, there is no doubt that the crisis is a manifestation of a deep schisms between the two cultures. Of course, apart from the rise of the more exposed Fulani in the political ladder, the itinerant Fulani is also doing better economically than the sedentary Hausa. The Fulani herder is a roving economy, with his control of about 100 to 200 herds. As scruffy as he looks, he is actually a mobile ATM, at least for the armed bandit, who could disposes him, of a few of his cattle. So, the Hausa talakawas who have been politically disposed since the 19th century and whom the modern criminality in post-independence governments have made even poorer, have resorted to a banditry economy of fleecing the Fulani of their cattle by all means possible. Last week, Governor Aminu Masari of Kastina State, in an interview with this newspaper put the ranging debacle in clearer perspective. Earlier, he had posed with a bandit wielding an assault raffle, perhaps to show those in the bush that you can keep your gun while negotiating with the state. But more scarily, the governor had said that in some parts of the north-west, there are criminal gangs whose sole agenda is to kill any Fulani in sight. In describing the challenge posed by the bandits in neighbouring Zamfara, the governor said: “we have what we call volunteers who are not even vigilantes. These volunteers went about killing any Fulani man, or Fulani woman they saw.” Yet, the apparatchik of state power at the federal and state levels are substantially in the hands of the Fulani elite. Yet again, many in the southern part of Nigeria strongly believe the Fulani have an agenda to overrun the entire country and dominate it. Perhaps, even if a few of them nurse such a grandiose ambition, it is reasonable to doubt their ability to actualize it. With their northern redoubt on fire, that may explain the downward movement towards the Niger-Benue trough and its environments. That may also explain the desperation to establish new settlements elsewhere, otherwise known as RUGA settlement. That may further explain the desperate plea by President Buhari to Benue people at the height of their confrontation with the herders that Nigerians should accommodate their neighbours. Regardless of one’s emotional disposition to the deep rooted existential crisis facing the country, there is the urgent need for what the inimitable essayist of this newspaper, Snooping Around, usually call elite consensus on minimal templates for governance. If this column has the ears of President Muhammadu Buhari, it is urging him to devote his second tenure to build consensus on national economy and politics. Those so-called kitchen cabinet who have been fingered as more interested in the 2023 succession plan, should look back to history and learn. Hopefully, the new Presidential Economic Advisory Council may provide new ideas on how to turn the economy around. Many have argued that the appointees have the pedigree, but it is the president who ultimately determines which way to go. Considering that the president prefers conservative economic policies, some commentators are wondering whether the president would be willing to accept the liberal economic policies that may emanate from the liberal economists that make up the team. Perhaps, the president has become a convert to liberal economic policies, seeing that his conservative economic practices have not yielded the expected economic boom. Assuming the new team can make any difference, most of their efforts will come to naught, if the political environment spirals into a tailspin, if the initiative to stoke the political environment succeeds. So, just as he has done in the economic front, the president needs a broad based political committee to proffer solutions to the political crisis confronting the nation. Such an approach would serve Nigeria better. As this column has severally argued in the past, those who really love President Buhari must help him to achieve some legacies, before he leaves power. That argument has become even more trenchant now, considering that in few months going forward, President Muhammadu Buhari would become what the Americans refer to as a lame duck president. He must therefore resist the effort of those who want to succeed him in 2023 and are trying to derail his presidency in their blind ambition to consolidate their hold on power. A serene political climate will also benefit his ethnic group, which he loves so much. If they have benefited exponentially, because of the special privileges he has as head of state, he should worry about their fate when inevitably he leaves power? So, a more pragmatic approach should be, to be seen to act more fairly in the distribution of political privileges, so that there would no serious backlash when he steps aside. More importantly, the approach to the war in the north is not sustainable. The nation does not have the capacity to keep borrowing to sustain an unending debacle. Even when the borrower is desirous to keep borrowing, the lender would at a stage refuse to lend anymore. Clearly, we are approaching that bend, and the earlier the political differences are tampered with to allow for economic revival, the higher the chances of Nigeria surviving the approaching tornado. Nigeria therefore needs a better handling of the war in the north-west and north-east. The indecorous rapprochement in the northwest is even more frightening. You cannot first further empower the bandits in the bush by paying ransom to them, and then ask them to disarm later. It is also silly to compare the raison d’etre of the struggle in the Niger Delta with the uprising in the north. Perhaps, it is such failure of strategic thinking that has afflicted the north more any other malaise.