Abubakar Dangiwa Umar is a refreshing paradox: the noblest of minds coming off the most venal of military epochs Col Abubakar Dangiwa Umar, Babangida-era military governor of Kaduna State, cuts the image of eternal youth. But he just turned 70, on September 21 (born on September 21, 1949) — that, in itself, underscoring one of his many refreshing paradoxes. Among the many so-called “IBB boys” of that blighted era of military rule, he bucked the Wole Soyinka dire challenge: the man dies in him that in the face of injustice keeps quiet – a challenge which appears too lofty for the Nigerian contemporary elite to scale. But in Umar, the man did not only live, it viciously kicked against brazen injustice, as the military regime, in which he served, annulled the June 12, 1993 presidential mandate of Bashorun Moshood Abiola, in bare-faced contempt for the voters that voted in that election. He staked his all, not only to challenge the annulment but to work towards revalidating that epochal election. For his courage, he lost his commission – and could well have lost his life. But for his pains, he gained eternal honour. To the decadent military of his era, he was not unlike the sole upright man the Old Testament Jehovah craved – but could not find – to save the decadent Sodom and Gomorrah, from total destruction. Military historians will yet give Umar his full honour – the pungent conscience of a military era that arrogantly projected it had no conscience – nor any sense of fairness and justice. If that wayward caste, of self-styled “military president” Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB), was only half noble-minded as Umar, Nigeria would have been saved the horror of the Sani Abacha iron dictatorship. The Nigerian military too would have saved themselves the tragic unravelling that sent them scuttling out of the poisonous power chamber in 1999. Yet, Umar was among the most favoured of the “IBB boys”. When that regime seized power in a palace coup in August 1985, he was a Major. Indeed, he first hit public consciousness by declaring himself as unfazed Babangida boy that would go to battle, behind his General, even if blind-folded – obviously to stress his unfettered loyalty to his military boss and personal idol. But when the war for principle, justice and good conscience flared, he blind-sighted his idol; and perched on high principles that had no space for cant or humbug. It was paradox at its most gripping and exhilarating – the glorious triumph of loyalty to fine personal principles over base loyalty to the boss and class. Ay, many may dismiss him as a traitor to his class and military calling. But even many more would hail him as, when the chips were down and stakes were abnormally high, staying faithful to the higher calling of democracy and justice. Ironically, from that noble corridor, he shines as good advertisement for both the military and democracy – a look-in at what the Nigerian military of his era could have been; the noble heights it could have vaulted, had most of its members boasted the Umar temper; the democracy Nigeria could have built, if the misguided military czars of that age were not consumed by hubris, and had allowed the Abiola mandate to stand. But again, that has earned him a glorious place in history, while most of his generals, back then, have crammed themselves into history’s smelly dustbin. In a clime where folks hardly do anything for the noble principle of it, Col. Umar had retired into a Promethean silence, after his military era storm. Aside from measured commentaries on public matters, the man who appears at peace with himself, has been quietly minding his business as an ostrich farmer, somewhere in Kaduna. Though he founded the Movement for Unity and Progress (MUP), it has proved no more than a pressure group, from which platform the colonel makes contributions to national interests. Still, not quite a few have wondered why he had not leveraged his June 12 goodwill to corral post-military political offices. On this score, he would appear to have branded himself as Caius Martius Coriolanus, the hero in Shakespeare’s tragic historical play of that title. All Coriolanus wanted to be was a soldier, in which he excelled beyond measure. But then his mother, Volumnia, wanted his son, who considered it infra dig to beg for plebeians’ vote, to be elected consul, to show Rome was grateful for his valour and war stripes. But it ended a tragedy. Even as a military governor of Kaduna State (August 1985-June 1988), he quit his governorship posting for a course in the United States – a rarity in his days when the public gravy was everything. Abubakar Umar has consistently proved a social conscience, without the social temperament to enter politics and rough it up with others. As he takes his first gingerly steps as a young old man, he would appear the latest of national elders that the country can look up to for quality advice, unstained by base, ethnic or faith sentiments. Indeed, a patriot, worth his name in gold, just entered the septuagenarian class!  We can only wish him many more years in his service to his country, even as a respected private citizen.