Weather, air traffic control restrictions, delay in supply of aviation fuel, inadequate airport, air navigation infrastructure and others have negatively impacted the capacity of domestic carriers to keep to scheduled time. Despite these, some of the carriers are scaling up their operations to achieve on-time performance, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports. Effective management of time is increasingly becoming an attraction in global air travel. It is for this reason that air travel is gaining global attention among  other modes of transportation. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), carriers carried over 4.5 billion passengers last year. It said given the peculiarity of air travel, current trends suggest that passenger traffic could hit 8.2 billion by 2037. According to IATA Director-General and Chief Executive, Alexandre de Juniac, air travel would continue to grow if carriers improved on their on-time performance. In Nigeria, statistics from the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) indicate that 9.2 million passengers passed through the airports in 140,552 aircraft between January and September 2017. The statistics gave the breakdown as 6.38 million domestic and 2.8 international passengers. It also showed that 110,220 domestic and 30,332 international flights were operated across the nation’s 22 airports during the period under review. The domestic carriers, according to FAAN, included Overland Airways, Arik Air, Air Peace, First Nation Airways, Azman Air, Med View Airlines and  Aero  Contractors . It further revealed that 4.6 million passengers arrived the country in 70,680 flights, while 4.5 million passengers departed in 69,872 flights. Figures released by the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) indicated that  14,171,722 air travellers went through Nigeria Airports last year. A new entrant, Max Air,  joined the fray in the period under review. The data endorsed by NCAA’s Consumer Protection Directorate represents a 20.8 per cent increase to the 11,221,608 passengers recorded between January and December 2017. According to the document, the 34 airlines on international routes operated 15,645 flights and flew 4,079,0789 passengers during the period under review. Despite the increase in passenger traffic in the country, airlines continue to grapple with delayed or cancelled flights. Experts say delayed or cancelled flights are becoming a nightmare for many passengers, who want carriers to improve on their on-time performance. In an interview, NCAA Director-General Captain Mukhtar Usman said airlines should not be blamed for cancelling or delaying flights for safety and security reasons. He said some carriers have significantly improved on their on-time performance compared to a few years ago. According to him, more than half of the flights by eight domestic carriers a few years ago were either cancelled or delayed. But, the NCAA in the last few years has taken steps to ensure defaulting carriers keep their obligation to passengers. In doing this, the regulator scaled up the operation of its consumer protection directorate such that infractions on passengers rights are addressed. One of the infractions is failure of airlines to carry passengers along on the status of their flights. the NCAA insists that airlines are sanctioned  if they fail to meet the requirements on the status of their flights. To address this, some domestic carriers have either acquired more aircraft; improved turn- around time and are taking measures to settle bills for aircraft fuelling; aeronautical charges and other pre-flight logistics. Besides, some carriers have reworked their route scheduling to ensure that delay in the operating aircraft for one sector or flight rotation does not lead to delay in another operation. Investigations revealed that, since the first quarter of this year, there has been a significant drop in cancelled or delayed flights. Checks from the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) revealed that Arik Air is leading the pack in on-time performance. An air traffic controller said in the last one year Arik Air flights has been departing on time. Arik Air Managing Director Captain Roy Ilegbodu attributed the airline’s punctuality  to increase in fleet size and improvement in turn-around time. Besides Arik Air, other carriers, including Dana Air, Air Peace, and lately Aero Contractors, have recorded improvement on their on-time performance. Statistics obtained from the NCAA Consumer Protection Directorate indicated that since last year  domestic carriers have scaled up their operations. The data indicated that, in the first quarter of last year, overall on-time performance  report stood at 61 per cent, but increased to 76  per cent in same quarter of this year. In the second quarter, April to June, overall on-time performance for airlines moved from 66 per cent in 2018 to 84 per cent in the year. In the third quarter, June to September, overall on-time performance for airlines moved from 68 per cent last year to 84 per cent this year. In the last quarter of last year, it moved from 60 per cent to 84 per cent . A breakdown of on-time performance for domestic flights, according to the NCAA data, shows 61 per cent in 2018 compared to  77 per cent in the year for the first quarter; while the second quarter indicates 68 per cent for domestic carriers’ on-time performance for 2018 compared to 85 per cent for same carriers in 2019. The data puts the third quarter domestic carriers’ on-time performance at 69 per cent for 2018 compared to 85 per cent for the year. The fourth quarter domestic carriers’ on-time performance stood at 59 per cent for 2018 as against 85 per cent for 2019. Industry experts say the improvement in on-time performance could also be attributed to joint venture agreements signed by some carriers with aircraft owners to achieve seamless operations. Arik Air in particular signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Value Jets for the use of its aircraft on some domestic routes, including Lagos-Abuja. With more aircraft in its fleet, the airline has improved its turn- around time. Besides, increasing its aircraft fleet and enhanced relationship with regulatory agencies, it was learnt, are some of the factors responsible for its flight punctuality. In separate interviews, some passengers relived their experience on some domestic carriers which have improved on their on-time performance. Emeka Nnodim, passenger on Lagos-Abuja route, said in his Twitter handle: “What has happened to our airlines, flights are no more delayed like before, even, Arik Air has improved. Is it because the airline was acquired by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria? It is amazing airlines now keep to time, I cannot believe even Arik Air.” Another passenger, Uche Osoka,  said: ” Our domestic carriers have improved on their on- time performance. This is good. I hope they sustain it. My worry is continuity. That is where the problem lies. Let us hope for greater things.” On his part, another passenger, Abdulmini Umar said: “I have witnessed the improved on -time performance of domestic carriers on the Lagos-Abuja route, no more flight delays.” In his testimony, Raymond Akintayo, said: ‘’It is good some passengers are noticing the phenomenal transformation of airlines, including Arik Air, with flight now right on time. Imagine flying by noon, airplane door locked by 11.45, this is unusual.” Lawal Oluwatosin said: “These days one cannot afford to be late for Arik Air flight. I learnt the hard way. Imagine Nigerian airlines keeping to time.” Last week, the NCAA  commended Arik Air for its effective, efficient, safe and secure operations, despite challenges in the operating environment. The authority in a letter dated September 4, 2019 and signed by the Director- General, Captain Muhtar Usman, praised Arik Air for its compliance with the five per cent Ticket Sales Tax/Charter Sales Tax (TSC/CS) as enshrined in the Civil Aviation Act 2006 (As amended). Other key performances for which NCAA commended Arik Air include timely remittance of five per cent Cargo Sales Charge (CSC) and beneficial working relationship leading to the implementation of the Aviation Revenue Automation Project (ARAP)/Direct Debit Mandate. The NCAA hopes that Arik Air would continue to honour its financial obligations as and when due, in line with the Federal Government‘s Policy on non-oil revenue. The authority said it would continue to partner Arik Air to give assistance within the confines of the law for the growth of airline in particular and the industry in general. Ilegbodu said: “We are pleased with the commendation our airline received from NCAA. We assure our customers and stakeholders of continuous adherence to international safety “There has been a cordial working relationship between NCAA and Arik Air since the coming of the Receiver Management team in February 2017. The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON)-instituted management has been working hard to reposition the airline.”