Lagos rolled out the drums to celebrate the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Information and Strategy, Fola Adeyemi, who turned 60 and was bowing out after decades of service to the state, EVELYN OSAGIE reports. IT was a double celebration recently for the former Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Strategy, Folarin Anthony Adeyemi, who turrned 60 and was retiring after years of service in Lagos State. Dignitaries, friends, family members and colleagues thronged the Grandeur Event Centre, Ikeja, Lagos to fete him. The ceremony featured recollection of his meritorious service; a public lecture by Segun Ayobolu, former Chief Press Secretary to former Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, which led to a panel discussion moderated by former Commissioner for Art and Culture Steve Ayorinde. “This is, therefore, instructive for all Public Affairs Officers that wherever you find yourself, you need to work your way up there. Every organisation desires someone who could add value to them and not a liability. So, immediately they are sure that you are an asset they cannot but trust and work with you. “In all MDAs that I have served, I was able to escalate my office to the management level. The whole thing is about how well you package yourself and the office you are occupying.” These words by Adeyemi laid the groundwork of the day’s event. It also headlined the presentation of Adeyemi’s book entitled: The Dynamics of Public Information Management: Memoirs of a Veteran Public Affairs Manager. It was chaired by the Commissioner of Water Resources and the Environment, Tunji Bello. It drew dignitaries from across the state, including three former commissioners for Information and Strategy (Kehinde Bamigetan, Dele Alake and Ayorinde) and the incumbent Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, formerly the editor of The Nation newspaper; members of the state civil service; the media and scholars. Adeyemi was there with his lovely wife, Jumoke and children, Fola and Gbolade. From the office of the Deputy Governor to the Ministries of Finance, Education, Works and Infrastructure and the Environment at various times, Adeyemi left “path-breaking and trail-blazing imprints”, it was said He was extolled for his dedication to duty, his calm-headed nature; dealing with issues and proactive reforms that took place in the Public Affairs Office and Ministry of Information and Strategy in his time. Under his watch, “the social media unit in the Ministry of Information and Strategy was elevated to full-fledged departmental status to reflect the enormous influence that it  has come to attain in modern communication”; “the Lagos Television/Eko FM were repositioned and re-equipped”, and “state information officers were redesigned as public affairs officers in line with international best practices” it was stated. According to the immediate past Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Kehinde Bamigbetan, who anchored the book’s presentation, Adeyemi was launching the book to fund his foundation, which was a way of giving back to the society and journalism profession which has been instrumental to his rise and the successes recorded in his working life. “Adeyemi is a man with passion for the business of communication. And he has realised due over the course of his work that there is a rare species of the public relation personnel that requires a lot of support from all of us; he has identified them as the women who are involved in public relations and he decided to write a book. He is launching this book so that he can fund a foundation that would empower them,” Bamigbetan said. While Bello called him, “a good strategist”, former Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Dele Alake, praised Adeyemi intellect and sense of duty. “His attitude to work, managerial ability is very exemplary and impressive. I congratulate him for his successful career. There is nowhere else for you to go but up,” he said. “I am very happy for my friend. Lagos still needs his service In his lecture, entitled: “The Dynamics of Public Affairs Management: Information Management, Strategic Communication and the Emergent Greater Lagos”, Ayobolu went out to set agenda for the new administration, Ministry of Information and Strategy and the public affair unit/officers. Citing the administration of Asiwaju Tinubu, he said: “Free flow of information between the government and the media is critical to effective communication of the government with the public. A relationship that stresses a free flow of information between government and the media is necessary from the inception of a public policy.” The event was held on Sepetember 2. The trajectory Adeyemi’s performance as Information Officer at the various offices he had been posted to over a period of over two and a half decades, according to Ayobolu, “indicated that he was indeed headed for the very apex of the civil service structure in a system that respects talent and rewards performance”. The keynote speaker revealed that Adeyemi’s joining the Lagos State Public Service was not by happenstance, stating that applying into the Civil Service was his father’s desire as “he wanted him to use the platform to offer quality service to humanity”. “It is thus no wonder that Mr Fola Adeyemi had a high sense of self-esteem and attached appropriate value both to his person and his profession as a government policy communicator. “As Mr Adeyemi puts it in his book evoking strong emotions on me as I read it, ‘You must have an identity before institutions and professionalism will back you to become an authority. If I can come from nowhere and make a mark, then the over 400 Public Affairs Officers in the Lagos State Public Service can do it. I cherish the ‘Can do Spirit a lot’… Mr. Adeyemi retires formally today but he is in no way tired. He still bubbles with physical energy, mental acuteness and moral fervor. It is for this great son of Nigeria certainly morning yet on creation day and the best, for him, is yet to come,” Ayobolu said. Travel business consultant, Ikechi Uko, organiser of Akwaaba African Travel Market, praised the celebrator for forthrightness, and presented a gift to him.