SOME youths in Anambra State have expressed anger over the deplorable state of roads in the state. The group insisted that the deplorable roads and increasing number of potholes across the state affected their businesses and daily activities. The youths under the eages of Anambra Youth Empowerment Initiative (AYEI), also frowned at “poor representation” of senator representing Anambra North in the National Assembly, Senator Stella Odua and other lawmakers for their inability to call for town hall meeting. Addressing reporters after their meeting in Onitsha, the chairman of the group, Hon Nduka Alor, called on Governor Willie Obiano to urgently fix the roads and save the state of eminent erosion menace. He sued for calm and beckoned on the irate youths to trade with caution. “As proactive citizens, we must be the vanguard of the society but my appeal to the youths was to take it easy and direct their grievances through the proper channel. “It is obvious that roads are not built during the rainy season because of the nature of the soil texture in this part of the world. “You must always have a lot of potholes during the rainy season, especially when the rains are very heavy and daily as we witnessed this year. “Anambra State government, recently acquired three state of the art road machines known as Dura Patcher from the United States to fix the potholes once the rain subsides. I was also meant to understand that the operators are undergoing training right now.” Alor also challenged the lawmakers representing the constituency at various levels to brace up to their responsibilities of providing quality representation as promised during electioneering. “It is expected that they call for town hall meeting at least quarterly but they seem to be doing nothing. ” They need to dialogue with the people on what they have done or what they intend to do for the constituents. Such meeting oils democracy and gives to purposeful representation” he said. The State Deputy Governor, Dr Nkem Okeke had during a visit to the state council of Nigeria Union of Journalists in Awka, assured that all potholes would be patched up as soon as the rains stop.  