The leadership crisis rocking the Action Alliance ( AA) at the weekend took a new turn as the National Chairman of party , Dr. Tunde Anifowose-Kelani, called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to stop Chief Kenneth Udeze and Vemimbe James from parading themselves as the National Chairman and National Secretary of the party respectively. He also warned INEC against recognising Alh. Mohammed Abubakar and Mr El Moses as acting National Chairman and acting National Secretary of the party. Anifowose-Kelani, in a letter written to INEC through his lawyer, Mr. Olaniyi Okin, said that he remained the authentic national chairman of the party. This, he said, was pursuant to his election at the party’s convention “properly organised and held on 13th of April, 2013, under the supervision of INEC for a four-year term which is renewable for another four years, in accordance with the constitution of the party”. Anifowose-Kelani said in the letter that his attention had been drawn to a publication by the Vanguard online of August 11, 2019 that the party’s National Think Tank Committee had ratified the decision made by the party to suspend Udeze and James for alleged anti-party activities and violation of AA’s constitution. He added that the decision to suspend the duo were made on June 14, 2019, with the representatives of INEC in attendance. “It was further reported that Alh. Mohammed Abubakar and Mr El Moses were appointed as acting National Chairman and acting National Secretary respectively. “We wish to advise that the cause of action in the pending suit in the Federal High Court, Abuja is about the chairmanship position of the party. “Our client was not allowed to complete his tenure as the elected National Chairman of the party before he was overthrown in the most fraudulent and unconstitutional manner by virtue of a letter of leave of absence which he never wrote as prescribed by the party’s constitution. “The cause of action in the said suit concerns a letter dated 22nd June, 2015 addressed to our client by your office whereby your office purportedly recognised Alhaji Issa Haladu, the then National Organising Secretary of Action Alliance as its Acting National Chairman instead of our client. “This is pursuant to a fraudulent and unconstitutional letter of leave of absence written by the then national secretary of the party on 6th February, 2015, purportedly on behalf of our client. “We hope you will obviate the necessity for such action with the inconveniences, expense and negative publicity attendant upon committal proceedings by not taking further steps to jeopardize whatever judgement that will be given by the court,” the letter read. He expressed the hope that INEC would not take further steps by recognizing the said appointed acting officers which, he said, might have the effect of foisting a faith accompli on the court. “We will not hesitate to commence committal proceedings for contempt of court against the commission on the occurrence of such event,” the letter stated. It would be recalled that Udeze had recently said that he and James remained the national chairman and national secretary of the party respectively. Udeze had stated that their purported suspension from the party was incorrect, false, misleading and should be disregarded by all Nigerians and AA members across Nigeria.