That the Lagos and Ogun state governments have applied to take over the management of the Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta Expressway, the Ikorodu-Sagamu Road and the Ijebu Ode-Epe Road, has thrilled not a few. It is even more cheery that the Federal Government has, in principle, agreed to the hand-over. There is something fundamentally awry with the present structure of road ownership and maintenance. The idea of “federal roads” in states ought to be urgently revisited. The ultimate goal would be the full federalisation of roads. If that happens, every state would take total control of every road in its territory. But going with that will need fiscal tinkering: to move matching cash to states for their new road responsibilities, away from the soggy Federal Government purse. Still, that is in the short run. In the long run of full re-federalisation (or to use the popular term, “restructuring”), the states that milk their resources and just pay the central government its share in taxes and royalties, will fully budget for the construction and maintenance of these roads, without any Federal Government involvement. That would be the ultimate. But to the present Lagos-Ogun proposal. Dapo Abiodun, governor of Ogun State, speaking at his investiture as honorary patron of the Abeokuta Club, explained the joint Lagos-Ogun take-over bid of, for instance, the Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta Road. He said the last contract for that road’s reconstruction was in 2001. A N26 billion debt reportedly still hangs on the road. Yet, N1 billion is voted to maintain the road every year. Given the math therefore, by dwindling resources across the board, it’s almost sure the road won’t be completed. Hence, he further explained, the Public sector-Private sector-Participation (PPP) decision, by which the two states would permit private sector players to rebuild the roads and toll them to recoup their investment. Across the board, this would appear a very good decision. It is good the Federal Government has also given approval to embrace the move. The other two roads, the Ikorodu-Sagamu Road and the Ijebu Ode-Epe Road, which passes by Imagbon and Isiwo in Ogun State and links up with Mojoda in Lagos, were very vital – and busy – inter-state roads, before they were all abandoned for the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Even then, the poor maintenance of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, and its eventual decay, before its current reconstruction, made sure all these four roads practically collapsed. Rehabilitating these other three roads, therefore, makes a lot of sense, if the new-look Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, expected to be delivered by December 2020, is to last. If other state governors nationwide could embrace such strategic thinking on roads within their jurisdiction, fuelled by the best practices of regional cooperation and integration, the country would be far better off for it. Good thinking, it goes without saying, by the two governments. Still, the tolling aspect must be approached rather carefully, aside from the governments giving out more details. Does it mean the roads would be tolled for a period to enable the investors recoup their investment? Or would they be permanently tolled, for maintenance and maybe future reconstruction and expansion? All these details should be in the public space. Still, a final word: we wonder if this arrangement would have been possible, if the applying states come from a different party that controls the Federal Government. The answer is probably no – and that is where Nigerian politics trumps development or even common sense. That amounts to net regression, in the people’s welfare, instead of progress, the very reason for politics and governance. Let this, therefore, be the beginning of a convention in which mutual growth, progress and development prevail over temporary political gains. That would not only deepen governance, it would also deepen democracy, development and prosperity.