Atinuke Cancer Foundation on Saturday, September 7, held a cancer awareness programme in Lagos, with a zero-tolerance mission to eradicate cancer from the society. The event which held at the Johnson Jakande Tinubu Garden, Alausa, was tagged, ‘Let’s Kill it’ Ikeja 2019′. The sensitization program began with free health checks such as breast, prostate and cervical cancer checks, HIV, blood pressure and sugar tests. It also included a short lecture, Low-tempo aerobics, 5km fitness-walk and a meet and greet with celebrities. Gracing the event included the representative of the wife of Lagos State governor, Yewande Olorunrinu; representative of the commissioner for health, Dr. Abosede Wellington; Member, Lagos State House of Assembly, Adedamola Kasunmu; Head of Finance/Accounts, Lagos State Lotteries Board, Adeyinka Suleiman and social media celebrities like comedian and actor, Wooli Arole, comedian Iya Mufu and Baba Alariya. Speaking on behalf of the wife of the Lagos State governor, Yewande Olorunrinu stated that the Lagos State government was already leading series of initiatives in the fight against cancer and would not decline efforts until the scourge is defeated in the state and in the country. And addressing the foundation’s target, Adedamola Kasunmu, member, Lagos State House of Assembly, said: “This sensitization is going to cut across different constituencies and areas in Lagos State. In every nook and cranny, we would create awareness for the prevention of this ailment rather than the cure, because it is pertinent we eradicate cancer and other related terminal diseases.” Previous editions of the cancer awareness programme have held in different locarions across Lagos including Ojo, Surulere, Epe, Lagos Island and Lekki. Showing support, Wooli Arole said: “I came forth for this walk against cancer to let people know about this scourge and to let them understand that anyone can overcome this disease because God is Bigger than Cancer.” Founder of the initiative, Tinu Lawal, who is also a cancer survivor, said: “I initiated this foundation after I had gotten treatment after being diagnosed of breast cancer. This is a platform to create awareness, advocate, motivate and support people with cancer, having discovered the inadequacies in our health sector in Nigeria, especially concerning cancer. I wanted people to know about this scourge, and by getting them informed, educated and aware, we are killing cancer.” The awareness program was supported by organisations like the Lagos State Lotteries Board, Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Lagos State Aids Control Agency (LASACA), Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), VedicLifecare, Clina-Lancet Laboratories, Power Oil, Honeywell, Fanmilk and others.