Nigerian investors continue to wriggle in losses as the bears hold tight to the equities market. For the third consecutive month, the market closed negative in August, setting the third quarter almost on a certain negative close like the previous two quarters. Capital Market Editor, Taofik Salako, examines the performance of the market and the prospect for a rebound The bears are everywhere and the best of fund managers know it. Analysis of collective investment schemes (CIS) showed that the net asset value (NAV) of equities-based funds had depreciated by more than 20 per cent over the past 12 months. NAV is determined by subtracting total liabilities of a fund from its total assets. The NAV can further be divided by the total number of units of the fund to determine the unit price, which provides the effective bid and offer prices for a fund. This simply implies that a divesting investor may suffer not less than 20 per cent loss in the value of his investment. Collective investment schemes, otherwise known as mutual funds, are joint investment vehicles through which investors pool funds and invest in chosen basket of securities, usually under a professional management, with a view to optimising returns and reduce risks. With economy of scale that allows for diversification and good spread, extensive research capability, technologies, experience and full-time dedicated management, mutual funds are often seen to be more resistant to the vagaries of the market. But when the bears decide on a rage, no one is safe, either a scratch or a bite, the depth of the wound depends on the position during the attack and immediate response. In a rage, the best managers fight to come out with a scratch than a cut. Nigeria’s largest equities-based mutual fund, and unarguably one of the best-managed funds, had depreciated by more than 26 per cent over the past 12 months. Bears’ fangs For the third consecutive month, pricing at the Nigerian equities market closed August 2019 in the red. With average depreciation of 0.69 per cent in August, net capital depreciation over the past eight months rose to 12.42 per cent, equivalent to a net loss of N1.46 trillion. The All Share Index (ASI) – the common value-based index that tracks share prices at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), closed August at 27,525.81 points compared with 27,718.26 points recorded as July’s closing index. The ASI had opened 2019 at 31,430.50 points, 17.81 per cent down from its 2018’s opening index of 38,243.19 points. The market had recorded average decline of 7.50 per cent in July. Aggregate market value of all quoted equities August at N13.391 trillion as against N13.507 trillion recorded at the beginning of August. It had opened the year at N11.721 trillion. However, the seeming appreciation in the year-to-date performance of aggregate market value of all quoted equities was due to the unabsorbed boost from the recent listing of telecommunication companies- MTN Nigeria Communications Plc and Airtel Africa Plc.  Based on market values, both the ASI and market capitalisation are correlated indices and without new listing or delisting, usually move simultaneously in the same direction. But the ASI is weighted, and as such adjusted for effect of new listing while the market capitalisation is a straight-line summation of share prices and issued shares. Thus, where the ASI and market capitalisation differ, the ASI is widely regarded as the true representation of the market condition. Sectoral indices underlined the widespread depreciation in share prices across the sectors and stocks’ groups. Strikingly, investors with heavy exposure to a sector might have suffered greater losses than the average benchmark index, which decline was moderated by large number of dormant stocks. Sectoral indices, by design, are representative indices for the sectors or stocks’ groups they seek to represent and are usually made up of the most liquid and largest stocks within the sector or group. The NSE 30 Index, which tracks the 30 largest companies at the NSE, posted a negative return of -23.25 per cent within the eight-month period. The NSE Corporate Governance Index-which tracks some of the best-managed companies, also indicated average depreciation of 23.58 per cent.  The NSE Pension Index, which tracks a group of stocks adjudged as safe for investment of risk-averse pension funds, ended the eight-month period with average decline of 23.34 per cent. The NSE Lotus Islamic Index, which measures pricing trend within the group of stocks that comply with ethical requirements of Islamic finance, posted average loss of 22.25 per cent. No safe haven From banking to insurance to consumer goods, industrial goods and oil and gas sector, investors were reeling in double-digit losses. The NSE Banking Index-which tracks the most influential and liquid banking sector, indicated average return of -19.49 per cent. The NSE Insurance Index-which tracks the populous but largely inactive insurance sector, posted average return of -15.52 per cent. Investors in oil and gas sector were the worst-hit with the NSE Oil and Gas Index closing the eight-month period with average depreciation of 34.35 per cent. In the purchasing-power-prone consumer goods sector, investors had lost an average of 29.74 per cent. The NSE Industrial Goods Index showed the highest resistance with average return of -11.85 per cent, the only sectoral index to outperform the benchmark index. With inflation rate at 11.08 per cent and the benchmark lending rate-Monetary Policy Rate, at 13.50 per cent, most investors have lost more than one-thirds of their portfolios when adjusted for dividends, scrips, inflation and cost of capital. Stock-by-stock analysis showed most stocks with large losses. For instance, FBN Holdings had lost 40.3 per cent of its market value during the eight-month period. Oil major, Total Nigeria lost 50.7 per cent. Leading brewers- Nigerian Breweries and Guinness Nigeria depreciated by 40.1 per cent and 42.5 per cent respectively. Largest conglomerate, UAC of Nigeria had declined by 48.7 per cent while PZ Cussons Nigeria’s share price halved by 52.2 per cent. The continuing depreciation has raised concerns about a repeat of the consecutive bearishness that had gripped the market between 2014 and 2016. The equities market had suffered average decline of 17.81 per cent in 2018. Aggregate market value of all quoted equities on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) closed 2016 at N9.247 trillion as against N13.226 trillion recorded at the start of trading in 2014, representing a net capital loss of N3.98 trillion. What enraged the bears? Most analysts agreed that the stock market performance had been weakened by macroeconomic uncertainties, political risks, insecurity and cash crunch at the domestic level. With foreign portfolio investors accounting for nearly half of transactions at the Nigerian stock market, the tense global economic outlook, trade disagreements among major economies, decline in crude oil price and attractive yields in less-risky economies compounded the Nigerian market situation. Total transactions by foreign portfolio investors in the Nigerian stock market had declined by 36.53 per cent within the first seven months of this year, just as foreign portfolio outflows continued to outpace inflows. Managing Director, APT Securities and Funds Limited, Mallam Kasimu Kurfi, said foreign investors were unnerved by lack of clear economic policies in the wake of the political transition and the intervening period for the emergence of the economic team and direction of the government. He noted that the decline in August was most likely exacerbated by sell pressure from the domestic investors, who were selling to raise funds ahead of the resumption of schools. According to him, with the depression in the real estate sector, equities appear to be the only easily available ways of raising money for most investors. Managing Director, Network Capital, Mr Oluropo Dada said investors took flight to money market instruments to stave away risks despite the underlying attractions of grossly undervalued shares. “The economy was full of uncertainties, the political climate was volatile, insecurity and unrest and many more challenges contributed to the poor performance. Companies were not sure of what government policy would be, there were no definite business-oriented policies that could have helped the market,” Chairman, Ibadan Zone Shareholders Association (IBZA), Mr Eric Akinduro, said. He said the negative trend might continue for a while because the economy has not shown any serious positive sign. While commending the government for the success of its foreign exchange management, Akinduro said government needs to do more to create enabling environment for companies to operate and deliver better results, which could stimulate the market. FSDH Merchant Bank stated that declining crude oil price and fear of a possible global recession had negative impacts on the stock market. Analysts however noted that the depreciation has created good opportunities for investors, especially in stocks with strong fundamentals. Afrinvest Securities stated that weak macroeconomic environment has continued to cast a shadow on investor sentiment. “The bearish streak is expected to continue in the absence of any economy stimulus that would reverse the negative sentiment in the market,” Afrinvest Securities stated. A question of when But there is almost a consensus on the inherent value in Nigerian equities in the medium to long-term and many analysts believed that the market might have seen its worst and on the path to recovery. “We reiterate our view that the blend of a compelling valuation story and positive macroeconomic environment should propel the market in the medium term. However, we advise investors to tread the cautious trading path in the short term,” Cordros Securities stated. Kurfi said the market was set on recovery citing that the lower subscription to the last government’s bond auction was indicative of a shift from the debt market to the equities market by investors seeking to lock into undervalued shares. “The market performance in August was better and it is likely to do better in September than August,” Kurfi said. He added that the emerging clarity on economic management leadership and policy direction would stimulate investors’ sentiment, pointing out that the national call to foreign investors by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Japan’s African conference could help to boost flagging foreign investments. Chief Executive Officer, Sofunix Investment and Communications, Mr. Sola Oni said the stock market was ripe with attractive investment opportunities for discerning investors. “This is actually the best time to buy shares because the companies which are trading below intrinsic values are in full operations and waxing stronger for enhanced returns to shareholders,” Oni said. He noted that declining purchasing power had moderated the performance of the stock market as the bulk of Nigeria’s large retail investors fall within the lower range of the purchasing power rank. The Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON) meanwhile called for a cohesive and sustainable approach to market development through appropriate policies by relevant stakeholders.       Chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Patrick Ezeagu said there was need to deepen the capital market in order to increase its absorptive capacity. One of the ways to deepen the market, according to him, is a policy direction that enables pension fund administrators (PFAs) to increase their investments in the equities market. The largest chunks of Nigeria’s N5 trillion pension assets are locked in government’s bills and bonds. A recent breakdown indicated that only 12 percent of pension funds were invested in equities while 70 percent were held in Federal Government’s bonds and Treasury Bills. Ezeagu noted that the assets held by PFAs largely have long term tenor, which can be invested in the equities market to create a more stable domestic investors’ base and enhance liquidity at the market. He also cautioned government against policies that could undermine the competitiveness of the Nigerian market citing the recent move to reintroduce Value Added Tax (VAT) to the capital market. “We believe that the conditions that necessitated the waiver of VAT on capital market transactions are still prevalent, its reintroduction will definitely set the market backwards in terms of reviving investor confidence,” Ezeagu said. With the equities market closing the first trading session in September with a modest gain of 0.14 per cent or N19 billion, has the recovery started? That’s too close to call. Most agree the recovery and the return to the eye-popping bullish rally is certain, but the imminence remains in the air.