Imo State Governor Emeka Ihedioha has been grappling with challenges of governance in the last 100 days. In this piece, Walter Duru highlights the steps taken by the governor to reposition the state. On September 6, Imo State Governor Ihedioha and  Deputy Governor Gerald Irona marked 100 days in office. It was a well-attended event at the Cenotaph Center, Owerri, the state capital. Ihedioha gave account of his stewardship to the people, even as he reiterated his commitment to transparent leadership. No doubt, the flow of the address aligns with his inaugural address on the May 29, and clearly shows that he is guided by the recommendations of the Technical Committee earlier set up by his administration. Ihedioha has taken deliberate steps towards laying a solid foundation for good governance in Imo State. He has taken steps towards strengthening the legal framework for good governance and embarked on the needed steps for consolidation in the remaining part of his administration. For an administration that did not receive any handover note; for an administration that inherited decayed infrastructure, indescribable looting of public treasury and property, as well as complete breakdown of due process and rule of law, coupled with huge debt profiles, it is indeed a miracle that all of these feat could be achieved within a hundred days in office. However, the Ihedioha team must realise that they are dealing with a mass of largely impatient people, who probably do not understand the essence of some of the steps taken so far. When the masses are hungry, they hardly appreciate government policies and programmes that do not result to immediate provision of their daily bread. There are no good roads in Owerri, the state capital, and the state. This is part of the decayed infrastructure Ihedioha inherited. What Imo people want to see are construction equipment and credible companies reconstructing the roads. The educational system is in complete mess. No thanks to the insincere free education programme of the last administration. The masses expect that radical steps are taken to remedy the situation. More so, strengthening the legal framework against corruption is very expedient at this point. Imo people expect that laws such as the Freedom of Information Act and Proceeds of Crime law are born in Imo State. After all, adoption of the FOI Act was part of the campaign promises of Governor Ihedioha and Deputy Governor Gerald Irona. I can confirm that the claims made on steps taken so far in Imo are true. One other thing the Governor did, which he did not capture in his address is the hosting of the first ever citizens’ dialogue in the state, pursuant to his campaign promise of ensuring citizens participation in governance. Ultimately, Ihedioha has started very well. The last 100 days were very eventful. It will only take a mischievous person to state otherwise, considering the circumstances within which he operates. However, the governor and deputy governor must be wary of praise singers and political jobbers, who may be on the prowl to achieve selfish objectives. They must also be on the lookout for banana peels and land mines, while ensuring that they do not repeat the mistakes of the past administration. Indeed, Imo is being rebuilt. Ihedioha said: “A 100 days ago, my Deputy, Hon.  Engr. Gerald Irona and I were sworn into offices as Deputy Governor and Governor of Imo State, respectively. At that solemn event, we pledged to serve you with honesty, transparency and the fear of God. We have not, for one day wavered from that commitment.” On the Imo Growth and Strategic Development Plan, Ihedioha said: “We constituted a high-powered Transition Technical Committee (TTC) comprising distinguished Imo sons and daughters from both within the state and the Diaspora. This was to harness our huge human and economic resources to set a clear path in our rebuilding process.” “The Plan includes the delivery of 381km rural access road projects, restoration of an improved Owerri Master-plan, restoration of water supply in Owerri metropolis, roll-out of a State health insurance scheme as well as the reactivation of four technical education institutions in the state. Others include an economic growth and strategic development initiative along 5 sub-themes of; Human Capital Development, Agriculture and Food Security, Infrastructure, Industrialisation and Job Creation, as well as Security and Environment.” On building Institutional Framework for Good Governance, he stressed that “we have set up a structure for transparency and accountability in the governance process. Accordingly, we have signed into law, Executive Order 005, known as Treasury Single Account (TSA) Order to consolidate all government revenues under one account. We have also adopted other measures designed to plug leakages and increase Internally Generated Revenues (IGR) in the state coffers.” “Due to these strategic and fiscal responsibility moves, Imo State has gained positive image and is now on track to join the Open Government Partnership league. It also now qualifies for performance-based grants of the World Bank as well as other multilateral development institutions. We are also currently developing the Imo Growth and Economic Development Fund. The fund will be unique in Nigeria and would serve as an investment catalyst for the Imo State economy.” “We have approved the restoration of payment of 100 percent salaries to all workers in the State, recalled all unjustly suspended Directors, reversed some undeserved promotions and sponsored officers to capacity building programmes.” On rebuilding of collapsed infrastructure, Ihedioha explained that “we inherited a huge swath of collapsed infrastructure. We are happy to inform you that the expanded State Executive Council has approved the award of contracts for the reconstruction of 14 critical roads across the State to relieve the sufferings of our people. These include: Naze-Federal Polytechnic Road-Ihiagwa-Obinze road; Ahiara Junction-Okpala Road; Aba Branch-Ahiara Junction road and the Imo State Teaching Hospital Road. Others include, the Umuowa-Old Orlu Road; MCC-Toronto Road; Mgbidi–Oguta road; Ogwoghoranya-Avutu with spur at Avutu Poultry Farm Road and the Douglas–Emmanuel College-Naze Junction road.” “Also captured in this phase of reconstruction are: the Assumpta – Port Harcourt Road; Okigwe Okpara Road-Police Station Road; Control Post-World Bank–Umuguma Road; Okigwe Road-IMSU-Bishop Court Roundabout Road and the Concorde Boulevard Ring Road-Zuma–PH Road. To show that we mean business as usual, yesterday, we embarked on an aggressive flag-off of seven (7) of  these projects.” “Just last week, at Onuimo, Isu and Mbaitoli Local Government Areas, we flagged off one of the most ambitious rural road construction projects in the country. Valued at N13.5 billion the World Bank assisted Rural Access and Mobility Project (RAMP), involves over 70 rural road networks with a cumulative distance of 381 kilometers across most of the 27 Local Government Areas of the state. We met the project just on the drawing board; we immediately harnessed the necessary resources to pay the counterpart funding.” On Security, the governor said: “A few days ago, we launched Operation Iron Gate, as a strategic measure to combat crimes and criminalities as well as rid the State of all undesirable elements.” On health, Ihedioha explains: “We have re-launched the stalled Health Insurance Scheme to connect effectively into the already existing federal government insurance scheme. We have also committed 1 percent of our Consolidated Revenue to this scheme.”