SIR: Today, Nigeria is stuck in the mud of underdevelopment because it hasn’t been led by its best politicians since it became a independent country. A country’s development is intrinsically linked to the quality of leadership provided to the citizens by its national leader. The economies of Malaysia, Singapore, and other great Asian countries had been leapfrogged to a dizzying great height because their leaders possess ideologies, moral probity, and leadership qualities. A good political leader, who is a visionary, imagines the type of country he wants, and works assiduously and patriotically to build that country. So, during President Muhammadu Buhari’s first coming as civilian president, millions of Nigerians thought him to be the Messiah, who would revamp our economy, evolve our own technological culture ,which will be predicated on functional educational system, and entrench peace and unity in the country. And not a few Nigerians felt that his leadership of Nigeria would be a departure from Dr Goodluck Jonathan’s clueless, tardy, uninspiring, and corrupt administration. We believed him to be the political leader, who would root out corruption in Nigeria and bring sanity to our systems of doing things given his ascetic nature and distaste for corruption. However, President Buhari’s occupation of the highest political office has led to his demystification. Under his watch and guidance, Nigeria is steadily and progressively going to the dogs. In his first term, Nigeria’s economy slipped into recession. It came out of it soon after, however. Nigeria, as a country, which has oil resources and humongous population, has not witnessed rapid economic progress and technological transformation under the leadership of President Buhari. The worsening economic situation in the country has made millions of Nigerians become vulnerable to joining terrorist groups like the Boko Haram and others. Aren’t we aware that the unresolved Boko Haram incubus poses a great threat to our continued existence as one indivisible country? President Buhari should up his game in order to improve the people’s living condition and ignite the rapid economic and technological growth of Nigeria. He should wean himself off ethnocentric proclivities and religious bias and initiate pragmatic pan-Nigerian policies, the implementation of which will transform Nigeria into a developed nation-state and assure us that he is not a sectional leader and divisive figure. Until President Buhari starts doing the right things, Nigeria will continue to grope in the dark for national redemption and salvation from the debilitating forces of national disunity and underdevelopment.