SEPLAT Petroleum Development Company Plc, operator of the NNPC-Seplat Joint Venture, will focus on health, education and economic empowerment in its host communities and other communities in line with its mandate to support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. To this end, the joint venture brought succor to community members of its areas of operation and to other indigenes of Imo State, as it held the 2019 edition of its Eye Can See and Safe Motherhood programmes, the company’s signature Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) health programmes. Speaking at the opening ceremony, which took place at the Medical Health Centre at Izombe, Imo State, Wife of Imo State Governor, Lady Ebere Ihedioha who flagged off the medical outreach commended the joint venture noting that if all the corporate organisations were to tow this route of Seplat, the burden of underdevelopment and social restlessness particularly in the oil producing areas in the state would be greatly reduced. “This programme therefore places Seplat at the top of the corporate social responsibility in the state, and by extension, has won the hearts of our people,” Ihedioha said. The Eye Can See and Safe Motherhood Programmes are Seplats CSR initiatives executed yearly across the Company’s host communities, with focus on providing comprehensive, quality and free healthcare to members of the host communities and states. These programmes align with the Sustainable Development Goals 3, Health for All and the respective state governments’ aspirations of providing good health for their people. General Manager, External Affairs & Communications, Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, who represented Mr. Austin Avuru, the Chief Executive Officer, said people were at the centre of everything  the company does. According to her, the NNPC-Seplat  joint venture takes delight whenever it has opportunity to deploy these two key programmes specially designed for the wellbeing of community members and for other indigenes of the state who wish to access the benefits of these health programmes. She noted that through the Eye Can See and Safe Motherhood initiatives, Seplat has provided premium health care in line with its commitment to ensuring the wellbeing of people living in its host communities. The company began in 2017 to run these programmes annually in these communities. The Eye Can See initiative has brought community dwellers face to face with specialist optometrists. Within the two year period, a total of 7,343 patients have benefitted from the initiative, 2,200 reading glasses have been given to patients while over 233 successful eye surgeries have been conducted.