Northern Governors have risen from their emergency meeting in Kaduna on Thursday to dump the controversial Rural Grazing Area (RUGA) policy for National Livestock Transformation Plan, as best way to tackle the age long herder/farmers clashes in the region. They also resolved to continue to adopt a sustainable and holistic approach towards tackling the security challenges in the region. Chairman of the Northern States Governors Forum, Governor Simon Lalong had told newsmen at the opening of the meeting that, the forum had set up a Committee under the Chairmanship of Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State, to inter-alia develop a comprehensive regional plan of action that could bring lasting solutions to the lingering crises, and shall receive briefing from this committee and also deliberate on their findings and recommendations. However, at the end of the meeting, Lalong said, the forum has adopted the National Livestock Transformation Plan, which according to him, lays out clear path for modernizing pastoral activities. According to him: “On Agriculture, the Forum was well informed about the National Livestock Transformation Plan and its disparities with the Ruga plan “It is expected that the plan would ensure resettling and addressing the dislocated populations in the key conflict zones to enable them become part of the agricultural modernization process. “In the same vein, it would provide a mechanism for peaceful dialogue and reconciliation in the affected communities towards a harmonious mutually beneficial future. “The Forum, therefore, adopted the National Livestock Transformation Plan which lays out clear path for modernizing pastoral activities “It further encouraged other states not included as pilot states to endeavour to join the plan.” On security challenges, Governor Lalong said: “The current challenges of insecurity which seems to be persisting despite the concerted efforts by all tiers of government was also deliberated based on insightful analyses and the best possible ways to address the menace which is currently bedeviling the region. “Consequently the Forum resolved to continue to adopt a sustainable and holistic approach towards tackling this challenge in the region. “It is the Forum’s unwavering determination to rescue the region and reposition it to meet the yearnings and aspirations of our people, especially in the areas of security, economy and social development.”