Rotary Club of Akowonjo District 9110, has donated items to Akowonjo Primary Health Centre (PHC) and Little Saints Orphanage in Alimosho Local Government in Lagos State. Items donated included weighing scale, mosquito treated nets and mattresses at the PHC, while food items including rice, beans, garri, noodles, salt, detergents, toiletries and a water tank was donated at the Orphanage. These donation are part of activities to mark the official visit of the District Governor of Rotary International Distract 9110, covering Lagos and Ogun state, Jide Akeredolu. The event also featured Akeredolu’s visit to Alimosho Local Government, in company of his entourage, the club President, AdbaulKareem Musa as well as other executives and members of the club. Akeredolu said the donations were part of the fulfillment of achieving the mission of Rotary which is helping humanity. He said his visit to the club is one of his duties to all the clubs in the District which covers Lagos and Ogun states, with about 104 clubs. He added; “Rotary is a non-governmental organisation that is committed to serving humanity. It gladdens our heart to give to the less privileged in the society; it is a yearly ritual and we will continue to do so. “We do need assessment at where we go to donate and we have given what they need at the Orphanage and the PHC, which is our own support to them, in line with our mandate as a service organisation.” He explained that the adult literacy programme, of which certificates were presented to participants at the Alimisho Local Government, is a 10 months free programme by the club, which seeks to enable everyone to be able to read and write. He said parts of their project for the year is to furnish a two story building of ten classrooms in Rauf Aregbesola Primary School at Shasha road in Alimosho, adding that 15 desks and chairs for 45 pupils will also be provided. “We will also give 50 market women micro credit which is part of efforts to fulfill our corporate social responsibility to the community. We also plan to make donations based on needs assessment to some technical colleges in the stare. We do everything freely and willingly,” he said. A past District Governor, of the club, Otunba Bola Onabadejo, said the club is one to reckon with, nothing that it has made various impacts over the years in Alimosho community and beyond. “This is a community based club and our signature is written all over the community we operate and beyond. We are doing so much in developing the community in terms of scholarship and developments of our youths, among other things and the community is feeling our impact. Rotary is a global network of community, business and professional leaders and we will continue to do more,” he said.