The Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross, launched last year, has started on a brighter note, winning nine awards so far.  The Eclipse Cross, designed by the Japanese automaker, Mitsubishi Motors, to join its global line-up of crossover SUVs: the ASX compact SUV and the Outlander. Sold in over 100 countries, the impressive array of honours from all around the world is due to its technical abilities, design, and safety features. The Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross was won the “Car of the Year in Russia – 2019” during the national award. It was named as the best “Compact SUV” in one of the most highly competitive categories. “Car of the Year in Russia” is judged by a public vote and is the largest survey of its kind in the world, with more than a million people voting for their favourites. The votes are independently verified by research company IpsosComcon. The Eclipse Cross crossover SUV was selected as the “RJC Car of the Year 2019” run by the Automotive Researchers’ & Journalists’ Conference of Japan (RJC). In 2018, the car earned the highest safety rating according to the independent European organisation Euro NCAP and was also awarded by the Nigeria Automotive Journalists Association (NAJA) as the Outstanding SUV design of the year. Massilia Motors General Manager (Sales), Mr. Tunji Itiola said he was not surprised by the laurels the vehicle has received so far. According to him, it has high rough road performance and well-balanced dynamics, due to Mitsubishi’s unique Super All-Wheel Control (S-AWC) four-wheel-drive system. Equipped for the Nigerian market with a 2.0 liter Continuously Variable Transmission (CVT) petrol engine that allows seamless gear interchange, giving the smoothest driving experience within its category. Another award-winning safety feature of the Eclipse Cross is the Lane Departure Warning Intelligent sensors placed all around the vehicle. It monitors surroundings and provide active warnings to alert driver of possible danger. The Nigerian Line-up includes: ASX, Eclipse Cross, Outlander, Pajero, Pajero Sport and the L200 pick-up.