Most Nigerians are suffering heart and kidney diseases for consuming wines and other alcoholic beverages made for extremely cold countries. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) JAMEK Beverages James Iweh said many of the high priced brands were tested in German labs and found to be too harsh for persons resident in Nigeria. He stated this at the opening of a new distribution outlet along Ago Palace Way in Okota, Lagos at the weekend. Noting that JAMEK was in the business to serve Nigerians quality drinks, Iweh said it was not surprising his company was the sole importer of German brands including Dr. Zenzen and premiere producers of NAFDAC approved cocktail concentrates, wine quality wine and spirits. “Our wines are produced to soothe our weather because we make it in compliance with best recommendations. There are so many wines in Nigeria today that are too harsh because of the hot weather but if you drink JAMEK wine, you will see how smooth it is because it won’t gives you headache or heartburn. “Germany where we produce our wine is known for not compromising when it comes to quality. Our wines may not be the same price with other wines in the market but we are after the quality of the product and not the quantity. “Again whenever I want to produce any wine, I get sample of different wines and take it to Germany and we analyze it, I can tell you today that there are some spirits that people drink in Nigeria that are made for countries whose whether are cold. If I want to produce any spirit, I will make sure it won’t harm your health by giving you heartburn or work against your kidney,” he said. According to him, until the people understood the quality, texture and quantity of alcoholic beverages they should consume, they will continue to expose themselves to health hazards. Iweh, a discharged soldier, said his passion for winery made him leave the army, adding that he was in the business to deliver quality against most practitioners whose sole motives was profit. Noting that drugs and alcohol abuses were a global challenge, Iweh said they were driven by lack of self control by individuals who do not understand they should drink responsibly. “Alcohol is good for the body when you drink responsibly. It prevents brain disease and it blows away fats surrounding your heart. But when it is abused, it has damaging effect on the kidney. That is why at Jamek, we produce more of non-alcoholic fruit wines. Our fruit wine are fermented for 21 days to extract all traces of sugar as against the 17 days others do their,” he said. On how the company would check adulteration of its products, he said they were using top-notch technology and the double-cork approach. He said: “There is no way JAMEK wine will be imitated and we won’t know when we see it. I have an app in my phone and if I enter any wine store and scan a bottle of my product, I will see the barcode, otherwise, it is fake. Again, our products are very protected as the corks are doubled and it can never be faked in Nigeria. “I am the franchised owner of all my products because they are all NAFDAC rated and we do what we call Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), by inviting NAFDAC to be part of the production and that is why they also investigate the companies that produce for us. “JAMEK Cocktail is the first ever approved wine by NAFDAC in Nigeria. It is made up of mango and other fruits. When you talk about cocktails, you talk about content that is refined and concentrate not flavored. “Concentrate drink is different from flavored drink because it’s pure fruits and NAFDAC did not belief this and they told me they are going to prove whether the cocktail is fruit concentrate. “So in 2015, NAFDAC travelled to Germany to visit the company that produces it and there they saw mangoes and other fruits being brought in and produced fresh without adding any sweetener. That was when they approved the cocktail and gave us a number, making it the first cocktail that will ever be approved in Nigeria. “I am into wine business not just because of making money alone but also to produce what will be of great health benefits to human body as well as creating jobs for people,” he said.