For locals and particularly students of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) in Ondo State, incessant motorcycle mishaps are not alien to them. From time to time, students recount horrendous tales of accidents by desperate and overzealous motorcyclists. The incident has left many dead while majority of those who survived have remained handicapped. The latest accident, which killed Miss Esther Ayo, a 100-Level Plant Science and Biotechnology student, is raising fresh concerns on the security of lives of AAUA students generally, ADESOLA IKULAJOLU a final year MASS COMMUNICATION student, reports Miss Esther Ayo was happy when she was offered admission to study Plant Science and Biotechnology at the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) in Ondo State. Little did she realise that she would not survive the first year before death cut her life short. Apparently oblivious of the evil that dotted her path that fateful Saturday, Esther had attended lectures after which she returned home, excited. In the evening, Esther made her way to the market to get some foodstuff, only to  run into an errant cyclist at Okusa quarters (an area in  Akungba). The impatient cyclist had a head-on collision with Esther at top speed. She  never survived it  as she died on the spot. News of her sudden death, earlier this month rang through the length and breath of the school. Besides, it left many students shell shocked and resigning to fate amid seeming hopelessness over their vulnerability to reckless motorists and cyclists’ popularly known as okada. President of AAUA Students’ Union Comrade Adesomoju Samuel lamented how Esther’s life was cut short by a tragedy that could have been avoided. He said: “I’m shocked with this sad report of accident mostly due to reckless riding of our motorcyclists. So sad that Esther left us so soon. We love her but God loves her most.” Adesomoju appealed to appropriate quarters to checkmate the situation and protect the students against future incidents. Esther’s case was one of those needless deaths caused by the propensity of motocyclists to an innocent life; no thanks to deplorable roads that often aid such calamity. In 2016, a motorcyclist knocked down a student. The development prompted wide protests by students against the recklessness of public transport operators in Akungba, a community that houses a chunk of students of AAUA. CAMPUSLIFE observed that the accidents do not only occur on the major roads in Akungba-Akoko , but also on minor  roads in the community. According to road users, the deplorable state of the Akungba – Ikare road (a federal road) has made road accidents almost a daily occurence. Owing to those needless road mishaps, Akungba community decided to build  bumps along streets apparently in a bid to reduce the speed of public transport operators. But has the accidents abated? Some of the students complained of over-speeding by the riders. Others say they recklessly bump into portholes; yet others complained of their impatience which sometimes make them collide with one another at top speed. President of the Osun State students in AAUA, Comrade Abodunrin Samuel, described the attitude of the cyclists as ‘unbecoming’. He said: “They ride as if they have an extra life somewhere, all because they want to make money. They risk their lives and that of their passengers’. Some of them even drink and smoke. Once intoxicated, they become something else. They don’t care what type of car is approaching or at what speed the car is driving towards them.” Abodunrin, who is a final year Mass Communication student of the university, said bad road has been another cause of accidents in Akungba, most especially around market areas on market days.” He added: “If concerned associations can look into rehabilitating these roads and cautioning cyclists, then accidents will be reduced to the barest minimum. Passengers should also look before they board motorcyclists. They should avoid cyclists that are addicted to substances.” “The reckless riding of motorists/cyclists in Akungba is becoming unbearable, “said another 400-Level student of Mass Communication, OluponaTemitope. Temitope continued: “I really don’t know if probably they are in haste or something else. Recently, a student of the university was knocked down due to this reckless driving. Students are no longer safe when walking or crossing roads. The school needs to address this issue. Students’ lives  are at risk here, the school should hold a meeting with  the association of transport operators in Akungba, and make them see reasons why this recklessness must stop. The safety of students is very paramount here.  It is getting out of hand and the school must act to avoid protest.” On his own part, AdeyefaTolulope, who is a second year Political Science undergraduate, lambasted transport operators for their carelessness, and propensity to ignoring traffic signs. “Most of the many mishaps occurring on the highway in Akungba,are as a result of carelessness and recklessness on the part of motorcyclists. Their carefree attitude towards traffic regulation is often the cause of accident, which at times results into loss of lives. Majority of them ride under the influence of alcohol and India hemp. As long as this remains their stock in trade, they cannot but be reckless.” Adeyefa suggested that more officers from the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) should be mobilised to apprehend and mete appropriate sanctions  to traffic offenders. This is in addition to making more bumps on roads that are vulnerable. Oluwaseun Blessing, a final year student of English Studies, said it becomes more dangerous for students and pedestrians to cross the road as motorcyclists could run across from anywhere without using the horn. She said: “I am tired of the behaviour of these cyclists; they act like the owner of the roads. At evenings, it becomes very difficult to cross even normal streets. They appear from any angle without using the horn. They have little or no consideration for pedestrians.” Another student Emmanuel Ade, who claimed to have been a victim of road accident in Akungba, also condemned the reckless attitude of the cylists. “One would think reckless driving occurs on Owo-Ikare expressway and other major roads in Akungba alone, but that is not true. Minor roads and even bush paths are not spared of this act of carelessness. I have been an accident victim in Akungba and can boldly say that motorists, especially cyclists are the major destroyer of the roads,” Emmanuel said. “Considering the number of accidents that have occured on Akungba roads this year, one does not need a soothsayer to infer that the cyclists need  to be cautioned.” A student who pleaded anonymity, attributed the recklessness of motorists to bad roads. “It is imperative to note that most of the roads in Akungba need reconstruction. I would not really blame cyclists who try to make use of every available path, as it is just a way of wriggling out of the messy situation they found themselves .” Defending his colleagues, a cyclist who identified himself as Gabriel Olagbemi, attributed incessant road mishaps to bad roads. He also commented on the indifference of pedestrians, majority of who are students. He said: “It is not our fault that some accidents occur sometimes. The roads are not good enough especially in this rainy season. Everyone tries to sort himself out. “Concerning the rise in the rate of accidents, I think the pedestrians have their own share of the blame. They act with carelessness  and are quick to verbally attack cyclists when being corrected.” He added: “This is not to say that all cyclists are good. There are some who get drunk before setting out for business of the day which is not a good thing.” Olagbemi further pleaded with pedestrians to exercise patience while also calling on the government to repair and reconstruct damaged roads. Meanwhile, the Students Union has scheduled a meeting with the Akungba chapter of  the Amalgamation of Commercial Motorcycle Riders Association of Nigeria ((ACOMORAN), which comprises motorcycle transport operators nationwide. General-Secretary, AAUA-SU, Comrade Adebayo Jesutola, noted that the union is inundated with reports of recklessness of cyclists in Akungba . “Following the various reports of recklessness of motocyclists in Akungba-Akoko and its environs, the Students Union of AdekunleAjasin University has reached out to the chairman and other executive members ACOMORAN). We need to deliberate because this thoughtlessness has become too much. “The Students Union leadership has repeatedly admonished members of ACOMORAN against the use of hard drugs before mounting the motorcycles. This, we believe, will also reduce their recklessness on the highway,” Jesutola added. In the same vein, management has waded in promising to partner with necessary agencies to ensure that students are always in safe hands. The university’s Head of Information, Protocol and Public Relations Unit (IPPRU), Mr Victor Akinpelumi, who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE, lamented that the university has received several reports bordering on threatens to students’ life. Akinpelumi said management has put in place a patrol team that would help reduce the ugly incidents happening to students off-campus, especially at night. He said: “The AAUA management received the reports of armed robbery attacks on students living off campus, precisely in the Medoline and Cele areas of AkungbaAkoko. “The university has held several meetings with students and landlords in the affected areas on how best to stop this menace. “Apart from this, the university has also put in place a joint patrol team comprising the police, our security outfit in the institution, and paramilitary outfits.” Akinpelumi explained that the management is also engaging a local vigilante group that would work in conjunction with the people in a joint patrol of the aforementioned areas.