THE Comptroller General of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammadu Babandede, has said the many “wanted suspects” have been arrested following the partial closure of the country’s borders. The NIS chief spoke at the weekend at the closing of the service’s management retreat in Lagos. Babandede said the new border management strategy unveiled by the Muhammadu Buhari administration would streamline activities at the borders and ensure that people exiting or entering the country utilise the official border posts with the right travel documents. The NIS chief said the government was not shutting the borders to bar people from carrying out legitimate business but needed to ensure that appropriate things are done the legitimate way, in line with rules governing border security control and management. He said: “To the Immigration, the border drill, which led to this partial closure, is very important. One, it ensures people pass through the recognised entry portals. Even our ECOWAS members have been told to come to Nigeria anytime they wish but they must come through a recognised point of entry, provided you have the right travel documents.” Babandede clarified some issues on the enhanced electronic international passport, which has been rectified in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). He said Immigration had made samples of the new passports available to all embassies since March and that many Nigerians had travelled far and wide with it. The NIS chief noted that the Foreign Affairs Ministry was in charge of ensuring a hitch-free delivery of samples to all countries. Babandede said: “I want Nigerians to appreciate that these passports have been launched for a very long time, and Nigerians have travelled everywhere with it. I’ve travelled to Hajj with it and I passed through Dubai, using the Emirates. “Dubai is not the only country in the world. There was a hitch of delivery, probably from the Foreign Affairs Ministry because we don’t make contact directly with the embassy. Samples have been issued since March. Passports have been issued through the Foreign Affairs Ministry since March. We have sent out the samples and specimen to all countries through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “I’m glad we have sorted it out with Abu Dhabi. It’s not even Dubai; people who take Emirates do not have this problem. Those who have problems are those with aircraft going to Abu Dhabi. But that has been sorted out. There is only one country we don’t have issues with abot the documents. The Foreign Affairs Ministry has sorted it out with the embassy of the United Arab Emirates. This has been rectified. So, it’s not our fault.” Reacting to the 48-hour directive for travel documents to be approved for applicants, the comptroller general said it was a mandate NIS was given. He added that the agency would do all in its power to comply with the directive, especially when it surmounts the challenge of booklet unavailability. Babandede said: “I explained to the minister that the greatest problem we have for inability to comply with the 48-hour directive is the lack of booklets. I assure you if they start producing, we will do our best, especially in the new places. You know we have started rolling out the passports in Ikoyi, Lagos. Most places have the passport booklets. In two weeks, we will roll out in Kano. “But what he said is: ‘If there are no problems – and that has been the directive of Mr. President under Executive Order 01 – that if you fix your timeline, if there is a problem, get back to the applicant. This is why we are doing the retreat. We want to be able to create connectivity; we want to encourage people to pay online. “After capturing, that is the beginning of the 72 hours. And if we cannot deliver, we should be able to call in or send a text message, stating the particular reason. If there is no booklet, we should be able to say it; or, if your fingerprint didn’t capture well or the document you submitted is bad or you have already got another passport, it has been rejected. “It is expected of us, by order of the Minister and Mr. President, that we respond. If there are issues, we should be able to identify these and apologise. There has to be contact between us and the customers,” he said.  