Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has described the diversification policy of the Federal Government as one that is appropriate and on the right course. He also said, for the diversification policy to succeed, all sectors must adopt and integrate it into their schemes and collaborate appropriately, adding, “When this is done, the economy will achieve the desired symphony and there will be rapid and cohesive development.” Oyetola spoke on Monday, at the opening ceremony of the 9th International Conference of the Faculty of Technology, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife. Speaking on the theme: “Diversification of Developing Economies: Imperatives for Sustainable Environment and Technological Innovations,” Oyetola, who bagged the Obafemi Awolowo University’s Excellence Award in Public Administration on the occasion, also described the theme of the conference as a worthy domestication of the diversification of the economic policy of the Federal Government. He reaffirmed Osun government’s commitment to taking the state to the next level in its developmental strides. Oyetola pledged the government’s determination to continue to harness the potentials of the state and advance her economy for the good of the citizens. The governor, who reiterated the administration’s determination towards building a ‘modern Osun’, said government would not be deterred by the dwindling financial resources in its resolve to build a virile state that all and sundry would be proud of. Represented by the Supervisor, Ministry of Budget and Economic Planning, Prof. Olalekan Yinusa, the governor said the state was ready to partner with the university, particularly in the area of human and capital development. He commended the institution’s Faculty of Technology for its foresight and resilience at equipping graduate youths with the requisite skills to effect changes in the nation’s economy. He urged the leadership of the faculty to pursue the recommendations of the conference to the logical conclusion to advance the exploration of new ideas for the actualisation of global technological solutions. Earlier, the Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof. Eyitayo Ogunbodede, applauded the faculty for the choice of the theme of the conference, which he noted was aimed at challenging the nation on the need to strengthen her economic diversification policy. In his address, the Keynote Speaker, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ashiru, challenged government on the need to be supportive of the development of science, innovation and technology. Ashiru said for the nation to actualise its dreams for the diversification of her economy, all hands must be on deck to ensure proper integration and conversion of ideas to innovation, framework and prosperity.