The Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee (LPPC), will on September 23 confer 38 lawyers with the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). Ahead of the conferment, Legal Editor, JOHN AUSTIN UNACHUKWU looks at the profiles of some of the awardees. The Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee (LPPC), at its 138th plenary session on July 4, 2019 elevated 38 lawyers to the highly coveted rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). LPPC Secretary Hadizatu Mustapha said the new SANs would be conferred with the rank on September 23, 2019. Six days to that day, here are a few of them: Apata Adedayo Toba Apata (Dayo Apata) has 30 years’ cognate experience and diverse competence in legal, human, material and financial stewardship giving substance to good governance in Public Administration and excellent delivery of public services. An indigene of Ekiti State, he attended the University of Ibadan and obtained a Bachelor of Laws Degree (LL.B (Hons.) in 1984. He got his Barrister at Law (B.L) certification from the Nigerian Law School in 1985. He went on to obtain a Master’s Degree in Public Administration from the University of Ado-Ekiti in 2010. Mr. Apata began his professional career in 1986 as a Prosecuting Officer for the Nigerian Customs Service (as a Youth Corps member) and subsequently secured appointment into the Federal Ministry of Justice in 1987. He rose through the ranks to become the Solicitor-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary. In the course of his career, he served as Legal Adviser to various Ministries, Departments and Agencies including Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation, Ministry of Education and National Planning Commission, where he doubled as the Head Coordinator of the Secretariat of the National Economic Council. In August 2017, Apata was appointed as the Solicitor-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, a position which he presently occupies. He has facilitated reforms in the areas of administration of justice, capacity building, staff welfare and personnel management among others, which has improved the overall engagement and visibility of the Federal Ministry of Justice in a positive light. Adedoyin Rhodes-Vivour Mrs Adedoyin Rhodes-Vivour graduated from the Faculty of Law, University of Lagos (UNILAG) in 1980. She was admitted as a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria in 1981. She returned to UNILAG and bagged a Master of Laws degree, in 1986. In 2002, Rhodes-Vivour was conferred with the Master of Arts degree in  International Peace and Security, by Kings College London, University of London. She was sworn in as a Notary Public of Nigeria in 2007. Read Also: Rhodes-Vivour began her career as a Pupil State Counsel in the Lagos State Government Ministry of Justice in 1983 rising to the position of Principal Legal Officer prior to her resignation having garnered experience in the Directorate of Public Prosecutions and the Departments of Civil Litigation and Commercial Law. She resigned from the Ministry of Justice in 1990, pursuant to the invitation from the then Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice Lagos, to take up the challenge of setting up the Legal Department of a state majority owned company. She resigned from the corporate field in 1997 to establish the law firm, Doyin Rhodes-Vivour & Co. (Legal Practitioners & Arbitrators). Rhodes-Vivour has garnered nearly four decades experience in the legal profession during which she made significant contribution to the legal profession in Nigeria and gained international recognition. She was the pioneer Chairperson of the Nigerian Bar Association Section on Business Law [NBA-SBL] Arbitration and ADR Committee from 2005 to 2010. She has served on the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Nigerian Bar Association. She is an active member of the Lagos Branch of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). In 2012, she was presented an award by the Lagos Branch of the NBA in recognition of her distinguished service to the legal profession. She worked relentlessly with the Inaugural Council of the Section and other committee chairpersons under the leadership of the pioneer Chairperson of the section in laying the foundation of the Nigerian Bar Association Section on Business Law. During her tenure as pioneer Chairperson of the NBA-SBL Arbitration and ADR Committee, the NBA-SBL conferred her with the Chairperson of the Year Awards in 2006 and 2009 respectively. Rhodes-Vivour is internationally recognised as one of the world’s leading arbitrators. She is listed in various publications including Who’s Who Legal and Guide to the World’s Leading Commercial Arbitration Experts [Expert Guides] as one of the preeminent professionals in the world. In editions of Who’s Who Legal, she has been described as “second to none for her skill and versatile thinking” and as an arbitrator who “garners strong praise from market sources for her first-class practice”. Malik Aikhunegbe Anthony Malik is from Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State. He attended Baptist Primary School, Inalende, Ibadan, Oyo State between 1977 and 1982, Onireke High School, Links Reservation, Ibadan between 1982 and 1987 and Akpekpe Secondary School, Auchi, Edo State in 1988. Malik obtained his Bachelor of Law Degree from the University of Ibadan in 2000 and his Barrister at Law (B.L) certification from the Nigerian Law School in School in 2002. He was at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife and obtained his Master of Laws [LL.M] in 2012. Malik also possesses a Certificate in International Criminal Justice and Administration and another Certificate in Public Prosecution. Malik has held several special duties at national level. He was Special Assistant to the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, between August 2007 and March, 2011, Board Member/Legal Adviser, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), August, 2008 – March, 2010, Legal Adviser, Joint Tax Board between February 2009 and April, 2010. He was also Secretary, Coordinating Committee of the Murtala Mohammed Airport. Professionally, Malik was Secretary of the Committee which planned and organised the Nigerian Bar Association Conference on the Review of the Performance of election Petitions Tribunals in Nigeria on  March 15and16, 2012. Other posts include Secretary, NBA Abuja Disciplinary Committee, 2014 to 2016, Secretary, Nigerian Bar Association Committee on Boards and Parastatals, 2014 to 2015, Member, Conference Planning Committee, NBA-AGC, 2015, among others. He started his professional experience as an intern at AfeBabalola, SAN & Co. and is now Managing Partner, Alegeh& Co. At university, Malik won the award for the Overall Best Participant Prize at the 5th Human Rights Training Seminar for Law Students (Organised by the Constitutional Rights Project (CPR), Kaduna, 1999. Sule Usman Ogwu Sule was born into the family of Alhaji Sule Ogwu Ocholi and Hajia Salemetu Otiyodo Sule at Agbeji in Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State. He had his primary school at the RCM Primary School Agbeji in 1977. He attended the Ochaja Boys Secondary School, Kogi State between 1977 and 1982. Sule studied Law at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria. 1988/1990 (Diploma in Law) and proceeded for his LLB between 1990 and 1995. He was at the Nigerian Law School 1996 and was called to Nigerian Bar in 1996. Sule worked at the Kogi State Ministry of Justice and also as a legal draftsman at the Kogi State House of Assembly, until he resigned to set up his own his law firm of U.O. Sule and Co. in Lokoja, Kogi State. Usman was an active bar man and brought Lokoja Branch to limelight on Bar activities. He was elected as the National Welfare Secretary between 2010 to 2012 under President J. B. Daudu SAN. He was also elected Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Legal Adviser under President Okey Wali SAN between 2012 and 2014. He served as an NBA Prosecutor from 2012 till 2017 at the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee and was a member of the NBA Committee on Confab head by Awa Kalu SAN in 2014. He got his LLM from the Benue State University, Makurdi, in 2006. Sule is married with kids amongst whom are Hafsat, who was called to the Nigerian Bar 2018, Farida who is about proceeding to the Nigerian Law School. Omoaka Godwin Omoaka bagged an LL.B from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, in 1997. He obtained his B.L degree from the Nigerian Law School in September 1999. He is a Partner in the Dispute Resolution practice group of one of Nigeria’s foremost law firms, Templars Barristers and Solicitors. He also doubles as the Head of the Real Estate practice group in Templars Barristers and Solicitors. Omoaka has 20 years of active arbitration and courtroom experience relating to a wide variety of disputes in the oil and gas industry, construction industry, taxation, anti-bribery and corruption etc., spanning different areas of law namely, complex commercial and taxation law issues, general civil litigation, energy law, copyright law, securities transactions, commercial arbitration and other forms of alternative dispute resolution. He is also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, United Kingdom, Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution (CEDR) Accredited Mediator, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Mediators & Conciliators, a Standing Conference of Mediation Advocates member. Other organisations include membership of the London Court of International Arbitration, the Lagos Court of Arbitration and the Lagos Chamber of Commerce International Arbitration Centre.