President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday recalled the anxious moment he went through while the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal delivered judgment in the petition filed against him by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Buhari, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), whose victory in the February election was affirmed by the tribunal on Wednesday, said the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting held the same day was the elixir that saved him saved him from trauma. The President spoke at the Presidential Villa, Abuja while receiving governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who had gone to congratulate him on his victory. He said: “On this judgment, again it was a fabulous coincidence that it came almost the same time the first Federal Executive Council meeting of this government was taking place. “It lasted about the same time with the judgment. “I thank God for that, because I think I would have gone into trauma or something. So, I was busy trying to concentrate on the memo. “The first memo was on the budget and it took more than five hours. So, while you were doing your thing for nine hours, we were doing ours for about seven hours here. “It is a very interesting coincidence and I thank God for it because I would have been in trauma or something of that sort.” He thanked the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and the governors for “sharing the glory with us.” He challenged the party leadership to work hard with a view to making the APC rule beyond 2023 when his current term will expire. He said: “What I will say to the chairman of the party and the governors is that we make sure that we really institutionalise the party, so that when we leave the stage, the party will continue to lead.” Chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum and Kebbi State governor, Atiku Bagudu, said they were in the Villa to congratulate the President over the judgment. He said:  “We are here to celebrate your victory and that of our party at the tribunal. I say big congrats to you. “We don’t know how it happened, but it was televised live for Nigerians to see for transparency. “It silenced all doubts. We never doubted your positions and now the law has affirmed it too. “It was noteworthy that you were not even distracted as you chaired the FEC on the day of judgment.” He commended Buhari’s social investments programmes on rail, infrastructure all taking place under his administration. Also speaking, the party chair, Adams Oshiomhole, said: “We never had doubts that you won your votes. All the issues raised by our opponents were trashed out one after the other by the Justices that sat on the panel. “But of particular interest to us, Mr. President, as members of the progressive family is that we are all aware that the only asset Mr. President has invested and continues to invest in your political journey and your political project is your integrity.” He pointed out that the PDP has no one in its fold that has the image and integrity of President Buhari. The governors at the Villa were Simon Lalong of Plateau State who also is Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos, Gboyega Oyetola of Osun, Mohammed Inuwa of Gombe, Abdulrazak Abdulrahman of Kwara, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano, Babagana Zulum of Borno, Yahaya Bello of Kogi, Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa and Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa, among others. Also at the meeting were the Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha and Chief of Staff to the President Abba Kyari.