I arrived South Africa on the 16th of July 2002; it was winter, the thick of it. I was brutally shocked by the intensity of the cold. But I came with a warm spirit. I was focused. My eye was on one thing alone. I wanted to be an entrepreneur; to add value to humanity, to create goods and services, to make a positive impact on the economic landscape of my host country and within Africa. The story of MY sojourn to the rainbow nation reflects the story of migration of many of my compatriots and other Africans in South Africa. When I left Nigeria, I was only armed with basic high school education and skills acquired from my mentorship programme as a trader. For a Nigerian, that was more than enough “survival-tool-box”. It was up to me to add into the tool box; determination, resilience, creativity and emotional intelligence for me to navigate the reality of the South African socioeconomic terrain. As I soldiered on, I realised, like any other non-citizen that the political liberation of our host country was not automatic economic freedom. The onus was on me to confront an economic system stiffed in structured sectors and industries, white controlled capital and infrastructures. I stumbled, fumbled, staggered and fell severally, yet, I refused to remain on the ground. Today, I have gained some financial stability. But it did not come to me because it was easy. I have three businesses and I have wonderful South Africans who work in those businesses, some have worked with me for as long as the businesses have started. Some of my shops are entirely in the hands of South Africans; my security outfit is managed by South Africans who decide what happen in the company’s operations. I am currently mentoring a young South African; using the same principle from my mentorship programme in Nigeria. I have spiced it with some degree of formality and, at 22 years of age, he runs his own IT firm from under my space. I tell my story to illustrate that the narratives which seek to vilify all foreigners ignore the fact that South Africa has the potential to be the melting pot for entrepreneurial creativity, ingenuity and collaboration by Africans. South Africa is multi- racial, hence, it is called the Rainbow Nation, it has the best of infrastructures in the continent and prides in a constitutional democracy, one of the best in the world. The epitaph, Rainbow Nation denotes more than different pigmentation, it is supposed to be a reflection of diversity and ingenuity, therefore, the creativity from across the borders would add to the beauty and brightness of South Africa at the end of the day, if, the host country can tap into the positives brought by those from other countries. As a foreigner living in South Africa and a Nigerian in particular, I won’t keep quiet over this recent Afro-phobic attacks going on in parts of South Africa. I have the moral ground to speak because I have added value to South Africa: I boldly state that I have never indulged in any form of criminal activity to make money. Besides, I am married to a South African and her family has become mine. I am not the only foreigner or Nigerian with this kind of record. Crime is crime no matter who commits it. There is no crime that is only committed by only foreigners. Criminals are in every country and they should not be tagged exclusively as foreigners. When we call criminals foreigners we are saying that every foreigner is automatically criminal. Painting everyone with the same brush is dangerous and the ripple effect is what we are experiencing; where businesses of genuine entrepreneurs are destroyed because they are foreigners on account of wrong narrative which been allowed to gained currency, people who have something to offer will be forced to recline. It is true that there are foreigners whose activities are conducted in unpleasant and illegal ways. On the flip side, it is impossible for people from other nations to come to another nation to commit crime without aid from citizens. But intellectual laziness and populist stance have underscored the narrative which demonizes foreigners and, Nigerians in particular. Perhaps, we need to remember not to forget that Nigeria and South Africa account for almost one-third of the Africa’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and, if businesses developed by entrepreneurs like me, and against the background of the challenges to grow small businesses; it would directly compromise the targets of the current clamor for intra-African trade. Instead of hasty generalisation and blanket labeling of small business owners from other countries, South Africa should put in place more pragmatic methods to deal with criminality. South Africa is a great country with tremendous potentials for development but the youths need to be better capacitated; they should be made to explore entrepreneurship and boost the rate of employment in the country. South African citizens have better opportunity to compete with foreigners and to even overtake them. The younger people should be motivated to imbibe the passion and determination to start their own businesses. The presence of foreigners like me who came with almost nothing should be an inspiration to the citizens. Institutions of learning should consider tilting their approach from emphasizing soft skills but also to capacitate learners on job creation. This is key because what we have today is a situation where there are limited job opportunities and educational institutions continue to produce job seekers instead of job creators. This vicious circle will continue and its adverse effect will increase if we don’t take proactive and drastic measures in creating jobs. In addition, we also need to look at South African families and how the role the families play in the challenges facing the country. Looking back at the struggle and what black South Africans went through; most of the youths did not grow in households where their parents or older relatives were entrepreneurs. So the first level of socialisation already places them at a disadvantage where they are not exposed to the knowledge and the confidence that they can create their own businesses. So, the idea of creating their own businesses is strange to many of them even when funding and business support structures are provided. In conclusion, there is a proverb in Igbo language that says if a child fetches more fire wood than his mates his mates will accuse him of fetching his from the evil forest. Hon. Cosmos Echie, is the Acting President of Nigerian Community Western Cape (NCWC), he is also a seasoned Entrepreneur with businesses in South Africa.