Tension on Saturday morning enveloped Isabo, Abeokuta, the location of the Ogun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal as the three -member panel led by Justice Yusuf Halilu is set to deliver its judgment in the petition before it. The Petition was filed by Hon. Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade and his party, the Allied People’s Movement (APM), and they are asking the Tribunal to upturn the victory of Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Scores of armed fierce looking security men, Operatives of the Police Ordinance unit, Department of State Security(DSS), Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps(NSCDC), Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) took over the inside and outside of the court premises as well as adjoining roads and streets leading to it. Tens of people who arrived Isabo as 7am this morning and eager to enter the court premises were barred entry as at 9.20am … Armed men at heavily guarded court gate, turned them back. The Police Commissioner, Bashir Makama, who arrived few minutes inspected the security arrangement within and outside the court premises and left upon being satisfied with it. The Nation learnt the Police were under strict instruction to allow selected number of people because of inadequate space at the court and also prevent rowdiness from loyalists of the two feuding parties – All Progressives Congress (APC) and Allied People’s Movement (APM). The Governorship Petition was filed by Hon. Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade and his party, APM and they are asking the Tribunal to upturn the victory of Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Akinlade and his party filed the petition marked EPT /OG/ GOV/ 01/19, alleging that over-voting was carried out during the polls in favour of Abiodun. The APM’s candidate also alleged that Governor Abiodun lacked the qualification to contest for the Governorship seat of the Gateway State in the March 9 governorship election. The Tribunal had in its August 19 sitting, reserved its judgment shortly after all parties had adopted their respective final written addresses and promised to notify them when the judgment would be ready. And while adopting his final written address, the petitioner – Akinlade, through his lead counsel, Mike Osuman, SAN, asked the court to disqualify Abiodun as a candidate of APC in the last Governorship election and nullify the declaration of Abiodun as winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC). The Petitioner also prayed the Tribunal to return him (Akinlade) as the governor. But Abiodun’s lead counsel, Prof Taiwo Osipitan, SAN, described the APM’s petition as one that lacks merit and dead on arrival, urging that it should be dismissed in its entirety. Who wins and who loses? The judges who just arrived the court, will commence sitting by 10am and in hours time, deliver their judgment.