The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) policy mandating banks to lend 60 per cent of their deposits or be sanctioned will take effect by month end. Coronation Merchant Bank Limited Investment Banking Director Abiodun Sanusi speaks with COLLINS NWEZE on the steps banks are taking ahead of the policy deadline. He discusses the state of the economy and impact of high interest rate regime on banking business. We are in the third quarter of the year heading towards the end of the year. If you are to review the performance of the economy, would you say it has fared well within the past nine months? This is an election year, especially looking at the handover regime of the Federal Government. Such a year is usually slow because a lot of focus is on the political landscape rather than the economy. As you know,  in terms of economy it is about cumulative impact; if your first quarter is slow, your second quarter would be slow too. So, generally, the economy has not grown. The population growth of Nigeria is three per cent per annum, any growth below three per cent means we are decelerating on per capita income basis. Although we are growing, we are not growing as fast as our population growth, which is what we have witnessed in the past two years. What it means is that government policies have not fully impacted on the economy but we are seeing a lot of progress being made now that the government has settled in. The ministers have been approved and assigned portfolios and also we are in the budget session. So, we should see some increase in growth in 2023 with the right approach in the right direction on the economy. However, so far the economy has been flat. We have not grown up to the potential we are expected to grow. Given that banks are also key players in growing the economy. Does this mean the banks are not effectively playing their part, which has led to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) initiating the 60 per cent loan-to-deposit ratio policy? If you look at the structure of our economy, you need to do a deep root analysis of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Agriculture contributes about 23 per cent, Oil and Gas 10 per cent, Telecoms is about eight to 10 per cent. Unlike what people think in terms of major economic activities, oil and gas is not contributing much to the GDP. I think some private sector policies should be taken, especially in the power sector. The power sector has not lived up to expectations after the privatisation. We experienced a not cost effective pricing during the election, which is why there has not been a lot of investment there. Also, fuel subsidy is a drag; in other parts of the world, they subsidise production not consumption.  Thus the government needs to tackle issues like this in order for there to be adequate distribution of capital to develop infrastructure. Security has also been an issue as there have been reports of kidnappings on key trade routes, which have affected production and business activities of farmers. The banks are mediators, so they do the best they can and you need to also consider that none of the banks have delivered double digit growth rate. Technically, a lot of policies need to be implemented to open up the economy. The revival of the Telco industry was immense and we need to see that in the power sector, oil and gas downstream sector and others. Then, you would see that the banks would support the economy because banks are interested in making profit. Are there other factors limiting banks? In addition, what is also limiting the banks is the high interest rate we have in Nigeria. The CBN is saddled with two things: stabilising the currency and reducing the interest rate. Stabilising the currency requires attracting foreign investments; as we speak, there are about  $20 billion of foreign portfolio investments in Nigeria, which is a huge volume of our reserves. We need to keep that large volume of dollars in Nigeria, which requires us offering attractive interest rate to investors on a risk adjusted bases which is what CBN is trying to do. Once you have a high interest rate regime at the risk free level, it affects the entire economy because the bank buys their credit based on what the risk free rate is. If it is 15 per cent, definitely they would lend to corporate clients higher than that because of the credit risk premium they need to get for extending credit to the corporate sector, which is why it has been challenging for the banks to lend at a single digit rate. However, I also understand the challenges of the CBN as it needs to ensure it maintains the stability of the foreign currencies. So, it has to be a collective effort with the government playing its part effectively without interfering in the private sectors transactions. We need to diversify our economy, which means both the private sector and government need to implement policies that would reduce our consumption of importable products so that we demand less foreign currencies. We need to focus on boosting our production rate. Do you think CBN’s directive on 60 per cent loan to deposit ratio will affect the profitability of banks given that a lot of the real sector operators are seen to be risky.  Do you see banks non-performing loans going up as a result of this new policy? It depends on the stands the banks take because it is a business decision. There are two stands; one of them is, if I am falling short of the loan to deposit ratio which most banks are, I would increase  my loans which is convert my positions of investments in treasury bills and bonds to high risk. That means that assets you considered risky before,  you started putting your money in them. In that instance, there is more possibility the non-performing loan ratio would increase. The other strategy is if I am happy with my risk asset and I do not want to increase it,  I would shed my deposit. We have started seeing it. Some of the banks have started shedding their deposits by reducing the deposit rates they give to institutional investors, the pensions and the likes. However, they cannot control the retail deposit because the citizens need to keep their money in the bank, but deposits from treasury bills, institutional investors, corporates the banks can reject it. So it is neither here nor there depending on the stand the bank takes. You can increase your risk asset which can likely increase your non performing loan ratio, or not if you start lending to good sectors or assets that are good. If you are skeptical of the risk, you can reduce your   deposits and you still maintain your loan to deposit ratio, but the overall impact is that banks want to give out more loans due to this policy, whether you want to do option one or two. We have also started seeing instances whereby companies that are struggling to pay back their loans have started restructuring their loans because the banks want to keep the loans rather than write them off which is good for the economy. A lot of manufacturing companies suffered interest rates at 23 per cent before the end of recession. That affected a lot of the profitability and capability to payback their loans and default rate increased. With this policy, banks have started to create a restructuring and a longer term loan that those businesses deserve.  So overall, there is a huge positive gain in this 60 per cent loan to deposit ratio which means more loans would be given and also banks are now tenuring the loans from maturity to longer times. What do you think this policy means for the capital market and do you think investors would react to this positively? Also, what are your views on the recapitalisa-tion of the insurance industry? In terms of insurance consolidation, there are two things, either the insurance companies raise capital through right issues or through  a merger and acquisition route. There are views that mergers and acquisition would dominate more than capital risks and that insurance players would reduce from 59 to 25. If mergers and acquisition dominate and the number of players reduces to 25, we are going to see more follow on offerings, more Initial Public Offerings in the capital market and if the insurance industries and investment banks are able to communicate the equity story because there is enormous potential in the sector. With the follow on offerings, it can also be a catalyst to what we have seen in the capital market in the past four years. So, the insurance consolidation is going to have a positive impact on the capital market. When there is more consolidation, we would have bigger players and investors that would be more confident to invest in it. As we speak, there are lots of pension funds that have not been invested in the insurance sector. We expect that after the recapitalisation of the insurance industry in 2020, there is going to be a lot of money in insurance sector. The challenge is where is this capital going to be used? If you look at the purchasing power of average Nigerians who are supposed to pay for this insurance, they are mostly concerned about basic needs. So, where are the insurance companies going to deploy this money? If a research team goes out to conduct a market survey in outer parts of Lagos and they understand what the consumer is doing, asking the five things people want, insurance would not be one of them. So, insurance is not a product you can just advertise and sell. It does not work like that which is why micro insurance is wonderful in a way, if you are bundling a micro insurance product with something like a Telco, which everyone uses and you put a small slice as the Telco fee as the insurance premium, then you can grow it successfully and familiarise people to the market with that at the same time. You cannot put up advert boards and advert campaigns telling people to buy insurance. It is different for pensions because we see people paying pension advancements but insurance does not follow that rule. Therefore, I do not think people would be able to take out money from their account to pay for insurance. Making some sort of insurance mandatory is a better way of doing it. In terms of what a lot of the companies would spend the money on, it is most likely technology because you are going to create systems that would service a lot of clients.