He peeled off the date, place and time, the moment the event was mentioned ‘Odiye infamous header.’ “How can I forget? he blurted and went ahead to vividly describe the goal that dashed Nigeria’s dream of qualifying for its first World Cup in Lagos against the Tunisia and Nigerians had to endure 17 years’ long wait before featuring at the biggest global football tournament. “That goal was the highlight of my football career and it defined the course of my life, thereafter,” began Odiye in a recent interview with The Nation while on a recent visit to the country from his base in the USA. “Months before that game, I remember that famous commentator, the late Ernest Okonkwo, was pestering me to sign for his favourite club, Rangers International, but I preferred to play in Benin, as I am from that part of the country and besides I don’t speak Igbo, so I told him no.” Back to the own goal. “We were hard pressed to score a goal when the game was about 15 minutes to end and we went into massive attack with Christian Chukwu overlapping and supporting our midfielders. “I was the only one behind and I got a pass from Muda Lawal supporting the defence and I immediately passed it on to Sam Ojebode at left-back. Ojebode ventured into attack but his cross was headed back to a Tunisian who controlled the ball and raced down the left side position. “As I was alone with no help coming I took a decision that, if the Tunisian player crossed the ball, I will go for a corner kick header. The player did what I expected from him, but it was a spin, which grazed my head. Meanwhile, goalkeeper (Emmanuel) Okala had come out and the ball was in the net. “What surprised me mostly was the noise from the commentary box. Okonkwo was shouting repeatedly, ‘Nigeria score Nigeria’ and that must have enraged our fans and many Nigerians that were listening on radio. “I think he did it to get back to me for not signing for Rangers and I was really disappointed. It was not funny after the game as I was smuggled out of the stadium by my friends.” The drama became fiercer for Odiye. “The following day, I wanted to gauge people’s feeling, so I got on a bus heading towards the National Stadium and all the talks were about the game and me and I was called all sorts of name and some even abused my forefathers. “One man sitting beside me rained curses on me not knowing he was talking to the same Odiye. I did not say a single word but when I alighted he looked back, recognised me and I waved at him. Thereafter, I made up my mind that football was not for me. Though I came back to win the Nations Cup in 1980, I knew football wasn’t my thing.”