Again, the issue of poorly registered/unregistered SIM cards on the network has aroused the attention of the Federal Government. It has earned the telcos fines running into millions of naira, with the highest, N330billion, just settled by MTN Nigeria this year. LUCAS AJANAKU writes on the need for stakeholders to collaborate and end the menace. Communications Minister, Dr Isa Pantami, is not new to the Information Communication Technology (ICT) space. He had stirred one or two controversies in the past. When he headed the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), his attempt to register IT contractors was resisted by the Nigerian Computer Society (NCS), which insisted that registering contractors wasn’t part of the intention of NITDA Act 2007. Its role  is to plan, promote and develop regulatory framework and guidelines as stated in NITDA Act 2007, Section 6a. “The Computer Professionals Registration Council of Nigeria (CPN) Act 49 of 1993 is saddled with the mandate to register, license, supervise and control the profession as stated in CPN Act Section 1 (2),” NCS insisted. Again, in July this year, the Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON) pettioned the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) over attempt by NITDA to usurp its functions. Titled: Introduction of Legal Instruments by NITDA with Attendant Impact on the Operations of Entities Regulated by the NCC–Request for Guidance, the telcos had drawn NCC’s attention to:  Framework and Guidelines for Public Internet Access (PIA) 2019; Framework for Data Centre Facilities; and Nigeria Data Protection Regulation 2019.  ALTON  raised concern over NITDA’s attempt to regulate data services. It also faulted attempt to register data centres in the country under the guise of   Presidential Executive Orders 003 and 005 on local content development. The telcos also raised concern over NITDA’s attempt to turn itself into Data Protection Agency by making its regulation to override the NCC’s provision on data processing in the industry. When he assumed office, Pantami told CEOs of Federal Government agencies under the supervision of the ministry that their performance would be assessed monthly. He warned that sanctions awaited anyone found wanting in the perfromance of their duties. Specifically, Pantami madated the NCC to end the issue of sale of pre-registered, unregistered and partially-registered SIM cards, especially as this can help in reducing numerous security challenges the nation faces; stem the tide of illegal deduction of data of subscribers and work towards the downward review of the cost of data; and ensure compliance with the maximum two per cent Call Drop Rate directive to telecom operators. It may have been pursuant to the mandate he gave to the NCC to end the sale of pre-registered, unregistered and partially-registered SIM cards that he directed the regulator to deactivate 9.2 million unregistered subscriber identity module (SIM) cards on the system. The concern of the minister is understandable. Almost 10 years after SIM registration started, it is curious that the telcos are yet to get it right. Last week, a statement from Communication Ministry  said  the NCC has submitted its baseline short-term performance targets report. “The report, signed by the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, contained precise figures of improperly registered SIM cards in use around the country. The Commission in its report disclosed that an estimated 9.2million SIM cards did not comply with the proper procedures of SIM registration. “The investigation, which was carried out at the behest of the minister, has exposed for the first time in the telecoms history of Nigeria, in precise detail, the magnitude of defaulters,” the statement read. According to the statement, Pantami  “expressed concern over the security implication of this discovery and further directed that the telecoms regulator, should with immediate effect, ensure that all improperly registered numbers are duly reregistered.” To ensure maximum compliance, Pantami has directed NCC to ensure all mobile network operators block all SIM cards that do not meet proper registration standards until users comply with proper reregistration procedures. “The security implication of this irregularity is too grave to ignore and the Federal Ministry of Communications will not tolerate any actions or inactions that will compromise the nation’s security,” the statement noted. This is not the first time the issue of unregistered SIM cards is coming up in the telecoms sector. It has always been there. It is either the NCC said it has arrested people selling pre-registered SIM cards or it is issuing warnings to the telcos. About three months ago, the NCC had raised the alarm that some 95.7million subscriber data was ‘invalid’. ALTON  Chairman, Gbenga Adebayo, had accused the NCC of indicting itself with huge number of cards it adjudged to be invalid because the NCC came out with SIM card registration rules, which the carriers adhered to during the exercise, adding that huge cash was also sunk on the project. Adebayo is right. The NCC got budgetary approval of N5.6billion, which it said, it also spent on registering SIM cards across the country. How many of the improperly registered 9.2 million SIM cards came from the NCC is unknown but it did particpated in the process that has become a subject of national security challenge. Adebayo faulted the new figures, insisting that it must be far less than 9.2 million. He agreed that unregistered SIM cards should be blocked because it is in line with the SIM registration guidelines reached by the regulator and carriers but wondered how that huge number of unregistered SIM would be on the network. “I don’t know how anyone will come about nine million unregistered SIM cards; that is certainly not possible. There could be SIM cards that have incorrect data or that require revalidation. Maybe they are talking about improper registration; but if they are saying that there are nine million unregistered SIM cards in the country, that is not possible. It is just impossible and I am saying this unequivocally. “Any unregistered SIM cards will be blocked and should be blocked. There should be no unregistered SIM cards in the first place.” A security expert urged all the stakeholders, including the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), telcos, National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), NCC and other security agencies, to close ranks and address the issue headlong.