The African Action Congress (AAC) collation agent for Rivers State governorship election, Nenye Kocha, has testified that Governor Nyesom Wike won the March 9 election. Kocha, who testified as AAC’s star witness yesterday, said there was no time the AAC candidate led in the race during collation of results. He told the tribunal that the party had only 418 agents across the 4,442 units. As a new party, it was only able to clear four House of Assembly candidates and one governorship candidate, he added. According to Kocha, Donatus Bariko, from Gokana council, and Henry Iyala, from Degema council, who testified for Awara as party collation agents, were not party members but imposters. Kocha said there were no results collated for Gokana and Abua/Odual councils. He said: “We had just four House of Assembly candidates and one governorship candidate. Of the 32 seats in the House of Assembly, we had only four candidates; no candidate for National Assembly. We had collation agents in only 418 polling units across the 4,442 polling units in the state. “No result was declared for Abua/Odual and Gokana councils as at the time of collation. INEC conducted the election in strict compliance with the Electoral Act and guidelines of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “Donatus Barikor (Gokana) and Henry Iyala (Degema) were not AAC party agents. This is the first time I am in politics; coming from industry, I am in politics for integrity. APC adopted our governorship candidate two days to the election.” Kocha admitted that the party no longer had a deputy governorship candidate following the withdrawal of Chief Akpo Bomba Yeeh from the race. According to him, the AAC won in only two councils – Akuku-Toru and Oyigbo – as declared by INEC. He said most of the witnesses presented by Biokpomabo Awara initially were not members of AAC. The witness said AAC started in August 2018 and prepared for the election two days after it was adopted by APC. A certified video clip was also presented by AAC, through its subpoenaed witness, Osademe Joseph. The video proved Wike won the governorship election after collation of results between April 2 and 3. Osademe told the tribunal that he was one of the producers of the live broadcast of election results collation between April 2 and 3, at INEC’s headquarters in Port Harcourt. In the video clip, INEC declared Wike winner of the poll with 888,264 votes ahead of AAC candidate, Awara, who came second with 173, 859 votes. The video also confirmed the collation and declaration of Obio Akpor council results and non-declaration of Gokana and Abua/Odual councils. The matter was adjourned till today.