There are so many celebrities in the Nigerian movie industry who are still not married at 40 years and above. While some deliberately choose not to tie the knot, others have tried and failed. Here is our list of eight female celebrities who are unmarried at 40 and above Eniola Badmus (42-yr-old) Eniola Badmus who turned 42 on Saturday, September 7, 2019 was born in Lagos Nigeria . She had her basic and secondary school education in Ijebu Ode, Ogun state. She proceeded to the University of Ibadan where she studied Theatre Arts and then Lagos State University where she graduated with an M.Sc degree in Economics This single actress came into limelight in 2008 after she featured in the film Jenifa, a very successful seasonal show whose main character is played by another popular Nollywood actress Funke Akindele. Rita Dominic (44-yr-old) Rita Dominic is an award-winning actress who was born on July 12th, 1975. 44-year-old Dominic, was born in a royal family of Nwaturuocha, and was the youngest of four children. She graduated from the University of Port Harcourt, where she studied Theatre Arts. Her first movie “A Time to Kill” came out in 1998, and since then Rita Dominic has acted in more than 100 Nollywood productions. She co-stars with all the most popular Nollywood actors, like Ramsey Nouah, Stephanie Okereke, Mike Ezuruonye, Ini Edo, Richard Mofe-Damijo, Olu Jacobs, and many others. There were a lot of reports and photos of Rita Dominic getting married. However, a majority of the photos which the media use as evidence are simply photos from movies , where Rita Dominic plays a bride. In real life, she is still single. The actress confessed that she wants her future husband to love her for who she is and not because she is famous, and revealed that she would never marry someone because of his riches either. Kate Henshaw (48-yr-old) Kate Henshaw is one of the most popular and talented actresses in Nollywood. She was born in Cross River State and the oldest of four children. After completing her primary and secondary school in Lagos and Calabar, she spent one year at the University of Calabar reading remedial studies, and then majored in Medical Microbiology at the School of Medical Lab Science, LUTH (Lagos University Teaching Hospital) in Lagos. Henshaw worked at the Bauchi State General hospital. In 1993 Henshaw auditioned for the lead role in the movie When the Sun Sets and was handed the role. This was her first appearance in a major Nollywood movie. However, not much has been said about her relationships, she was once married to Rod Nattal back in 2000 and the two split. She’s been unmarried ever since then. Eucharia Anunobi (54-yr-old) Popular Nollywood actress Eucharia Anunobi is a movie producer and pastor. She was born on May 25th, 1965. Currently, Eucharia is 54 years old. Her birthplace is Owerri, Imo State. Anunobi has a degree in Mass Communication from the Institute of Management Technology in Enugu. She further got another education in the University of Nigeria, Nsukka where she studied the English Language. Her first prominent role was in the series “Glamour Girls” in 1994. Acting turned out to be the occupation of her life, and she starred in more than 90 other movies, which include her most famous productions “Abuja Connection”, and “Letters to a Stranger”. Now, she serves as a pastor at the church in Egbeda. Anunobi is not in a relationship. She got married to her first husband, Charles Ekwu, in 2000, but they divorced in 2006. Unfortunately, in August 2017, Anunobi’s son passed away at 15. Genevieve Nnaji (40-yr-old)  Ace actor, producer and movie director Genevieve Nnaji was born in May 3, 1979. In 2005, She won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role in making her the first actor to win the award. Nnaji was born in Mbaise, Imo State, Nigeria, and grew up in Lagos. She is the fourth of eight children, she was raised in a middle-class family; her father worked as an engineer and her mother as a nursery school teacher. She attended Methodist Girls College (Yaba, Lagos), before transferring to the University of Lagos, where she graduated with a bachelor’s degree in creative arts. While at the university, she began auditioning for acting jobs in Nollywood. However, recently, a picture of herself and Lynxxx surfaced online which has sparked loads of questions and guesses, Genevieve does not really disclose her personal life to the media often. She has a daughter, Theodora Chimebuka Nnaji, whom she gave birth to when she was 17 years old. Bimbo Akintola (49-yr-old) Bimbo Akintola was born on May 5th, 1970 in Ibadan, Oyo State. She dreamed about acting from the young age and successfully completed the Theater Arts program at the University of Ibadan. The debut movie of Bimbo Akintola was “OWO BLOW”, where she starred together with Femi Adebayo. This movie came out in 1995. Her next big work was “Out of Bounds.” Critics and fans highly praise the talent of Bimbo Akintola, and she has been awarded multiple times for her ability to portray any character on the screen. Despite her career successes, Bimbo Akintola was never married, and she did not have any children. She is strongly against the social stereotype that every successful woman should have a man by her side. She sees nothing wrong being single and encourages women who want to have biological children to have them regardless of their marital status, as she believes that single mothers can successfully raise their children if they are emotionally and financially stable. Bukky Wright (52-yr-old) Bukky was born on the 31 March 1967 to a Christian father and Muslim mother in Abeokuta. She attended the University of Lagos, earning a bachelor’s degree in Economics. She began her acting career in 1996. She has featured in several Nollywood movies of Yoruba and English languages, including Wale Adenuga’s Television series Super story. Besides acting, she runs a Fashion house and Clothing line, B Collections and a beauty spa, B Wright. Bukky’s marital life has been a subject of controversy. Bukky Wright’s first husbands was Gboyega Amu, the marriage brought them, two children. But for some reason, the union was broken, and the actress started a relationship with Rotimi Makinde.
After few years Bukky Wright reportedly began dating famous journalist Femi Davies. The relationship ended after a year, and she moved on.
Bolaji Saheed, a music promoter, reportedly became the fourth husband of the actress, the marriage also ended. After that, she met her fifth husband, US-based Adewale Onitiri, this marriage recently crashed. Faithia Williams (50-yr-old) Faithia Williams popularly known as Faithia Balogun was born on February 5, 1969 She was born in Ikeja in February 1969. Her ancestry is from Okpara, Delta State. She attended Maryland Primary School and Maryland Comprehensive Secondary School in Lagos state, where she obtained the West African School Certificate before she proceeded to Kwara State Polytechnic where she received a diploma certificate. She has starred, produced and directed several Nigerian films over the years. In 2008, she won the Africa movie Academy Award for the Most Outstanding Actress Indigenous and her movie Iranse Aje won the best indigenous film of the year. She was formerly married to veteran nollywood actor, Saheed Balogun. Their marriage hit rock bottom few and she has remained unmarried ever since.