Primary school pupils, secondary school students and their teachers have been tasked to make utmost use of available resource centres as they resume for new academic session on Monday. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Lagos State, Mrs. Abosede Adelaja, while giving the task on Thursday during a two day 4th annual state conference of the English Language Teachers’ Association (ELTAN), Lagos State Chapter, was of the view that making utmost use of numerous educational resource centres would hone teachers’ skills and develop pupils and students’ learning abilities. Abosede, who was represented at the conference by the Director, Multilingual International Resource Centre, Yaba, Lagos, Haastrup Taiwo, said that, “Government has many education resource centres, as schools resume nationwide next week those they are meant for should make best use of them. She noticed the need to provide more centers because of the nature of Lagos State in receiving many people from different parts of the country and outside the country and afterwards hinted that government would look into providing more of such centers. Speaking in the same vein, the President of the chapter and Principal, Iganmu Senior High School, Mr. Charles Adeniyi, enthused that,” the main essence of the conference is for the teachers to come and refresh for competence development, enhance vocational or professional skills, brush up for programmes, then go back to the classrooms equipped with new ideas and teaching skills. “This is 21st century, how can you be relevant? It’s by developing necessary skills that become of a modern teacher in the new session. Don’t go back to the classrooms in the new session, with the way you ended the last session. Get new ideas, get fresh ideas,” he charged. In her key note address, Dr. Olufunke Oshikomaya, Senior Lecturer, National Open University (NOUN), Victoria Island, Lagos, tasked the teeming teachers to awake to harnessing Edu-tech by getting accustomed to the use of mobile phones, personal computers, emails, Skype, teleconferencing in teaching and learning. In her own response, Oshikomaya, remarked that, “English language is important to economic development, almost everything you know,is centred on English language-it’s the language of economy, industry and commerce, it’s a language of marketing, trading, speaking of it has to be really dealt with….”