Great Nigeria Insurance(GNI) Plc has listed its shares on the NASD OTC Securities Exchange Plc, opening up another window for trading on the shares of the insurance company after it delisted from the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The NSE had, in January, this year, delisted the share capital of GNI, ending more than 13 years of public quotation and listing on the main board of the equities market. The delisting was sequel to the   GNI’s request, which had opted to revert to a private unquoted company.The company was listed on the NSE in October 2005. Authorities at the NASD – the over-the-counter platform for trading in unlisted securities, confirmed that the shares of GNI have been listed on the platform and shareholders of the insurance company can start dematerialisation and trading on their shares. NASD assured that it would continue to lend GNI its support in always creating liquidity, one of the grounds that GNI had cited for the delisting from the NSE. GNI had however also struggled to meet the stringent corporate governance practices at the NSE, often sanctioned for failure to comply with  the rules. Inaugurated in July 2013, NASD is registered by the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) as a Self-Regulatory Organisation (SRO). The NASD OTC provides the platform for trading of a broad range of instruments over-the-counter, including equities, bonds and securities not listed on the NSE. GNI joined other companies on the NASD included Dufil Prima Foods Plc, the manufacturer of Indomie Noodles; Friesland Campina Wamco Nigeria Plc, manufacturer of Peak Milk brand; and Fan Milk Plc, popular manufacturer of Fan Yoghurts, NIPCO Plc, Air Liquide Nigeria Plc Industrial & General Insurance Plc, Central Securities Clearing System Plc, the clearing and depository arm of the Nigerian Stock Exchange; Nigeria Mortgage Refinance Company, Jaiz Bank Plc, the Islamic bank; Acorn Petroleum Plc, Arm Life Plc, Afriland Properties Plc, BGL Plc, Consolidated Breweries Plc and Food Concepts Plc. Others included Geo-Fluids Plc, Golden Capital Plc, Niger Delta Exploration & Production Plc, Partnership Investment Company Plc, Resourcery Plc, Riggs Ventures West Africa Plc, Swap Technologies & Telecomms Plc, Vital Products Plc, Fumman Agric Products Industries Plc, Free Range Farm Plc, FAMAD Plc, AG Mortgage Bank, Trustbond Mortgage Bank Plc, Mass Telecom Innovation (MTI ) and Providus Bank. In a statement on the delisting, the board of GNI had noted that it would shield it from any enforcement that might arise as a result of the outstanding free float deficiency at the NSE. The board also noted that over the last five years, there had been little or no trading activity on the shares held by the minority shareholders, pointing out that shareholders were not benefiting from the continued listing as they were not getting any exit opportunity and their investments had been locked up and they found it difficult to dispose of their shareholding. The board added that the company had neither benefited from the continuing listing at NSE as its shares continue to trade at a significant discount to the intrinsic value. The board of directors said the delisting would afford the company opportunity to further an imminent corporate restructuring exercise to take advantage of emerging opportunities, noting that the company might consider re-listing on the NSE in the future if the market conditions are favourable.