Yoruba group Afenifere spokesman Yinka Odumakin, has criticised the police over what it called poor handling of investigations on the murder of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, daughter of its leader, Chief Rueben Fasoranti. According to the Publicity Secretary of the group, Yinka Odumakin who spoke with reporters after a meeting at the Akure home of Fasoranti, the inability of the police to fish out the killers of Mrs Olakunrin by now showed that the matter was poorly handled by the police. He said, “It is now over two months that Mrs Olufunke Olakunnrin, the daughter of Afenifere leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti was murdered around Ore  in Ondo State and we are compelled to speak out over the lackadaisical attitude of the police over the gruesome assassination. “The younger brother of the deceased, Kehinde Fasoranti had stated openly a day after the incident that the police in Ore told him his sister was killed by Fulani herdsmen when he went to collect her body the day she was killed and challenged the police to bring out the statement he wrote at their station. “They have not contradicted him till date. “The first sign we got that there was no attempt to launch any serious investigation into  the murder was when the car in which she was killed was released to the family from Ore police station the day after the murder without any forensic investigation into the most prized evidence at the scene of the crime. “It was when we engaged the police high command that they came to pick the car six days later. The car has now been returned to the family with no report on the examination report.” The group emphasised that there was no attempt to carry out any autopsy on the corpse until they demanded it from the police before the burial, saying,  ”only that was carried out and only that report was given to the family when they went to collect the car. “Beyond this, the police have not made any  briefing to the family on their investigations into this dastardly act. “There are other bizarre developments that worry us on police investigations into this murder . “For instance, the driver of the car in which Mrs Olakunrin was killed has not been asked a question by the police till date.” “All the above put together suggest to us clearly that the police have not done any serious investigations into this murder .And it worries us that we are seeing all the signs of lethargy that usually attend high profile murders with powerful masterminds in our country”. Afenifere therefore called on all  those who respect human lives in Nigeria and across the world to join  in asking the police where are the killers of Mrs Olakunrin.