Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has some explaining to do. After grabbing the headlines when he took his six-year-old son, Abubakar, to Capital School, Malali, Kaduna, a public school, to begin his primary education, on September 23, El-Rufai has questions to answer. True, El-Rufai has been commended publicly for putting his son in a public school, but he has also been criticised publicly for allegedly playing to the gallery. Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the eighth National Assembly, told reporters in Kaduna that the governor’s action “was simply a 2023 political stunt set up for the media and people who live outside Kaduna because those who reside here know what public primary schools look like.” What do public primary schools in Kaduna State look like? Why did El-Rufai put his son in that particular public primary school? Sani said: “It is not because I have political difference with him, no. But whoever lives in Kaduna State knew that what the governor did with his son by enrolling him in a public school was just a comedy…He would have done better by upgrading schools in Kaduna. You cannot spend N195million in a particular school and then take your son and the media to that school and think you have done anything different.” Is it true that the El-Rufai administration spent N195 million to improve Capital School, Malali? How was the school improved? Why was the alleged cost of the improvement so high? Sani added: “I know that the children of former Governor Ahmed Makarfi attended this same Capital School. I also know that other public officials’ children go to that school too. So if you are not being cunning, deceptive and comical, you would have allowed all your children to enroll in public schools. Public school doesn’t mean primary schools alone; there are public secondary schools and public universities.” How many children does El-Rufai have? How many of them are in school? How many of them are in public schools? Abubakar was quoted as saying:  “I am sad that I will miss my old school, my friends and my teachers. But I have to help my father keep his promise.”  Which school was he talking about? El-Rufai wants to seen as a man who keeps his word. In a state broadcast in December 2017, he had promised to enroll his son in a public school when he is six years old.  At the time he made the promise, he was two years into his first four-year term as governor. He had said: “We are determined to fix public education and raise their standards so that private education will become only a luxury. As we make progress, we will require our senior officials to enroll their children in public schools. And I will by personal example ensure that my son that will be six years of age in 2019 will be enrolled in a public school in Kaduna State, by God’s grace.” His first term ended in May 2019. It wasn’t certain that he would still be governor of the state in September 2019 when he put his son in a public primary school. El-Rufai was re-elected governor for a second term, which is why he was able to grab the headlines the way he did. What if El-Rufai had not been re-elected? Would he still have put his son in a public primary school? El-Rufai’s words to journalists after the show at Capital School, Malali: “I made that commitment because I believe that it is only when all political leaders have their children in public schools that we will pay due attention to quality of public education. I went to a public school like this. In fact, the school I went to is not as good as this one, but here I am, because of the quality teaching I got.” He added: “My intention is to ensure that all our public schools offer quality education, and so we are encouraging all our senior public servants to send their children to public schools. Once the public schools are improved to a point they are nearly as good as or even better than private schools, no one will waste his money taking his child to private school.” What is the cost of primary education at Capital School, Malali? Who are the parents of the children in the school? In January, El-Rufai had publicised how his administration reformed the state’s education sector. While playing host to the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN), Ms Amina Mohammed, he said his first-term administration inherited 4,200 public primary schools that were in a bad condition. He also said that in 2015 he had inherited enrollment rate stagnant at 1.1 million pupils, with about 50 per cent of pupils taking lessons on the floor because of lack of furniture. He said: “In our effort to improve teaching quality standards, the Kaduna State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) had in June 2017 conducted a Primary Four competency test for teachers.” According to him, 21,780 out of 33,000 teachers that sat for the competency examination failed.  He stated:  “As part of our education reform programme, we sacked the failed teachers and recruited 25,000 new teachers…We have also expanded access to education by making the first nine years of schooling free for boys and the entire twelve years of primary and secondary education free for girls. This has led to increase in School enrolment from 1.1 million to 2.1 million almost doubling the number of pupils in the State.” In a tweet on his education sector reforms, El- Rufai had said: “After a review of the cost and analysis of the demographic trends data as it relates to overcrowding in the classrooms, we decided to build multi-storey school blocks with more classrooms to accommodate 30 to 40 pupils per class. By January 2017, about 500 of the schools had been rehabilitated at the cost of about N6 billion. Our investments have contributed to the total overhauling of the education sector. We have introduced a Schools Rehabilitation Programme to provide decent classrooms, furniture, water and toilet facilities.” But El-Rufai needs to respond to Sani’s remarks and other remarks that call into question his dramatic appearance with his son at Capital School, Malali.