Loyalty programme is an old strategy that has remained relevant in marketing. With the marketplace saturated with products and services that offer similar value, giving consumers ample options to choose from, a consumer reward programme becomes handy for business owners to increase patronage and improve sales. JANE CHIJIOKE writes Busayo Chidozie has been a loyal customer to a particular hair salon for three years. According to her, her affinity with the salon is based on the fact that her hairstylist makes good hairdos, sells quality hair accessories and has helped her to nurture her once- scanty hair back to its fuller state. Though expensive, she is willing to patronise the shop than opt for a cheaper one. She never knew that her patronage could earn her a reward. Last month, she received a call from her hairstylist announcing that she was among the selected top five loyal customers. It was based on her devoted patronage and referrals to the salon. On getting there, Busayo was presented with a card that allows her to make any hairstyle of her choice twice for free, and also rewarded with a Nexus Rechargeable Fan. Busayo said: “It is quite encouraging that my hairstylist has decided to appreciate her customers. It tells me that my contribution is highly valuable. This came unawares to me because she had never done it before. “Though once in a while she does a general appreciation where she rewards her customers with souvenirs at the end of the year, this came bigger and made me feel special.” The Nation learnt that brands are deploying loyalty programmes as part of strategies to boost customers’ patronage and attract prospective ones, which, at the end, increases sales. In a marketing landscape where customers are overwhelmed by choices, which brand to shop from- where to shop-how to shop, gaining customers’ loyalty becomes very important. Customers’ picky nature, coupled with the fact that attracting new customers seems more difficult than retaining existing ones, brand owners, retailers, service providers are  innovating ways that would emotionally engage and facilitate repeated purchase behaviour of their customers. One of such ways is deploying loyalty programmes. These programmes are marketing strategies designed to offer incentives to customers who frequently make purchase and attract new customers. They come in different forms; point-based, tiered programmes, discount sales, raffle draws, cash rewards among others. The competition in gaining a significant market share is getting tougher by the day. Brands, even small and micro enterprises are investing beyond the traditional end-of-the year appreciation to customers. As consumers remain relevant to their business existence and are always looking out for best bargain deals, it is not uncommon for brands to logically retain their consumers. For instances, aside other deals, SPAR Nigeria has introduced a “Cash- token Promotions”, which rewards customers who shop from N6, 000 and above weekly. They stand a chance to win a cash of N5, 000-N100, 000. Though not new in the marketing space, loyalty programmes, experts say, has proven to be one of the most effective tactics inspiring customers loyalty and driving sales. “The point-based loyalty programme allows customers to get a reward based on his accumulated points. Customers who participate in it would want to continue making purchase knowing that their points keep increasing at every purchase made. “This invariably increases sales,” a Consumer Insight Analyst, Benjamin Adegoke, said, explaining that reward programmes are targeted at boosting customer base and the brand visibility. Hear him: “Some consumers are always expectant to get something in return from any business transactions made. They prefer to stick to a brand that offers a loyalty programme, and the ability to earn rewards can actually change their spending behaviour. It will also motivate them to advertise such brand to their close buddies.” Adegoke, however, noted that before consumers’ loyalty is established, they must have had a positive experience and satisfaction from the value the brand offers. According to a 2019 global research report by LoyaltyOne, a loyalty marketing services firm based in Canada, investment in loyalty programmes are gradually growing. It said 69 per cent of C-suite executives have increased their loyalty investment in the past two years. The research revealed that 24 per cent of companies are investing up to seven per cent of their revenue while 47 per cent are investing a minimum of two per cent. “Executive teams have seen how loyalty programmes can contribute to company valuation. In fact, loyalty practitioners said their company view loyalty program strategy as an important component of the overall company strategy” said Caroline Papadatos, SVP, Global solutions, LoyaltyOne. Indeed, such investment comes with a reward. The research found that loyalty programme participants contribute 43 per cent of companies’  yearly sales. It showed that 95 per cent of companies said consumers who participate in loyalty programmes spend more than non-members annually. Corroborating this report, Group Head, Financial and Account, Super Saver Stores, Segun Akinpelu, affirmed that loyalty customers contribute more returns for stores. “Loyalty programmes are still very effective. According to our records, more than 50 per cent of our sales this year were from existing loyalty customers. Such programmes increase sales,” he said. Also, Mrs Gift Donald, who introduced a three-month promo in her supermarket on Lagos Island, which affords customers to shop for any item of their choice within the range of N2,000, having bought items worth N30,000 and above, has boosted sales for her. She noted that customers are always looking out for deals that would benefit them. “So using loyalty programme as a bait to influence their buying culture is necessary,” Gift said. Kenneth Godwin, who owns a gift shop at Yaba, Lagos, said consumers’ buying behaviour was changing and it was important for business owners to invest in reward programmes to appreciate them, as it would motivate them to continue buying from a particular brand. Some shoppers, who spoke with The Nation, said they preferred brands that offer loyalty programmes to them. They noted that aside the reward they receive, such activities build closer relationship and trust for the brand. They also noted that some of the programmes are pricey, as a certain amount of purchase is expected to be made before being rewarded. In the case of raffle draws, some rewards, they said, were insignificant.