President Muhammadu Buhari may have set a new economic tone for his administration when Monday last week, he replaced the Economic Management Team (EMT) headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo with a new body – Economic Advisory Council (EAC), headed by Prof Doyin Salami. Other members of the EAC are: Dr Mohammed Sagagi (vice-chairman); Prof Ode Ojowu; Dr Shehu Yahaya; Dr Iyabo Masha; Prof Chukwuma Soludo; Mr Bismark Rewane; and Dr Mohammed Adaya Salisu (secretary). The new body, according to presidential spokesman Femi Adesina will report directly to the president. The EAC, he said, will “advise the President on economic policy matters, including fiscal analysis, economic growth and a range of internal and global economic issues, working with the relevant cabinet members and heads of monetary and fiscal agencies”. Aside monthly technical sessions and scheduled quarterly meetings with the president, he also disclosed that the chairman may “request for unscheduled meetings if the need arises.” Expectedly, the move has generated controversies – much of it – we daresay are needless. In the first place, it remains entirely the prerogative of the president to put in place such advisory bodies as he might deem necessary in the discharge of the burden of governance so long as these are within the ambit of the relevant statutes.  Secondly, having been in the saddle in the last four years, the president must have reflected on the overall impact of the former team’s activities vis-à-vis the administration’s stated goals, hence he came to the inevitable conclusion that fresh hands are needed at this point in time. Thirdly, for a presidency often accused of insularity, it certainly marks a new dawn that it is now seen as pooling ‘outsiders’ – albeit individuals regarded as being among the nation’s brightest and best – into the policy-making orbit. Here, it bears stating also that whatever perceived autonomy said to have been enjoyed by the former EMT was only within the latitude permitted by the president as the chief executive. Without necessarily passing any judgment on the former team, the relevant question is whether a new team is what is needed at this time. Here, it is sufficient that the president has concluded that he needs one. Although, he did not as much say why the previous team had to go, it is not difficult to speculate on. Fact is, the efforts put in by his administration in the last four years have not translated to much economic growth. Despite generous claims of achievements in the area of economic diversification, non-oil contributions remain modest even as oil still retains a substantial share of the growth equation. The famed potential of agriculture remains to be demonstrated as the sector is yet to truly live up to its billing. The same with manufacturing; any talk of backward integration has been extremely modest; to compound the misery of the sector, our manufacturing companies, unable to make forays into export markets, have long been reduced to perennially sourcing for foreign exchange generated by other players. The summary of course is that our economy remains uncompetitive. As a result, unemployment, particularly of the youth, has remained alarmingly high. The situation would ordinarily compel fresh, if not entirely unconventional ideas. And to the extent that the president is assumed to know where he’s headed, he deserves the benefit of the doubt. However, as it is all too often the case, constituting an A-team to advise is only the minor part; allowing them the freedom to discharge their duties, or even accepting their expert recommendations is a different ball game altogether. By requiring that the EAC report directly to him, our understanding is that the president seeks to communicate the priority that he places on its assignment, which is perfectly in order. We expect that nothing should be done to either frustrate or truncate this desire. In the end, what Nigerians want is the measurable impact of their expert advice on the economy, and ultimately, their well-being.