Achieving sustainable agricultural growth in Nigeria will depend on more farmers getting timely access to affordable fertilisers and improved farming methods. This was the view of stakeholders and experts at the just-concluded African Farming Second Edition Agribusiness Summit in Abuja. DANIEL ESSIET writes. Farmers in Nigeria are confronted with the continuous challenges of raising their productivity to boost food security due to limited access and low use of fertiliser. This was the view of experts at the just-concluded African Farming Second Edition Agribusiness Summit in Abuja. To them, the neglected but critical input can double yields in a single cropping season. They agreed that Nigeria’s enormous agricultural potential, if tapped, could feed the country and spur socio-economic growth. That means strengthening small-scale farmers and giving them access to improved soil that will increase yields, fertiliser and markets to enhance their incomes and well-being. They advised the government to empower smallholder farmers to sustainably and profitably produce more food and achieve a food-secure Nigeria. One of them, the Country Manager, OCP Africa, Caleb Usoh said in addition to inputs, such as better seed, and farming practices, fertiliser could be a game changer in food security among smallholder farmers battling falling harvests and unproductive soils. Usoh said the government should pay attention to the fertiliser industry to raise the level of “ease of doing business, as the future growth of agriculture lay in efficient utilisation of plant nutrients. For Nigeria to grow more food from shrinking agriculture land, Usoh said fertiliser was one of the key inputs to increase per hectare productivity. He said OCP plays a major part in assisting Nigeria and other countries on the continent to feed themselves, by ensuring that smallholder farmers are able to use fertiliser optimally to boost their yields. By using more fertiliser correctly, he said farmers could grow more nutritious food, achieve household food security, create jobs, increase incomes and boost rural development. Through its Agribooster Offer, aimed at boosting food production in the country, Usoh said the company provides farmers with support for every aspect of the agricultural value chain. He said farmers are connected to financing, working with extension agents on proper fertiliser use, collaborating with other providers to ensure they have the right fertiliser and other inputs. He said his organisation was working with the Federal Government to build fertiliser plants in Southsouth and Southwest areas of the country, which will use local raw materials. While the industry imports phosphate, he said OCP fertiliser plant in Nigeria will utilise the ammonia found locally to produce fertiliser. With the availability of natural gas in the southern part of the country, Usoh said the company intended to take advantage of it to power the plant which will be located in a free zone  He said his organisation has developed international capacities for running plants in the most cost-effective and timely manner, adding that it is working with other African governments to empower manpower in fertiliser production. Usoh said the company is supporting the Federal Government’s efforts to increase food security and improve nutrition across the country. According to him, there is a need to expose farmers to fast-changing agricultural and food systems and inputs to help them not only in terms of productivity enhancement, but also in enabling them to be excellent stewards of their land. He said OCP welcomed an enhanced partnership with the industry to further close still existing yield gaps and promote efficient fertiliser use. He said the organisation supports greater outreach to farmers and innovation in the field of plant nutrition solutions and engaging in dialogue and partnerships with stakeholders. He said his organisation supported the summit to ensure food security and drive economic growth. In addition to developing specialty fertiliser, the company is looking at digital agriculture and how the industry can use data-driven information to provide better fertiliser recommendations. The Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, Federal University of Technology, Akure(FUTA),Ondo State, Prof Samuel Agele said increasing food production to meet the challenge of the growing population requires using new technology and intensifying production. He said smallholder farmers were applying fertiliser randomly because they lack knowledge on their correct usage. Professor of plant protection and improvement, Department of Crop Science and Biotechnology, Imo State University, Onuachumba Martin noted that issue of soil health is critical in view of ever-declining arable land soil. Hence, there was a need for utmost attention to be paid to improvement of soil health by all stakeholders including governments, farmers, input suppliers and all those involved in the development of agriculture . He explained that inadequate and imbalanced use of fertiliser has resulted in deterioration of soilhealth,adding that a massive awareness campaign is needed to enlighten farmers on the importance of soils for healthy life. According to him, scaling up improved soil analysis and nutrient best management practices,will help farmers to increase the efficiency and productivity of their farms. He noted that increasing fertiliser use must go hand-in-hand with more soil and crop specific plant nutrition and be framed in a broader set of efforts promoting soil health. The Head of Events, Alain Charles Publishing, Martyn Diamond Black, said the summit was to provide a platform for agri trade and investment opportunities.