Lagos State Government has identified 60 highway junctions and corridors affecting traffic movement and flow in the Lagos metropolis. The state is set for a showdown with street traders and traffic law offenders who contribute to perennial traffic congestion in the state because of their activities. Transportation Commissioner Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, who addressed reporters at the weekend after a tour of Oyingbo axis of the state reputed for gridlock, said the administration would be forced to wield the big stick if street traders and other traffic law offenders refused to do the right thing. He said the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration is committed to tackling congestions and promoting multi-modal transportation system. The commissioner said: “We have come here to look at the enormity of the congestion problem, especially the gridlock and where we have traders obstructing the road. I think I am beginning to understand why they have refused to go into their markets. “The facilities are inadequate. We will work with the local government chairmen in these areas to help the traders move back into the market. We are going to find a way in which we will clear the yellow commercial buses (danfo) off the roads by finding them a parking space to make the roads free. “The roads are meant for movement, not for parking, not for selling. We have a task force on standby and by next week, after discussing with the council chairmen and looking for solution for these people to move, we will come here, clear the roads and make sure they are free and there is less congestion. “Most importantly, Oyingbo is a key area for multi-modal transportation. We have the rail line at the back, we have the water jetties on this corridor. We can bring all these together and make Oyingbo a hub. It is important that we restore Oyingbo to what it should be, not a market place or a place known for chaos.” Oladeinde, who lamented the chaotic traffic jam on the axis, said: “I know that with this administration and the political will, we will clear these obstructions and will get a free flow around here. We are going to Yaba, we have the same problem at Yaba. We will go to Ajah and every area where we have market activities obstructing the roads. We will discuss with the local governments and ensure we give the traders a decent place where they can sell their goods. We will get them off the roads. The pedestrian way is for walking, for connecting with public transport, not for selling. We will make sure we enforce this.” On the Oyingbo new bus terminal, he said the government has spoken with the contractor handling the project to go back to site, adding that the project, designed for multi modal transportation integration, is 90 per cent complete.