The best of Nigeria’s interior and product designers will exhibit their products from 21st September to 22nd September in Lagos. The exhibition is the initiative of NU MI Design House, the integrated interior, procurement, bespoke furniture manufacturer and homeware product designer. Nigerian art, according to the organisers, has captured the imagination of a global audience and introduced a new generation of world-renowned artists to an eager public. But far less known, and equally innovative, is the emerging Nigerian design sector and a range of creative collaborations between art and design are taking it to a new level. To showcase this unique new sector, NU MI Design House is curating the NU MI Design Exhibition, featuring a combination of leading Nigerian artists alongside established and emerging Nigerian furniture and other product designers and a unique selection of NU MI founder, Tanwa Newbold’s own work that includes a stunning collaboration with artist Polly Alakija. Building on 2018’s first edition hosted at the Oando Wings building, the 2019 NU MI Design Exhibition will take place at LASWA Yard, Falomo Jetty, the new headquarters of maritime Lagos. It features works from product designers like Studio Lani, Tosin Oshinowo, Alaga Collections, Funferekoroye, Kelechi Odu and Oguma Adegoke alongside renowned artists Polly Alakija, Ghariokwu Lemi, Olumide Onadipe and a curated selection from the Nike Art Gallery. Speaking at the launch, Creative Director and Founder, Tanwa Newbold, said: “Whether you are looking for the luxury of a world-renowned furniture producer, the highest quality local design and production or African-inspired unique homeware, the NU MI Design Exhibition has something for you. We are privileged to be able to bring together so many talented designers, and I am hugely encouraged by the innovation and creativity that is coming out of Nigeria at the moment. “At NU MI, we combine contemporary interior design, with the ability to produce or procure unique pieces, specifically designed to suit your vision. We believe that in a world where choice and flexibility is increasingly important to consumers, we are able to offer a service that maximises your ability to achieve your vision, whether you want to source locally, or internationally.” The event is supported by LASWA, the owners of the Yard venue, Bank of Industry, Plascon Paints and La Connaisseur, the exclusive concept store for wine lovers.