Nigerian born Tammy Abraham scored a brilliant hat-trick – and an own goal – as Chelsea destroyed Wolves at Molineux. The England forward scored twice in the space of seven first-half minutes after another Nigerian Fikayo Tomori – another 21-year-old – had opened the scoring with a stunning 25-yard finish. Abraham, who spent last season on loan in the Championship with Aston Villa, doubled the lead with a shot on the turn after referee Graham Scott had played an advantage following Conor Coady’s foul on Mason Mount. Wolves, who remain without a top-flight win this season, fell further behind when Abraham headed home, before the Chelsea striker made it 4-0 with a superb finish after beating Coady – a seventh league goal of the season that took him to the top of the scoring charts. In an eventful game, Abraham then scored an own goal as Romain Saiss’ header struck his right hand before crossing the line, before Patrick Cutrone added a second Wolves goal from close range. Mason Mount, 20, added Chelsea’s fifth goal with virtually the last kick of the game. At the White Hart Lane, Tottenham produced a breathtaking performance to brush aside Crystal Palace and register their first victory since the opening day of the season. All four Spurs goals came in the first half, with Son Heung-min the main protagonist of a scintillating attacking display from Mauricio Pochettino’s side. The South Korea forward capitalized on a defensive lapse from returning Palace defender Mamadou Sakho to fire the hosts into an early lead, before visiting left-back Patrick van Aanholt inadvertently directed Spurs right-back Serge Aurier’s cross into his own net. Son made it 3-0 moments later, connecting beautifully with another Aurier cross to fire a crisp volley beyond the stranded Vicente Guaita. Erik Lamela finished off another flowing move involving Son and Harry Kane to complete the scoring with three minutes of the first period remaining. Son and Lamela went close to adding further gloss to the scoreline after the restart, while Gary Cahill and Cheikhou Kouyate forced Hugo Lloris into action at the other end. Marcus Rashford scored a first-half penalty as Manchester United claimed only their second win of the season to end Leicester’s unbeaten start. The England striker was fouled by Caglar Soyuncu before sending Kasper Schmeichel the wrong way from the subsequent spot kick. Rashford went close to adding a second in the final 10 minutes but his free-kick clattered into the top corner of the woodwork. The result sees United move up to fourth in the table, while Leicester drop to fifth. BBCSports  