Former President Goodluck Jonathan’s kinsmen in Ogbia Local Government Area, Bayelsa State, have declared total support for the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for November 16 election, Senator Douye Diri and his running mate Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor. Rising from their meeting convened by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the kinsmen vowed to vote massively for the PDP candidate. The stakeholders at the meeting tagged, Ogbia Unity Congress and also organized by the Ogbia Restoration Crusaders, dismissed insinuations that Diri was stingy describing the candidate as a nice man. A member resenting Ogbia Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Fred Obua, said the PDP was stable in the state adding that Ogbia would deliver 95 per cent of the votes to the PDP. Commenting on Siri’s personality, he said: “Douye Diri is a free man , nobody should use the name of stingy as a campaign strategy. He is a nice man, somebody that is accessible. He is a highly experienced man and somebody you can trust anytime.” Chairman of Ogbia Local Government Area , Mr.Ebinyo Turner noted that Ogbia youths were happy with the PDP because of its generosity in bringing development to Ogbia land. He said that Ogbia had been a traditionally undivided PDP support base and would rally round the PDP for massive victory in governorship election in November 16. Also a PDP chieftain and Commissioner for Information, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, commended leaders and stakeholders of his Ogbia local government area for their support to the candidate of the party PDP and his running mate. Iworiso-Markson said he was happy that path leaders from the council came out en masse to endorse the PDP candidate. He particularly thanked the Chairman of the Ogbia Restoration Caucus, Chief George Okirinya, Graham Ipigansi and the member representing Ogbia Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Fred Obua. Others he thanked are the chairman of Ogbia local government council, Hon. Ebinyu Turner, Hon. Enaikator Robert, Major Zediziah Isu (rtd), Hon. Gibson Munalayefa, Hon. Peter Afagha, Hon. Captain Ozu, Chief Egesi Alfred-Eto and Hon. Osaanya B Osaanya. Iworiso-Markson equally commended members of the Ogbia Restoration Crusaders for ensuring that the meeting was well organized with the massive attendance of women and youths. He said the open endorsement of the PDP ticket by the leaders and stakeholders of Ogbia shows that the votes from the local government is already secured for the party. He added that Ogbia people are aware of what the next PDP government will do for them just like the Restoration Government has done and so they will not waste their votes for any other party in the coming election. According to him, in the days to come there will be a door to door reach out in communities across Ogbia Kingdom to drum more support for Diri and Ehrudjakpor and enjoined the people to remain committed to the PDP. The Commissioner for Information maintained that with the renewed love and unity amongst the Ogbia people, they would speak with one loud voice on November 16.