Are the stone images of small men of Esie, in Igbomina, Kwara South, that of pre-historic men? The answer remains conjectures. What is clear, however is that the images date back to 10th Century, and ought to be a catalyst for indepth historical and archelogical research, and cultural tourism, writes ADEKUNLE JIMOH. Soap-stone images kept in Esie Museum in Irepodun local government area of Kwara state are an historical excursion to the cherished past of the people of Igbomina extraction of Kwara South. The Esie Museum has been in existence for over 200 years and it is one of the first national museums in Nigeria. . A lot of myths surround the coming into existence of these images. One has it that the Esie people came from old Oyo Empire. They migrated because of royal dispute and stopped in different spots before they finally got to Esie and settled. One of the leaders who were going on hunting expedition stumbled on the images, Curator of the monument Mopelola Omowunmi has said. Mrs. Omowunmi added that “immediately he turned back to inform the king. At that time the only medium to unravel history was through divination. When the oracle was consulted it said they were people who turned to stones. But there are lots of schools of thought as regard this. “Archaeologists discovered that they were not human beings that turned into stones, because they are three times shorter than normal human beings. Also a critical look at the inner and the outer parts of the objects there are sharp differences. “The outer part is smooth while the inner part is rough. When people come here we will tell them the oral and archaeological sources. It depends on you to pick whichever you want. But research is still ongoing to unravel how these objects came about.” She said the museum was established in 1775. However, much was not known and tourists are not attracted to the place because the road to this place is bad, Omowunmi said. “Recently, we heard that something will be done as regards the road, but so far, nothing has been done.” She wuld have loved for the site to be turned into a research centre. “Some people still want to unravel the mystery behind the images. If we have craft centre here too is not out of place.” Based on the significant of the museum, the Senator representing Kwara South Lola Ashiru has urged the Federal Government to establish a university of history in the ancient, sleepy and predominantly agrarian community. “We will encourage the Federal Government to set up a university of history and archaeology here. Before that time we are initiating a yearly international conference on culture and art. A lot of facilities are needed to do this. “We need a big conference centre, we need good roads, we need modern infrastructural facilities that will support hospitality. I will call on the Federal Government to do a real capital project on this site. “That is why I am thinking of a university of history and archaeology as it is very important for our tomorrow and it is important to link up our present with the past and the best place we can do it is this place. “We need specialized universities. Universities that will take care of some specific needs of the people; we discover that in Nigerian universities today history and archaeology have been relegated to the background and it is not appropriate because discovering yourselves is so important to your development.” Senator Ashiru added that the images at the museum are stone artifacts hewed out of the ground dating back to 10th century. “It is like a history book of our people. This is to show the prosperity of the people of Esie, Igbomina and Kwara South in general. This is to show their prowess in the 10th century,” he enthused. The senator argued that the images are a testimony that the people living in Esie and its environs were engaged in agriculture, commerce and cultural and social life. “When you look at these images there are lots of lessons to learn from them. It is like showing different economic lives of the people. It is showing different social lives of the people. “The greatest lesson is that we are people of history; we are people of the cherished past and we are people who will take initiative from our past to be able to develop our present and our tomorrow. “We did not just come here some 10, 15 years ago, we have been here dated back to the 10th century. The idea is to show ourselves and cherish our past. Equally too, it is an opportunity for us that the development of our museums and monuments could bring a lot of prosperity to this land. People go abroad a lot of times to show things that are not as good as this; to show and see things that are not as natural as this,” he maintained said he: “This is an opportunity for us to showcase that cultural tourism is an important aspect of human life. There are so many countries today that are just living on cultural tourism. A visitation by our people within and outside the country will bring a lot of prosperity to us. The idea is to attract the attention of all tiers of government to the creation of this museum and its development. “This is a good site for a university of history and archeology, which is so important. Africans have to rediscover themselves. It is usually said that we are the cradle of civilization, but we have not been able to show it in Nigeria as much as it is in Esie here.” On how private concerns can be of assistant, the architect-turned politician said “private partnership is very important in modern economy but the government has to put down the seed money first. When the seed fund is there and operating at a level the private people will come in.”