The Association of Nigerian Musicologists (ANIM) has canvassed government’s representation at major academic conferences nationwide. The body believes that as a stakeholder, the government must also be represented at academic forums since resolutions at such platforms usually help authorities in policy formulation. Its National President, Prof Isaac Idamoyibo, said this during ANIM’s conference held at the Lagos State University (LASU). “We want to urge the government to make its presence felt at events like this. It helps stimulate scholarship and participation,” Idamoyibo noted. “It is not at every conference, such as this, we (academia) will be sending resolutions or communique to government. It is also important that the government makes out time for representations at academic conferences as some of the resolutions arising from such ecercises  help shape government’s policies,” he added. Idamoyibo said the theme of the conference:  “Documentation and archiving of musical practices in Nigeria,’’ was timely in view of the need to preserve musical materials for posterity. Former LASU VC Prof Abisogun Leigh, who chaired the occasion, recalled how the Department of Theatre Arts and Music was established under his watch nearly 20 years ago. He is, however, excited that the department has grown. “The department was one of my babies in LASU. I wasn’t part of the planning but I gave my 100 percent approval,” Leigh noted. He thanked Prof Christopher Oshun, a former lecturer at the Department of Religious Studies and Head of Department of Theatre and Music Prof Sola Fosudo, for providing  the foundation and logistics upon which the department has grown. ‘’Young musicians must not only be trained by paper and pen, but also technology… if we don’t document, we will lose all that we have to foreigners who are ready to cash in on our indifference attitude towards this,” Leigh noted in reference to the theme. Fosudo said something urgent needed to be done as musicians are passing away without proper documentation of their works. He recalled the popular highlife artist and Sweet Mother maestro Nico Mbaga, whose lyrics, Fosudo said has been translated into over 60 languages; yet with little royalty to the family of the singer 25 years after he had passed on. “We want to ensure young musicians must not only be trained by paper and pen alone, but through technology. “I once met a white man in the UK who has a studio for works of many of our local artists. I was shocked because if a white man could do that, why can’t we replicate same here. If we don’t document those works, it might be hard for us within 10 or 20 years to come. Even though digitalisation has come to the rescue, younger artists need to be educated on how those records could be well archived for future purposes,’’ he said. Earlier, LASU Vice Chancellor Prof Lanre Fagbohun, represented by the Dean, Postgraduate Studies, Prof Joseph Olagunju, urged participants to do justice to the theme.