Imo State government has approved a mobile money/agent banking training on financial technology programme for 5,000 youths to tackle unemployment in the state. Disclosing this at the flag-off of the programme in Owerri, the state capital, the Commissioner for Youths and Social Development, Okechukwu Umez-Eronini, said the initiative, which is the brainchild of the State Ministry of Technology Development in partnership with the Iwuanyanwu Foundation and E-Transact International Plc in collaboration with the State Ministry of Youth and Social Development is aimed at youth empowerment and skill acquisition. Umez-Eronini said that with it, the youths would develop a positive attitude towards being self-reliant and not dependent on white collar jobs which would help in improving their quality, standard and entrepreneurial skills. According to him, the innovation when fully implemented would create a crop of technologically and financially literate youths, empower them, eliminate high rate of crime and crime related activities in the state. He added that the programme would also bring financial services closer to the people of the state in their various localities and also enhance the GDP of the state and the IGR collection. Speaking on the initiative, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu founder/chairman, said, as an organisation established in 1988 which seeks ways and means of improving the quality and standard of life of the people, the Foundation had since incorporation played major role in fighting unemployment through the award of scholarship to gifted students as well as assisting students whose parents/families are unable to finance their education, in development of infrastructure and endowments. While commending the Governor Emeka Ihedioha for placing premium on welfare of youths, however, enjoined the people of the state to support his administration, which he said, was divinely installed for the liberation of the masses. Governor Ihedioha who was represented by the Deputy Governor Gerald Irona said that his determination to rebuild Imo project was anchored on security, human capital development, infrastructure and technological development. “We have set up a ministry that is technologically driven and ICT compliant to create jobs and to fight criminality in the state.” Also speaking, the Commissioner for Technology Development Nze Meekan Mgbenwelu said that the flag-off was indicative of the government’s acknowledged partnership for sustainable development, and which brings together public sector, private sector (E-Transact) and civil society.