Principal Partner of LinkedLegal Attorneys (LLA) Miss Nneamaka Onyema has explained why she launched a pro-bono programme aimed at providing legal support and advice to young girls. Through the Embracing the Girl Child initiative, the firm counsels and rehabilitates victims of sexual abuse and domestic violence. Onyema said the girls are also counseled on puberty, menstrual hygiene, career choices, sex education. As part of the initiative, the firm has been visiting secondary schools across the country to donate sanitary towels to school girls. Explaining why she initiated the programme, she went down memory lane. Onyema said: “All the girls from JSS1 to SS3 were asked to move to the school’s multi-purpose hall after the general assembly. It was a mixed boarding school and I was in JSS1. “Walking hand-in-hand towards the hall with my best friend, we made a number of guesses as to why only the girls were needed: couldn’t  they have announced whatever they needed to tell us there at the general assembly? Did all the girls somehow commit an offence? “Noisy hall – trust girls and their plenty talk – until a voice was heard through the speakers: ‘settle down girls’. “A big van pulled over just by the entrance of the hall. A few people stepped down from the van wearing uniform branded t-shirts. One of them took the microphone and started speaking. Much of the talk centered on menstruation and how to use a sanitary towel properly. “A lot of us (the younger ones) were hearing this for the first time; while some were curious, others were shy. ‘Make a straight line, once you get yours, go back to your classroom,’ we were directed. “That was how I got my first sanitary towel and I made sure to save it till I started menstruating. A seed was planted on that day in my heart. The memory has never left me. “That seed has grown and is bearing fruit. I intend to plant back into the lives of as many girls as possible in secondary schools across the country, hoping that this seed will also bear fruits for the next generation. “Embracing the Girl Child is an initiative of LinkedLegal Attorneys aimed at providing legal representation, counseling and rehabilitation of victims of sexual abuse and domestic violence, sensitising the girl child at secondary school level on career choices, puberty, sex education, menstrual hygiene, etc. and the free distribution of sanitary towels.”