Former captain of the Nigeria national beach soccer team (Super Sand Eagles), Isiaka Olawale, has appealed to the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to pay their entitlement for attending the 2017 FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup in Bahamas. Olawale, who made four FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup appearances for Nigeria, claimed  all efforts to make the country’s football ruling body come to their plight following their group stage exit from the tournament two years ago have proved abortive. “It has not been easy for us to get what we worked for and since we came back from Bahamas, up till now that I am talking to you, they have not paid us our entitlements which should be around N600,000 for each player,” Olawale told Nations.“ We were 12 players and about five officials  that attended the tournament. “But  If they want us to carry placards, we will do that. A member of the team, Ogbonnaya Okemiri still asked me about the allowance two days ago. For how long will I continue to pacify them?As the captain, I tried to control the players because everything is on my neck.” Olawale  said he had  repeatedly reached out to the leadership of the NFF including several messages to its President Amaju Pinnick,  First Vice President Seyi Akinwunmi ,Second Vice President Shehu Dikko as well as the NFF Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi but all to no avail. “We met NFF President, Amaju Pinnick on our arrival into the country in 2017 and he assured us that our entitlements will be taken care of,” the former Kwara United, Dolphins and El-Kanemi Warriors player further told NationSport. “It’s just for Pinnick to give the directive for the money to be paid but up till now we have not heard from the federation. “I have spoken with NFF First Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi and he assured us that the money will be paid. I have sent messages to Second Vice President, Shehu Dikko,  NFF Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi and so many of them but up till now, no response.” But  NFF’s Director of competitions, Bola Oyeyode told our correspondent that he was not aware of the issue. “I am not aware, I over see so many teams. It is the secretary of the team, Sunday Okayi, who will be in better position to answer if they have been paid or not. I didn’t see any complaint from any player on my table,” he told NationSport.