Ever since the adoption and pursuit of its cashless policy in 2012, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has recorded steady progress in its objective of reducing the volume and frequency of cash-based transactions in the Nigerian economy. The marked success recorded in the actualisation of the policy thus far is easily visible in the substantial increase in the number of Nigerians who make use of electronic means of effecting payments for services rendered at petrol stations, supermarkets, restaurants and fast food joints, hotels, hair dressing and barbers’ shops, and in sundry other transactions which were hitherto mainly cash-based. One immediate benefit of this development is that it has become much less tempting and attractive for criminals to attack and rob these commercial centres in search of cash, which used to be allowed to accumulate before being deposited at banks through manual processes. One previously serious source of the country’s protracted security challenge has thus been effectively checkmated. Furthermore, the culture of conducting transactions through the formal monetary system has been strengthened, thus reducing the amount of transactions operating outside the framework of the banks, even if only marginally for now. Against this background, it is commendable that the CBN, last week, commenced another phase of its cashless policy in Lagos, Ogun, Abia, Anambra, Rivers states, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), where bank customers either depositing or withdrawing cash above stipulated thresholds will pay specified charges. Individual accounts transactions will attract processing fees of 3% for withdrawals and 3% for lodgments above N500,000.00, respectively. In a similar vein, corporate accounts will attract processing fees of 5% for withdrawals and 3% for lodgments above N3 million. These charges will go beyond the six pilot major commercial centres and become applicable nationwide from March 31, 2020. Significantly reducing the incidence of cash transactions, which is the objective of the policy, will not only reduce threats of insecurity to individual and commercial entities who will no longer have to store or convey large amounts of cash, it will also help increase the confidence level of the public in banks through increased online financial transactions. The caveat here, however, is that the banks themselves must enhance their levels of efficiency, effectiveness and integrity to win and sustain enduring public trust. Ultimately, the successful and enduring inculcation of the cashless policy will depend largely on a higher level of ethical standards by the financial institutions. Enhancing the culture of electronic relative to personal cash transactions will also, even if indirectly, engender greater respect for the national currency, which is subjected to gross abuse through such practices, for instance, as obscene ‘spraying‘ of the Naira at parties. Pervasive and untrammeled cash transactions also leads to frequent mishandling of the Naira resulting to large scale deterioration and mutilation of the currency, with high replacement costs. There is also the added advantage that electronic bank transactions, especially through mobile phone devices, will reduce the need for large numbers of customers to physically visit banks, thus helping to reduce pressure on transportation and road traffic facilities. It would appear that much of the initial negative reactions to the new initiative stems from misunderstanding of aspects of the cashless policy. The CBN has thus explained that the new charges on large deposits and withdrawals apply only to cash transactions. Those who do not want to pay such fees can make use of the various alternative electronic payment modes that attract no charges. As the CBN also explained, the deposit/withdrawal charge is only on the amount above the stipulated sums and not the entire amount. The CBN no doubt needs to intensify its public enlightenment effort on details of the new policy.