For the first  time in about 100 years, the serene Edonwick Village in Iko, Eastern Obolo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, was blessed with their first-ever clean water. The borehole, which threw the community into a bout of celebrations, was courtesy of Mary Remarkable Foundation. Its founder, Miss Remarkable Mary Akpan, said she came about the initiative because of her vision to add value to humanity by addressing issues that make society more humane and habitable. Inaugurating and handing over the project, Akpan, who is a 200-Level Political Science and Public Administration of the University of Uyo, recalled her tortuous journey in the quest to find an ideal location for her project.  She  remained thankful to God for granting her the grace to complete the project. Describing the project as ‘this great testimony and possibility’, Akpan said the story of Edonwick Village was one that questions the heart of man and the place of a constituted authority. Despite being an oil-producing community, Akpan said the village never had access to electricity,  school, medical centre, or even a structure made of block, describing the community’s predicament as  ‘deplorable,’ ‘pathetic’ and ‘unacceptable’. Akpan said her foundation travelled by road and water for several days and spent countless nights just to make this happen. She, therefore, said the successful execution of the project was worth the challenges encountered. Miss Akpan, who said she believes humanity survives on the premises of love and compassion, noted that her foundation counted it a great privilege to have been called to serve and contribute towards addressing societal challenges. She thanked those who contributed towards the fundraising, noting that their massive support made the success story possible. Responding on behalf of the community, Edonwick Village head Chief Edwin Nte said the water project was the first of its kind in the community’s over a century of existence. He expressed appreciation to the donor for the kind gesture and the risk it took to locate such a far-flung village for the purpose of blessing them with borehole water. Edwin, who charged corporate bodies and individuals to learn from Akpan’s humanitarian mind, said the borehole would improve the health of inhabitants of the village as the stream and waters of the Atlantic Ocean, the villages had relied on for years, have been polluted and poses a serious health threat. The high point of the event was the inauguration of the project by the donor. The event also featured singing and dancing by women and youths of the community who thronged the venue in excitement.