We weighed the options together pondering if the trip would be worth the risk. Is life not of more value than ambition, we reasoned. You cannot be ambitious if you’re not alive, we concluded! This was the dilemma that confronted three members of my ‘circle of intellectual friends,’ a group of young adults that I often rub minds with. They got admission into the universities of Cape Town, Pretoria and Witwatersrand for their masters’ degrees. All the universities are in South Africa. Stories about the unfortunate xenophobic violence in South Africa are no longer news. What most Africans are trying to grapple with is the whys. Why vent your anger on your fellow blacks and leave other nationals alone? While debating the options for my friends we veered into why South Africans took up arms against fellow blacks in an endless orgy of senseless killings. It might sound strange for them, but not to me. In trying to analyse the situation for them I coined the phrase ‘scapegoat narrative’ under which I’m writing today. What point was I trying to make? When leadership in any nation fails there’s always the temptation to look for who or what to hang the failure upon. A scapegoat must be identified and a narrative wring round its neck. For the underperforming South African government that scapegoat is other Africans who are “stealing” jobs meant for South African nationals! Like it or not, that is the official narrative there. But I told my friends to immediately discount that dubious and weak narrative. To start with, South Africans, their psyche still weighed down by the trauma of apartheid, are whipping themselves into a frenzy and looking for foes where they should be building coalitions and allies. They have been holding anti-immigrant marches and their claim that they are cleaning their streets of drug dealers is a dog whistle to mobilise others to unleash violence which they have been carrying out. Unfortunately, those tantrums cannot solve their problems. Fundamentally, their major problem is not the Nigerian immigrant or small business owner who is trying to build dignity along with a business; it is that they have been asked to subsist in an economic and political system and structure that was not created for them to thrive in the first place. The economy is still firmly and effectively in the hands of the whites and Asians; however, some blacks cashed in during the early post-apartheid period and made inroads by building successful business but the majority is still downtrodden. There have been talks recently about confiscating white lands and giving it to blacks – Zimbabwean style – in other to empower them. But they are scared of this option for good reasons: they only have to open their curtain and peep toward Zimbabwe and they know that is not a route to follow. That is their dilemma and that is why they are fiercely pushing the scapegoat narrative. Decades after apartheid ended, over 52% of blacks still live below the poverty line. Effective leadership gradually fizzled out with Thabo Mbeki after the foundation laid by the late Nelson Mandela. The Jacob Zuma years were marred by allegations of corruption and abuse of office. During that era we all saw on live television how the South African police gunned down hundreds of protesting black platinum mine workers in broad daylight. They were protesting for better working conditions and improved pay. It was this misrule that forced Julius Malema out of the ANC to form the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) party. Alongside the Democratic Alliance (AD) led by Mmusi Maimane, they have been telling their compatriots’ that the ANC has lost its way and there is need for an urgent change. But the ANC’s grip on the people is quite strong, especially in the area of emotion. They often remind the people that they fought and triumphed over apartheid together so the people should stick to them no matter what. This is a very strong and effective narrative. But this emotional narrative will not put food on the table especially as the people are getting tired of hearing it years on end; a new narrative had to be conceived: other African immigrants are the reason why we can’t create jobs! Narratives are central in how we humans organise our society. Gossiping about others allows us to exchange reliable information about who can be trusted, whose behaviour is acceptable and who is behaving in a ‘bad’ way. Talking about metaphors, legends and myths gives us a common framework of meaning. Weaving life-lessons into stories that get repeated again and again helps us to learn how to behave and become accepted members of a society. If used in a negative way – like the South Africans are doing – it becomes toxic. In his book “Sapiens,” Yuval Noah Harari writes: “The new linguistic skills that modern Sapiens acquired about seventy millennia ago enabled them to gossip for hours on end. Reliable information about who could be trusted meant that small bands could expand into larger bands, and Sapiens could develop tighter and more sophisticated types of cooperation. Yet the truly unique feature of our language is not its ability to transmit information about men and lions (i.e. about observations). Rather, it’s the ability to transmit information about things that do not exist at all. As far as we know, only Sapiens can talk about entire kinds of entities that they have never seen, touched or smelled.” This “ability to transmit information about things that do not exist at all” is what is happening in South Africa. A video of a South African woman that went viral on social media is quite instructive. She appealed to her people to look inwards for the solution to their problems. Singling out Nigerian men, she said some even married South African women who have given birth to several children for different fathers and teach them “how to be women” in the process! Dave Snowden in “Think trope not meme” writes: “Common use of metaphors and habitual practice over time create assemblages that act as downwards constraints on behaviour and which escape the bounds of their creators to have independent existence. Metaphors carry associative meaning that emerges from use over time, not from an individual. It is interactive use and application which allows them to act as enabling constraints.” The main point Snowden makes here is that metaphors and habitual practice over time create a scaffolding of ‘how one should behave’. This scaffolding is independent from each individual; it is an emergent property of continuous interactions in society. The ambiguity that is inherent to metaphors allows their meaning to fit different contexts and different times. The scaffolding creates an overall disposition of a system, a system’s character, and a propensity for certain behaviours to be more probable than others. This means that if we can identify these common metaphors and practices, we can understand how they influence the behaviour of individuals who adhere to these narratives, i.e. who are part of that social group. If we want to nudge a social system, we should nudge in a direction of what is possible within the given disposition. This aptly captures the point I’m making. As Barbara Czarniawska writes in “Narratives in Social Science Research”: “To understand a society or some part of a society it is important to discover its repertoire of legitimate stories and find out how they evolved. These two initial points are so important that the two following points might be mere corollaries of them, but still worth pointing out distinctively.” To this end, narratives are central to sense making and the attribution of meaning to events occurring in everyday life. The attribution of meaning to situations and observations as part of everyday sense making is central to human life. To quote Barbara Czarniawska again: “Whole communities as well as individual persons are engaged in a quest for meaning in ‘their life’, which will bestow meaning on particular actions.” The South African ruling elite are treading on slippery slopes. Now that Nigerians are coming home, the monster they have succeeded in creating may consume them in future if there are no immigrants left to “steal the jobs.”