The Election Petition Tribunal, sitting in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, has nullified the victory of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Ede North, Ede South, Egbedore and Ejigbo Federal Constituency,  Bamidele Salam. The tribunal, headed by Justice Eyo Ita, ordered a re-run in the seven units of the federal constituency. The other two members of the tribunal are Justice Kadi Yakub and Justice Ibrahim Mashi. The candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Adejare Bello, had challenged the victory of Salam in the February 23 National Assembly election. The tribunal cancelled election results in seven units across four local government areas in the constituency for over-voting. Reacting to the judgment, Salam said he was not “moved” over the judgment, adding that the mandate that was freely given to him by the people and stamped by God, could not be stolen by any man. “Our victory at the February 23 House of Representatives poll is sacrosanct and this minor setback will only sweeten the taste of victory in our mouths. “My legal team will study the details of this judgment and decide the necessary course of action on it,” he said. Also, the tribunal declared the State Assembly Election for Obokun State Constituency inconclusive. The panel said the petitioner, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye of the All Progressives Congress (APC), established over-voting in four units. The court, therefore, cancelled elections in those units. The tribunal declared the results of the poll inconclusive and ordered rerun in the units. Oyintiloye had challenged the victory of the PDP candidate, Adewumi Adeyemi. The tribunal on Monday upheld the election of a member of the state House of Assembly, representing Ifelodun State Constituency, Mulikat Abiola, of APC. The tribunal said the petitioner, Hazzim Abioye of the PDP, failed to prove that the respondent did not resign her appointment in Michael Opara University, Umudike, before contesting for the February poll. Oyintiloye, in a statement, said the judgment was a confirmation that the election was manipulated to favour the PDP candidate against the popular wish of the people. According to him, the PDP and its candidate have been exposed and the judiciary has restored their hope through the judgment. Hailing the tribunal judges for their fearlessness and commitment to the rule of law, he said, again the judiciary has proven its impartiality. Oyintiloye also lauded his lawyer for being committed to the case and put before the tribunal every legal machinery that eventually led to the victory at the tribunal. He thanked Governor Gboyega Oyetola and his predecessor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, for their support to ensure that the stolen mandate of the people of Obokun is restored. He also lauded leaders of the APC, starting from its Chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun, and members of party in the state and Obokun constituency for their support and steadfastness during the tribunal proceedings.