Despite the fact that they are rich, influential, sophisticated, popular and of all handsome, they are still single. Interestingly, they have the raft attention of several beautiful ladies, lurking around them, but they choose to remain single for reasons best known to them. Here is our list of some male celebrities who are unmarried at 40 and above Nonso Diobi ( 43-yr-old) Nonso Diobi born on 17 July 1976 is a multiple award-winning Nigerian actor and film director. He studied Theatre Art at the University of Nigeria. Nonso made his debut on-screen appearance in a 2001 film titled Border Line followed by an o
Diobi went on to give a sterling performance in the movie ‘Across the bridge’ which gave him his major breakthrough after which he became a household name across Africa. Diobi, a native of Nawfia, a small town in Anambra Nigeria , is the founder and chairman of Goldentape media, a leading film/tv production company in Africa. Nonso Diobi is a UN peace ambassador as well as teachers without Borders ambassador.
This fine man has never been married, ladies take note. Sylvester Madu (44-yr-old)  Sylvester Madu is a veteran Nollywood actor, director, model, producer who was born on 11th January, 1975 in Anambra State, in the south eastern part of Nigeria. He is the firstborn child in a family of 12 and is currently 44 years old. Madu completed both his primary and secondary school education in Anambra State, Nigeria and also obtained both his First School Certificate and West African Senior School Certificate. Upon completing his primary and secondary school education, he proceeded to University of Maiduguri in Borno State, in the northern part of Nigeria and graduated with a Bachelor’s Degree. Madu started acting as a kid at the age of 5 but joined the Nigerian movie industry (Nollywood) in1998. He is one of the most creative, gifted and talented actors in Nigeria.
This cute looking man is yet to tie the knot  Frederick Leonard (43-yr-old) Frederick Leonard is a Nigerian actor and top notch model. He can be described as a lady’s man as he has numerous female fans who described him as a handsome guy with great physique. Frederick Leonard is not all good for his physical attributes only but he is also a very gifted, creative and talented actor that interprets his roles perfectly. Frederick Leonard was born on the 1st of May 1976. He is a native of Anambra State, south eastern part of Nigeria. He is the first child in a family of 2 children. He is currently 43 years of age. He studied Biochemistry at the popular Kaduna State Polytechnic and graduated with a Higher National Diploma (HND) in the year 2008. He has since fully joined the Nigerian film industry popularly referred to as Nollywood and he is currently one of the trending actors in the country. He is not yet married and he is considered as one of the most eligible bachelors in the Nigerian Entertainment Industry Jim Iyke (42-yr-old) Nigerian actor, Jim Iyke has a baby boy from European lady, Dana he fondly calls King Harv but is yet to be married. The 42-year-old was once linked with Ghanaian born actress, Nadia Buari but the relationship obviously did not lead to the altar. He was born on September 25, 1976 in Libreville, Gabon. His parents are Mr and Mrs Stephen Okolue, whose last name changed to Esomugha from ogwugwu village in Enugu Agidi town of Anambra State. He is the only boy in a family of eight children. He completed his secondary school education in F. G. C. Kwali Abuja from 1985-1991.