Have you ever wondered about the secrets that fashionable women keep to themselves? Would you love to be counted as one of them? Well, then you are in luck because this post will take you through 15 tips that will help you look stylish every day. 1. Be Prepared If you believe that it is difficult to be fashionable, then you are wrong. Putting together a look in a relatively less amount of time and thought will be quite evident. The best way to avoid an embarrassing situation is to invest in some time every night and pict out an outfit. In this way, you won’t have to hurry in the morning or worry about how you are going to look. 2. Look for Inspiration Know this, half your battle is won if you look for inspiration. Instagram, Pinterest, and fashion blogs can be an excellent source of information. This way you will get to know what is hot and what is not. In case, you aren’t very confident about what to wear or style yourself, this can be the perfect option for you. It will steer you in the right and definitely stylish direction. 3. Dress According to the Weather As far as possible, look at the weather report before you leave your home. It will help you stay prepared and dress according to it. On a rainy day, avoid wearing white and material that would take a lot of time to dry, in case you get wet and don’t forget your umbrella. 4. Looks Good on You Well, we all know what we look good in! In that respect, never compromise by wearing something that you are not completely comfortable in. It’s not just about the clothes but your confidence as well. So, always aim at wearing what looks good on you and don’t be afraid of experimenting. 5. Aim to Look Chic Being stylish doesn’t necessarily mean wearing designer clothes alone. There is so much more to it. Even if you wear a t-shirt with a pair of jeans, you can look chic, right? Yes, it’s because you can create a chic look by using the right accessories that can add more polish to your look. 6. Select the Perfect Accessories When it comes to accessories, sometimes we all get a little overboard because we love to show off what we have. Coco Chanel once said, “when accessorizing, always take off the last thing you put on.” This piece of advice goes to prove that too much is not always too good. Always keep in mind that the accessories should compliment your outfit. 7. Keep Occasion in Mind If you really observe the most stylish women around, then you will realize that they are dressed according to the occasion. Their look is appropriate and polished keeping in mind the dress code of a company or an organization. In case, you are in doubt, ask someone about the dress code so that you dress accordingly. Always keep in mind the occasion and you’ll never go wrong. 8. Appropriate Inner-wear One of the most important things to remember to be stylish everyday is to wear the appropriate inner-wear. It is because it has a big impact on the final look. For instance, using light color inner-wear for light tops is a thumb rule that must be followed. In case, you want to tuck your tummy in, you can wear shape wear in an appropriate manner; else the result won’t be very lady like! 9. Shop Around There are a few styles that we just love or ones that we are very comfortable with. Think of it this way, by going in for the same old thing you are limiting your options. The best way to break out of the mould is to shop around and try out new things. In this way, you might come across a new favorite and this needn’t be a very expensive experiment as you can shop from chain stores, vintage stores, or even at discount retailers. This way you will be high on style without burning a hole in your purse. 10. Classics Always in Vogue No matter what anyone says, classics are always going to be classics. So, you can be confident about them. Let the naysayers say anything but don’t pay too much heed to them. In this way, you will have a killer wardrobe that you can be proud off. At the same time, you needn’t worry about getting a new outfit every time an event comes up out of the blue. 11. Right Pair of Shoes Style is not just about clothes, it is as much about your accessories and yes shoes of course. Always think about the occasion, the look your want to create, and whether you are comfortable or not. When you are planning to out for a part then you can consider slipping on stilettos. But you you are planning to dance through the night consider a pair of polished flats or wedges are they are more comfy. 12. Invest in Essentials like… Blazers, good shoes, a little black dress, jeans, a trendy salwar suit, and accessories. These are really important investments, which you can bank on when you are planning to attend a function or a party. And if you want to look like a million bucks, you need to pay your dues as well, which would be worth it! 13. Keep Clothes in Good Shape Women who take fashion seriously respect their clothes. So, it’s unlikely that you will find them strewn across the floor after use. On the up side, if you take care of your clothes they will look fresh and new without having to worry whether things are going to work out. Remember to read the labels, wash, dry, and iron as per the instructions if you want your clothes to be in good shape for a long time. And you wouldn’t have to foot the bill for exorbitant dry cleaning bills. 14. Emergency Set on Stand by Smart women are always ready to tackle unexpected situations. If you want to be that woman, then always put together an outfit that is withing your reach at a minute’s notice. A pair of jeans, top, and a pair of shoes would do. Just to be on the safe side, always keep band-aids, tape, a needle, buttons, and thread in your purse. 15. Find Your Own Style The trademark of a stylish woman is the fact that she is aware of all the latest trends but she doesn’t follow them blindly. She has her own sense of style which she builds on. Most of it, as mentioned earlier, is all about confidence. Believe in yourself and trust the fashionista within you.