The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri, has debunked rumours of rift in the party. According to him, the transparent and credible primaries which produced him as the party’s candidate proved doomsday prophets, who earlier predicted implosion in the party, wrong. He added that the transparent process made it easy for other aspirants to concede defeat and so promising to work for the party’s success in the November 16 governorship election. Diri described the primaries as the most transparent in the history of the state, saying after the exercise, his co-contestants either called him on telephone or came in person to express their loyalty to the party. The senator, who knelt to thank party faithful for believing in him, urged them to be united in ensuring victory for PDP at the general election. He said: “There is no dispute at all because Bayelsa PDP is one. I also thank my co-contestants. That morning when the results were announced they came one by one to congratulate me. We had 21 aspirants in one state contesting the same position. People concluded that the Bayelsa PDP was going to implode, and would never come together again. But today we are more united than before. The doom they foresaw was never in Bayelsa. Bayelsa is transparent, peaceful, credible, and open for the world. “We are still one family; those not here have called me and the governor to say they would work for the party. I am humbled. If all of you stand by me, and with God on our side, we will win this election.” PDP Chairman Cleopas Moses said the governorship election was between the PDP and other ‘small parties that are making noise’. He said: “The primary is the most transparent in the history of our state. I congratulate the others for accepting the results. The party is proud of you. We ask you to support the candidate so that we can win the election and carry the restoration agenda to the next level of prosperity. “We have restored. This is the time for enjoyment. That is what the incoming government shall do. Go to every ward and ensure the PDP is delivered in the next election”. Some other aspirants, including the Secretary to the State Government, Kemela Okara, who attended the reception at the Peace Park in Yenagoa, hailed the primaries and declared their loyalty to the party.