Bafana Bafana players have been enjoined to join anti-Xenophonbic brigade, shun all manner of violence to serve as examples for others to emulate. The charge was given by the country’s football ruling body SAFA following forced cancellation of two friendly matches in less than 10 days. The Bafana Bafana were scheduled to take on Chipolopolo of Zambia in an international friendly on Saturday, a tie that would have marked the first in charge for new coach Molefi Ntseki. Unfortunately series of attacks on foreigners in the former Apartheid enclave forced Zambia to pull out just as Bafana Bafana were tidying up preparations to jet out to Lusaka. SAFA swiftly approached 2019 Nations cup debutants Madagascar to fill in the space but the Indian Ocean Islanders dispatched a “sorry we can’t make it” note to South Africa at the 11th hour. With less than 24 hours to September 7 date SAFA decided to disband the team that has been camping in Johannesburg for the friendly but not without charging the players to become campaigners against Xenophobic attacks which has not only affected business but even sports considered to be a major unifying force not only in Africa but across the globe. SAFA rose from a meeting with the players which was followed by a media briefing saying ““We want to reiterate that as SAFA we totally condemn these acts of violence in respect of the xenophobic attacks on fellow Africans as well as the criminal looting of businesses,” “SAFA has consistently and strong condemned the xenophobic attacks and the wanton attacks of foreign nationals. We reiterate our call that these criminals must be arrested and dealt with harshly. “We call on all footballers and sportspersons to join hands and unequivocally condemn any violation of the rights of fellow Africans in our country as well as xenophobic attacks. “said SAFA President Danny Jordaan Coach Molefi Ntseki who had looked forward to the friendly to help him shape his team ahead of the 2021 Nations Cup qualifiers billed for November, will now be hoping and praying that the usual convivial atmosphere that makes sports blossom will take the centre stage before the next international friendly window in October so that he can at least play two shape up matches before his first competitive outing in charge of the Bafana Bafana who won their first ever Nations cup in 1996 when the country hosted the Continental fiesta.