JOSHUA: Dear Omobola, my name is Joshua. I retired as a Seargent on grade level 05 step 4. My date of first appointment is January 20, 1986 and that of retirement is March 1, 1997. I have done verification in Abuja. Please I have no money. Kindly tell the pension boss that she should pay my pension. I am helpless. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been reviewed by the operations department. He will be paid as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government. ISA: This is from one of the Pre- 1996 Railway pensioner in Nasarawa State. My name is Isa. Our 18 months’ arrears (part of 52 months) since the time of former President Goodluck Jonathan is yet to be cleared. Also, Railway pensioners are the least paid nationwide. Kindly use your good offices to  solve our problems. Thank for being there for us. PTAD: It is an assumed liability by some group of pensioners in the Nigeria Railway Corporation. The group is yet to forward any supporting documents. SUNDAY: I retired in June 2003 from the service of the former government agency changed to National Clearing and Forwarding Agency. I received my pension from March 2008 to April 2018. But they stopped it after April and I don’t know why. Please help me. PTAD: If Mr Eshiet has been verified, we advise that he sends a  scanned copy of his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. If he has not, he can visit our Abuja or Lagos office with his employment documents, BVN and original stamped bank statement from April, last year till date to be verified and monthly pension payment resumed if eligible. MRS ONIYE: God bless The Nation Pension column. My name is Mrs. Oniye. I retired from the Federal Government College, Idoani in April,1999, on Grade 2 Typist, G.L 5 Step 10. My gratuity was paid on June 7, 2007. I have not been paid any monthly pension. Please help me contact the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) on non-payment of my monthly pension since 1999. PTAD: The pensioner is advised to send her complaint, name and account details to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Her telephone number as provided is not reachable. ALICE: Well-done and thanks for The Nation’s concern on pensioner’s matters.My name is Alice. I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired on April 30, 2008 without payment till date. My pensioner number is annonymous. I did verification since August 2017 but PTAD has not paid me till date. Kindly assist. Thank you. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been investigated. She will receive payment as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government.