Police have arrested one Ebuka Everest for robbing his former employer Mrs Theresa Nnamdi, in the Mowe area of Ogun State. Ebuka allegedly forced her to transfer N40,000 into his account in a pre – dawn attack that also left the woman with a deep gash on her arm when he stabbed her. The suspect who invaded the victim’s residence on Association Estate, Mowe, last Saturday around 4.30am, inflicted various degrees of injury on  his ex-employer before carting away some of her belongings. The state police public relations officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who made this known in a release, stated that the arrest of the suspect followed a distress call that robbers had invaded the home of Mrs Theresa Nnamdi and held her and other occupants hostage. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), stated further that the Divisional Police Officer, Mowe division, Marvis Jayeola, a Superintendent of Police mobilized anti-robbery team to the scene, cordoned off the house and subsequently arrested Ebuka Everest. He explained that the suspect had stabbed the woman on her right hand before tying her legs with rope and covered her mouth with cloth which he tore from her bedsheet. “The suspect who worked in the fish farm of his victim before he was sacked due to his shady character first went to the fish farm where he stabbed the farm manager severally before coming to attack the woman in her house, and forced her to transfer the sum of N40,000 to his account. “He equally ransacked the woman’s room and made away with her laptop, the sum of N5,000 cash, phones and other valuable before he was arrested by the police with the help of members of the public. “The suspect claimed to have worked with the victim for four months and was living with the family throughout that period. He claimed his problem started when he was duped of his four months’ salary by an online scammer who promised to help him travel abroad but ended up collecting his four months salary and blocked him online. “In order to recoup the loss, he went to the farm, stole some items, but was caught by the manager who reported him to their boss and got sacked immediately.” According to the Police Spokesman, the suspect in annoyance over his sack,   first went to attack the farm manager before coming for the madam. Abimbola listed knife, broken bottle,  rope used to tie the victim legs, phones, laptop among others as items he stole in the house.