AS the 300 persons evacuated from the Kaduna Islamic School were handed over to the state government, the police has said that, centre lacks operational license. Kaduna State Police Command spokesman, DSP Yakubu Sabo who confirmed the development in Kaduna on Saturday evening, said the evacuated persons, including children would be reunited with their families by the state government. Some parents of the evacuated persons had on Friday protested against the raid of the Islamic center, where majority of its students were found in shackles. The parents equally demanded that the police release their children to them, claiming that, they took their children to the centre for correctional purpose. Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Sabo who reacted to the claims of the protesting parents that they took their children to the centre, said their claim does not matter to the law, but the fact that their children were dehumanized matters. He suspected that, the school asked some parents who were loyal to it for the protest to enable them get soft landing while facing the law. According him, “the children have been handed to the state government for reunion with their family, while the suspects arrested are undergoing investigation. “Whether or not the patents were the ones who handed their children over to the Centre or not, there is limitation to what can be done to human being, even if you are the father. “According to law, even if the father subjects his child to an inhuman treatment, there is a level where he will be held liable for his action. “Besides, nobody is questioning whether the parents took their children there or not, what we are saying is that, inhuman treatment was meted out to these children, which is violation if their right as stated in the constitution.” On the authority of the centre, DSP Sabo said, “These people have no license to operate as well. The agencies of government that are supposed to supervise them are not put into consideration. As far as we know, they have not entered into any documents to show that they are licensed. “They are concurrently running both educational and correctional program which is supposed to be different institutions with different licenses. If you have license to give correctional program, that in itself does not give you order to do educational program and even if you are licensed, that does not give you a go ahead to dish out social maladjustment. “These are all issues that border having required manpower, skill to undergo this program. All these are not there.” He said. The PPRO however said that, the Command will soon complete investigation into the entire matter, after which the arrested operators of the centre will be charged to court.