THE federal government plans to accelerate economic growth, create jobs and promote structural transformation to reduce poverty and income inequality over the next three years, according to the newly released Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper (MTEF/FSP). It also intends to reduce budget deficit to make the plan work. Consequently, deficit will be largely financed through new borrowings estimated at N1.70 trillion while about N252.08 billion will be derived from privatization proceeds and N328.13 billion are loans secured for specific development projects next year. A finance bill designed to facilitate the growing of revenue is expected to go before the National Assembly soon, and may even accompany the 2020 Budget Proposal. The document  which was submitted to the National Assembly last week shows that  government’s economic objective will  be anchored on three pillars : restoring and sustaining economic growth; building a global competitive economy; and increasing social inclusion by investing in the people. “Improving human capital indices will be expressly reflected as an execution priority going forward,” government says. From 2020 to 2022, the government will continue its fiscal strategy of directing resources to most productive and growth enhancing sectors including security, Infrastructure, Agriculture, Manufacturing, Housing and Construction, Education, Health and Water Resources. This is aimed at reducing the current infrastructure gap, creating employment opportunities and enhancing growth performance. Government will also leverage private capital to supplement capital allocations from the Budget while objectives in 2020 will be   enhancing economic growth and ensuring inclusiveness, promoting economic diversification and maintaining macroeconomic stability. With regards to maintaining macroeconomic stability, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is expected to  preserve  domestic macroeconomic and financial stability; foster  the development of a robust payments system infrastructure; improve  access to mortgage facilities and credit for small holder farmers, MSMEs, and consumers; support the education sector and youth with entrepreneurship skills in the creative industry; boost  external reserves; accelerate economic growth and job creation; support g economic diversification efforts through intervention programs in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors;  promote price and monetary stability; reduce inflation to single digit; and maintain exchange rate stability. The CBN will also be expected to support measures aimed at increasing and diversifying Nigeria’s exports base and ultimately help in shoring up external reserves. According to the document, “the CBN’s N500 billion support facility for the growth of non-oil exports will be aggressively implemented. This is expected to significantly contribute towards improving non-oil export earnings. In this regard, the CBN will launch a Trade Monitoring System (TRMS) in October 2019. It is an automated system that will reduce the length of time required to process export documents from one week to one day.” To achieve its objectives, government is proposing that “fiscal, monetary and trade policies will be aligned and implemented in a very coordinated manner.” Government’s fiscal policy plan in the medium term is to ensure fiscal and debt sustainability through enhanced domestic revenue mobilization and improved expenditure by improving revenue generation; ensuring adequate fiscal space for infrastructural development: enhancing quality of spending; and, ensuring sustainable deficit and debt levels. In addition, government wants to raise about N9.206 trillion from the Value Added Tax (VAT) in the medium term. It says “Nominal consumption is projected at N 122.75 trillion in 2020 from estimated N119.28 trillion in 2019. The VAT projections over the medium-term are based on a rate of 7.5%. “The proposed increase in VAT rate will not adversely affect the poor as the VAT Act already exempts goods that are consumed by the poor. However, the list can be expanded if there is need to do so.” Efforts will be geared towards “enhancing VAT collections by broadening VAT coverage and improving collection efficiency. This will be achieved through continuous nationwide VAT registration and monitoring, as well as the use of technology for auto-collect platforms in more sectors of the economy. To improve the generation and collection of independent revenues, from 2020 to 2022, government says it will work with the Legislature to amend the laws establishing some of the Government Owned Enterprises (GOEs). Government claims that “public expenditure will be properly scrutinized to ensure value for money through the continuous strengthening of the budget formulation and implementation process; expenditure provisions for overhead will be guided by recommendations of the Efficiency Unit, and only capital projects that are well aligned with ERGP objectives will be accommodated.”  