It has become imperative for us as a government to map out new policies that would guide how ‘okada’ riders operate in Lagos State. This would stem the tide of accidents and indiscriminate use of ‘okada’ on Lagos roads,” Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu  said on September 6, while marking 100 days in office. As the governor rightly noted, the review became necessary to enable the government control commercial motor cycle operations and assure Lagosians of safety. ‘Okada’ as a means of transportation was relatively unknown in Lagos until the late 1980s. However, the allures of the state soon became irresistible for many people in different parts of the country who left their respective towns and villages for Lagos, to have a feel of city life that Lagos offers. It was therefore a question of time for the state to witness a population explosion which, sadly, was unanticipated and therefore overstretched facilities provided for Lagosians. It was also a question of time for the inadequacies of ‘okada’ as a means of transportation to unfold. It is now fashionable to see them ride on the state’s Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system corridors even as they ride against traffic and disobey every known traffic law with impunity. Indeed, the menace of ‘okada’ riders, especially in Lagos, is beyond description. Even though they provide some crucial services, their activities in a 21st century Nigeria showcases the country in a very bad light, beyond the tragedies of accidents and some robbers using same as get-away vehicles. Mercifully, the Babatunde Fashola administration that ruled the state from 2007-2015, saw through these defects in their operations and made relevant laws restricting their activities to certain roads in the state. Such was the success of the administration’s policy on ‘okada’ that the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos, which had dedicated a ward specifically to casualties of ‘okada’ accidents recorded a massive drop in the number of patients brought to the ward and commended the state government for making this happen. Even the police authorities in the state applauded the administration for the sharp drop in crime rate. The problem was that the Ambode administration which succeeded Fashola’s government was lax in enforcing the law and, ‘okada’ riders soon returned to their old ways. It is against this backdrop that we commend the incumbent government for its plan to ensure that sanity returns to ‘okada’ operations in the state, if the riders must continue to be on roads in the state., Without doubt, their activities in Lagos obviously fill some gaps in the transportation sector; but then these must be regulated in the interest of Lagosians. We are therefore glad that the government, having observed these lapses in ‘okada’ operations, is ready to do what governments do – take care of the welfare of the people, which includes the riders themselves. We however advise that the government subtly but firmly implements the ‘okada’ policy in ways that the system does not feel the grave human shock that might be considered insensitive. Most of the operators of ‘okada’ are illiterate, unskilled and unlicensed riders with no training and no knowledge of traffic rules. They must be communicated to through institutions in the state in languages they can understand. Beyond these intended policies, however, the government must quickly co-opt transporters in the private sector as even the small commercial buses have outlived their usefulness. The government must be firm in implementation of well-thought-out plans to rejig the transportation sector with better roads and sea ways. Implementation must be very well planned and strictly handled to eschew political permissiveness. If the truth must be told, Lagos has no business sanctioning ‘okada’. Indeed, allowing their operations is a defeatist approach and not the solution to the state’s transportation crisis. ‘Okada’ is a sign of chronic underdevelopment and ultimately, it must be phased out in the state. Indeed, if we consider the social implications, no one would go near it.