Ex-militant leader and chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Eris Paul has alleged that Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, was in strange romance with the Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, to negotiate a soft landing for himself. Paul, who is fondly called Oguboss, in an open letter called on the APC leader to thread with caution in his dealings with Dickson accusing the governor of persecuting members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Addressing Sylva, the ex-militant leader said: “Your new friendship with Dickson is veined and not blue from the usual cool. Sealing my lips does not close my eyes, victories are not won by people on knees around you. “Peremabiri community is having a court case with Henry Dickson, our chiefs were forcefully arrested and taken to court in the night for not supporting him. “We vigilantly still stand threats from the almighty Dickson every day, when you think of soft landing for a man who never bears soft landing for his own state, please also consider the place of your followers. “13 persons were sacked in my family from the civil service, including my biological parents, my country home in Yenagoa was bombed. Attacks on my life have been ceaseless for over seve  years. “I am saying  that the scars of others should not be forgotten and teach us cautions. If we were not all loyal and forced to wear a bulletproof or distrust before now, we would have not been commanding so much respect from the people. “Your Excellency Chief Timipre Sylva Sir, can i ask for caution, or insist for some form of carefulness with Henry Sariake Dickson?  Henry Sariake Dickson visits you in your Abuja resident or has been on his knees begging for soft landing does not make him a loyalist or your friend ‘Having a normal knees would make life more easier for Dickson, but not like the knees of someone shedding crocodile tear.  Sariake Dickson is begging you but his supporters are pulling the hairs off your followers in Yenagoa. “Remember that some of us have left all the luxury of the state capital, including our families, to the village. Despite that Dickson is attacking us & our communities till date”. But the People’s Democratic Party Youth Network (PDPYN) described the claims of the ex-militant leader as untrue and called on Bayelsans to ignore the rumour peddled by unscrupulous characters. The Secretary-General of the PDPYN, Mr. James Oputin, urged Bayelsans to ignore the unfounded rumour which he described as a product of mischief. He said that the politicians behind the rumour were scared of the growing internal cohesion within the PDP ahead of the November 16 gubernatorial election in the state contrary to their expectations. Oputin also advised the members and supporters of the PDP to ignore the false story designed to malign the leadership of the party in Bayelsa. He said that the surreptitious design to put unnecessary doubts in the minds of well meaning supporters of the party in the state should be resisted. The PDPYN scribe said that Governor Dickson and the leadership of the PDP did not need any meeting with leaders of the All Progressives Congress to win the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. He stated also while it was possible for Governor Dickson to host Chief Timipre Sylva in his capacity as the minister from Bayelsa in the Federal cabinet, it was sad that some APC members were peddling deliberate misinformation to deceive Bayelsans about a meeting that did not take place. Oputin stressed that the same set of people from the All Progressives Congress were behind the story that Sylva supported David Lyon because he wanted to give the governorship to the PDP. He advised the uninformed people behind the fake story to focus their attention on their electoral campaign rather than the failed attempt to plant discord within the PDP. Oputin noted that the PDP and its followers would not be distracted by disgruntled elements of the APC who are battling to divert attention from the challenge of marketing a gubernatorial misnomer as their candidate in Bayelsa. He insisted that Bayelsa is the stronghold of the PDP and would continue to remain so. He challenged those behind the rumour to prove the veracity of their story by providing photographic evidence of the said meeting to convince Bayelsans or remain silent. 