After stiff competition that involved both undergraduate and postgraduate students, Augustine Udeolisa, a 100-Level Electrical Electronics student of  the University of Port Harcourt became the unexpected winner of the first Professor Ogundipe Innovations Challenge (POIC) at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) last week. His device, ‘Daltech 4 all security’, which works to prevent car thefts as well as accidents, won him the award and N1 million to further develop the technology. Speaking at the competition for 11 finalists held at the Jelili Omotola Multpurpose Hall of the university, Udeolisa said he developed ‘Daltech 4 all security’ after witnessing an accident. “This my device is for anti-theft and for accident. The idea came  the day I witnessed an accident as I was returning from a place. The accident  required an immediate  assistance which was not forthcoming. Infact , no one was there to save them.  My mum told me I can do something about it.  So I had to create a device that when you open a car door of a person it would call the person, and when the person calls back it will shut down the ignition system and if the car has  an accident, it will call the rescue team such as Fire Service, Police. If it is installed in the house or office and there is a fire incident, it will call the fire service or police or call you,,” he said. Expressing excitement about his success, Udeolisa said he had failed many times before POIC but he was confident the device was valuable. “I feel very excited, I have failed many times.  I failed in a recent exhibition; they did not accept my project but I told them that someday, I will win – that this device was not meant for that exhibition and was meant for somewhere higher”, he said. Udeolisa, however, expressed sadness that two teammates could not join him for the competition because of registration error on his part. He said he registered as the only member of ‘Team Solution’ in error and could not correct it when he tried to so they were unable to attend. Over 500 entries were received for the competition which was organised by the Faculty of Science of the university to challenge students to use science and technology to solve local problems in the Nigerian society. First runner-up of the competition was ‘Team Veta’ which developed a digital platform where students can learn technical and vocational skills and after training, find jobs on the same platform; while the second runner -up was ‘Team Brickify’ which designed rubber bricks for constructing movable structures. The first and second runners-up of also got N1 million each to further develop their ideas. In his speech, the UNILAG Vice Chancellor, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said he was impressed by the performance of the teams. “I feel excited that what you are witnessing today has never happened in any university before. So I am happy University of Lagos is leading in this area of innovation. I will encourage the youth to make sure they build on their potential so that they can move forward and be identified, because honestly speaking everything now is about innovation”, said Ogundipe. 