The Senate of the Osun State University (UNIOSUN) has approved a scheme that would support start-up projects by the university’s alumni. Speaking on the scheme at the university’s pre-convocation briefing, the Vice Chancellor, Prof Labode Popoola, said the aim was to groom entrepreneurs among its graduates. He said:”Senate has also just approved Startup Scheme for UNIOSUN Alumni and Alumnae who have bankable proposals. The idea is to create a pool of entrepreneurs and job creators.” Prof. Popoola also said the university would not relent in her input to research and societal development. “I am glad to tell you now that the institute is now becoming a centre of excellence in postgraduate teaching, research, and societal development in all areas of sustainable development. Also the recent birth and approval of two faculties and new departments in the College of Agriculture is worthy of mention as the university now has Faculty of Agricultural Production and Management (FAPM) which comprises of the Department of Agronomy (AGY), Department of Animal Sciences (ANS), Department of Agricultural Economics & Agribusiness Management (AEM) and Department of Agricultural Extension & Rural Development (ARD) and the Faculty of Renewable Natural Resources Management (RNRM),” he said. A total of  1,814 graduating students would be conferred with first degrees across the colleges during the eighth convocation of the university from September 19 to 21. Of the lot, 49 will graduate with first-class grades; 670,  second class (upper division); 892, second class lower; and 194, third class. Nine others will be awarded pass degree. This will bring to 9,955 the number of first degrees awarded by the university since its first graduation in 2011. The convocation would feature three lectures – the Candido Da Rocha Annual Memorial lecture to be delivered by Prof Radius Salawu of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) on September 19; the Foundation Lecture by Prof Abel Olorinishola on September 20; and the Convocation Lecture by the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo on September 21. Prof Salawu would speak on: Fraud Detection and Prevention: The role of the reporting company and the external auditor; Prof Olorinishola will speak on: Breaking the cycle of indolence and dependency- A challenge to the Nigerian Youth; while Pro Osinbajo will speak on: Six decades of checquered nationhood – Nigeria still holds the key to Africa’s Development. Other activities for the convocation include inauguration of projects on  Tuesday at the Osogbo campus; exhibition of research and entrepreneurship products (Tuesday and Wednesday); and convocation play titled: Women of Owu, by Femi Osofisan on Wednesday.