Elder statesman and former Nigeria Ambassador to the United Nations, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari Tuesday said following the unfortunate killings of three police detectives and a civilian in Taraba state, the Police and the Nigerian Army cannot afford to go their separate ways. Prof. Gambari, who said there is urgent need for a national conversation on the security challenges facing the country, warned that if the police and the army go their separate ways, the security of the nation would be compromised. He canvassed for continuous collaboration and dialogue not only between the Police and the army, but among all the nation’s security agencies. He also said the civil society, the traditional institutions and religious institutions should support and provide intelligence for the security agencies to enable them tackled the security problems facing the country headlong. He further advised the Federal Government to adopt parts of the recommendations of the 2014 constitutional conference to address the myriad of challenges facing the country. Specifically Prof. Gambari said the government should adopt some recommendations of the conference to tackle the current security challenges facing the country especially in the areas of community police or state police, asserting that the government should not throw away the baby with the bath water. Prof Gambari spoke with reporters shortly after delivering an address as the Chairman of the security summit organized by the Nigerian Army Resource Centre (NARC) and the New Partnership for African Development, (NEPAD) at premises of the NARC at Asokoro, Abuja. The theme of the summit was” Terrorism, Insurgency, and Incidence of Electoral Violence in Nigeria: The Role of Security Agencies”. He said: “We cannot leave everything to the Nigerian police and the Nigerian Army, even leaving high way patrols to Army, the level of the challenge will weaken the police and over stretched the army. “There is need for continuous process of collaboration and synergy between the police and the Army to avoid the Taraba scenario in the future. If everybody goes their separate ways the security of the nation will be compromised. “Then again we need to assist the police and security agencies with intelligence and all the members of the society, traditional rulers, religious leaders. We have to look at those institutions that worked in the past and try to really use them in collaborative effort because security is the business of all of us. “Community policing, we need a conversation in this country very urgently whether it is community police, whether it is state police, all of this and you remember there was a national conference that made some recommendations in 2014. “Let us look at not the person who set up the this national conference, but what are the things there that can be used, and what are the things that will come out from this seminar today that will help us in terms of getting a better police and a better army because if we leave everything to the Nigerian Army even highway patrol, that will weaken the police and overstretched the Nigerian Arm”. Delivering his address at the summit, Prof. Gambari underscored the need for Nigeria to play its global, continental and national role in charting the way forward for Nigeria’s national security, sustainable peace and development. He said the Federal Government, the political elite and Nigeria’s security architecture should examine the roles played by Nigeria in restoring peace and orderliness to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Durfur, Sudan, in forming a synergy to end the current security challenges facing the country. He said there is urgent need for Nigeria to find out the root causes of the conflicts confront us as a nation, regretting that going by the activities of IPOB, it appears that the nation’s political elite have not learnt anything from history. Prof. Gambari further submitted that inequality; lack of opportunities, youth unemployment and lack of peace building mechanism are parts of the problems facing the country and therefore urged the government to address them by providing political, social and economic security for the citizenry. He said Nigerians should learn to say no to electoral violence and other vices that are capable of reversing the gains recorded in the past 20 years of democracy, noting that we have to create condition for peace and development of the country. “If we can help Liberia and Sierra Leone as well as Darfur achieves peace, then, we should be able to replicate this at home. Wherever Africa is going, Nigeria should be there first. We must not fail world, Africa and Nigeria,” Prof. Gambari asserted. The Chief of Army Staff, (COAS) Lt Gen Tukur Buratai in his remarks said the army would continue to play its constitutional role of maintaining peace and orderliness in the country alongside other security agencies, saying that the army would not compromise its dignity and integrity in this regard. Buratai said the summit was timely while the theme was apt considering the involvement of the military in maintaining peace and its roles during elections, arguing that the present situation require the understanding of every stakeholder in moving the country forward. The COAS said there is need for all security institutions and development agencies to work together for common good, stressing that the military would continue to play its role of defending the territorial integrity of the country even if it had to pay the supreme sacrifice. Buratai said “Security and development moves in the same direction. We need to work together even if we have to pay the supreme sacrifice and that is why army personnel are deploy to all zones to assist the police in keeping the peace. “We have made significant progress to ensure that lives are safe and maintain security. In keeping the peace troops must carry out their task in line with extant laws. They are expected to do their jobs with dignity.” Buratai commended the organizers of the summit for their efforts to enrich the knowledge of the participants and impact on the society, asserting that the Nigerian Army would continue to partner with groups and individuals to bring lasting peace and development to the country.