BAYELSA State Governor, Seriake Dickson, has boasted that his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would win the November 16 governorship poll in the state by landslide. The governor alleged that the inability of the APC to produce a validly-nominated candidate boosted the chances of the PDP at the forthcoming election. A statement signed on Wednesday by Dickson’s Chief Press Secretary, Fidelis Soriwei, said the governor spoke while inaugurating five new special advisers in Government House, Yenagoa. Dickson said no amount of propaganda, intimidation and financial inducement would stop majority of the people from voting for the PDP. He, however, said despite the traumatic post primary election crisis facing the main opposition in the state, his party would prepare very well for the coming poll. He said: “We are, preparing the ground to usher in the next administration, and make no mistake, the next administration is going to be a PDP-led administration in our state. Make no mistake, the Ijaw nation has no room for APC, this state is a PDP home. “We are the only party that has a validly-nominated candidate for the election. Mark my words validly nominated candidates, that’s what the law requires and the person must be qualified. As we speak, the other side, the APC, does not have a validly nominated candidate”. GDickson, who congratulated the new special advisers, described their appointments as a recognition of the important contributions they made in their previous assignments. He urged them to join other members of the Restoration Government to mobilize more support for right causes that would promote the continued stability, peace and development of the state. The Governor assured that more young people would be appointed into positions of trust in the coming days as part of efforts aimed at rewarding loyalty, dedication and hard work. He said: “This swearing-in is just a tip of the iceberg. By tomorrow or next, more young people who have already been identified across the various local government areas and other stakeholders would be brought in as our way of broadening the base of our restoration government. It is also our way of identifying young people who needs to be given responsibility. “I implore You all to continue to do what you have been doing, mobilizing support and laying the foundation for a great and prosperous Bayelsa that we have all stood by the last 8 years. By tomorrow or before the end of the week a number of them that were identified will be brought in to be involved.” The special advisers are the former Chairman, Caretaker Committee of Sagbama Local Government Council, Michael Magbisa, and his Yenagoa counterpart, Austin Sambo. Others include the former Caretaker Committee Chairman of Kolokuma/Opokuma,Tolumoye Bikikoro,  Pius Andabai-Wareyai and  Ebilade Ekerefe. 