Ahead of next year’s governorship election in Ondo State, a group, Continuity For Good Governance (CGG), has called for peace and unity among All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwarts. The group is championing the second term bid of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN). At its stakeholders meeting in Ijapo, Akure , the state capital, the group appealed to party members  to embrace unity. It urged party loyalists to chart a new course for the development of the party and the state. A communique by its Director of Publicity, Prince Kayode  Ehinlanwo, said the party cannot afford the continuation of rancour and disharmony  amongst APC gladiators. The group said: “As a matter of fact, nobody can deny the narrative of unprecedented infrastructural developments across Ondo State, and the regular payment of salary and pension to the retirees, in spite of harsh economic realities. “The ongoing industrial revolution in Ore and other parts of the state will create more jobs for our youths and increase the state IGR. “We are not saying that those who show interest to be governor are not qualified. They are all qualified. Some are even qualified to be President, but all cannot be governor at the same time. More so, when we have a preforming governor in place. “We, therefore, appeal to our leaders across the state to prioritise the interest of our people  and join hands with Mr Governor to move the party and the state forward.” The group also implored Akeredolu  to take charge of the party and bring every member, irrespective of their backgrounds or groups, together in the interest of the state. It added: “We implore Akeredolu as the leader of the party to bring his arbitrating expertise and ample humility into play, to pacify the aggrieved and assure loyalists.” The group urged the people to keep faith with Akeredolu. It said: “Akeredolu means well for the overall development of the state. He has integrity and he is a Governor whose words are his bound with total commitment to his oath of allegiance to govern the state with excellence.”