Spacious, economical and highly practical, the new Kia Pegas compact sedan goes on-sale this month across the Middle East. Entirely new to the region, the Kia Pegas is a smart option for young families in urban areas. It features a big personality, compact dimensions, and generous storage and cabin space. The Pegas boasts a stylish exterior design and a spacious interior, as well as an array of convenience features and technologies to please B-segment sedan customers. Built by Kia in China, the car was introduced to several international markets in 2017. According to Head of Kia’s Middle East and Africa Regional Headquarters, James Kim, Pegas will be a great option for young families looking for a practical car that delivers the perfect combination of comfort, space, and the latest technologies. Kim said: “This important new model will enhance the diversity of Kia’s model line-up in the region and will further strengthen the brand’s image. As our newest arrival goes on-sale in the Middle East, Kia now offers customers a greater choice of high-quality vehicles than ever before.” The Pegas offers buyers a uniquely stylish design, with sculpted body panels and bold character lines complemented by a striking color palette and a carefully-balanced sedan silhouette. The aerodynamic front of the Pegas, with a drag co-efficient of just 0.29 Cd, presents a bold ‘face’ to the world. Its deep bumpers incorporate sporty air curtain intakes in each corner, and a large trapezoidal air intake. The wide ‘tiger-nose’ grille extends into the headlamps, enhancing the sense of width and stability. Viewed from the side, the profile of the Pegas gives it a finely-balanced silhouette. Its definitive character lines give the impression of motion, even while it sits stationary. The relatively long wheelbase and sloping tailgate visually enhances the length of the Pegas. The rear of the car is characterised by its sedan tailgate, with a subtle yet sporty ducktail profile to the trailing edge of the trunk lid and a pair of neat rear combination lamps. Depending on market, the Pegas is offered with a choice of up to seven paint colors, ensuring there is a color for every personality. The car runs on 14-inch steel or aluminum alloy wheels. Inside, the cabin of the Pegas offers occupants maximum space and convenience. The center fascia has been designed to enhance ease-of-use, with many of the car’s functions controlled with clear, ergonomic buttons. Additionally, the center console provides plenty of storage space to enhance usability, with built-in cupholders that can be reached from the front and rear of the cabin.