From the Managing Director, Finlab Nigeria Limited, Mr. Uzo Nwaije has come a clarion call to the federal government: ‘there is need to galvanise action aimed at supporting businesses, especially manufacturers.” The Finlab boss gave this charge at the weekend during a public forum in Lagos. According to him, the federal government needs to continue to lend support to manufacturers by implementing policies that would encourage them to thrive. While delivering an address titled, ‘Strengthening indigenous manufacturing in Nigeria,’ Nwaije who commended government for its contribution towards the growth and development of manufacturers especially with the 40% local content policy stated that there was still more to be done to assist them. Nwaije commended the significant role being played by Buhari-led administration for promoting and encouraging manufacturers via the implementation of new policies that had seen many companies emerge in the last four years. “I think the federal government is doing extremely well especially in the area of 40% local content. But we believe they can do better by helping to look into other areas such as formulating policies to reduce dependence on importation. We will also appreciate if they can raise the percentage of local content,” he said. Nwaije who admitted the tough challenges in the sector said he remains optimistic that indigenous practitioners would succeed in the long run provided government continue to support them. “Manufacturing in Nigeria is not easy when you consider the ease of doing business, government policies, power and how it affects business. As you know, we produce laboratory fittings, equipment, glass wares and plastic wares, bringing raw materials of these products into Nigeria can be very tough due to cost of import duty on raw material and other charges,” he stated. Nwaije noted that with the signing of Africa Free Continent Trade Agreement signed by the Nigeria, he is confident that the government would strive more to create enabling environment for business to grow. He therefore urged them to put the necessary structure in place to make the agreement work noting that Nigeria products have greater chance of competing favorably in the market. According to him, more investment should be expended in the area of road infrastructure and power as doing so will make Nigeria’s products more competitive among other partners as well as globally. “I consider AFCTA has a good move that would help promote and improve business in Nigeria but I think we need to solve some of the major problems affecting the growth of our economy. If we want our goods to be competitive, power supply has to be improved, roads infrastructure must be in good shape and security must be in place. For me, I think we have what it takes to excel, all we need to do is to invest in our country. We have the population and we have the market,” he said. While applauding indigenous manufacturers for their steadfastness amidst various challenges affecting their businesses, he tasked them to continue to raise the bar by ensuring that products manufactured are of quality standard and at par with what obtained in developed markets “I think many manufacturers are doing well but there is room for improvement. Many of these companies including ours have embarked on ISO certifications. In this case, most of our products meet the required standard and are exported outside the country. It is a known fact that 90% of what we have in Nigeria are imported but I think we have what it takes to replicate what we import given what some of us who are manufacturers are doing,” he explained. Nwaije therefore urged consumers to continue to prioritise and patronise made in Nigeria goods noting that doing so would encourage indigenous manufacturers to thrive. Finlab Nigeria is an indigenous manufacturing company with over three decades of design, manufacture and installation of Laboratory Furniture, glass wares, plastic wares, equipment among others with markets spread around Africa countries that include Ghana, Cameroon, Benin Republic, Cotonou and Ivory Coast.