Shortage of last-mile infrastructure to convey submarine cables is a challenge. LUCAS AJANAKU writes on how this problem is being tackled. There are over 40 terabytes per second (TBPS) international connectivity capacity cables landing in Lagos. Despite the large number, a group,  Submarine Cable Operators of Nigeria (ASCON), lamented that in terms of utilisation across all cables, the country is using less than 10per cent because of the absence of the requisite terrestrial infrastructure to transmit this capacity from the shores to other parts of the country, particularly to the unserved and underserved areas. “The relevant national backbone is not available. That is the challenge we are facing with broadband penetration. Thus, the connectivity and speed people will experience in Lagos will be different from what they find in their villages. In this regard, we would collaborate with other telecommunication stake-holders in seeking government intervention,” Ifeloju Alakija and Bolaji Mudashiru, president and secretary of the group said. In view of this constraint, the memorandum of understanding (MoU)  between Broadbased Communications Limited and Dolphin Telecom Limited is significant in the industry. While the former is an Open Access Metropolitan Fibre Optic Network Operator, the latter is a member of the African Coast to Europe (ACE) Submarine Cable System Consortium and the Operator of the ACE Submarine Cable Landing Station in Nigeria. Under the terms of the agreement, Broadbased Communications will provide the much-needed last-mile metropolitan fibre optic network connectivity wholesale to Dolphin Telecom’s clients, which include telecom operators and Internet Service Providers (ISPs) across the country. The ACE Submarine Cable System is managed by a consortium of 19 telecom operators from Africa and Europe. The submarine cable system is being upgraded to 100G technology, which will increase its design capacity from 5.12 terabytes per second (Tbps) to 12.8 Tbps. The  cable system is supported by wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) technology to accommodate future ultra-broadband networks. Broadbased Communications operates a non-compete, non-discriminatory, open access Metropolitan Fibre Optic Network that spans over 3,500 kilometres (km) of transmission, distribution and in-premise in all the major business districts in Lagos. The firm also operates Metro Fibre Networks in Kano and Akwa Ibom states with more points of presence (PoP) in Abuja, Port Harcourt and Enugu. Broadbased provides fibre optic network connectivity for mobile network operators, 4G network operators, all the submarine cable landing stations, all major ISPs, data centres, Nigeria Internet Exchange Point (IXP), major global telecom operators, banks, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), electronic payment switching and processing companies, oil companies, major corporate firms and residential estates in partnership with other telecom service providers in each estate. Broadbased Managing Directror/Chief Executive Officer Prince Henry Iseghohi said the MoU is a testament to the company’s dedication to the open access, non-compete model, robust network architecture and the dedication of the  workers of Broadbased Communications. Dolphin Telecom Group Commercial Director Mr. Johnnie Coleman said the firm was delighted to partner  Broadbased Communications to distribute its wholesale internet capacity to telcos and ISPs in the major districts of Lagos. He said the ACE submarine system has positioned itself as a key driver of the country’s social and economic growth. Also, the Group Executive Director of Broadbased Communications, Mr. Chris Erewele Snr, restated their commitment to the provision of quality services to Dolphin Telecom with a dedicated Technical Support Team to meet the needs of their wholesale customers, including the use of horizontal directional drilling equipment to install fibre optic cables without manual digging. The Executive Director, Business Development, Mr Chidi Ibisi said the Broadbased Network, which spans over 3,500km is designed as a self-healing network in a ring architecture with redundant routes to over 20  PoPs, including the submarine cable landing stations, data centres, major telcos/ISP hubs and major corporate clients in Lagos. Aside the ACE submarine cable   which was manufactured by Alcatel Submarine Networks (ASN) and was laid by ships from ASN and France Telecom Marine, there is also the Glo-1 submarine cable that is along the west coast of Africa between Nigeria and the United Kingdom. It is owned by Globacom. The submarine cable system is 9,800 km long, and became operational in 2011 with a minimum capacity of 640 Gbit/s. Total capacity of the system is now advertised as 2.5 Tbit/s. The cable’s link to Ghana was turned up in April, 2011. Another indigenous player is the Main One submarine cable that stretched from Portugal to South Africa with landings along the route in various west African countries. It spans 14,000 km and provides additional capacity for international and Internet connectivity to countries between Portugal and South Africa on the west coast of Africa. There is also the SAT-3/WASC or South Atlantic 3/West Africa Submarine Cable  linking Portugal and Spain to South Africa, with connections to several West African countries along the route. It is part of the SAT-3/WASC/SAFE cable system, where the SAFE cable links South Africa to Asia. The SAT-3/WASC/SAFE system provides a path between Asia and Europe for telecoms traffic, an alternative to the cable routes that pass through the Middle East, such as SEA-ME-WE 3 and FLAG. SAT-3 has a capacity for 340 Gbits while SAFE can take 440 Gbit/s. The SAT-3 system and SAFE were built by a consortium of operators. West Africa Cable System (WACS) is a submarine communications cable linking South Africa with the United Kingdom along the west coast of Africa constructed by Alcatel-Lucent. The cable consists of four fibre pairs and is 14,530 km in length, linking from Yzerfontein in the Western Cape of South Africa to London in the United Kingdom. It has 14 landing points, 12 along the western coast of Africa (including Cape Verde and Canary Islands) and 2 in Europe (Portugal and England) completed on land by a cable termination station in London.