FBNQuest Trustees has shared insights on the importance of corporate trust management, estate planning and wealth transfer, which it said are crucial elements in ensuring the preservation of legacies. The firm used its 40th anniversary with the theme:  A Legacy that preserves Legacies, to educate Nigerians on the gains of leaving a will and the necessity to engage institutions rather than an individual in its execution, reports COLLINS NWEZE. Not many people want to talk about death. While it is not a pleasant experience, the loss of a loved one can be very traumatic both for family members and friends. To compound issues, in-fighting amongst family members and legal problems or delays, could add to the grief if the deceased did not leave a will. That explains why FBNQuest Trustees decided to use the occasion of its 40th anniversary to educate Nigerians on estate planning and the company’s achievements in its 40 years of operation. The firm explained that estate planning is more important now than ever. Without proper planning, one could lose a large share of what he had spent his whole lifetime accumulating. Managing Director, FBNQuest Trustees, Kunle Awojobi, explained that  the company was modeled as a representation of forward thinking culture of FBN Holdings group, to improve and develop specialised capabilities within the trusteeship, asset and fund management service to Nigerian financial system. “Over the past 40 years, FBNQuest Trustees has not only become a leading trust company in Nigeria, but is now a pillar in the trusteeship business. The company continues to be the preferred local partner for international and multilateral entities looking to have business in Nigeria, and in 2013, served as the sole bond trustee on the first bond issued in Nigeria by the International Finance Corporation’s $50 million fixed rate senior secured bond. “In terms of growth and financial performance, the company has created shareholder value with its share capital rising from N30 million in the 90s to N3 billion in 2019. Its liquid trust assets under management is in excess of N40 billion as at June 30, 2019 and over N6 trillion  transactions being done. “ These achievements may be laudable, but those of us now bearing the torch must task ourselves with the objective of doing more by ensuring that the company competes at the international level. In another 40 years, the succeeding generation must also be proud of their achievements as we are today,” Awoobi said. FBNQuest Trustees has published an educative compendium on estate planning to actively engage, and educate stakeholders on the importance of Estate Planning in Nigeria, through its Legacy Series; and is a pioneer for Islamic finance in Nigeria, which led to its co-management of the first government issued Sukuk instrument launched by the Federal Government of Nigeria in 2017. The company also partnered and organised a stakeholder engagement on Voluntary Asset and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS) and its implications for estate planning. Awojobi, emphasised the firm’s impact on trusteeship business in Nigeria, and by extension, the economy. He said:”We are extremely proud to be a part of the 125 year old legacy of First Bank of Nigeria Limited, and the rich heritage of FBNHoldings as we celebrate a 40 year track record of distinction, dependability and professionalism in the trustee business.” “We want to thank everyone who has contributed to the growth of the company over the years, as we continue to provide excellent services to our clients. We also take this opportunity to recommit to excellently servicing of our clients across diverse sectors to ensure that their legacies are preserved,” he added. In terms of growth and financial performance, the company has continuously delivered shareholder value in alignment with the mandate of the Group. From a share capital of about N30 million , it has increased to N3 billion in 2019; and has grown its profit after tax (PAT) year-on-year consistently, with liquid trust assets under management in excess of N40 billion as at June 30 2019. Group Managing Director, FBN Holdings Plc, Urum Eke, congratulated FBNQuest Trustees for the achievements so far, adding that the group was proud of what the company had achieved in the last 40 years. Senior Partner, TLcom Capital, Dr. Omobola Johnson, said both companies and individuals need to leave good legacies behind, including good will and assets. She said leaving a good legacy is one of the best assets one can leave foe the family. She added that even good customer relations and track record of performance as a company can be a good legacy to be inherited and  by subsequent managers. Speaking at the panel session of the event, Publisher, Clever Clogs Books, Mrs. Olubunmi Aboderin Talabi, said there was need for people to teach their children the gains of building good savings culture. “I teach my children to be prudent, embrace budgeting and practice delayed gratification. It is also important for our children to know that who they marry and surround themselves with also could play a major part in their lives.” Founder and Chief Executive officer, best man Games, Mrs. Nimi Akingkugbe, said leaving a good legacy will also entail not over indulging one’s children and also teaching them the need to work hard remain a good legacy one can leave behind. Head Private Trust at FBNQuest Trustees, Mofoluke Keshinro,  said that family business needed not be run by family members, saying the right people whether from the family or outside the family should run family businesses. She added that a family member can be included in the company’s board if need be. “One’s children need not be at the front in running  family  business . It is also important we teach our children the importance of money,” she said. Chief Executive Officer, Teach for Nigeria, Folawe Omikunle, said people should spend quality time with their children to understand them and their areas of strength. She also advised that helping the children to build the right network could also be a good legacy. Lecturer, Islamic Studies Department, Bayero University, Kano, Dr. Bashir Umar said Islamic finance is now an alternative funding option for companies and individuals and should be embraced. He said that Islamic finance is also offering an alternative way of estate planning which is very important for the people. Umar said estate planning is about making sure your assets are distributed as you wish both now and after you are gone, you need to consider three very important questions before you begin your Estate Planning. The big questions are who takes charge of the deceased’s assets, which assets are you bequeathing and when and how will that be done? “You will require the services of a professional estate planner. We recommend that you do not try to do it yourself. Seek competent legal advice when creating your estate plan, though you may want to discuss different strategies with family and friends,” the company said. FBNQuest Trustees commitment to Islamic Estate Planning is premised on the understanding that generally and across the globe, family fights often occurs when inheritance matters crop up. He said regardless of the laws in place; Islamic or otherwise, people would sometimes find ways to explore the loopholes in the system or the law, and find ways to circumvent the express guidelines provided. Umar said when money is involved, the dynamics change for everyone and subjectivity starts to come in, saying that is why it is important that one engages the services of institution rather than that of a person in will, or trust execution. The major challenge has basically been education. While some Muslims believe that estate planning is important and compulsory based on the teachings of Prophet Muhammad (SAW), some others think otherwise despite the specific instructions in the Qur’an regarding this. The company has for long, been educating Muslims on Islamic Estate Planning through the Legacy Series, both on radio and other media. We have also established relationships and partnerships with key players in the Islamic Finance space. The beauty of Islamic Inheritance Law is the fact that the distribution plan of a Muslim’s assets have already been taken care of. The Qur’an provides specific guidelines for how to distribute two-third of a Muslim’s assets to parents, spouse(s), children and other family members. Then freedom is given on the remaining one-third. With a proper trust structure, the one-third can be managed over generations – depending on your preference. This one-third can be used to create and manage the activities of foundations, make Zakat distributions and take care of the less privileged by way of charity. In non-Islamic Estate Planning, tax is a major consideration which makes distributors seek ways of reducing the tax impact on the estate of the deceased. In Islamic Estate Planning, however, reducing the impact of estate tax is not a consideration. FBNQuest Trustees helps with both the computation and management of Islamic instruments like Zakat, Wakaf (charity), Hibah, Mong others. The Islamic Estate Planning business is a relatively new one in this part of the world. You will also agree with me that development of the market is a fallout from the recent prominence of Islamic Finance, catalysed by the successes of the FGN N100 billlion Sukuk Bond, to which FBNQuest Trustees was also delegate.