AY’S movie, ’30 Days in Atlanta’, which reportedly received 10 nominations at the 2014 Golden Icons Academy Movie Awards, is set to have a sequel as revealed by the producer on Wednesday, after having a meeting with the executives of HUAHUA Media, from China. AY uploaded the video of the meeting on his Instagram account with the Chinese in his home. According to AY, he didn’t think much of the proposal when he first got a phone call. “When I got the call that a production outfit from China was coming to have a meeting with Corporate World Entertainment, I just thought it was one of the usual ones we have heard of in the past,” he said. “I went through their profile and I noticed that HUAHUA Media did movies like Transformers: The last night, Edge of Extinction, Star Trek Beyond, A Quite Place, Gozilla, Teenage Mutant Turtle Ninja, and a number of other movies. This is a step in the right direction for Nollywood. We are going places, it has been our dream and that is why we are working and will continue to work. “And we won’t stop, until we put Nollywood on the map of the world completely 100%. “30 DAYS IN CHINA LOADING…As we await the big December takeover with #MerryMen2, a Multi-billion dollar Chinese production company is taking it’s cue from the success story of ’30 Days In Atlanta’ to do ’30 DAYS In CHINA’ with the AY brand. Could this be another Guinness World Records loading? teases AY. An executive of the HUAHUA Media, in an interview at AY’s home stated: “One of the reason we are excited about this movie is because we have our own movie series too which is similar to his film; A trip to Thailand, A trip to Hon Kong, and the new one is called A trip to Russia. And we believe if we can work with AY and produce is movie A trip to China, there is going to be a lot of potentials.” ’30 Days in Atlanta’ is a story of Akposa who won a 30-day holiday for two to Atlanta, Georgia in the USA and decided to take his cousin Richard with him on a hilarious vacation. The romantic comedy movie directed by Robert Peters shot in Lagos and Atlanta, premiered on October 31, 2014, and was declared the highest grossing film of all time in Nigerian cinemas in 2015.