The tasks before the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, are enormous. These include working with relevant stakeholders to ease miners’ access to various sector intervention funds, tackling illegal mining and attracting investors. He is also expected to give more impetus to the Federal Government’s resolve to diversify the economy through the exploitation of solid minerals. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA highlights the challenges. Nigeria literarily sits on minerals goldmine. With about 44 various minerals in commercial quantity under her belt, she is, no doubt, the envy of her less-endowed peers. The snag, however, is that most, if not all the minerals, including gold, iron ore, tin, gemstones, columbite, topaz, limestone, uranium, laterite, gypsum and kaoline, among others, have remained unexploited by successive administrations. Yet, the development of the  endowed natural resources is widely acknowledged as holding the ace in contributing to her Gross Domestic Product (GDP), creating millions of jobs and lifting Nigerians out of poverty, among other benefits. Sadly, however, the activities of illegal miners, lack of genuine miners’ access to various sector-specific intervention funds and investors’ apathy, among other challenges, have continued to hold the sector down. Incidentally, these seemingly formidable obstacles are coming at a time the recognition of the obvious benefits of exploiting these bountiful natural resources had forced a strategic refocus on the sector by the Federal Government. This was in the hope of leveraging the sector to drive economic diversification, following the crisis in the oil market, where oil prices had crashed, requiring urgent buffers. It was against this backdrop that the coming of the new Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Mr.  Olamilekan Adegbite, and the Minister of State for the sector, Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah, once again, raised hopes that a new dawn may be in the offing for the sector. Although Adegbite, upon assumption of office, promised to lift Nigerians out of poverty by developing the natural resources, doing so will certainly not be a walk in the park. For a start, the minister, working with relevant stakeholders, will have to assist miners ease access to various intervention funds rolled out for the sector’s development. For instance, almost three years after the Federal Government approved the release of N30 billion intervention fund for solid minerals development, stiff disbursement modalities have made it impossible for miners to access the fund. President Muhammadu Buhari approved the fund in October 2016, to be used for geo-sciences data generation, improve mine-field security and monitoring, among others. The immediate past Minister of Mines and Solid Minerals Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, had said the intervention was in line with the enforcement of the Nigerian Minerals and Mining Act of 2007. Although the fund was to enable miners overcome the near impossible interest rate placed on loans by banks, miners under the aegis of Miners Association of Nigeria (MAN) have been screaming blue murder over the conditionalities for disbursement of the fund, saying that they are very tough, making it extremely difficult for small scale miners to access the fund. MAN President Alhaji Sani Shehu told The Nation that because of the stiff conditionalities, only few members of the Association have been able to access the fund. According to him, “Part of the conditionality is that they add the collateral to the amount requested”. “That means if you are asking for N10 million, you are asked to bring N15 million. Two; the earlier impression we had was that the intervention was mainly equipment-based, meaning you can use your equipment as collateral. “We thought that the equipment can collateralise itself and then the applicant can now use the fund as working capital. And the collateral should be equal to the amount requested.” Although, he said when the Association complained to the former Minister, he directed that MAN should come up with a proposal that will make it easy for its members to access the fund. What this means is that Adegbite and his junior minister may have to continue with the ongoing robust engagement between miners and the ministry with a view to addressing the concerns raised by miners, if they are serious about taking the sector to the next level. Apart from the N30 billion Intervention Fund, the World Bank also announced another $150 million in support of notable projects in the mining sector. In doing so, the bank said it was impressed with the steps already taken by the government to turn the country into a mining destination. With regards to the World Bank’s $150 million lifeline, Shehu said: “One thing that is not very pleasant is that the World Bank funding system is generally slow.” He, however, told The Nation that “The situation was not applicable to Nigeria only; it’s like a general pattern. Other World Bank intervention programme all over the world is the same thing. So, we hope the intervention will move miners to the next level.” Shehu, while stating that insinuating that the fund has not been released will not be fair to the World Bank, noted that bureaucracy amongst the disbursement authorities may have been the problem. They (the authorities) say they are doing their best; we hope their best will translate to something,” he said. Perhaps, more important is the need for the new minister to halt the activities of illegal miners, which is said to have become an industry of its own in several states across the country. Some of the states include Niger, Plateau, Zamfara, Ebonyi Enugu and Imo. The reported absence of globally recognised mining companies in the country is said to be responsible for the upsurge in illegal mining activities, which is partly responsible for scaring genuine investors away. The activities of illegal miners are also believed to be hurting the sector’s contribution to the GDP. Statistics from the Ministry show that over two million people are engaged in illegal mining. Most of them are said to be poor, unemployed and living in rural areas. They use crude methods and household implements to exploit the minerals. This is why illegal mining poses some health challenges which include lead poisoning, mercury pollution, deforestation, poor sanitation and heavy metals pollution. Under his charge, Adegbite is, therefore, expected to roll out workable policies and strategies to properly regulate mining. This stemmed from the belief that if fully harnessed, the solid minerals sector  would help boost foreign exchange and create jobs. In doing so, Adegbite, who was former Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure under the immediate past Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, is also expected to work with the private sector, including state governments to change the sector’s narrative.