Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has flagged off a medical outreach with a promise that his administration would provide a beffiting Primary Healthcare Centres in each Ward across the  State. Prince Abiodun who disclosed this at the flag off ceremony  held at Ilisan, Ikenne Local Government Area, said health care was one of the critical sectors his administration was paying attention to, adding that Primary Health Centres would be made attractive to treat minor ailments. “We will ensure that a beffitinog Primary Healthcare Centre is made available closer to the people. Primary Healthcare Centre is the first port of call when one falls ill. Only cases that cannot be attended to can go to secondary health institutions”, he said. The Governor disclosed that rehabilitation and provision of modern equipment to the State Hospital, Ilaro, has begun, adding that similar work would be carried out in other States hospitals across the State. “We are strengthening the health sector as a matter of priority. There is significant intervention going on at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu, which used to rank as high as the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). We are expecting the report of the Administrative Panel report tomorrow and we will implement the report to reposition the hospital to what it used to be”, he noted. He said the free medical outreach was to underscore the importance of health as the administration was poised to make the state the biggest economy not only in Nigeria, but in Africa. While calling for support and cooperation of the people, Prince Abiodun said his vision for the State was driven by passion to partner the private sector for the economic development that would lead to individual prosperity. Speaking earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Efundayo Ayinde, said the outreach would provide  eye surgery and other medical services free of charge in the Health Camps across the three Senatorial Districts. He called on the people to take advantage of the Programme. Also speaking, Chairman, Illisan Community Development Association, Mufutau Oyegunle, said the community has been looking forward to such opportunity. He appreciated the State governernment for the laudable programme which he said would be of great benefit the less privileged.