Lagos Island residents have cried out to the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIGP) Force CID Annex, Alagbon Close, Ikoyi, to save the area from the menace of miscreants and thugs. They said last Sunday, the criminals, comprising about 22 men, shot a resident and injured several others, while terrorising several streets on the island. The mayhem, they added, had scared away many residents, including those of Issa Williams Street, Oke Arin Street, Doherty Street, Idumota, Idumagbo, Dosunmu Street and Ofin Canal area. They urged the police to move fast, apprehend the troublemakers and prosecute them. Three residents, Alhaji Fatai Otun, Alhaji Ayinla, Alhaji Isiaka Emmanuel and Alhaji Idowu Onikoyi Johnson, stated this on behalf of the people. They spoke through their lawyer, A.S. Fashina in a September 17 petition to the police titled ‘Save Our Souls: threat to life, violence, conduct likely to cause breach of peace, unlawful possession of fire arms, conspiracy and murder. The petition reads: “Our clients informed us that on Sunday the 15th of September, 2019, mayhem was unleashed in some parts of Lagos Island by miscreants and thugs led by their leader … wielding dangerous weapons e.g. guns, knives, bottles, cutlasses, terrorising the peace of the community. “These activities took place along Issa Williams Street, Oke Arin Street, Doherty Street, Idumota, Idumagbo, Dosunmu Street and Ofin Canal area. “Due to these gangsters’ activities, many were injured and an innocent life was lost at the front of Diamond Bank Oke Arin and another one at Ofin Canal Street, who we were informed, was gunned down by these dangerous gangsters. “Our clients also informed us that due to these incidents, residents living on Lagos Island especially the above mentioned streets now live in fear of losing their lives and properties and many have relocated.” They implored the AIG to “use your good offices and look into our clients’ claim and investigate the individuals in view of what is recently happening in Lagos Island. “Also, our clients want justice to be done and the perpetrators of these gruesome activities brought to face the wrath of the law.”