As kids, we all fantasized about growing up and becoming rich and famous. Talent surely has no age barrier as long as you are willing to showcase such talent to the world. Such was the case of these 6 Nigerian children-celebrities who have created a niche for themselves in the entertainment industry. At a very tender age, these ones make impressive amounts through talents and fame that they have built over time. 1) Emmanuella  Emmanuella Samuel, born July 22, 2010, is popularly known as Emmanuella. She is a YouTube child Comedian on Mark Angel YouTube channel. In 2017, Mark Angel Comedy YouTube channel became the first-ever Nigerian-owned YouTube channel to hit a million subscribers. Emmanuella started comedy when she was only five years old. She was on a family holiday and met with Mark Angel. He needed some kids for his comedy shoot, and called a few children he knew for the audition but they couldn’t memorize their lines. He then turned to Emmanuella and she excelled despite the eighteen-hour-long video shoot, a stunt he pulled to test the endurance of the kids. After her selection, Mark Angel had to convince her parents to let her become a part of the Mark Angel Comedy team and got their approval. Her fame started after the comedy skit “This is Not My Real Face Oh” in which she was making jokes about a teacher to her fellow student without knowing the student was the child of the teacher. This short skit was featured on CNN’s Facebook page. The Imo born comedian has won numerous awards such as the award for Top Subscribed Creator from YouTube at the inaugural edition of the Sub-Saharan African YouTube Awards. She also won the Best New Comedienne & Princess of Comedy awards at the Afro-Australia Music & Movie Awards (AAMMA) among other. In 2018, Emmanuella was invited to the National Assembly by former Senate President Bukola Saraki on account of her landing a role in a Disney film. She currently has a net worth of $90,000 that is over 20 million naira. 2) Ahmed Star Boy  Before his encounter with popular musician Wizkid, Ahmed was just a young kid pushing to become a child star in the music Industry. In 2017, luck came on 13-yr-old Ahmed when Wizkid was simply performing at one of his concerts and noticed a boy in the crowd, singing along with so much energy.“Why you never sleep, come on stage,” Wizkid reached out to him. Young Ahmed, seized the window of opportunity, dropped some of the best bars of the night. Surprised by his rapping skills, Wizkid promised to sign him. He, however, gave Ahmed N10m and signed him into his star boy records. Prior to signing with Wizkid, Ahmed was always hanging around malls and pursuing his music by rapping for strangers. Ahmed is worth an estimated N10m 3) Destiny Boy  Afeez Adesina Popularly known as Destiny Boy became famous after he covered the song IF (by Davido) and got noticed. His talents and hardworking character helped him to get promoted in the pop-music industry in Nigeria. The 15-yr-old Fuji pop artiste was born in Agege. According to him, his style of music was influenced by the area he grew up in where Fuji was is a societal soundtrack. He is worth an estimated N8m. 4) DJ Young Money  This is one of the richest celebrity kids in Nigeria. The talented 12 years old DJ makes millions of Naira through different contracts and performances. In 2016, he signed a deal with K-Nation Entertainment, as the in-house DJ of the Label. The young DJ took over the disk jockey business from his father and is unarguably the richest child DJ in Nigeria. He is believed to be worth about N20m. 5) Egypt Ify Ufele  Ify is a Nigerian-American designer who found joy in designing outfits for all occasions. She is the founder of Bully Chasers charity, she reportedly began her plus-size fashion line Chubiiline after being bullied in school. Despite starting to make clothes for herself, the 14-year-old girl also make clothes on mannequins and get them ready for fashion shows. The young designer was born on May 3, 2005, to Dr Reba Perry and Emeka Ufele. Her older sister Sade Perry is also a fashion designer. This got little Ify interested in owning her clothing line. According to her profile, she was diagnosed with critical asthmatic health condition because of her weight which made her go in and out of the hospital. After her heath got better, Ify returned to school but was bullied by some of her school mates. They said she was too chubby. Chubby or not, Ify makes a lot of money. At her age, she has an estimated net worth of N10m. 6) OzzyBosco Wonderkid  OzzyBosco Wonderkid is a Pop Singer. He was born on January 7, 2007, in Nigeria. During his first televised performances, he was already compared to the Nigerian superstars D’Banj and Naeto C. He hailed as the most successful child performer in Africa. After winning the Nigerian Kids Got Talent in 2011, he has worked steadily to make a name for himself and to become the biggest performer in Africa. According to Wikipedia, Forbes OzzyBosco Wonderkid’s estimated net worth is under review. However, he is believed to be worth nothing less than N20m