In its quest to remain in the hearts and minds of its old and prospective customers, Mr. Bigg’s, Nigeria’s pioneer quick service restaurant (QSR) has commenced what industry watchers have described as a first-of-its-kind revolution in the sector aimed at redefining the brand as well as guarantee improve quality of service. At a guided tour of some of the model restaurants in parts of mainland, island Lagos and its environs, recently, Mrs. Ethel Mba, Marketing Manager, UACN Restaurants led selected journalists to have enjoy a feel and look of the new-improved Mr. Biggs, an arm of UACN of Nigeria, which has existed for about 33 years. Justifying the need for the new-look Mr. Bigg’s, Mrs. Mba who noted that there are over 100 restaurants under the brand, said the whole idea is to remodel the restaurants into a centre of excellence in the 21st century. Speaking at one of the model restaurants located at Northwest Filling Station by the Victoria Garden City, VGC, Lekki, Lagos, Mba said the new approach promises to sustain excellence in wide variety of dishes, pastries and confectionaries to the delight of its teeming consumers, which is the heritage of Mr Bigg’s Mba assured that apart from the VGC outlet, which was opened on the 9th of July, 2019, two more restaurants will spring up at Amuwo Odofin in Festac town and Abule Egba along Lagos Abeokuta Express Way and other parts of the country very soon . “The new restaurants will be patterned after the structure of the Lekki restaurant to deliver high-quality food and good ambience as the basic standard. Aside this, the menu range will be equal and well-balanced in terms of meal choices depending on customers’ tastes or new trends,” she said. Mr Bigg’s history began with the coffee shops inside Kingsway Department Stores in the 1960s. In 1973, these shops were rebranded as Kingsway Rendezvous, which became Mr Bigg’s in 1986. The chain saw rapid expansion after becoming one of the first Nigerian companies to sell franchises to investors and subsequently adopted a full franchising business model in 2012, making it the first to establish franchise restaurants in QSR. 