The Court of Appeal has reserved ruling on the order of Sagbama High Court sitting in Yenagoa stopping the All Progressives Congress (APC) from holding its Bayelsa State governorship primary elections using direct method. The State Publicity Secretary, APC, Doifie Buokoribo, confirmed that ruling on the matter had been reserved for Tuesday. The APC has been battling to vacate the order, which distorted its schedules for the primary poll. The party shifted the primaries from August 29th to 31st citing logistic issues. It further postponed it indefinitely following the order stopping the planned use of direct method in conducting the internal poll. An electoral committee headed by the Governor of Yobe State, Mai-Mala Buni, as its Returning Officer, was already in Yenagoa at the weekend to conduct the internal poll but decided otherwise after waiting in vain for the vacation of the order on Friday. But a party source’ who spoke in confidence, assured that everything was being done to vacate the order. He said: “But everything is in motion to vacate the order on Monday or Tuesday. Surely the order will be vacated. We would have gone ahead to hold the primaries because based on the Electoral Act that injunction is illegal. “Section 87(10) of the Electoral Act, 2010, as amended, provides that nothing in this section shall empower the courts to stop the holding of primaries or general election or the thereof under this Act pending the determination of a suit. “But the party doesn’t want any legal impediments to its primaries. It is only reasonable to counter the order that since there is still time to do so. All we know is that the order will be voided and the primaries will be conducted wanting he stipulated time”. Announcing the postponement, the Secretary of the Electoral Committee, Senator Emmanuel Ocheja, described the APC as a law-abiding party with respect for its constitution and the laws of the land. Ocheja in a statement said: “The APC is aware of conflicting orders from courts of equal jurisdiction on the Bayelsa governorship primary election. “As a result of these conflicting orders and following a meeting that Governor Mai-Mala Buni had with the aspirants and party stakeholders in Yenagoa, it was resolved that the primary election should be postponed until the committee headed by the governor receives clear direction from the party headquarters on the matter”.