Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States have borne the brunt of the Boko Haram insurgency. But Borno is the epicentre of the revolt. During the Goodluck Jonathan presidency, they state’s elite complained that the military was tackling the revolt incompetently and insensitively. At the time, the insurgents were numbered approximately 5,000, and the military made heavy weather of defeating them. Dr Jonathan, however, gave short shrift to the murmuring Borno elite, a response that met with derision among top northern politicians and elders. More than four years down the line, and with Boko Haram fighters degraded to approximately two thousand, the battle has still not been won despite the semantic gymnastics of the government; and Borno elite are still grumbling. President Muhammadu Buhari, who had once complained under the Dr Jonathan presidency that the then government was tackling the revolt incompetently, is now president, and has been in office for more than four years. Last week, a group of Borno residents loudly complained that Boko Haram had not been defeated, and worse, that the military’s tactics was incompetent and abominable. As expected, the residents got short shrift. Their governor, Babagana Zulum, had earlier also deplored the military’s tactics, describing it as ineffective. Both the governor and the grumbling residents have made suggestions that appear sensible. The military may want to give them a hearing. Sometime ago, the government had announced that Boko Haram was degraded as a fighting force, which was probably true; had been technically defeated, which left room for diverse interpretations; and had been defeated with not an inch of Nigerian territory under the control of the insurgents, which was an exaggeration. Now, residents of the state have given the country an alternative account of the state of the war, insisting that the president was being misinformed and the public hoodwinked. It is difficult to fault them. If the government can be persuaded to eschew language misapplication, it should forthrightly address the apprehensions of the people of Borno. Boko Haram was inspired by irresponsible north-eastern elite, misjudged and mismanaged by the government, and may now, according to some Borno residents, be exploited by the military. The military cannot persuade Nigerians that they were unable to defeat a rag-tag guerrilla force of about five thousand men, not to talk of convince anyone that today some remnant two thousand insurgents can effectively procure a stalemate against them. Borno is bleeding, and with them the country too. It is a cruel tactics to hope to outlast Boko Haram. What if they refuse to be exhausted? What if they are enjoying the macabre game? The cost to the country in human toll and financial resources is gargantuan and unbearable. It is time to end this insurgency in the hope that the country can deploy financial and ideological resources to combat the other ‘insurgencies’ overtaking the country. It is also time the Nigerian military tried to regain some of their prestige lost in the war, stanch the flow of blood among their troops, and restore the country to some normality. Surely the Buhari presidency is capable of rethinking the insurgency.