THE reconstitution of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Board drew more reactions on Monday. Some of those who reacted hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for the caliber of people he nominated into the Board. Others kicked and demanded a reversal of the presidential decision. The Western Ijaw Consultative Assembly kicked against the nomination of Bernard Okumagba, an Urhobo as the Board chairman, arguing that an Ijaw ought to have been nominated to head the board. In a statement titled: “Western Ijaw Consultative Assembly Delta Ijaw rejects NDDC Board MD nominee” and signed by Chief Ebipade Gbegha (Chairman) and  Ogbein Zidideke (Secretary), the Assembly described Okumagba’s nomination as injustice to the Ijaw. The groups’ spokesman said: “The Ijaw in Delta State wish to notify President Mohammadu Buhari and the National Assembly that the nomination of Bernard Okumagba of the Urhobo extraction in Delta State as the Managing Director (MD) in the new Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) board instead of an Ijaw nominee from the state is totally unacceptable. “This is because it is a clear case of oppression, injustice and alienation of Ijaw in Delta State by some selfish politicians acting like new pirates in power. “We state without fear of equivocation that any executive position slot for Delta State should be given to the Ijaw as it is our turn in line with the rotational arrangement as prescribed by the NDDC Act of 2000 Section 12 (1) which states that ‘there shall be for the commission, a managing director, and two executive directors who shall be indigenes of oil producing areas starting with the member states of the commission with the highest production quantum of oil and shall rotate amongst member states in the order of production’. “The emphasis on the rotation within member states with the highest production quantum of oil is to ensure equity, justice and fairness in states like Delta, where there are more than one ethnic group producing oil.The Ijaw riverside communities are the highest producers of oil and gas in the region, and by implication, the highest revenue generators in Nigeria. “We also bear the brunt of the pollution, degradation and environmental impacts of oil and gas exploration, production and transportation. In spite of our enormous contributions and sacrifices, we are still the most underdeveloped part of Nigeria. “The NDDC, which is a product of the Niger Delta struggle, was initiated as an interventionist agency to cater for the oil-bearing/impacted communities from age-long neglect. ‘Though all members of the region contributed to the struggle, the Ijaw no doubt sacrificed and contributed the more in the struggle. Youth of the Ijaw laid down their lives in agitating for creation of the NDDC and were tagged all sorts of names in the process.” But in Akwa Ibom, some youth groups hailed the appointment of a former commissioner for Culture and Tourism in the state, Victor Antai, into the NDDC Board, saying that the nomination would promote peace and bring development to the region. Oro International Youth Forum and Akwa Ibom Integrity Youth Foundation described Antai as a grassroots politician who will bring peace and progress to Niger Delta. According to them, with Antai at the helms of affairs of the Commission in the state, youth restiveness would be a thing of the past. In a message by its President, Christian Bassey Nyong, the Oro International Youth Forum described  Antai  “as an astute politician, a sterling administrator and effective leader, your service as a state commissioner was equally glorious and satisfactory to the Oro people, thus your willingness to sacrifice your time and effort for the development of your people in many capacities have contributed to your being selected for this new challenging responsibility which is not a surprise to us. “We are grateful to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing a grassroots politician with a heart of gold as NDDC Board Member and based on your pedigree, we believe that you will contribute effectively to the development of the region and help to further develop the Oro Community and Akwa Ibom State at large.” The Akwa Ibom Integrity Youth Foundation said: “We are particularly grateful to the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari for finding an illustrious son of Akwa Ibom State to occupy this very exalted position to beer reposition the region for a more rapid development.” In Ondo, two groups – the Justice Council of the Oil Producing Communities in Ondo State (JCOPC) and National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) urged the President to reverse the appointments in the interest of justice. They charged the Federal Government to honour the Act establishing the NDDC in the interest of the rule of law. JCOPC said its members and the entire oil producing communities in the state were shocked that the constitution of the board as announced by the government violated the NDDC Act. A statement by its spokesman Prince Segun Odolo said: “We condemn the purported composition because it violated the Act of NDDC and it is capable of causing disharmony among the member states of the commission. The NYCN in a statement by its Secretary General Blessing Akinlosotu called for immediate review of the appointment. He said the office of the chairman must rotate among the member states in alphabetical order, while that of Managing Director (MD)/Executive Director (ED) shall rotate according to the production volume. The group said: “Based on the Act, Delta State is to produce the next chairman of the commission while Ondo State will produce the MD in line with the provision of the Act.” According to JCOPC, “Ondo State is the fifth largest producer of oil in the country, following the quantum of its production in ranking order as Akwa Ibom (31.4 per cent); Delta (21.7 per cent); Rivers (21.4 per cent);  Balyesa (18.1 per cent); Ondo (3.7 per cent) Edo (2.1 per cent); Imo (1.1 per cent); Abia 0.7 (per cent) and Cross River (0.8 per cent”. The group lamented that Ondo has never occupied the position since the establishment of the interventionist agency. It rejected the appointment on the grounds that the composition violated the Act that established NDDC, describing it is a continuation of the subversion of the commission’s Act. JCOPC said: “The composition is an aberration and a rape on the sanctity of the Act that established the NDDC. We call on Mr. President, a man of justice to right the wrong. “While Ondo state was denied the opportunities of becoming the chairman and Managing Director, the stakeholders said some states had occupied the position on two occasions. Apart from the position of the managing director, nobody from Ondo state has ever been considered for the post of Executive Directors in the NDDC. “As the fifth largest producer behind  Akwa Ibom, Delta, Rivers and Bayelsa states, who have taken their turns, it is now the turn of Ondo State to occupy the position of the MD of the commission.”