From next academic session Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO), Ondo State will begin degree programmes in at least 16 courses. The institution will also introduce additional 29 ND and HND courses if approved by its regulatory body, the National Board of Technical Education (NBTE). The Acting Rector, Mr Gani Ogundahunsi, dropped the hint with CAMPUSLIFE in his office. Ogundahunsi said RUGIPO was partnering the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife in the award of the degree. He said the move was perfected at a deliberation attended by the Vice-Chancellor of OAU, Prof Eyitope Ogunbodede; and representatives of the National Universities Commission; NBTE and the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board, (JAMB). Ogundahunsi said: “Let me tell you, one programme that people will be very happy about is the linkage of our HND and BSc degree programmes of OAU. The partnership (with OAU) is fashioned to take the same form of collaboration between Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo and OAU. “This one has reached an advanced stage, the Vice Chancellor and I met with National Universities Commission, National Board for Technical Education and JAMB. We have discussed with the executive councils of these bodies.” He said the school authority has sent recommendations to NBTE, expressing optimism that the board would give approval before the next academic session. Ogundahunsi said though certificates to be awarded will bear the name of OAU, but the students will be receiving their lectures at RUGIPO. Ogundahunsi said the degree courses will be in areas such as Agriculture, Engineering and Environmental Sciences, where RUGIPO has comparative advantage. He said the new but yet-to-be-announced new courses for ND and HND are included. He noted that the institution would not stop its ND and HND programmes. He said: “Courses like Insurance, Cooperative Studies, Tourism among others, will be introduced,” Ogundahunsi added. “We want to expand our school, we have brought to fore about 29 new programmes, we have tried to redeem, re-tool and re-engineer the place. ‘’The mandate is for us to make our programmes relevant to our immediate society.” He said RUGIPO FM will come on air very soon, following the operating licence granted by National Broadcasting Commission. The Acting Rector said the entire 37 programmes run by the institution were recently presented for and re-accreditation, adding that they all scaled the hurdle.