The last is yet to be heard of the serial killing of young women in hotels in Rivers state, following the latest confession allegedly made by the prime suspect, Gracious David-West confessed to killing a total of 15 women across seven states of the federation. Spokesman of the state Police command, Nnamdi Omoni, Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP), who confirmed this to the Nation via a telephone interview Wednesday said the cultist of the Dey-gbam fraternity said he killed one person each in Abia, Edo, Ibadan in Oyo, Owerri in Imo, Ikeja in Lagos state where the act started few months ago and nine in Rivers state. It would be recalled that over 10 young women were allegedly killed in different hotels in Rivers state in the past two months. The number escalated last week, when at least five were killed within three days, a situation that caused grave panic in the state, leading to series of protest by women groups and some Civil Society groups. The protesters urged security agencies in state especially the Department of Security Services (DSS) and the police to do everything within their powers to fish out the person(s) or even group behind the dastardly act and that the judiciary must ensure justice is done when arrested, even as they seriously demanded for the enactment of very stiff laws against such unprovoked killings in the stat The protesters also demanded that hotels and entertainment outfits in the state installs security gadgets in their business premises, reception, especially the Close Circuit Television Cameras (CCTV) to document all guests to the hotel, David-West was apprehended while trying to escape the intense heat his actions was generating in the state. He was on his way to Uyo, Akwa Ibom state apparently to continue in the evil act, but a viral CCTV video of his last attack got on his way, making his arrest easy. He confessed to the crime and said he had already killed seven women before he was apprehended. While the World is still pondering over that, more facts emerged Wednesday that the suspect who hails from Buguma in Akuku-Toru Local Government Area of the state has further confessed that the actual number of women he killed was 15, and in seven states, and nine in his home state alone. David-West, an alleged repentant cultist (Dey-gbam confraternity), told newsmen that he takes joy in strangling young women in hotels whenever the urge to kill comes. He claimed that he did not cut his victim’s vital parts.