Sir Norbert Obi is the Chairman of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State. In this interview with NWANOSIKE ONU, he gives reasons why the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) may not be able to displace APGA during the 2021 governorship election. How prepared is APGA for future elections in Anambra State? Things are gradually working out towards 2021 and there is an adage that says “ empty vessels make the most noise.” In APGA, we admit that we have some short falls during the last primaries, but we have taken care of that. We are gradually coming back to our normal self. We have just held our congresses and new executives were elected at all levels, ward,  local government, state and national, and we have been to work. Some days back,  we had a retreat for all the state officers and all the local government politicians, chairmen and secretaries. We also had a seminar at Royale Garden Hotel in Nibo. These things are geared  towards 2021. In those functions, we had  all  our elected House of Assembly members, 24 of them, and the House of Representatives 5 of them in attendance. We have invited scholars and politicians to deliver papers to them again . That’s much I can tell you about our operations towards 2021. We are working very hard. But, the PDP and APC are saying that your administration has failed? Definitely, we shall retain power. Since   2006 till date in Anambra,  we have performed very well. Watch all the states. We do not owe anybody. Salaries are paid promptly, pensions are paid promptly and not minding the tight financial schedule that we have in the country. Thing are gradually moving on fine. Don’t mind them. I said initially that ”empty vessels make the loudest wise”. Our governments had performed, but we are now looking for somebody who will further come in and galvanise the party more. My party has no candidate in mind. I have continued to say that this time around, we will not bring in someone from outside. He must be a home grown politician that knows the territory very well. That’s what people like us are looking out for, who will come in here galvanize the party, make things work out, know where it pinches people, then make amends. That’s the candidate we are looking for. If you go to other states controlled by the PDP or APC, things are not working the way they are talking. Go to Kogi, salaries are not paid. In Bayelsa, it’s the same story.  Don’t mind the propaganda on ground that  things are not working in this place, Anambra is where the action is. Other states, including Abia, things are not working. So, we are proud of our leader Akpokuedike (Obiano). He’s trying his best, but as I said earlier, we are looking for somebody who is a home grown politician, who will come in and help us to galvanise the party, consolidate on what the present administration has done and move it forward. Your party is looking towards the South Senatorial Zone? It is the turn of the South Senatorial Zone. After, it will to come back to central and after central, it will go back to North again. We don’t want acrimony and 8years, central and north again and south, the bit goes on and on. But, the PDP chairman said there is nothing like zoning. That any candidate of any political party can come from anywhere. That they cannot follow APGA. Rather, APGA is supposed to follow them as a small party. Don’t mind them. They can pick from anywhere. If they want to pick outside the state, they are free to do it. But the consequences will be hash on them They are free to pick from Imo anywhere. But, we are APGA, we know that we are zoning the governorship to Anambra South Senatorial Zone for equity and fair play. So it’s better for them, if they feel, let them go to any place and pick, they will face the consequences. How do you react to the statement of the Vice President that APC will take Anambra to the Next level in 2021? They are day dreamers. Somebody from South west coming to tell us what will happen in Anambra State. It is not possible. We the Anambra know ourselves and they know who they are following. Vice president is a highly placed man and we will don’t have issues with him. But, our people know where the power lies and we know what to do to tighten up things. It is not for public consumption. But, what about the PDP’s threat as former Governor Peter Obi on the prowl? PDP is nothing without  rigging. Look at 2003 when the Uba brothers were in control, they rigged all through in 2003 after APGA won all the Federal seats and everything, but they were all rigged out and the governorship came also. Peter Obi won and eventually after 2 years, he regained his mandate. So Anambra State, Imo and Enugu belong to APGA, but PDP rigging has not allowed us to stand our feet. These three states that I mentioned, they are real APGA states and they won their election in 2003 and subsequent elections neatly, but because of external influences, we lost. Forget about Anambrans  being PDP State without rigging. They are no where. It is just mago mago, Peter Obi knows it. Forget that he is hungry for power and left APGA, he wants a higher platform which has been elusive. But, look at what is happening now after his vow to take out APGA. He’s an ambitious human being and just left APGA for PDP because he believes that moving to PDP, he would grab power. Lets sit and watch. Obi  has become like an oracle in Anambra politics like Ngige was before now. Do you still think your party has what it takes to dislodge  them? We will beat him, beat the Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen Chris Ngige, in their own domains when the time comes. My party is not in the same class with APC and PDP in Anambra State. Just watch out. We don’t believe in noise making. APGA is a “one room party.” You can’t compare APGA to PDP or APC. If they are strong, why haven’t they gone to other Southeast states? Both PDP and APC are relying on rigging, they are using such tool  and using the influence of power at Abuja there. The Obasanjo and so on style. Just of rigging, apart from that APGA would have won about five states in the South east states before now, if things were to be normal for two tenures. We would have cleared all the seats in Anambra and everybody knows it. APGA won in Enugu state, won in Imo and even Abia not to talk of Anambra. But, the powers that be muscled everybody with the influence of their fellow brothers. They wrote results, did everything. That was how APGA lost eventually until they recovered Anambra from the tribunal in 2006. So, forget about that arm chair theoreticians. APGA is real Southeastern party for the Southeasterners before Obasanjo and all the past presidents spoiled the whole thing. That was what killed APGA until we regained APGA in 2006. Now, 16 years down the line, nothing will happen to APGA. How have you resolved the crisis in your party? We are gradually coming to it. We are gradually achieving results. We are dealing with powers that be. People that made the difference  are gradually getting back. We need the confidence of the people and before  the end of this year, we will get to  a new position in this country, God willing.