For the Federal Government’s Micro Pension Plan to succeed the National Pension Commission (PenCom) and Pension Fund Administrator’s (PFAs) must take the plan to the grassroots, an actuarial expert, Dr. Pius Apere, has said. Apere, who is the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Achor Actuarial Services Limited, spok at a conference in Lagos. He stated that the operators could achieve this through the deployment of technology. He explained that technology enables people to access financial services, including pension products and that it is a driver behind realising financial inclusiveness. He said: “Potentially high front-end capital investments in information technology (IT) infrastructure as well as manpower by PFAs are required in establishing efficient micro-pension administration and delivery platforms to mobilise micro-pension contributors at the grassroots. “In fact, the timing of implementation and robustness of IT infrastructure by PFAs as specified by PenCom to meet the expected increase in micro-pension contributors in the short term may be a concern.” He urged PenCom to carry out adequate supervision and periodic reviews and ensure an efficient  implementation of the MPP, adding that there is a lot of work to do by the regulator and PFAs to bring confidence into the pension system and that a network of branch operations by PFAs with high standard of service delivery would help to bring confidence in the system. He noted that there is high tendency for micro-pension contributors to operate RSA as a bank savings account because of the over flexibility of the contingent withdrawal option provided in the guidelines. Apere said: “For instance, the micro-pension contributor may withdraw the total balance of the contingent portion of his/her RSA including all accrued investment income thereto, making the first withdrawal three months after the initial contribution and subsequent withdrawals once in a week from the balance of the contingent portion of the RSA. In view of the above, the contingent withdrawal option would create administrative hassle for the PFAs because the amount of records keeping required would actually lead to incurring high administrative costs and processing time. “The above administrative hassle could be avoided or reduced if at the point of registration micro-pension contributors are asked to complete a weekly or monthly income and expenditure planner which would indicate and/or guide how much they can conveniently safe in a week or month. The forgoing is also in line with section 6.3(d) of the micro-pension guidelines (“The amount of contribution shall be dependent on the Micro-Pension Contributor’s pension aspiration and financial capacity.”