The volume of cargoes into the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos has dropped by 70 per cent, it was gathered at the weekend. The reduction is due largely to the state of the economy. Besides economic factors, it was gathered that many cargo airlines are diverting from Nigeria because of prohibitive air navigation and airport charges. Many airlines, it was gathered, now resort to diverting their non-time bound cargo to the seaports because of the huge cost of freight using the air mode of transportation. Confirming the development, Association of Foreign Airlines Representatives in Nigeria (AFARN) President, Mr Kingsley Nwokoma said increasing cost of freight by air is forcing importers to consider other options of moving their goods. He said players in the air freight value chain were losing clients to the seaports because there were faster ships which can deliver heavy duty machinery, furniture and other items that are not pressed for time. Nwakoma said airlines involved in cargo freighting have reduced their flight frequency from three to four times weekly to one in a week, as a direct effect of the state of the economy. He said the Ease of Doing Business directive rolled out by Federal Government has not impacted positively on the cargo and allied value chain. Another factor he cited for reduction in cargo airfreight is the difficulty carriers face in getting out bound goods to fly back to either Europe, Asia or United States because some clients prefer pocket-friendlier modes of freighting their carges. Nwakoma said: “The interplay in the economy is affecting air cargo business. The aviation sector is losing clients to the seaports because clients are now looking for avenues to cut cost . “You know air freight is very expensive, that is one of the reasons clients now move their cargoes that are not time bound to the seaports. “In the last one year,  it has dropped significantly by 70 per cent. Cargo aircraft coming into the country has also reduced.” He, however called for improvement in airport facilities and reduction in  air navigation charges to attract more players in the sector.