Governor Seyi Makinde has flagged-off the light-up Ibadan project, where he said Oyo State embarked on the deployment of smart LED street lighting technology to fight crimes in the state capital and other parts of the state. He said that the project would improve the security of lives and position the state for socio-economic drive. Governor Makinde stated this at the flag-off of the Light Up project, which took place at the Challenge interchange near the old Ibadan Toll Gate of the Lagos/ Ibadan Expressway. The project is one of the activities carried out for the commemoration of the Governor’s 100 days in office. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Taiwo Adisa, quoted Governor Makinde as saying that “the benefits accruable from the provision of standard and adequate infrastructures, particularly smart street lights, cannot be overemphasized. It is indeed an essential component of our face-lifting and industrialisation programme.” “Let me use the medium to reiterate our administration’s unflinching commitment to the uplifting of the welfare of our people and we shall always endeavour to bring to fruition our great dreams of better life for our citizens, be it in the rural or urban centres. “I, therefore, appeal to all persons irrespective of political and religious affiliations to cooperate with our government in steering the ship of this state to greater heights,” Governor Makinde said. He expressed the belief that Light Up Oyo State would improve the lives of the people in various ways and rightly position the state among the fast-growing metropolitan states of the world. He charged the contractor of the project to be prompt in carrying out the project within a 45 day window, warning that quality and functionality must not be compromised. Governor Makinde equally called on residents of the state to give the contractor the needed support in the course of the project. Earlier, the Commissioner for Works in the state, Professor Raphael Afonja, stated that the delivery of the smart LED streetlights infrastructure across some strategic routes within Ibadan metropolis was one of the achievements of the Governor Makinde administration towards improving security and infrastructure in the state. According to Afonja, the project approved by the Governor is worth N1.772 billion, having gone through public procurement due process and due consideration of the Executive Council, includes replacement of the existing underperforming street light fittings with improved modern technology street lights fitting and installation of new ones at the strategic routes. The commissioner added that project’s major features would also include deployment of an improved smart LED technology street lighting, which is first of its kind in Oyo State in terms of the magnitude of deployment, efficiency and financial commitment.