The rich cultural heritage of the Mbube community in Ogoja Local Government Area of Cross River State was on display on August 31 as members of the community celebrated this year’s New Yam Festival. NICHOLAS KALU was there. For several hours on Saturday, August31, guests from far and near joined the people of Mbube community in Ogoja Local Government Area of Cross River State to celebrate this year’s Yam Festival. Ojerim Village in Mbube, venue of the event was literally shut as huge crowd made their way to the roomy arena to behold a cultural spectacle and catch some fun usually experienced once in a year. There was heavy drumming, singing, trumpeting and breath-taking dance steps by cultural dancers who thrilled guests who had seated before the arrival of the dignitaries. It was all glamour and show of opulence, as an estimated crowd of 5,000 that included friends, well-wishers and other prominent indigenes of Cross River State participated in the celebration of the long-standing cultural carnival for which members of Mbube community are known. The weather was clement as the sun shone brightly out of the azure sky. As early as noon that day, the spacious Mbube community square that usually hosts the event had begun to witness massive influx of spectators. The capacious square was largely suffused with beautifully coloured masquerades and traditional dancers who entertained the people. Gaily dressed Cross River State women known for their panache and active social lifestyle were a marvel to behold. The men equally in their beautiful Southsouth attire swirled to the suiting rhythm of drums and other musical instruments in that somewhat balmy afternoon. It was a gathering of who is who in Mbube land. It was a colourful union that had the message of love, peace and unity among the people for growth and development of the community. The Ojerim Village in Mbube witnessed the coming together of the people in their colourful native attires to showcase their cultural heritage as they celebrated the king of crops. Commenting on the significance of the day and the place of yam in the culture and tradition of the people, the Chairman of the Central Planning Committee, Chief Patrick Agida, who described the festival as a platform for reunion among those indigenous to the area, noted that the festival was aimed at promoting the unity and development of the area, even as he added that the community had to connect with their history, culture and economy. This, he said, was also meant to promote local content and improve agricultural produce from the area. According to him, the festival was not all about drinking and dancing, but also to promote the rich cultural heritage of the Mbube people and improve farming activities in the area. “Today, we will witness yam competition for male and female, best palm wine tapper and best dance group. Basically, some of us here were trained by farmers and we believe that it is in the right place to promote farming activities. “The star prize of all the competitions is a new car for the beauty pageant and two motorcycles for the best farmers in the male and female category. We hope that as we grow, we will be able to present the best farmer with a truck to help in conveying the farm produce to the market. “In Mbube, we pride ourselves as the god of palm wine because the best palm in the world can be gotten from Mbube. That is why we are celebrating our local content to promote our culture and heritage,’’ he said. The President-General of Liluom E’mbe Worldwide, a socio-cultural group in Mbube, Brig. Gen. Mannix Nyiam (rtd), said the festival afforded them the opportunity to celebrate and sustain their common heritage and moral values and the responsibility to uphold and transit to future generations. Nyiam explained that without their cultural heritage, the knowledge, which gives their people a sense of rootedness, would not be boldly defined and properly anchored. “This occasion, therefore, offers us the platform for the promotion of our culture and unity as well as the projection of our image as a dynamic, progressive and peace-loving people. “Our cultural heritage matters as much as the needed pride and confidence in oneness even in pursuit of happiness. I, therefore, implore our brothers to renew their commitment to this Mbube Bitchong Ifife Festival. “My brothers and sisters, let us stop agonising that things are not working well generally, let’s rather start organising our lives in order to ensure that we have a society that represents our wishes,’’ he said. The Chairman of Mbube Traditional Rulers’ Council, His Royal Highness (HRH), Oti Mathias Abue, said the need to foster unity and solidarity through the projection of their culture was important. He said the Mbube Yam Festival was to promote massive and quality participation capable of stimulating and developing their cultural heritage. The member of the Cross River State House of Assembly representing Ogoja State Constituency, Hon Peter Odey, said the bountiful harvest heralds a period of sober reflection, a period of rededicating themselves to the norms and values of their tradition with a view to further deepen their oneness and unity. Odey announced that he was setting up the Oturukan Foundation to provide education support for students, assistance to widows and other less privileged people and young individuals willing to develop themselves in meaningful ventures. James Francis Abang emerged the best yam farmer in the male category. The second was Godwin Nyiam, while Ayim Ogar took the third position. In the female category, Alice Joseph Okangbe emerged as the best yam farmer. The second best farmer was Maria Odoh Arikpang while Madonna Ojie Obi was third. In the assessment of the best palm wine tapper, Agbor Ogon came first while Okam Pius and Abang Abuo came second and third respectively. Miss Angela Onigar Agbo won the car for the Miss Mbube pageant.