Five notorious self-confessed kidnappers who have been terrorising residents of Ibarapa area of Oyo State have been arrested, the  state police said. Last week, the Chairman, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP),  Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology Igbo-Ora, Mr. Opadijo Olujide, together with his secretary, Gbenga Alayande and three others were kidnapped in the Ibarapa area,  but were later released by their captors 24 hours after, on the payment of N5m ransom. Though, the police could not immediately link the five kidnappers with the abduction of the lecturers, they said investigation was ongoing on the latest arrest to know if they were the same people who masterminded the kidnap of the lecturers. The criminal elements, according to the state police command, were arrested while arranging for ransom for one of their  kidnapped victms, a 17-year-old boy, Shakiru Weti. They were all paraded yesterday  along with N1million cash (the ransom) recovered from them,  at the Eleyele Police Headquarters, Ibadan. The Commissioner of Police in the State, Shina Olukolu who thanked  the people of Ibarapa for their understanding and support, said the kidnappers engaged the police officers in a gun duel when they laid siege to rescue the victim. According to the police boss, the family members were encouraged to agree to pay the amount demanded, while the police detectives laid ambush for the suspected kidnappers. Narrating how the daredevils were apprehended, the state police chief said  “On 17th September, 2019 at about 2200hr, one Alhaji Abdul Saliu ‘m’ the Sariki Fulani of Oyo State resident in Igangan reported at Ayete Divisional Police Headquarters that a Fulani called Weti ‘m’ reported to him that an unknown gunman kidnapped his son one Shakiru Weti ‘m’ aged 17 year to an unknown destination. But, on 22nd September, 2019 at about 1700hrs the abductors called and demanded for one million naira ransom . “Consequently, in the process one Yuguda Jayum was arrested with the ransom of N1m intact while his accomplice escaped, Yuguda Jayum confessed to be the leader of the group that carried out the kidnapping, at about 0300hrs of the following day, detectives extended investigations to their hideout at Igangan where their victim was found tied and blindfolded and was rescued. “The victim, Shakiru Weti was rescued unhurt while one Kehinde Adeoye ‘m’ a member of the syndicate who was guarding the victim to prevent his escape was arrested. But, another cohort Taiwo Adeoye ‘m’ who was armed opened fire on the team and escaped. In the course of further investigations, one Bature Dogo ‘m’, Kazeem Sule ‘m’ and Maanu Garuba ‘m’ were also arrested in connection with the kidnapping case. Upon interrogation Kehinde Adeoye ‘m’, Yuguda Jayum ‘m’, Bature Dogo ‘m’, Kazeem Sule ‘m’ and Maanu Garuba ‘m’ all confessed to have masterminded the kidnapping of Shakiru Weti ‘m’ with Taiwo Adeoye ‘m’ and Sanda ‘m’ who are also members of the gang but presently at large. “One Gionee phone , two Itel phones  and One Tecno handsets were recovered from the duo of Kehinde Adeoye ‘m’ and Kazeem Sule who are members of the criminal gang that carried out the kidnapping. Effort is being intensified to arrest other fleeing members of the gang.” pected kidnappers, Kazeem Sulaiman denied the allegation, saying that he didn’t know anything about the incident. “I didn’t know anything about this issue, security operative just came to my residence last week Sunday and arrested me, I was thereafter taking to the police station, on getting to the police station, I was told that a boy was kidnapped and those arrested with me has even confessed that I didn’t know anything about the incident.”