SIR: A responsible and responsive government the world over exist purposely for the welfare of the people. Any government that cannot guarantee the well-being of the people, especially the privileged, has no business exercising authority over them. No doubt man’s basic needs are food, clothes and shelter and when these needs are not made available, poverty set in and man becomes despondent. For a government that takes the welfare of its people as priority, no effort is spared at ensuring that they are well taken care of and made to have a modicum of comfort. The popular saying that “the devil finds work for idle hands”, will be in the reverse gear when people are engaged in useful ventures, the society also benefit as there will be reduction in social vices like  prostitution, robbery, bandit activities, kidnapping, cultism among others. It is an incontrovertible fact that Nigerians, both men and women are hardworking, resilient and are ready to fend for themselves giving the right environment and support. A look around our cities, towns and villages, one will see men, women, youths and even old people, engaging in one venture or the other to make ends meet. But one problem however is that the owners of businesses in most cases do not have enough money for expansion and even those who have nothing doing and would like to go into small scale businesses do not have the means to do so. This is because obtaining credit facilities from the banks are always very difficult due to demand for collateral and high interest rates. To address this problem, the Ogun State government recently stepped in to offer succour to this category of people in the state by launching an empowerment programme tagged, Oko Owo Dapo. At the launching of the programme in Abeokuta, Prince Dapo Abiodun, governor of Ogun State, said the programme will provide interest free loans to petty traders and artisans to boost their businesses. He said the empowerment programme was one of the ways his administration is using to lift people out of poverty into prosperity, urging beneficiaries to make judicious use of the loans to improve their economic well-being. To obtain the loan, one must be a trader or an artisan and belong to an association. On payment of the first trench of the loan, he or she is scaled up and so qualify to obtain a bigger loan One interesting thing is that those without any means of livelihood, especially, the youth can also embrace the programme and use the money to start their own business as little drops of water will one day, make a mighty ocean. I want to use this medium to thank the governor for this laudable programme. I believe that it will improve the lives of the ordinary people and in turn boost economic activities in Ogun State.  Laderin Estate, Abeokuta.