Oba Azeez Gbadabiu Asiwaju is a traditional ruler. The polished monarch rules over Ikotun, one of the most prominent and most populated communities in Lagos West Senatorial District of Lagos State. In this interview with ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, he explained why the issue of a special status for Lagos state must be taken more serious now more than ever before He also spoke on other controversial issues including the alleged marginalisation of the Awori people in the state, the roles of traditional rulers in a democracy and the state of insecurity in the southwestern region of the country. Excerpts. WHAT is your stand on the clamour by some people that Lagos should be given a special status by the federal government? It is what should have been done a long time ago. Lagos state is heavily populated. Everyday people from other states migrate to Lagos state, and this put a lot of pressure on facilities in Lagos state.If Lagos state is granted a special status, it will benefit not only Lagosians but all Ngerians. Lagos state is a melting pot for all Nigerians. There is no ethnic group that is not represented in Lagos state. So if Lagos state is granted a special status, it is good news for all Nigerians. All Nigerians will be happy for it. Granting special status to Lagos state will bring a boost also in terms of infrastructural development which will benefit all. You recently joined other Awori Obas to allege marginalization of Aworis in Lagos. What is the situation now? We are still waiting to get justice for the Aworis in Lagos state. Aworis have always been supporting, and voting massively since 1999.We have qualified Awori professionals in different fields including technocrats, and also astute politicians who can serve Lagos state, and the nation at different levels, but what we get in return for our support ,and loyalty to the government over the years is not commensurate with  what we have been giving. Aworis are not getting what they deserve in Lagos state. Even non-indigenes are being treated in better ways than the Aworis who are indigenes. This is very unfair, and this is why we are crying out for the world to know what Aworis are going through in Lagos state. Our appeal to the national leader of the ruling party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and other leaders is that they should   take steps to ensure that  Aworis are given their rightful dues. A good proof of marginalization of Aworis is the new Lagos state executive council where Aworis were only given two slots whereas the Aworis are not only the original settlers in Lagos but also has a very large population spread across the state. Aworis own more than 70% of Lagos state. In a cabinet of over 25 Commissioners, and several   Special Advisers, Aworis were given only two slots, and Aworis are the original settlers in Lagos. Not only that, the Aworis occupy 17 out of the  20 local governments in Lagos state, and 26 out of the 37 LCDA’S in the state. And like I said earlier, Aworis have sons and daughters who are eminently qualified to serve as Commissioners, and Special Advisers, so we are baffled that Aworis were only given two slots in the governor’s cabinet. Aworis deserve more than this. We are not happy at the way Aworis are being treated. Why do you think this is happening? It is even annoying when you some people saying that Lagos is a no man’s land. This is an insult. I’m saying a big No to this. Aworis are Lagosians. We are indigenes of Lagos state. Lagos state is not a no man’s land. Aworis are Lagosians, and are the majority in Lagos state. It is unfortunate that some politicians have been using their positions to oppress Aworis in Lagos state. This was why some prominent Aworis recently tackled Prince Tajudeen Olusi who said that Binis own Lagos. What a falsehood coming from somebody like Olusi . If Aworis had not come out to put lie to his false claims, Olusi would have been spreading this falsehood. What we even expect from Olusi as an elderly man is to ensure that Lagos state is fair to all but instead of doing that, Olusi has been spreading falsehood all over the place over the ownership of Lagos. Let nobody make any mistake about it, Aworis are the first indigenous settlers in Lagos state. The fact that we welcome others with open arms should not be misconstrued, and distorted as sign of weakness. Aworis welcome everybody with open arms but we should not be marginalized, and relegated in the affairs of Lagos state. So the Aworis are angry with the ruling party? No group or individual can claim to love APC more than the Aworis. Since 1999, Aworis have been voting massively for the APC. We want Tinubu to intervene. APC not only get its bulk votes from the Aworis, Aworis have also remained 100% loyal to APC. In my own Alimosho local government area which is the biggest local government in Nigeria,APC always get 100% votes in every election since 1999,and these are Awori votes. While people from other states are being given appointments in Lagos state, have you heard  of any Awori from Lagos state being made a Commissioner or being  given any other political  appointments  in Oyo, Sokoto, Anambra, Gombe, Ebonyi, Bayela, Delta  or Osun state or any other state  across the country? It is only in Lagos state that it is happening that non-Lagosians are being given appointments over, and above Lagosians. This is an injustice of the highest order. We also want the current governor, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu to look into our grievances. What is your reaction to the present state of insecurity in the country? It is sad, and alarming. Insecurity is gradually becoming a big monster which must be quickly tamed. It is sad that kidnappers and bandits are now all over the place making life difficult for people. Although government has been taking steps to redress the ugly situation but these efforts must be stepped up in order to ensure that the situation is quickly put under control. One of the solutions is to increase the Police manpower through recruitment of more policemen, and luckily the government is already doing that. But I will also like to advise government to take the issue of Community policing seriously. There is nothing wrong with us having State police. Even the United States where federalism is being practiced like Nigeria have state Police. Having State Police will make the task of combating crime easier especially at the grass-root. The Police should also be well equipped. They should have modern gadgets to combat crime.