If all goes well, members of the National Assembly may reciprocate the good gesture of Air Peace by donating from N100,000 upwards to crew members of the airline who partook in conveying Nigerians back from South Africa in the wake of the xenophobic attacks. The returnees may also benefit from the lawmakers’ good heartedness. This was the suggestion of Ajibola Muraina (PDP, Oyo) as he urged the National Assembly to do more in leading by example. The lawmaker, who represents Ibarapa Central/ North Federal Constituency of Oyo State, spoke on Thursday at a media briefing. The Air Peace Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Chief Allen Onyema, who appeared before the House of Representatives on Wednesday, said his crew members declined their allowances for the South African assignment. Muraino, who read from a prepared text, said: “I am moved to address this press conference to remind us as Nigerians that the events of the last few days, culminating in the evacuation of Nigerians from South African by Chief Onyema (through his Air Peace) with the full and active diplomatic support of the Federal Government, should re-kindle the milk of kindness, selflessness and the spirit of being our brother’s keepers, which were inherent in us as black men but which we have appeared to have lost. “We all know that before this singular self-less act of Chief Onyeama in evacuating our compatriots back to Nigeria free of charge via his Air Peace, Nigerians all over the world hardly offered selfless assistance and help to their compatriots. “With his conduct, help, selflessness, willingness to be our brother’s keepers, as enshrined in various customs and traditions of our people, are back with us in Nigeria. “Let us see his conduct as a clarion call on all Nigerians of financial and other capacities all over the world to be selfless and be willing and ready at all times to assist our fellow countrymen and women on whatever is happening to them anywhere in the world. “As a people, from this moment onwards, let us erase from our minds the idea that whatever problems are facing Nigerians all over the world should be left for the government alone to solve. “Again, whenever problems arise as regards Nigerians anywhere in this world, Nigerians of means should rise up to the occasion and give full support to our fellow countrymen and not leave the problems to only the government to solve. “I am also using this occasion to congratulate and appreciate my noble colleagues in parliament (senators, House of Representatives and House of Assembly members and local government parliamentarians) for their exemplary demonstration of patriotism which culminated in the invitation of Chief Onyema to parliament to appreciate him at plenary. “They know what to do and they did it so well that they have even recommended Chief Onyema for a national award. “Since the National Assembly has given the lead in appreciating the return of the spirit of selfishness, being our brother’s keepers and exhibiting milk of kindness, I humbly suggest that the National Assembly should demonstrate a further lead by example.” “I suggest most humbly that my noble colleagues from the National Assembly should consider making token donations from their salaries (whatever amount they deem, starting from N100,000 upwards) for the cabin crew of Air Peace who worked and continue to work without taking any allowance, the Nigerians who have been evacuated back to Nigeria and those who may still further be evacuated. “This token may be useful for the evacuated Nigerians in whatever form. The cabin crew would also have been appreciated somehow. “This may signpost a new beginning of Nigerians demonstrating milk of kindness towards each other. “If my colleagues can further lead in this respect, most other Nigerians of means all over the world may join the trail and within the twinkle of an eye, what appears to be a very big problem may turn out as blessing not only for the evacuated Nigerians but for all Nigerians all over the world. “Of course, some well-meaning and well-to-do Nigerians all over the world may even offer more than money. They may offer employment and other opportunities to these our compatriots.”