In recognition of her diligence and deep-rooted investigative journalism, Security Watch Africa (SWA) has awarded The Nation’s Correspondent Precious Igbonwelundu Best Investigative Crime and Security Reporter in West and Central Africa (print). Ms. Igbonwrlundu’s story “Southern Cameroon’s chilling tales” beat two other nominees to cliche the coveted Silver Crystal which will be presented to her in November at Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). The Chief of the Army Staff (COAS) Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, Inspector General of Police (IG) Mohammed Adamu and Anambra Governor Willie Obiano are billed to deliver keynote and other addresses at the event. Other award recipients this year include Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu; Chief of Army Training and Operations (CTOPS) Lt.-Gen. Lamidi Adeosun; Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Logistics Taiwo Lakanu; Lagos Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu; Commander Rapid Response Squad (RRS) DCP Tunji Disu; former General Manager Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Adesina Tiamiyu; Commander Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) Lagos Command, CSP Peter Gana and military/police officers who have distinguished themselves in various internal security operations across the country. In 2017, Ms. Igbonwelundu’s story “Inside war-torn Lagos, Ogun communities” also clinched the Best Investigative Crime and Security Reporter in Nigeria at a star-studded event held in Ghana. SWA is the highest security and safety sector award in the continent with previous recipients cutting across West, Central and South African countries. Presenting the letter at the Lagos Police Command in Ikeja, International Coordinator of the award Patrick Agbambu said the panel of judges considered her entry after a meticulous assessment of her official and personal drive in the support of crime fighting, provision of security and safety “through deep-rooted investigative journalism in Nigeria. The letter, which was co-signed by former Chief of Ghana’s Armed Forces Gen. Joseph Nunoo-Mensah (rtd), who’s Chairman SWA Board of Trustees said: “We, on behalf of the Security Watch Africa’s Board of Trustees, Executive Committee and 2019 International Awards’ Panel of Judges, write to notify you, that you have been found worthy to be conferred with this award. “The award conferment will be at the 16′” Africa Security Watch Awards, Conference and Exhibition scheduled to hold on November 6 and 7, 2019 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. “The final decision to confer you with this award was made after a careful assessment of your intellectual disposition, intuitiveness and incisive write-ups in security information dissemination which has contributed to the provision of security and safety in Nigeria. “This year’s event which is in partnership with the Stellenbosch University, South Africa promises to be credible, classy, glamorous and full of finesse and will be attended by top dignitaries and participants from Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, Liberia, Kenya, The Gambia, Senegal, Cote D‘Ivoire, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Namibia and Mozambique.”