A survey by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) in two states has revealed that Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) are not complying with the regulations. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo reports. The National Pension Commission’s (PenCom) survelliance in two states has  brought a damning report: Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) have failed in the management of their branches. In the report, the commission stated that it inspected 13 PFAs in Ondo and Ekiti states to determine  PFAs’compliance with minimum requirements for branches and service centres as well as the quality of their services to stakeholders. A contributor to the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), Christopher Essien, said the PFAs don’t pay attention to their branches. Recounting his experience, he said he had visited a PFA in Calabar to lodge a complaint, but the officials he met asked him to come back another day. Essien said when he went back, they still did not have an answer for him. A retiree, who simply identified himself as Florence, said her PFA failed to pay her pension promptly. Another contributor, Ekeleme criticised her PFA because he did not have his statement of account and know how his pension was being managed. ‘’I am registered with one of the PFA, but I have  not receive any update on my pension since 2013. I attempted to reach them on their website but the it was not working,’’ she added. PenCom Acting Director-General, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, in the report titled: “PenCom 2019 Second Quarter Report”, said the commission sought to ensure that the PFAs staff members were conversant with the provisions of the state contributory pension laws and relevant regulations and guidelines issued by the commission. She disclosed that during the quarter under review, the commission issued new circulars and guidelines to licensed pension fund operators. She said: “The circulars and guideline include Circular on the Implementation of the Requirement for Provision of Fidelity Insurance Cover for Employees of PFAs and Pension Fund Custodian (PFCs) which was issued on June 18, 2019; Circular on the issues in the Transition from the Contributor Registration System to the Enhanced Contributor Registration System (ECRS) issued on June 19, 2019; and Revised Guidelines for Retirement Savings Account Registration – Enhanced Contributor Registration System (ECRS). The ECRS is an upgrade on the Contributor Registration System (CRS) earlier deployed by the Commission in the registration of contributors into the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). “The commission also reviewed monthly compliance reports submitted by the operators. The major issues observed from the review of the compliance reports forwarded by the operators during the quarter under review were un-credited pension contributions, delay in the payment of retirement benefits to the retirees and outstanding commitments from previous routine examinations.” On corporate governance, the PenCom boss said the commission found that some PFAs had inadequate composition of the Board, non-submission of yearly performance evaluation of individual directors challenges. “During the quarter under review, a total of 29 operators forwarded their Corporate Governance Reports for the year ended December, 31, 2018. The major issues observed from the review of the Corporate Governance reports were the inadequate composition of the Board, non-submission of Annual Performance Evaluation of individual Directors, inclusion of Executive Directors as members of the Board Audit Committee, some Directors being members of all Board Committees and holding Board meetings same day with the Board Sub-committee meetings. “Also, licensed pension operators continued to render the returns for the funds under their management/custody as well as that of the Company to the Commission via the Risk Management & Analysis System (RMAS) for the quarter ended June 30, 2019. “The Commission sustained its regulatory intervention on First Guarantee Pension Limited owing to non-resolution of the outstanding issues. However, the PFA continued to provide services to its clients with a satisfactory solvency and going concern status. ‘’The Commission sustained its efforts at ensuring an expeditious resolution of the shareholders’ dispute in the PFA with a view to ending the regulatory intervention,”she said.