Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is 100 days old in office today. EMMANUEL OLADESU examines how he has been tackling the challenges of governance in the Centre of Excellence. It has been 100 days of action, focus, resilience and resolve to make an impact on Lagosians. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has been on the weighing scale.  So far, the judgment of the people is positive. In their view, the governor has hit the ground running and demonstrated the resolve to build on the legacies of his predecessors, Babatunde Fashola (SAN) and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. As part of activities marking his first 100 days, the governor commissioned the Olusosun Dumpsite Building yesterday. The facility is meant for the training and re-training of Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) staff. He is determined to rid Lagos of the heap of refuse that has dented the image of the state, apart from also creating jobs in the sub-sector. Today, Sanwo-Olu will launch the State Blue Box Recycling at Simpson Transfer Loading Station, Lagos Island today. It is part of the new initiatives and strategies to ensure a clean environment. The speed of performance has increased, following the swearing-in of commissioners and special advisers two weeks ago. Sanwo-Olu has set up a cabinet of talents comprising seasoned professionals, tested technocrats and experienced politicians who will drive the developmental agenda of the administration. During the recent retreat, the members of the State Executive Council were able to tap from the experience of Asiwaju Tinubu and Fashola, who were his former bosses. Earlier, the governor had appointed a retired Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Folasade Jaji, as Secretary to Government, Mr. Tayo Ayinde as Chief of Staff and Mr. Gboyega Sanyanwo as Deputy Chief of Staff. The experience of the last 100 days has shown that Lagosians made a wise choice during the last governorship poll. Sanwo-Olu, a dynamic and forward-looking administrator, has demonstrated wit, competence and capacity for the work.  On his shoulders rest the care of almost 20 million Lagosians, a demography that has made the Centre of Excellence a mini-country. There is high expectation. So far, Sanwo-Olu has not disappointed the voters. Many Lagosians expect him to sustain the tempo to the end. Following his inauguration, the governor swung into action. During the campaigns, he had expressed concern over the environmental condition of the city-state. The traffic snarl starred him in the face. Lagosians complained about the infrastructural deficit. In particular, they cried out that the roads were bad. In response to people’s yearnings, the governor signed an executive order on indiscriminate refuse dumping, traffic management and public works. The order on indiscriminate refuse duping is now being vigorously enforced. Information and Strategy Commissioner Gbenga Omotoso said the move has restored sanity. Also, the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) has been directed by the governor to operate a minimum of two shifts until 11.pm daily. The Office of Drainage Services in the Ministry of Environment has been directed to embark on aggressive cleaning of secondary and tertiary drainage system to ensure the free flow of rainwater during the raining season. The governor also directed to commence the rehabilitation of bad roads. Sanwo-Olu has given a marching order to LASTMA not to spare the road offenders. He said nobody is above the law. “If my brothers or cabinet members breaks traffic laws, arrest them,” he said. The officials are also to shun indiscipline, particularly bribery and corruption. Since motivation is critical to efficiency, the governor has increased their allowances by hundred per cent. Also, he emphasised that the Lagosians should continue to be enlightened and encouraged to be law abiding on the roads. The filling of potholes on the roads has contributed to ease of movement and reduced traffic snarl. Citizens can contact the relevant agencies on the condition of the roads in their localities and responses are prompt. When he assumed the reins, Sanwo-Olu was inundated by complaints that the Apapa gridlock was wrecking havoc. He made appeal to the Federal Government to come to the aid of the state. The federal and state governments put heads together on how to end the logjam. He was in company of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), who was on inspection of the axis. The governor said: “Fixing the road in Apapa, completing the trailer park and deploying technology solutions that ensure we never have to experience the trailers nightmare again are critical for Lagos and the Federal Government.” As the sixth elected governor of Lagos, Sanwo-Olu has heroes and role models to learn from. Before him, the state had the fortune of being governed by successful governors who left indelible marks. He served under them as special adviser and commissioner. Although no fewer than seven All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains were on the queue for the job, the lot fell on the surveyor and banker-turned politician. Little did he guess that he would leave the job of the Managing Director of the Lagos State Property Development Corporation (LSDPC) for the higher responsibility. During the campaigns, Sanwo-Olu demonstrated an understanding of the city state and its myriad of challenges. To Lagosians, he is a round peg in a round hole, and yet with a huge capacity for learning and improvement. The party that put him forward believed that he is reliable, tested and trusted. As Special Adviser on Corporate Governance, Acting Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Commissioner for Establishment, Training and Pensions, and LSDPC boss, he heft his indelible marks. However, his greatest asset is his loyalty to the party, the government and people of Lagos State. His victory at the poll was a fulfilment of destiny. At the direct primary, Sanwo-Olu was a candidate to beat. The party had proposed a change of candidate and he became the symbol of the intra-party struggle. The aged, youths, women and other stakeholders embraced his candidature. In demonstration of a clear understanding of their aspiration, he promised a government of inclusion. In the spirit of the time, Sanwo-Olu visited all party leaders, party officers, elders, office holders, religious leaders, other Lagos opinion leaders, and women groups. He was at home with the masses; artisans and peasants. On his lip was the message of unity, harmony and cohesion. The candidate urged Lagosians to invest their trust, confidence and faith in him as he sought for their votes. He did not promise what he could not deliver. Thus, Lagosians took him serious. Sanwo-Olu survived the odds during the electioneering before breasting the tape. Apart from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) threat, he triumphed over internal rebellion within his party. The Sanwo-Olu campaign team, led by Ayinde, ran an effective intra-party campaign. A confident Sanwo-Olu was on the popularity scale radiating warmth. He won. However, having secured the ticket, the governor was not carried away by the victory. He embarked on reconciliation, urging those who also sought party tickets during the primaries and lost not to lose hope. The next hurdle was the campaign. Lagos APC opted for door-to-door campaigns, following the fracas at the maiden rally at Ikeja. The coast was clear on poll day. His opponent, Jimi Agbaje, having seen the handwriting on the wall, conceded defeat. Sanwo-Olu is not a vendetta-seeking governor. There is much to accomplish instead of succumbing to self-distraction. The governor has refrained from relating with civil servants and chieftains based on their intra-party affiliations. He believes in a motivated workforce. Thus, apart from regular payment of salaries, he has fulfilled his promise of better welfare packages for civil servant. To convey them to and from work, 35 buses were provided. Governance is not a tea party in Lagos.  The Centre of Excellence is not a place where the governor can relax. All Nigerians have stake in Lagos. It is the economic hub. The population is huge and there is pressure on the social infrastructure. It is a highly sophisticated and politically conscious state.  In Lagos security is key. Conscious of this, Sanwo-Olu promised to overhaul the security architecture of the state. He has mobilised security agencies to sustain the prevailing atmosphere of security, curtail or prevent cultism, armed robbery, kidnapping and pipeline vandalism. The governor has held many meetings with security chiefs, with the permanent aim of securing Lagos. He has also mobilised traditional rulers, community leaders and community development associations to contribute their quota to intelligence gathering that is critical to security. Yesterday, governor unfolded plans to recruit more teachers for public primary and secondary schools. Much is expected on Sanwo-Olu in the next four years. His programme of action gives a ray of hope.  During his inauguration, he promised to work for a “greater Lagos” through the implementation of “six pillars of development agenda.” The pillars, which he described as the framework that encapsulates his vision, include traffic management and transportation, health and environment, education and technology, making Lagos as a 21st century economy, entertainment and tourism, and security and governance. Sanwo-Olu said: “These six pillars of development represent our response to the yearnings of the people. They constitute the foundations that must be restored for future generations. Should we fulfil our promise and deliver on these pillars, we are most confident that we would have succeeded in setting Lagos on a new trajectory of economic growth and development that would be unprecedented in our entire history.”