Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to “urgently publish and fully implement the recommendations of the report on financial autonomy of state legislature and judiciary submitted to you in June 2019”. In a letter, dated September 27, and signed by its Deputy Director Kolawole Oluwadare, SERAP said: “Equal treatment before the law is a pillar of democratic societies. But when judicial financial autonomy and, by extension, independence and sanctity are undermined, the scales of justice are tipped, and ordinary Nigerians suffer. “In fact, when judicial autonomy and independence is under siege, everyone loses, as the voice of the innocent goes unheard, while the guilty continue to act with impunity.” The letter added: “The failure to publish the full recommendations of the report and to begin to implement them has continued to undermine the country’s judicial systems, and deny citizens’ access to justice and basic human right to a fair and impartial justice system. “Ensuring the financial autonomy and independence of the courts would improve the ability of our judicial systems to deliver justice effectively and efficiently. It would also allow the court to jealously guard the rights of innocent men and women and ensure that the guilty receive a fair and impartial hearing as well as remove the dangerous possibility of summary justice…” “We urge you to ensure full respect for the rule of law and due process in words and actions. “A financially autonomous judiciary is crucial for the effectiveness and success of your anti-corruption agenda, and important for the realisation of citizens’ human rights. “Unless the report is fully implemented, trust in the court’s impartiality and independence will continue to be eroded, and the core judicial functions, access to justice and the broader accountability function of the judiciary will continue to be undermined. “A weak judiciary would mean that impunity for corrupt officials will remain, as the ability of your government and anti-corruption agencies to prosecute grand corruption as well as public trust and confidence in institutions of government and public officials will continue to be undermined…”