Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said the media remains a partner of government in educating, informing and entertaining Nigerians , despite negative reports about the Muhammmadu Buhari administration. He spoke in Abuja on Thursday during a dinner for heads of media organizations across the country to appreciate them for their roles in sustaining democracy in the last four years. He tasked journalists  to do all within their powers to halt the spread of fake news before it consumes the nation. “I want to say how very thankful I am for all support  we get every day from the press and to say that for good and for ill at all times, whether you report nicely or not so nicely, you will always be friends and partners,” he said. On the alleged negativity of the social media,he cited  an old video that went viral recently , where people purported to be South Africa based Nigerians were seen jumping from a burning high-rise building, running from xenophobic attacks. He said: “I thought somebody in the media, may be radio, may be TV, could seize the initiative and correct the fake news. I think that we as media people, all of us are now media people on social media, print, TV, must begin to do something serious about fake news before it consumes us all.” He was similarly surprised that the traditional media could not see through the lies being peddled  on social media about the president’s  certificate. “Because nobody bothered to find out or didn’t want to find out, the public believed a lie for so long ,” Osinbajo said. “So, with the anonymity of the social media, every day the problems of a free press are becoming more and more complex and even more dangerous.” In a goodwill message, Senate President Ahmed Lawan, who was represented  by Senate Leader,  Yahaya Abdullahi, thanked the media for always supporting all arms of government,  and especially  their good job during the country’s general election and the election of principal officers of the 9th National Assembly. Speaking earlier, Secretary to Government of the Federation, (SGF) Boss Mustapha, thanked the Nigerian media for its massive support. He noted that the Buhari’s administration runs a very accountable and transparent government, thus laying the foundation for a sound economy. His words:”We run a government that is accountable to the public by all standards. The Buhari administration has laid a solid foundation for Nigeria’s economic development through massive investments in agriculture, power, transportation infrastructure and manufacturing. “We believe that tangible investments in these priority areas will drive the nation’s economic diversification programmes, curb inflation and shore up foreign reserves.” Mustapha also highlighted the successes recorded by the administration in the fight against terrorism and corruption, but solicited more support from the media, as he assured them of the needed freedom to operate in any part of the country. He said: “The anti-corruption fight is upbeat. The control measures to tackle leakages  in public resources have saved us billions of naira, while those who stole our common patrimony are being made to return what they illegally acquired for themselves and their cronies through the legal process.