The Jakande Johnson Tinubu (JJT) Park, Alausa, Lagos, was a beehive of activities on Saturday as family, friends and bystanders defied the heavy downpour which disrupted movement across parts of the metropolis, to rally support for Citizen Temitayo Abayomi Lawal during a N4million fundraiser for the latter’s medical treatment. The fundraiser for Lawal, 24-years-old, who is suffering from neurofibroma, a rare cancer ailment, which requires corrective surgery, was put together by his friends, most of who he met on various social media platforms. Speaking with our correspondent, an elated Lawal, who is a Mechanic Engineering undergraduate from Yaba College of Technology (YabaTech) Lagos, forced to drop out of school as a result of unbearable pains, said the planning which took two months and event proper was facilitated by the Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK), Lagos, which donated the venue for free, with support from various charity organisations and individuals, including, Executive Initiative, Gift to Live Foundation, DJ Dino, amongst others. The programme, declared opened with prayers by Deaconess (Mrs.) Kofo Asheku and Pastor Raji Abiola was followed with lots of side attractions including scintillating performances by budding artistes, while different individuals took stands to sell wares, food and drinks, with a pledge to donate over 40 per cent of the proceeds to support Citizen Temitayo’s treatment. The highpoint of the occasion was the unveiling of the campaign which was heralded by a walk led by guests, families and friends, who wore black vests with bold inscription, #SAVETEMITAYO#FIGHT AGAINST CANCER# Fielding questions from newsmen, Temitayo’s mother, Mrs. Ronke Lawal, 52, a widow who hails from Lagos State, in company of her daughter, Miss Dayo, while recalling her first visit to the corporate headquarters of Vintage Press Limited, publishers of The Nation newspaper titles few months ago, was effusive with praises for public-spirited Nigerians who responded to her clarion call for assistance at the time. Almost overwhelmed with emotions, Mrs. Lawal was, however, optimistic that her son would get his life back on an even keel with the support of well-meaning Nigerians. Members of the public can send their kind donations into the account number as follows: LAWAL ABAYOMI TEMITAYO, KEYSTONE Bank, 6024852610. Telephone: 07068992301/08165246556/08122205401