THE British Airways on Tuesday warned that customers would face more disruption, with about 100 flights likely to be cancelled as it attempted to recover from the first pilots’ strike in the airline’s history. The 48-hour walkout, which endedon Tuesday midnight, will have more effects on BA’s service over the next few days as it moves aircraft and crew back to the right places. The British’s flagship carrier was forced to cancel almost all of its 1,700 flights over the two days, hitting 195,000 customers. The airline has offered the pilots a pay increase of 11.5 per cent over three years. The union wants a bigger share of the company’s profits. Further disruption to flights will add to the estimated £80 million hit from the damaging two -day walkout. A statement by the airline said: “The nature of our highly complex, global operation means that it will take some time to get back to a completely normal flight schedule. Due to the union’s strike, nearly half of our fleet of over 300 aircraft and more than 700 pilots will start the day in the wrong place.” It added that more than 4,000 cabin crew have had “disruption” to their rosters and “in many cases, will be unable to operate again for several days due to legal rest requirements”. The airline refused to confirm exactly how many flights would be affected over the next few days. No new talks with the union have been scheduled to resolve the next walkout, planned for September 27, with BA and the British Airline Pilots’ Association still battling over the terms of a pay deal. Balpa, which represents the majority of BA’s pilots, yesterday warned again that it would consider further strike dates if BA continued to refuse “meaningful negotiations”. “Surely any a reasonable employer would listen to such a clear message, stop threatening and bullying, and start working towards finding a solution,” said BALPA General Secretary Brian Strutton. BA Chief Executive and Chairman Alex Cruz,  yesterday, admitted that the unprecedented strike action would “punish” the brand. The airline said customers affected had the option of a full refund or could rebook on an alternative date or airline.