Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) has donated electrical equipment, clothing and other relief materials to the victims of herdsmen and Boko Haram insurgents’attacks in Jos, Plateau State. SHIN’s gesture is coming less than one year after the Korean ship building giant funded eye surgeries for 102 Nigerian patients with cataracts. The patients, who were at the risk of blindness, recovered their eyesight with Vision Care, an organisation under the World Health Organisation (WHO). Since 2015, Samsung has worked with Vision Care in the yearly Eye Camp to give free cataract surgeries to individuals who cannot afford the treatment. In this latest gesture, SHIN said a missionary group from Korea constructed a school in Jos for the villagers in Rhizha, where four missionaries are teaching about 560 children and also providing counselling to victims, mostly women, suffering from the trauma from Boko Haram insurgents’ attacks. As part of its humanitarian assistance, SHIN said it has continually donated to the missionary group for many years and lent a helping hand to the community and its people. SHIN said the villagers have suffered from attacks by herdsmen with many losing their family members and livelihoods to these acts of violence. However, these acts of violence have not deterred the missionary from creating this initiative to assist the community. The missionary group from Korea has been able to construct a church and a school, while Samsung has donated electrical goods, including television sets, which will be used in the school by the children. Samsung has also donated other electrical items for the benefits of the entire community. Items, such as clothing, were also delivered to the villagers. In a letter of appreciation to SHIN, a member of the Korean missionary, Jae Seo, said: “I have been working in Nigeria since 1991 as a Korean missionary. Among our works here in Northern Nigeria, one of our joys is that we see a big progress of the children at our school.  At present, we have 88 students and soon on September 25, more students will join us. Our school is still at the baby-stage since it is only three years old. We have hardly any electronic equipment. “Thank you for your donation of 10 laptop computers, 10 TVs and 10 refrigerators along with 100 pieces of T-shirts and caps. All of us at EMS Rija Academy say, ‘Thank you so much for your generous donations’.”