The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, has proceeded on a seven-day annual seclusion as this year edition of Olojo festival begins in Ile Ife, Osun State. On Sunday evening before ceremonies for seclusion began, the foremost African traditional ruler and the Arole Oodua addressed journalists, where he expressed joy to formally begin the Olojo festival. He said he was on a very high spirit to go into seclusion to meet with “God Almighty who owns the Day through fasting and prayers. He said he would pray for the resuscitation of the country’s economy while in seclusion. Oba Ogunwusi, who is the co-chairman of the National Council of Traditional Rulers, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for setting up an excellent Economic Advisory Council led by Prof. Doyin Salami, warning stakeholders especially those within the presidency to resist attempts to sabotage the council’s efforts in the interest of Nigerians, especially the poor masses. While explaining the significance of the seven day seclusion, the Ooni revealed that the God answers prayers during the period, noting that all he prayed for during last year’s seclusion, particularly for peaceful state and general elections were granted by God. He said: “I am going into seclusion now just to pray for the presidency that they should provide an enabling environment for the newly economic council to do their job. It is very important. In fact, we have to do it in any way we have to do it because Nigerian economy needs to be resuscitated in a rapid manner for the betterment of our country. I am so much familiar with the pedigrees of all the members and Am so sure they will deliver only if given free hands to work. “As a spiritual head of the Yoruba race, I must continue to pray for the country and the government. I must also intercede for the people to support the government and for the government to work for the people. The president has to listen to this wonderful team. Every recommendation must be followed to the later because these are experts carefully selected from all parts of Nigeria. Failure to listen to them might even draw us back. “There is problem in Nigeria, we cannot continue to deceive ourselves because if we do so, we are only postponing the evil day. It is important that we do a rapid economic transformation. We are very thankful for having a corrupt-free President and whoever that would not allow him to listen to the council will have God Almighty to contend with.” “This time around as the Arole Oduduwa, I am focusing more on how Nigerian economy will be completely turned over. If you look around, you will see unemployed youths everywhere this is the time to pay attention to these kegs of gunpowder that we are all seated upon. To me, I am very excited that the best decision ever made by this current government of Buhari administration is to bring in experts for the economic council because I know that our economic fortunes will change for good.”