ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately. Improving the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ achieves SDGs and is a challenge at every level of governance including Local Government Areas and private business. However it makes sense to simplify the measurement of ‘The Ease of Doing Business’ and introduce UN-Rating and UN-Recognised Happiness Factor manifest by putting a smile on the face of all interacting with government agencies and agents and not just federal government contact points. Beyond the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ in the secretariat, ministry, passport office or Corporate Affairs Commission, other actions will improve the total business experience. No governor should forget that traffic is a 20-40% unacknowledged chunk of our ‘doing business life’. If your trip to and from the point of doing business is a complicated dreaded nightmare, a potholed journey with uncontrolled chaotic traffic, then your government is failing and has work to do! Governors and LGA chairpersons:  There are three often neglected components to the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ in your jurisdiction. 1] getting to the business quickly, 2] doing the business promptly and 3] getting back home quickly. Any morning sometimes from 5am in Lagos and 6-6.30am you may see people struggling to go to business- airports, work, school. A 10-minute delay in leaving home can add 1-2 hours to travel torture. Unfortunately you will rarely find active police and traffic officials at junctions before 7.30-8am. This creates a daily routine but unacceptable and unnecessary transport and security problem. Traffic officials must be in attendance earlier than the traffic jam for easier business access. I pass through three important unmanned junctions on the way to business and each of them deteriorates rapidly into a ‘me -first’ traffic chaos after 7.15am thus making business difficult. Unfortunately at the Awolowo-Secretariat Road junction in Ibadan even when the female police officials are there, one chronically behaves very unprofessionally, openly pursuing a personal agenda soliciting funds from drivers without censure. Fortunately there is a super-efficient traffic warden at the Customs junction 500 metres away. Where are the supervisors? Who trains them? Transport officials must be supervised by governments and security authorities using simple cell-phone recordings to monitor their work and confirm they are on duty to preempt traffic chaos. Number two: Doing the business and is a topic on its own. Number three- the ‘Ease of Getting Away from Business’ is as important as the business. Governments must care better for the citizen snarled in needless unsupervised traffic. Back in the 80s, we were deprived by our myopic military leadership and subsequent political class of using the inner-city train in Nigeria and are struggling to revive it. After work and during rains, the junctions and roundabouts are not adequately manned by traffic personnel creating a huge traffic jam nightly. The government’s traffic eyes and ears cannot close at 4.00 or 6pm. There must be working modern ‘Traffic HQ’ working 5am-10pm to supervise, deploy personnel or directly monitor and help the citizen get home. Government must study the traffic at junctions and roundabouts until 9-10pm. I often see traffic police strolling to their posts or receiving orders at 7.30am in police stations while traffic is impassable a few metres away. There is only one solution to this difficulty in doing business. Deploy police and traffic officers earlier and keep them on duty later at junction and roundabouts and provide raincoats and umbrellas for the catastrophic traffic when it rains. This progressive traffic management requires great thought, a masterplan, warlike deployment of personnel women and adequate supervision of same to avoid excessive opportunities for corruption. We really appreciate the headlong rush by government at all levels to talk freely about the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ an international yardstick to meet the SDGs under the purview of the vice president of behalf of government. Thankfully we have climbed up several notches. But the Nigerian citizens at home and abroad people know the truth when they visit to request government provided services from secretariat, passport and driving license offices and even courts. The media is rife with video evidence of the incompetent behavior common in Nigerian embassies closed for unannounced public holidays without even sending an email to those given appointments for these dates and also failings in passport and visa responsibilities making things successful only at lastminute.com or never. Carry out the ‘Ease of doing Business Test’ in your secretariat. Just look for the reaction when you as governor or LGA chairperson ask a cross section of Nigerians to visit any government facility and look for the immediate response – a frown, a neutral face or a smile or indifference. You will probably see an expression of fear. Most often you will get an excuse requesting someone else to go instead because of the expected disrespect, incompetence and deliberate obstructions. Nigeria is seeking to turn from an attitude of hindrance to that of help, from corruption to cooperation, from denials to ‘can do’. What a change. Amen! Mr Governor: Traffic is life and government’s main business and not nuclear physics. Judge yourself not only in IGR but also by how you have improved ‘The Ease of Living, Leaving and Entering your state and LGAs’ -traffic- and using government services.  And please remember that No Parking= No business. Traders need to be moved back freeing the roads and taxis, okada, keke, danfo need to be moved away from obstructing junction exits.