The Providence, another hotel by Mantis Hotel Group, has opened in Lagos. The hotel is situated in GRA, Ikeja,  the capital city of the state. Set with a suburban backdrop, away from the energy and excitement of Lagos, the hotel has a modern design, elegant lines. Luxury and class are to be complemented by exemplary service Speaking at the launch of the hotel held recently, the Head of Operations,Middle East and Africa, Mantis Group, Emile Muller, said Mantis Group has been in Nigeria since 2005 and it has been making positive impact and contributing to the economy of the state. “Initially, when we came, Nigeria was experiencing economic downturn and a lot of hotels were under construction, but currently more people are visiting  Nigeria and for the past 9 months, we have noticed stability” he said. Speaking about what would give Providence an edge over other hotels, Muller said it would stand out due to the services it renders and a bit of touch it has put into the hotel. “Ours is a lifestyle and very unique when compared to other hotels in Nigeria. Currently, we are on seven continents. Our quality service and standard operating system are in place, hence the reason we were recently honoured as the best hotel in Nigeria”, he said. Narrating how it all began, the Chairman, The Providence by Mantis, Hyacinth Oseji, who is also into real estate, said he always found it difficult getting a quality hotel with all the required facilities to lodge whenever he is at Ikeja environs and even Lagos. ” This was what brought about the birth of The Providence by Mantis. We were able to get expert in getting the desired concept. It is a world-class project and the project was executed within two years”, said Oseji. On his part, the Sales/Marketing Manager, The Providence by Mantis, Emeka ThankGod, said: “The hotel is well furnished to taste. That is why the calibre of clients we expect for patronage are the upper class people, so it’s not just for everybody. We just started a few weeks ago and I must tell you that the patronage has been wonderful.” The 79 hotel rooms comprising of 37 Standard Rooms, 29 Deluxe Rooms, five Junior Suites, three Executive Suites, two Diplomatic Suites and three Penthouse Suites. The hotel services include : 24- hour concierge, 24 hour complementary WiFi, parking lot, transfer on request, among others. The Providence by Mantis, according to some of the guests at the launch, was a masterpiece. In the words of the Chairman/ CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, she got to know about the hotel in US “and after having done my research about the place and discovered that it has the best facilities. I’ve been recommending it to people of high repute”, she said.