A woman leader in the Ondo state Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Mrs Toyin Ajinde who was involved in a ghastly road crash with the senator representing Ondo South Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Nicholas Tofowomo penultimate weekend has been reported dead. She was said to have sustained serious injuries in the accident and had since been on admission in University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital, Ondo. Sources said she underwent series of surgeries but unfortunately could not survive due to the degree of the injuries sustained in the accident. The PDP family was thrown into mourning on Thursday as news of her death filtered in. Members of the party were also in grief at the party Secretariat at Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital discussing Mrs. Ajinde’s death. Besides Mrs. Ajinde and Senator Tofomo, other people who were involved in the car crash were a 2020 governorship aspirant of the party, Banji Okunomo and Mrs. Yetunde Dada. It was reported that the car in which they were travelling crashed along Igbara-Oke near Akure while returning from Ibadan, Oyo State capital. The senator and others occupants of the vehicle were immediately rushed to the University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital, Ondo by officials of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC). According to a statement signed by PDP’s Director of Media & Publicity, Zadok Akintoye, Mrs. Ajinde was described as one of the party’s foremost women-leaders. The statement entitled: ‘Toyin Ajinde: An Unbeatable Loss’ reads in parts: “Our party expresses deep sadness at the news of the death of one of our foremost women-leaders, Mrs Toyin Ajinde. “Her demise, which was due to injuries sustained after a vehicular accident along Ilesha-Akure expressway, remains a loss that would be long felt by our party and citizens who met and benefitted from her magnanimity and good nature. “Toyin was a great mobilizer and dedicated party woman who blazed the trail for greater inclusion of women in politics and governance.” The party, however, pray that God would grant her husband and children the fortitude to bear the great loss.