No fewer than 17 persons have been killed after an 18-seater bus collided with a truck along Akwanga-Makurdi Road inward Benue State. This accident occurred barely 24 hours after 13 persons including three children were killed and 11 others injured in a crash involving the same transport company near Unguwan Ciyawa in Eggon Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. It was gathered that 11 persons were killed and others injured last Monday after an accident occurred around the ‘Many Have Gone’ hill along Akwanga road. Monday’s accident, it was gathered, involved a Benue Link bus that left Abuja Sunday evening. It was gathered that a truck rammed into the bus at a sharp bend pushing it into a ditch where 17 persons including the driver died. The Nation learnt that a man Tervershina Jebe lost his wife and three children in the crash. The only survivor of the accident was said to be a woman whose identity could not be readily identified. Confirming the accident, the Director General of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Emergency Management Agency Idris Abbas said over 50 people have been killed on the road. Abbas who spoke at the stakeholder meeting on road traffic accidents organised by the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) said there was need to give road accidents the needed attention, adding that all hands must be on deck. “Road Traffic Accident (RTA) is one of the main daily disasters we face in this country. Unfortunately we are paying lip service to it. If there is a plane crash and one person died, the whole world will know but when there is a road accident where 100 people died apart from the responders, probably few of the media report it and they will not make a major headline of it. “This morning, I received a report that one of the buses of Benue State Transport Service had an accident and killed over 50 people and if not because I have the privilege of knowing, we would have been in dark. “We need to sit up and educate the populace and also sensitise our leaders and government to place priority in this sector. We need to also keep exploring means and ways to improve. We must stop blaming the responders for every disaster and be patient, responsible,” he said.