Amaka and Teddy (not real names) have been dating for 14 months. Teddy was madly in love with Amaka , but because her previous boyfriend was a Casanova , she was always expecting Teddy to cheat on her. Teddy on the other hand being very handsome and a good guy was to Amaka a potential ladies’ man, so no matter how much Teddy tried to tell her he loved only her, she didn’t believe him and was expecting him to cheat on her the way her ex did. Her constant monitoring and jealous tantrum was destroying the relationship gradually. Finally, they were able to seek for counsel and discovered that past hurts in her previous relationship were affecting them negatively. This is a common story to so many couples, especially the ones recovering from a bad relationship, just getting into a new one. When you leave a bad relationship, the next one may seem like a bomb waiting to explode. Sometimes we cook up problems that don’t exist. We are not saying be blind to your spouse’s fault, but the issue at hand is to explain how one can move on from a past relationship and enjoy the current one without allowing issues from your past affect you. A lot of people develop negative mindsets due to previous hurt or pain experienced from spouse, friend or family member and thereby create a defence mechanism to avoid heart break and pain. There are quite a number of ways to tell if your past is affecting your present or even your future. And one of the best ways is when you quarrel or fight, what are the typical issues that come up? Is it about the opposite sex?  Money? Sex? Pride? Chores? Responsibility? Forgiveness? The truth is if you don’t get rid of issues you faced in past relationship and come to terms with it , they will definitely affect you in a negative way. I will try to address a few of the issues that are common to most relationships which may have their major source from unresolved past hurts / experiences with others. Hmmm this is a big one. No matter how young or old, being dumped is the worst feeling, even worse when there is no exact traceable reason why, other than the fact that he/she doesn’t love you anymore. So many people have been dumped on their wedding day, introduction day, after introduction, after having a baby, after paying bride price, after paying school fees, after building house, and so much more. It makes one feel used, especially if one of the parties has been sucked dry. When one is suddenly dumped or abandoned by a past lover, spouse or friend, it can be extremely difficult to build another friendship without having the thought of “what if she dumps me?” or “what if he uses me for sex only and moves on to the next young, fresh, yellow skinned lady?” Truly it is only God or Allah that can see and know all things, no man can exactly understand how another man thinks 100 %, a man you claim to know today can transform tomorrow, even good people are capable of doing bad things, which is why we are comfortable in blaming the devil for everything except ourselves. Anyone who has been dumped before will be afraid of being dumped again. It will be difficult to open up completely to anyone. Unfortunately, you cannot totally  avoid being heartbroken or vulnerable because you have to take a risk to love , being alive alone is a risk. We need to know that we must stand up and take responsibility for our hearts and actions. You have to face the reality of things and ensure that yes you were dumped but it is not the end to life and an opportunity to learn how to avoid such happen. It doesn’t mean you have to turn into a shell and stay inside like a tortoise. Life is for the living and must be enjoyed. Most times because of past hurts, people create a very strong armor to protect themselves, and what this does in essence is that it makes you unable to share your thoughts, feelings and fears without your spouse, you only succeed in closing off everything so that no one can hurt you again. It is almost as if you become a zombie and if anyone tries to come close to you, roar like a lion to scare them off. Such people never find joy in any relationship because wounds are so deep, no matter what you do they can never be happy, even if you cut your leg or hand of. Emotionally, you make your partner suffer because you are making them suffer for crimes someone else committed. It is a style of withholding yourself emotionally. Regardless of anything, you need to work on this issue. The more you can try to make effort to open up, the more you can share who you really are with your spouse. It is a difficult path to follow, but healing is very possible. You just need to make an attempt, especially if your spouse is worth it. First step is honesty about how you feel on certain issues to help build intimacy. Don’t just carry your issues on your head. Sex is fun no doubt, some people have the stamina of going at it 24/7 , good luck to them! While some prefer to use time table, what is good for Peter may not be good for Paul.  The issue here now is the category of people who feel they have been used for sex only by previous partners. This is a serious issue and can affect a relationship negatively because focusing on sex only to keep your partner means insecurity is seriously at play and then when this partner gets tired of sex , what next? Sex issue gets in the way of intimacy. Thinking sex is the only thing to offer is a dangerous move. We won’t always stay beautiful, and we won’t always stay handsome. I remember when I had accident years ago, instead of me to praise God I was alive, the first thing that came to my mind was my teeth. I thought my front teeth had broken. I was so scared. God, how will I now talk , laugh or smile with several missing teeth? When my husband came to the scene, the first question I asked him was, please please check my teeth o, are they still complete?  The world says beauty is in the eyes of the beholder, but just try being ugly for a day and see how people will react towards you. Vanity is truly the order of the day. So back to sex, yes any relationship based on sex alone can never last. True love is really complex as it encompasses so many things like sacrifice, balance, forgiveness, patience, and lots of long suffering. Someone who truly loves you will appreciate you for more than sex and will never want you to feel used. But you also need to give love a chance. Someone who loves you will find you sexy inside and outside the bedroom. 