The management of Adamawa State University, Mubi, has recounted how the institution emerged from Boko Haram occupation of its campus between 2014 and 2015 besides two other crippling challenges to attain 98 percent of its courses duly accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC). The acting Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof Kaletapwa Farauta, spoke when the leadership of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) paid a courtesy call on the university management. He stated that Boko Haram invasion and destruction of facilities was followed not long after resumption of academic activities in 2015 by long drawn disharmony between management and staff over entitlements and reduction in allocation to the university in 2017. She added that the university has weathered the storms through innovation and personal sacrifices by all members of management and staff. “This is the only university in the country where the insurgents gained entrance and sat where we are sitting today (Senate Building). The entire university was overrun, with buildings badly damaged and office equipment, furniture, vehicles destroyed or stolen,” she recounted. Farauta, who became acting VC in 2017, said she and other members of management who were appointed in place of a dismissed management team at the time over unending conflicts that involved management, staff and even students, met a polarized university. She added that the crisis-ridden environment was made worse by a cut in the subvention by the state government to the university. She recalled: “Before July 2017, the percentage of allocation coming to this university was 5%. From the day I walked in here as the acting vice chancellor (July 20, 2017), it was reduced to 3%. Explaining some of what have been the university’s surviving strategies, she mentioned prudent management of resources and innovation with accreditation by which the university uses internal staff to conduct mock accreditation exercises in preparation of courses for NUC’s accreditation, among other strategies.  She disclosed that of the 2% of courses yet to be accredited by the NUC, seven are set for NUC’s visitation, namely Mass Communication, Biochemistry, History, languages, Micro Biology, Biochemistry, Geology and Business Administration. The state Chairman of the NUJ, Mr Ishaka Dedan, who led other executives of the union on the courtesy visit to the university, appealed for admissions for members of the union seeking such opportunity. He pleaded they be granted rebate to enable them take advantage of the favour. “We have about 400 members in the state council of the NUJ. Many of this number got into the profession with diploma certificates. Those who may wish to come for higher qualifications, please open your doors to us,” Dedan said. He promised the university fair reporting of its events and issues by NUJ members in line with the union’s resolve to partner the university for a mutually benefitting relationship.