The report that the United States of America-based Federal Bureau of Intelligence (FBI) has indicted 77 Nigerians, who allegedly participated in a massive conspiracy to steal millions of dollars from victims in that country is shocking. According to the report, a 252-count U.S. grand jury unsealed by one Mr. Hanna, charged the 77 Nigerians with participating in the condemnable act. The FBI has already arrested 14 suspects within the US, and is making efforts to arrest the rest. We join the Federal Government of Nigeria to condemn the actions of the few individuals who are giving our nation a bad name. It is however encouraging that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has promised to join forces with FBI to deal with the menace. The Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, promised that the commission will “cooperate with other stakeholders and other law enforcement agencies in this country and outside the country, like the FBI and the NCA and other law enforcement agencies in the neighbouring countries to make sure we deal with this issue.” The Nigerian Embassy in the United States has also rightly condemned the act, and made it clear that majority of Nigerians are law abiding citizens. In the words of the Senior Counsellor/Head of Chancery, Mr Mohammed Suleiman, on behalf of Ambassador Sylvanus Nsofor, Nigerian government is willing “to cooperate with the government of the U.S. in accordance with the laid-down universal human rights and due legal processes in the interest of our nation.” He went on: “the Embassy wishes to reaffirm that Nigerians are a generally law-abiding and hardworking people wherever they are, including in the U.S.” It is important that the United States and her officials do not use the misconduct of the few Nigerians to tar the majority of honest, hard working Nigerians. Clearly, by agreeing to cooperate with the US government, Nigeria has shown that it is a responsible world citizen, and we enjoin reciprocity from the other countries. For instance, the US and other countries should help Nigeria, and indeed African nations to stem corruption in their countries. This they can do by ensuring the reparation of stolen wealth, stashed in their domestic banks. It is important to note that when these foreign countries frustrate immediate and complete reparation of stolen wealth in their local bank vaults, they give the impression that they condone crime or even encourage it. It is also important to note that many of the economic challenges bedevilling Nigeria stem from the criminal expropriation of local resources by citizens, in connivance with foreign nationals and institutions. So, while praising the Federal Government and its agencies for their quick reaction to the indictment in the United States, of our nationals, we urge them to also demand for reciprocal action with respect to the millions of dollars stolen from Nigeria that are stashed in the banks of foreign countries. One of the causes of high youth unemployment and criminality in our country is the connivance of foreign nationals with our local criminals to steal and stash abroad our scarce local resources. Of note, while we support Nigeria’s offer to cooperate with FBI, it must be remembered that all those indicted remain suspects until they are found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction. By implication, while not supporting the criminal indictment of her citizens, the country owes them consular services even where they are found guilty. Their rights as citizens must be defended, even while supporting that those found guilty of criminal activities be made to face the consequences of their action. After all, reciprocity is important in international relations.