The Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Ekiti West Diocese, has warned politicians to desist from playing do-or-die politics. The church also called on the political class to desist from heating up the polity for the sake of their ambitions. The church also commended Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi for what it described as “laudable performance” since he came to power in October last year. These were some of the decisions reached at the Second Session of its 7th Synod presided over by the Bishop, the Rt. Rev. Rufus Victor Ajileye Adepoju. Other issues of national and global importance were deliberated upon. The synod, which held at St. Paul’s Anglican Church, Erijiyan-Ekiti, had as its theme: “Occupy Till I Come,” and was attended by clerics, traditional rulers and political office holders. In a communiqué issued at the end of the synod, the church expressed gratitude to God that Nigeria successfully navigated her way through the last general elections held between February and March. It reads in part: “Synod thanks the Almighty God that Nigeria survived the potentially volatile general elections that held earlier in the year. “The palpable fear of possibility of total breakdown of laws and order was divinely averted. “Synod reiterates that politics is not a do or die affair and calls onpoliticians to desist from heating up the polity for the sake of their political ambitions. “Synod challenges the three arms of government to respect the democratic principles of the rule of law and separation of powers.” On Fayemi’s performance, the church said: “Synod congratulates the Governor elected after the last synod, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, for hislaudable performance thus far. “Synod also challenges him to see to the development of the state, especially on education, welfare of workers and to enhance the security of lives of properties in the state. “Synod appreciates the increase of the funds for settlement of overdue gratuities from N10m to N100 million every month, thereby making available more funds to settle the backlog of gratuities owed to several retirees. “Synod commends Dr. Kayode Fayemi for the bursary package given to Law School students and urged the government to extend this gesture to other students from the state.” The Synod also called on the Federal Government to reconsider the recommendation of the 2014 National Conference on the creation of state police. It decried the insecurity in the country and urged the Federal Government to urgently address some of the root causes of the problem. The Synod called on the Federal Government to reconsider the recommendation of the 2014 National Conference on the creation of State Police.