A FEDERAL High Court in Abuja has ordered the Department of State Services (DSS) to release detained Convener of #RevolutionNow protest, Omoyele Sowore. Justice Taiwo Taiwo, in a ruling yesterday, directed that Sowore, who was also the presidential candidate of African Action Congress (AAC) in the last general election, be handed to his lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN). The activist lawyer is to produce Sowore for arraignment whenever he is required. Justice Taiwo also directed that since a charge had been filed against the Sahara Reporters publisher, he should deposit his passport and other travel documents to ensure his availability for trial. The judge held that the court’s earlier order, made on August 8, which permitted the DSS to detain Sowore for 45 days in the first instance, expired on September 21. He added that since the DSS withdrew its application, in which it had sought the renewal of the detention order for another 20 days, there was no longer any existing order of court for the publisher’s continued detention by the DSS. The ruling followed an application filed yesterday by Falana for Sowore’s freedom. The Office of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) filed a seven-count of treasonable felony and money laundering against Sowore and Olawale Adebayo Bakare (aka Mandate) last Friday. Falana, at the beginning of proceedings, withdrew the application he had filed for his client’s bail, on the grounds that it was overtaken by events. The lawyer averred that since Sowore had not been charged with terrorism, there was no basis for the application to be moved. He prayed the court to order his client’s release from DSS custody since its earlier order, which permitted the DSS to detain him for 45 days, expired by since September 21. Falana averred that since the DSS also withdrew its application for the renewal of the detention order, there was no competent subsisting order of court for Sowore’s continued detention. “Since the application for the renewal of the detention of the respondent has been withdrawn and struck out by the court, we urge the court to make an order for the immediate release of the respondent from custody, in line with Section 35 of the 1999 Constitution. “In addition, since the order of this court, made on August 8, 2019, for the detention of the respondent by the DSS for 45 days has expired by exclusion of time, the implication is that as from today (yesterday), there is no order of a competent court for the remand or further detention of the applic