The campaign manager for Society on Family Health, Mr John Ocholi, has disclosed in Kano, that over N14.2 billion has so far been spent on the procurement of 8.4m mosquito treated nets for distribution to the 44 Local Government Areas of Kano State to curtail malaria Scourge in the state. Ocholi, and his team who were in the ancient of Kano on an advocacy campaign, to enlighten the Kano people on the advantage of using  mosquito treated nets, said the project was in conjunction with the Kano State government, as  over 33,000 adhoc staff, had been trained and engaged  to carry out an aggressive campaign to the grassroots in the state on the danger associated with malaria scourge. According to him : “We have designed a strategy by using technology, whereby citizens will collect cards, which would qualify them for free treated mosquito net  to avoid fake ones been paraded alongside the genuine ones in the markets. That is why we do not want the campaign for the elimination of malaria to die via the use of mosquito treated nets.’’Prior to using, the mosquito treated nets, the campaign manager of the project, said the launching will commence on 4th of October, and advised members of the public to ensure using the nets, so as to avoid mosquito bites, which often results to malaria. Apart from that, members of the public must ensure to always sleep under treated  mosquito nets, adding that without such measures, they risk malaria, which often results to high rate of infant  mortality in the society.’’ Mosquito treated nets must not be used, as wrappers or for decoration but only for the use of eliminate mosquitoes, which are the major sources of malaria, which poses serious danger to our infants. ’’Our advocacy campaign will be focused on rural dwellers, who are the major beneficiaries through enlightenment on the need to maintain high sense of hygiene and clean environment, in order to avoid stagnant pool of water around them.’’He charged the media to focus more attention on the reportage on the inherent dangers associated, with prevailing  malaria scourge, ravaging the society, which is put at 97 per cent.’ ’We want every household  in the country to at least have one mosquito treated net, adding that they must allow air pass through the net before using them. Use mosquito treated nets, so as to reduce the burden of malaria, as the nets last for between three and four years. ’’When dirty, use mild soap to wash it but not medicated soap, so as to sustain its potency.’’ On a final note, he urged both the Print and Electronic media to provide adequate health publicity, so as to encourage the Private Sector to support the campaign, as part of their corporate social responsibility.