Police have arrested a native doctor and five robbery suspects in different locations in Imo State. Two of the suspects sustained serious injuries during a gunfire exchange with police. Parading the suspects at the Command headquarters Thursday,  Commissioner of Police Rabiu Ladodo gave the names of the suspects as Ikenna Eze, aka Fela, 23, Chukwudi Ezeala aka Infinity, 33, John Ogubuike, 23, Harrison Okoroafor aka Doctor, 21, Abdul Ahmed, 41, and Eze Emeka, 33. He said Ogubuike, an alleged notorious armed robber, who had been terrorising Ideato North and South councils of Imo State was arrested on September 4th, 2019 at about 2 pm at Rock View area Owerri, Imo State, by SARS operatives led by ASP Banjoko Oluwemimo. Ladodo said the suspect confessed to the crime and took operatives to Isiala Mbano on September 4th,  2019 at about 4.30 pm where one Harrison Okoroafor aka doctor was arrested, adding that Harrison Okoroafor confessed to the crime that they all belong to a five-man armed robbery syndicate. “On 11 September 2019 at about 8.30 pm the arrested suspect John Ogubuike took the operatives to their criminal hideout at Anara in Isiala Mbano L.G.A of Imo State, where the leader of the gang Ikenna Eze aka Fela and Chkwudi Ezeala aka Infinity were arrested. The police commissioner said during the arrest there was the exchange of gunfire and in the process, Ikenna Eze aka Fela and Chukwudi Ezeala aka Infinity sustained gunshot injuries on their legs. According to the CP, they were later rushed to hospitals for treatment. “They further took police operatives to Lumpata Gariki Market along Abia Okigwe Expressway Abia State, where one Abdul Ahmed was arrested on 18 September, 2019 while  Abdul Ahmed, in turn, took operatives to North Bank Area of Makurdi in Benue State, where the robbed Toyota Spider 2017 model saloon car black in color was recovered. “On 20 September 2019 at about 8 30 pm, one of the arrested notorious armed robbers Chukwudi Ezeala aka Infinity took police to Igbele Enugu Ezike in Igbueze North L.G.A of Enugu State, where one Eze Emeka a native doctor was arrested.” The police boss said immediate search was conducted in the native doctor’s shrine which led to the recovery of the gang’s weapons: one double-barrel gun cut to size; one locally made single barrel gun, one live cartridge and one expended cartridge. Eze Emeka confessed to the crime, stating that he bought the guns from Chukwudi Ezeala aka Infinity. On 23 September, 2019 the arrested suspects Ikenna Eze and Chukwudi Ezeala aka Infinity further took operatives to Anara in Isiala Mbano L.G.A of Imo State, where one robbed Toyota sienna bus color blue was recovered in a Mechanic workshop. The recovered Toyota Spider saloon car was robbed on 6 August 2019 at about 8.30 pm from the owner one Mbah Romanus along Umueshi Dikenafai Road Ideato South L.G.A of Imo State on gunpoint.