Why are we expecting a healthy society when all of these (and many more) ‘enemies’ are being made daily because we do not do our jobs as we should? In Nigeria, it is a well-known secret that the churches and mosques are filled to capacity with hypocritical worshippers. Perhaps I am chief, I don’t know. I do know though that more than ninety-nine point nine-nine-nine per cent of these worshippers go to pray for, among other things, ‘financial breakthroughs’. This means they pray that unmerited, unexplainable and unworked-for riches should suddenly fall into their laps. They also go to pray for divine healing. This means that in spite of their eating habits, the heavens should see to it that they stay in perfect health. Above all, this given percentage of Nigerians referred to above goes to pray for protection against all their enemies, big or small. The enemies may include their landlords (so he would forget the rent), their creditors (to forgive their debts), their debtors (to repay their debts), or that their favourite witches should die, die, die! Certainly, these are noble prayer requests. To my mind, however, I think this list comes down to this: they need to pray harder against their enemies. That is where the root of Nigerians’ problems really lies. I once gave a ride to a young, female university graduate around nine in the morning in one of the cities in Nigeria and naturally, I asked her where she was off to. She said, ‘to church’. And this was a working day, a Monday. What was she going to do? She obliged me. ‘To pray’ she said. I asked her what prayer remained for Monday that Sunday did not take care of. She said ‘more prayers’. What about her job? She said, ‘they would understand.’ What about night vigils: aren’t those for mop-up prayers? I certainly know how to ask questions, no? She replied that ‘enemies were always around, so one cannot rest.’ At that point, I left off asking anything more. As it turned out, the young lady believed enemies were behind her not getting a good job, her not being married yet, her not having a car yet (a few years after graduation), etc. I forbore to point out to her that these powerful enemies were also likely to be behind her not being able to stay at her job and she must go around praying during office hours. I also did not point out to her that she needed to really pray against the enemies she was making that very hour she was not being in her office to serve them. Anyway, a light bulb went off in my head on that matter. It struck me that Nigerians really need to pray against their enemies o. Since they are always going around praying, work is being neglected. In the morning hours of weekdays, people ‘have gone to pray’. At noon times, people cannot rest in their houses because others ‘are praying’. Throughout the night times, innocent people cannot sleep because the guilty ‘are praying’ into loud speakers, presumably against enemies that are standing in the way of their breakthroughs and perfect health. It then occurred to me that Nigerians have an awful lot of enemies to pray against. I therefore decided to assist them by drawing up a list for them. So, if you are a Nigerian, you need to pray against: — people whom you have offended by ‘swallowing’ the money that should have been used to tar the roads leading to their houses. You must pray against them; they are dangerous people; — people whom you have offended because you have pocketed the money released for the electrification of their village or district. They are worse than cobras and must be bound spiritually; — people who accuse you of raising their electricity bills so that you can pocket the difference. They are liars that must be consigned to darkness; — people who know that you are part of a syndicate that extorts huge sums out of clients who come to conduct normal businesses in public offices are dangerous people who can’t recognize a business deal when they see one. They must be prayed against; — people who hate Police/FRSC/Civil Defense/army check points must be checked spiritually; — people who know you kidnapped their files and demanded ransom before releasing them from under office carpets need to be prayed for, or their souls will rot in hell; — people who know that you allow road contractors to bribe you into confirming their shoddy work, (and think this is why we have such deplorable roads), really need the whole spiritual works, to bind, gag and send them to oblivion! — people who know that you own a registered company through which you regularly take contracts from your office (where you are employed) are your enemies and should be prayed against; — people who know that you take money from the country for contracts you don’t execute or you execute shoddily need to be prayed against; — people who know you’re just drawing a salary you don’t deserve in your office, since you hardly show up there for more than a few days in the month, must be out of their minds. Pray against them, man; — people who know you’re just collecting money from your office as a worker for work you don’t do are not good people. They need to be prayed against; — people who think that the police are fraudulently collecting what they call ‘mobilisation fee’ (before they can respond to people’s emergency calls) are those whose heads are not correct. They deserve to be locked up spiritually; — people who think that it is wrong to kill other human beings in order to perform a money-making, power-making or client-drawing ritual must be bound until you perform an exorcism on them; — people who go around thinking you swallowed their pension money really need to be prayed against; — people who think they are the victims of your armed robbery or kidnapping or human parts-selling enterprises need cleansing prayers. They are enemies; — people who think they are victims of police ‘stray bullets’ also require serious prayers; — even cows, goats and sheep that believe you have illegally built your cities and houses on their free patch must be seriously prayed against… Clearly, all Nigerians are the enemies that we must pray hard against. Only a handful have managed not to be someone’s enemy; and I think they are dead. The sober question, however, is why have Nigerians gone around making so many enemies for themselves? I think a more appropriate question is, why are we expecting a healthy society when all of these (and many more) ‘enemies’ are being made daily because we do not do our jobs as we should? I think the answer is in the word ‘corruption’. On account of corruption, nearly every Nigerian now believes in cornering as much resources as possible to their corner, and it does not matter how it is done. No public agency runs for the sake of doing the ‘greater good’, only the private good. That’s why you are told in a public agency to ‘do the needful’ or ‘do what you’re supposed to do’ or ‘play ball’. Your failure to do that makes ‘you’ an enemy that must be prayed against. What strikes me most in people’s prayers is that they hardly pray to be helped to do right by their neighbours. No, no, it’s others who need that help. Obviously, though, Nigerians need a lot of help to apprehend the meaning of the word ‘altruism’ or ‘patriotism’. Perhaps, when we begin to pray for our enemies, maybe the spirits of these words will come upon us and lead us to do right by each other. Did you say Amen?! ***This reworked article was first published on 17/9/2017 