A civil society organisation, Policy Alert, has called on the Police to immediately release an Abuja-based journalist, Agba Jalingo. Jalingo, who runs an online platform, Cross River Watch, was arrested last week allegedly on the orders of the Cross River Governor, Ben Ayade, for asking questions on the spending of N500m on a state- owned microfinance bank. The group lamented that the civil space is being threatened, stating it appears worse for those who speak up against public sector corruption, especially journalists and civil society activists. It warned the police to stop acting as what they described as the appendage of the state government. A statement by its HumanRights Programme Officer, Faith Paulinus at the weekend said the organisation is working to enthrone a regime of transparency and accountability. The statement reads in part: “There is a worrisome trend of enforced disappearances happening across the country right now. “Civic space is being threatened and it appears worse for those who speak up against public sector corruption, especially journalists and civil society activists “This is a dangerous precedent for all of us who are in the business of asking questions on public finance management, which should rightly be everybody’s business. “It means we have become an endangered species. It appears that the disappearance of people with dissenting views is fast becoming state policy. “We call on the police to release Agba Jalingo immediately and stop acting like appendages of the state government. “We also demand access to all political prisoners by their lawyers and family. “As a civil society organization working to enthrone a regime of transparency and accountability in government, we refuse to cower at the current onslaught by the Nigerian state. “This year’s International Day of the Disappeared provides an opportunity to drum this message to the world.” The statement also added that the rising trend of enforced disappearances in the country will not deter the organisation from one of its core mission, which is to promote public accountability by exposing misuse of public trust and resources by public