The Joint Action Committee of the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), Non Academic Staff Union (NASU) and Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnics (SSANIP), LASPOTECH branch, on Thursday held a peaceful rally at the Lagos State Government House, Alausa, Ikeja. Their motive was to get the attention of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to resolve the crisis at LASPOTECH. The Vice Chairman, ASUP LASPOTECH chapter, AbudulSalam Olugbenga, said the rally was to remind the governor of his promises to LASPOTECH, including the setting up of a visitation panel, and to let him know that the promises were yet to be fulfilled. “With the rally, we are here to remind the Lagos State Government of the pronouncement made on July 11 on the crisis that has engulfed LASPOTECH for several months. We expect that the governor’s pronouncement will be implemented to end the crisis that has engulfed the institution for months. Unfortunately, nothing has been done.” He drew the governor’s attention to reinstatement of the NASU forum that was “illegally disengaged, the constitution migration which has torn the polytechnic apart, misappropriation in the polytechnic and other issues which the visitation panel will look into, to resolve the crisis.” Noting that they were tired of the crisis, Olugbenga said they were yet to see anything achieved by the visitation panel directed by the governor to resolve the crisis. “I want Nigerians to know that this disengagement has no space in law because the affected people were not charged for anything, they did not face any panel, they did not commit any crime except that they joined their union in fighting for their right. They were just disengaged like that; issuing letters to people who have put in over 27 years in service and declaring that their services are no longer needed in an organisation governed by law. This we see as an affront, even on the union itself. But despite that, we have written an appeal letter as directed by the governor, but nothing has been done about it,” he said.