Worried about the growing environmental challenges across the state, the Majority Leader of the Lagos state house of Assembly (LSHA), Hon. Sanai Bolanle Agunbiade, has called on all residents in the state to cooperate with government on the environmental laws of the state and be more committed to efforts aimed at preserving the environment. He said this at the annual stakeholders’ meeting which took place at the TSSDC hall, Owutu, Ikorodu, Lagos state. Agunbiade is the member representing the constituency in the state assembly. Speaking during the meeting, Agunbiade noted that the stakeholders’ meeting is meant to involve various groups and communities in the decision making process of government. The theme, “Environmental Challenges: Community Engagement to Facilitate Lasting Solution”, he said, is an avenue to collectively find solutions to the lingering threats of environmental challenges across the state. Traditional rulers, community leaders, clerics, council chairmen, party leaders, elected and appointed public office holders, and residents of the constituency, all graced the event. Ayangbure of Ikorodu, Oba Adewale Shotobi, in his submission, urged government to work harder on the agencies saddled with waste management. He lamented the state of the roads in Ikorodu where refuse is now disposed indiscriminately. He was represented by Agbaakin Adewale Elesho. Other speakers at the event include Oba Bashir Sotonwa, Sekumade of Ipakodo, Sheikh Sherifudeen Olowooribi and the Iyaloja of Ikorodu, . They all attested to the timeliness of the discourse, urging the residents to become more conscious of their environment. The gathering resolved that government should promptly attend to the bad roads in the constituency and also provide drainages where necessary while also improving on waste management. It was also agreed that residents of the area should abide by old and new environmental laws in the state and support government in the fight against environmental hazards. Agunbiade, who appreciated the people for always believing in him, promised to relay all the decisions taken at the parley to the assembly.