Dr. Obiorah Okonkwo is a chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Before now, he had aspired to govern Anambra State which did not materialise because of the in-fighting then in his party. In this interview with Nwanosike Onu, he speaks about the zoning arrangement in the state, adding that he is still consulting with the people of the state on his 2021 ambition. Excerpts 2021 is around the corner; what are your plans towards the governorship election in Anambra State? I’m aware there are allocations but for me I believe Anambra as it is now, if anybody loves the state and is a believer in God, we should not be talking about zoning formula. What is left for us to do is to pray that God gives us the best. And sometimes, what we should believe, because I am from here, it is probably those who have not had election that we have been caught before. At some point, in the eyes of man, we do choose one person or the other to be the king like the case of Gideon, David, sometimes the people will think; appropriate. If you look at the case of Gideon and his case with Israel, he claimed that my tribe is the smallest and the weakest, that he should not be the one to lead, but God chooses who should be the best. We are in the state of fatal paralysis in Anambra State; it is only that God has not chosen who would be able to bring us out of that situation; I mean my party PDP. And PDP has its own position and stand on zoning and I’m not doing anything against it and I believe that from what the party said, you can only give what you have; you hand over what is in your hands. So, PDP has made it clear they have not been in power for 16 years; that come 2021, they are ready to take what belongs to them in Anambra. They want to come and win, so again, I’m not here to declare my intentions to all. Everyone has started consultations and that is what I’m doing with my people in the state. But I believe that I am available; the only thing I can say now is that I have made myself available to be of service in any other way and if it pleases God and it pleases the people of Anambah state to send me for any assignment, it should just only be because of my capacity, because of their own positive assessment of what I can do and what I’m capable of. From what you’ve seen already, do you think your party PDP has the capacity to dislodge the ruling party in the state? The only thing PDP needs to do to win Anambra State is to be together. APGA has never won Anambra State in the past without PDP. They have never won by themselves; they have always won with the help of PDP in Anambra. It has always been with the help of PDP. If PDP members make up their mind that they want to take this state back to PDP, APGA would not be of any match and besides, what is on ground in Anambra State as we speak today makes it even easier for PDP. I have no doubt that PDP is the only enemy they have against themselves to win Anambra State. Come 2021, I can assure you that we have all learnt our lessons that you cannot see with another person’s eye. Most people who, in one way or the other, collaborated with APGA to win have realised themselves now; they have seen the adage that says “ ima n ji aya onye ozo fu uzo” (You can’t see with another person’s eyes). There is nothing that is easy. PDP resolving within themselves and among themselves can bring back the lost glory and that time is now. It is time for them to take over by coming together. So, it’s a duable project. Are you not afraid of the government at the national level, especially, based on the pronouncement of the Vice President recently that Anambra will be the Next Level in 2021? The Vice president says what he has to say; the only thing I can take out is that they also saw the possibility of winning the current party in power. So now, it’s probably going to be a race between APC and PDP. So, that’s the only thing to say about them. If you have not seen the possibility of winning the party in power, you wouldn’t have said so. We would be prepared to face APC, so everybody’s intention is to win and obviously Anambra is a very mixed environment; more or less APGA, APC and PDP. So if APC is seeing the possibility of winning APGA, let’s take it that APGA is not in the race. Some egg heads are calling for the zoning of the governorship to South; what is your view on this? I am the founder of Grow Value Humanity Foundation. If you look at most of our common problems today, they may not be lack of resources, issues of opportunities because some of the people are the youths who are well endowed, had one or two opportunities to demonstrate it and we have some resources to better their lives. We looked deeply; made a research and we have to deal with orientation. We should engage in certain things so that it will penetrate to the grassroots, should engage in certain things that will engage the youths and the society. It’s said that in Nigeria our social and cultural orientation has the basic of our guidance and principle. I’m not against any group and location. Let me tell you, the principle of zoning is exhibited in so many areas; there are towns that will zone their kingship, everything depends on interests. For the central, Peter Obi, was made governor by the different courts because he won the election. I’m not against anybody. Peter Obi was made governor because he won the election and won in court after some years; Ngige was made governor because he contested for PDP and was declared the winner not just because he came from Central; it was a coincidence that Peter Obi chose to run on the platform of APGA and happens to be from Central. Peter Obi didn’t take over from Ngige because he was from Central. At that time also, Peter Obi in APGA not in PDP, advocated for equity through zoning. Peter Obi zoned it because he was in a position to zone because he held power then. And let me bring it to the table again, what you may not know that calls for equity, the only senatorial zone that were expecting that call of equity was Anambra South . In 2013, when that call for equity went through was the first time Ngige lost election in this area because Anambra followed that. In 2017, Osita Chidoka ran in UPP against the equity arrangement; he had only about 6,000 votes in the entire Anambra State. He got 600 votes in his home town Obosi and we know the total number of registered voters in Obosi. These are facts. When you put all these analysis together and in all of these things, when he ran in 2017, there were also other candidates. And let me also make it very clear that even when you are talking about the central, the power belonged to the South. Ngige would have not been governor without power from the south. Nobody was in the National Assembly, state Assembly and anything without the power from the South and I admire the magnanimity of those people; they were not parochial. Anambra people are not parochial in anything we are doing. Anambra people are so homogenous in so many things, there is nothing really that divides us. We wear the same cloth, we eat the same food, we understand each other; there is nothing really that divides us that will necessitate all these agitations. I hope people who are involved in this will understand. I want to believe that one of the most important projects done in our democratic institution certainly, is road network that has been created by some governors. These governors, to some extent, may have done it without looking at what zone they are doing or where they are coming from. I stand for and preach for the development of one united Anambra. I believe I am operating above the visibility of where one is coming from. Left for me, anybody has the right to agitate, but power belongs to God at the end of the day. I am of PDP and I go by the privilege and the position of the party which says let whoever that is prepared and ready and capable come and contest. The question is, what do you advice Anambra people; I’m appealing to all of you, join in this message. Anambra is the same. As I said, our religion is 99.9% Christianity; you know what I mean; we marry ourselves, we are brothers; we are together.