The Executive Director of Reagan Canadian International School, Ijebu-Ode, Mrs. Rita Adigwe, has declared the school provide an all-embracing education that is 21st century standard. She said at tender age, pupils at the school are exposed to various activities which will help developed their individual skills to becoming global citizens. “We recognize the diverse educational needs of our pupils. Through appropriate provision we respect and acknowledge that children education is beyond the classroom and we recognize strong academic performance is not enough. “Which is why we invest an extra-curricular activities that help our students to develop and stimulates creativity, build confidence, learn life skills and create social awareness.” She said the quest to come up with a school that meets international standard and an overreaching objective to produce student that can compete favorably in a global market brought about the creation of Reagan Canadian International School. According to Adigwe, the school which is the first of such schools in the Southwestern part of Nigeria, operates a hybrid curriculum. “We implement a hybrid curriculum which is derived from the International Primary Curriculum (IPC) – the Canadian curriculum, British curriculum and the Nigerian curriculum,” she stressed. She explained that the curriculum which is a unique fusion of the Nigerian and Canadian educational system is designed to help give kids an excellent head start, especially from early literacy to creative expression. “We’re proud of our International and multi-cultural ethos, which reflects in the way our students collaborate to make a difference with a team of experienced and dedicated professional teachers. “Aside from taking students to field trips outside and within Nigeria to explore wider horizon that impact their learning, our students have easy and direct entry to Canadian Universities and other Universities around the world,” Adigwe added. She also added that the school is in partnership with a number of international schools worldwide, and that as a way of giving back to the society, it has commenced plans to give scholarship to students annually.