The poor economy and high level of unemployment as well as societal appreciation of wealth make many disillusioned about the value of education, particularly at tertiary level. However, regardless of the difficulties graduates face getting jobs, education is not a tradeoff. Kofoworola Belo-Osagie, Damola Kola-Dare, Adepeju Lawal and Ayodele Adedamola Two young men relaxed briefly after offloading a truck of consumer goods to a neighbourhood store.   They got talking about another colleague who was not present. “Did Ade not study Business Administration?”, one asked the other. “Yes he did”, came the reply.  “But what did he end up doing with it?  He cannot even run a business.  He just wasted his family’s money.” The high rate of unemployment raises question about the necessity of spending four years or more acquiring tertiary qualifications only for graduates not to get jobs in their chosen fields. Once upon a time, jobs were waiting before students graduated.  However, according to the National Bureau of Statistics, the unemployment rate for third quarter of 2018 was 23.1 per cent.  Many students who are unable to find jobs after graduation go back to learn other skills so they can take blue collar jobs. A sales man, Mr Alfred Martins, believes that tertiary education is a big fraud.  He blamed the government for not being able to provide jobs for its teeming youth population of graduates. He said: “Well, generally school is a place where learning takes place. The only two educational stages that are beneficial to man in Nigeria are primary and secondary. This is because one needs basic knowledge in one’s day-to-day activities throughout one’s life. “But when the word ‘school’ is now narrowed down to tertiary form of education, I will confidently say it is a big scam because getting a job after graduation becomes hell for any Nigerian graduate without vocational training. Nigeria is a failed nation in the creation of job hence tertiary schooling is an irredeemable scam.” Though he does not agree that education is a scam, Fajuyigbe Gideon blames political leaders for making it seem like that.  According to him, school becomes a scam once a graduate goes back to learn tailoring or establishes a barbing salon upon graduation. “Education has brought a lot of intellectual development into the society. Our leaders made it look like a scam. No plan for the young ones; no adequate data to know our exact population and how to plan. And obviously the ultimate aim of every graduate is to get employed after being educated. “It becomes a scam when a graduate begins to learn tailoring after spending years in the university or when a graduate opens a barber’s shop,” he said. Damilola Bamigbopa, an accountant, does not however believe that if a graduate learns skills, then it is bad. Bamigbopa, who is a fashion designer on the side, said people should not go to school with the mindset of just gaining paid employment. “We always think school gives you a job in a company. Those who established companies started off from the scratch. Innovation rules the world. The jobs are few, many are qualified for it, so few gets it. We all think the government will provide job for us all. No they can’t! Even China has more entrepreneurs than those in offices,” he said. Adebayo Eroyalesun, who works in a sports betting shop, said the flamboyant lives of entertainers, particularly musicians, and politicians confuse young people to think they can do well in life without  education. He said: “It is just a saying to brainwash youths to think that school is actually useless because most people think they can make more money without going through education or with their certificates. “The sole reasons for this are clear: We have cases of politicians who embezzle billions with just a signature and most of them didn’t even get proper education as most of their educational flaws are being displayed for all to see. “It isn’t a myth the negative impact that Nigerian singers have had on today’s youths.  We have a lot of upstarts who are mostly bitter about circumstances around them, what they have passed through, government negligence and other repulsive backgrounds they had. “They obviously have succeeded in winning over a larger part of the youth into believing that education is practically useless which is untrue.  Their derogatory remarks, use of urban languages, and most importantly their extravagant lifestyle which obviously did not come from working in a firm or being a civil servant is enough to entice youths into believing they could ignore education, thread on the same path and succeed.” Eroyalesun also said illicit gains from cybercrime also mislead youths into thinking education is not worth it. “Cybercrime is a very delicate aspect that has to do with instant wealth.   Youths can now open mails, clone accounts, set up identity under false pretext to defraud people. “Someone who makes millions off this route won’t think of going to an institution for over four years or settle for a meagre amount of money called a salary. This issue is very complex and can’t be discussed with levity.  Certificates are important for who knows what it really is but in this modern day world, particularly in Nigeria, our leaders have only shown us that ‘School Na Scam'”. To reduce the disappointment of what formal education can achieve, some respondents said young people need to understand that education is not synonymous with wealth. Olabisi Akande said many are oblivious to the essence of education and go to school because of the craze for certificates. On the contrary, she said education should be seen as an avenue for the development of the total man and not a money-making venture. “People have the wrong notion about school, hence, they tag it as scam,” she said. Alex Raphael also said: “The thing is to know the true meaning of education; education does not equate to wealth, neither is it financial incapacity.Education is about enlightening the mind – to redefine how you see things. “Education can lead to wealth but it is not primarily about wealth.  It is about creating wealth through creative reasoning.” Older people want education For older people who were not opportune to go to school, education remains important. Madam Bimpe Oyebade, a trader, said she would stop financing her children’s education if she finds they think school is not important. She said: “If I should find any of my children saying that rubbish, he/she will just stop going to school because I see no reason why I would be suffering to send a child to school and he will think the school is a scam; I should just keep my money for myself.” Madam Oyebade regrets not going to school so she ensured her children got educated to tertiary level. “I am not educated and it has really affected me in a lot of areas in life. My business is doing well but I know if I were to be educated, it will  bloom more because I will add the knowledge I learned in school to it. “All my children learnt one skill or the other before going to higher institutions and I did it so that they could be self-employed and not live on salary for the rest of their lives. Education is not equivalent to wealth but they will be able to speak without being waved aside among their peers in the future,” she said. A middle-aged butcher, who pleaded anonymity, also regretted not being educated. He said though not equivalent to wealth, education is essential. “I do not honour my educated friends’ invitation to events because I do not want to be the only different person among them.  I am doing better than some of them but their education qualification makes them stand out. I wish I had the opportunity to go to school but I have vowed to make sure my children are educated. Education is not a scam,” he said.