Air conditioning and commercial refrigeration major, Blue Star International, has embarked on an aggressive expansion drive in Western Africa. The company, with its comprehensive range of air conditioning and refrigeration products,commenced operations in Nigeria in association with its local distribution partner, Merald Technology Solutions Nigeria Ltd, in 2017, and now rapidly expanding its business in the market. To promote its wide range of offerings, the firm hosted a technical seminar at the Sheraton Lagos Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria. Speaking at the event the Chief Executive Officer of the company, Dawood Bin Ozair said that Blue Star, with its rich pedigree of 75 years of leadership in the HVAC industry, has an edge in the industry due to its diverse and technologically superior product offerings such as air cooled chillers, water cooled chillers, process chillers, ductable splits, ductable packaged systems, VRF systems, magnetic bearing oil free centrifugal chillers, cold rooms, banana ripening chambers, chest freezers, room air conditioners, water coolers, and bottled water dispensers, amongst others. Besides, Dawood Ozair noted that Blue Star’s new generation highly energy-efficient 100% inverter VRF V Plus systems, for example, exemplify the Company’s leadership. “These systems are best-in-class as they deliver 100% capacity up to 43ÚC ambient temperatures. With over 75 models of indoor units, and outdoor units with capacities upto 112HP, they can cater to a wide range of applications.” On sustainable environment friendly initiatives, the Company has adopted zero Ozone Depletion Potential (ODP) refrigerant HFC R410A  as replacement to HCFC R22 which is in the phase-out list of The Montreal Protocol. “Considering that HFC refrigerants have high global warming potential, the Company has proactively taken steps to adopt natural refrigerant HC R290 after careful evaluation of safety in certain products. Further, HFC R32 which has one third global warming potential of HFC R410A is being progressively adopted in the Company’s room air conditioners. The Company has already adopted Cyclopentane which is also a natural refrigerant as blowing agent in foam panes used in cold rooms,” noted Dawood Ozair. Yogendra Singh, Managing Director, Merald, added, “With many upcoming projects and development of both residential and commercial properties, we are ready and equipped to provide the best of Blue Star’s HVAC solutions most suited to each requirement.” 