Experts at the just-concluded Feed Nigeria Summit in Abuja said the country has the resources to execute a green revolution to get a strong and innovative agri-food sector, DANIEL ESSIET reports Boosting productivity, fostering competitiveness and ensuring that farmers have more access to markets are key to  realising Nigeria’s agricultural potential. Also, Nigeria needs to realise and capitalise on the advantages of each agricultural product to boost production and consumption, said experts at the just-concluded Feed Nigeria Summit, organised by Agro Nigeria, in Abuja. They agreed that agriculture was still in a relatively small-scale and, as such, yet to meet international markets’ mass production requirements and high quality standards. Noting the challenges from the impacts of climate change and plant and animal diseases, they  urged the government and the private sector to re-organise agricultural production with a focus on key products, scale expansion, and quality improvement to meet importers’ requirements. The Chief of Staff and Special Advisor to the President on Industrialisation, African Development Bank(AfDB), Prof Banji Oyelaran-Oyeyinka, said Nigeria and, indeed, Africa was lagging behind in industrial agriculture because the productivity of farmers was low, compared to other developing countries. This is because human and technological capabilities, including advanced knowledge and mechanisation, are disturbingly in short supply, Oyelaran-Oyeyinka said. He  observed that despite the enormous opportunities, the sector was less attractive to private sector investors due to an array of constraints, including low volumes and inconsistent quality of produce, among others. One way to address this, according to him, is through the Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zones (SAPZ) initiative, an important tool for the structural transformation of the economy given its multiplier effect. To make it work, he said the focus  should be on the development of agro-pastures and agro-industrial integrated platforms, including strengthening and building infrastructure in the rural areas and secondary towns to boost production and national competitiveness. The Managing Director, Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk-Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), Mr. Aliyu Abdulhameed,  said agribusiness and agro-industry development  were critical in ensuring the development of a sustainable and resilient food system needed to deliver healthy diets to all, and to support sustainable poverty eradication. In view of this, Abdulhameed said there must be an improvement in  access to finance  for  farmers and agro businesses to expand their operations. He noted, however, that investments in the agricultural sector was  perceived as a high risk venture, stressing  the need to deploy de-risking instruments for agricultural lending. He reiterated that NIRSAL was determined to an play a critical role in jump-starting the nation’s transformation through the development of agro-based industries that would help boost development, reduce rural poverty, and offer nutritious food and much-needed jobs and income. In line with this, he said NIRSAL has launched various initiatives to promote private sector investment in agriculture, adding that apart from guaranteeing loans, it has undertaken programmes to ensure the sector attracts the required investment, skills and technical know-how that will help to modernise agriculture and deliver benefits that can contribute towards sustainable and inclusive  development. He said the organisation was  creating new approaches to building a de-risked ecosystem to optimise agricultural value chain financing. He stated that this unique approach to agribusiness creates value for farmers and financiers. Agro-Allied, Flour Mills of Nigeria (FMN) Deputy Chief Operating Officer Sadiq Usman said through the organisation’s integrated farm-to-table value chain, has provided direct employment for over 12,000. On backward integration, he said FMN has invested more than $420 million over the past 10 years to execute its core business strategy to aid the agricultural sector; ensure maximisation of local content in our final products and has consistently remained committed to the policy of being involved in all stages of the food value chain. He reiterated that agriculture is a vital part of the economy of a country and its optimisation critical to rural development. At the event, technical experts from key institutions, including development agencies, financial institutions and private sector stakeholders  shared their good practices and innovations.These included successful models and policies, products and services, and their design and delivery mechanisms, including their replicability and scalability. Moving forward, better coordination, sharing of resources, documenting and disseminating good practices among actors were found to be of significant importance. Another key recommendation was to hold similar dialogues at the policy level, to promote an enabling policy framework for access to agricultural finance, in addition to de-risking financing for agribusiness development and reducing transaction costs for farmers in rural areas. Given the critical importance of exports to the economy, the participants  were unanimous in their support of international trade. They emphasised the importance of finding solutions to helping farmers address risks, such as natural disasters, weather events, severe loss or market volatility. They said the agriculture and agri-food industry was promising.