Lagos State government has assured commuters that the expansion work at the Ojodu/Berger Junction on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway would be completed in December. Commissioner for Transportation Frederic Oladeinde gave the assurance on Tuesday while speaking with journalists after a tour of the project site with some top government officials. He said though the project is  federal, the state government is interested because of traffic coming into Lagos. “We would do our best to ensure that by December it would be completed,” Oladeinde said. He said the state is passionate about transportation because it is the engine of any economy “and if transportation is not right it is very difficult for the economy to strive; transportation touches everybody because everybody moves from one point to the other.” “This is the border between Lagos and Ogun states. Obviously any traffic coming into Lagos is our concern and our interest here is to see how the various traffic agencies working here are coordinating the traffic here and to ensure that there is free flow of traffic.” The agencies controlling traffic  are the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) and Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE). According to the commissioner, the three agencies are working harmoniously to make sure there is free flow of traffic “and you can see  they are doing a wonderful job here”. The commissioner appealed to commuters to be patient with the government on the ongoing expansion work. “We are trying to expand this road so that we can create more space so that we can get traffic flowing freely, it is just a little pain, but my advice is that they should be patient with what we are doing”. In separate interviews with the heads of the three traffic agencies controlling traffic at the area, they confessed that they have been working harmoniously to ensure free flow of traffic and that they have been able to curtail the menace of the commercial bus drivers. The heads of the agencies are: Mr. Mathew Cyril Zango, Sector Head of Operations, Lagos State Command of FRSC; Mr. Jubril Adeyemi Oshodi, Area Commander Ojodu/Berger in charge of the project area, Lagos end, LASTMA and Mr. Ganiyu Amin, Divisional Commander, TRACE.