The Nigerian Army has said that it set to commence its special routine training exercises across the six geopolitical zones of the country codenamed ‘Ayem Akpatuma II, Egwu Eke IV and Crocodile Smile IV. Acting Director Army Public Relations, Colonel Sagir Musa, in a statement said that the operation is in line with the Nigerian Army’s “spirited efforts to combat insecurity across the nation”. He said exercise will commence simultaneous in all the zones. According to the statement,  “the exercises are Exercise AYEM AKPATUMA II in the North Central and parts of North Western States of Benue, Nasarawa, Kogi and Taraba as well as Kaduna and Niger States in 1 and 3 Divisions Area of Responsibilities (AOR) including Headquarters Command Army Records, Guards Brigade and 707 Special Forces Brigade, Exercise EGWU EKE IV which will be carried out in the South Eastern part of Nigeria comprising Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo States in 82 Division AOR, while Exercise CROCODILE SMILE IV will as usual  take place  in the South South and parts of South Western States of Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Lagos, Ogun and Rivers States in  2, 6, 81 and 82 Divisions’ AOR. Similarly, Operation POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION will also be extended across the nation to checkmate bandits, kidnappers, armed robbers, ethnic militia, cattle rustlers as well as other sundry crimes across the various regions of Nigeria. “In the same vein, as part of programmes imbued into the exercises, – the Nigerian Army Women Corps, will stage a robust show of force/confidence building patrols in some selected locations in Nigeria. “Accordingly, in order to consolidate on the existing cordial civil-military relations, an elaborate  civil military cooperation line of activities in the areas of community outreaches such as free medical outreach, educational outreach, rehabilitation of identified dilapidated roads, hospitals, schools and old people’s homes in various selected  communities in Nigeria. “Additionally, the Nigerian Army Officers’ Wives Association, will as usual, visit and donate to motherless babies homes and other identified disadvantaged groups in selected communities across the nation. “These exercises will start concurrently from the 7th of October to 24th of December 2019. “The NA, once again, use this opportunity to enjoin all Nigerians not to panic on seeing an increased presence of military personnel and other security agencies as well as movement of Military vehicles /hardwares. The NA wishes to reassure the nation of her commitment and determination to secure the country, protect lives and properties of all Nigerians (which in addition to training of her personnel) is one of the basis for the exercises”.  