It’s been such a busy week with so many stories. It’s possible that you may have missed some of our most interesting stories from this week. To make sure you’re up-to-date, we take a moment every week to bring you important stories. Buhari’s Tribunal victory, FUOYE Killings, VAT increment, Xenophobic attacks: Nigeria returnees from South Africa and other controversial news dominated the socio-political discourse this week. The Nation brings you a brief round-up of the major stories this week. Alao Abiodun Reports. Here are the stories: Tribunal affirms Buhari’s victory in presidential election The tribunal has dismissed the petition filed by the PDP and Atiku for failing to substantiate their petitions. The five-man panel led by Justice Muhammed Garba, which took the grounds of the petition one after the other, dismissed the petitions in their entirety in the unanimous judgment that lasted about eight hours. It described the issues contained in the petitions as mere allegations and lacking in probative value. On the allegation that Buhari lied on oath when he filled in his Form C 001 that he possesses the West African School Certificate, Gaba resolved the issue against the petitioners on the ground that a school certificate is not a requirement for contesting the position of president. The tribunal further stated that Buhari’s failure to tender his certificates while submitting compulsory documents to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) did not translate to not possessing the certificate or not being educated up to secondary school level. He held that even the exhibits tendered by Atiku and the PDP proved further Buhari’s qualification. The tribunal also struck out the petition that the February 23 presidential election results were electronically transmitted. The panel held that evidence put forward by the petitioners were unreliable and inadmissible because such were hearsay. It stated that the petitioners’ position that the results announced by the INEC differed from the original results was based on information from a third party, therefore lacking in probate value. Two killed, many injured as FUOYE students protest persistent power outage On Tuesday, two students of Federal University of Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), Oluwaseyi Kehinde and Joseph Okonofua, were killed by the police. Several other students were also reportedly injured while they were protesting poor electricity supply in Oye and Ikole Ekiti on Tuesday. The protesters urged BEDC officials and the management of the university to find a lasting solution to the epileptic supply of electricity to Ikole community, where one of the two campuses of the institution is located. The convoy of Bisi Fayemi, the wife of the Ekiti State governor, was also allegedly attacked during the protest. Many students of the institution who witnessed the protest said that the response from the police officers attached to Mrs Fayemi’s convoy turned the protest bloody. Meanwhile, police denied the killing. The spokesperson, Caleb Ikechuckwu, said it was the students who attacked the convoy of the governor’s wife. He also claimed the police fired no shots. The university management, after shutting down the school indefinitely and suspending the students’ union, has set up a panel to investigate the protest and the circumstances of the death of the students. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State Government has also sent a delegation to pay condolences to the families of students killed by police bullets. The delegation visited Usi Ekiti and Ido Ekiti where the families of Dada Kehinde and Okonufua Joseph, respectively, stay. VAT increased to 7.5% – Minister The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, has said that the proposed increase of the Value-Added Tax (VAT) rate from 5 to 7.5 per cent by the federal government is subject to the review and approval of the National Assembly. Also, the minister clarified that the increment will be to 7.5 per cent and not 7.2 per cent she announced on Wednesday at the end of the meeting of the Executive Council of the Federation in Abuja. The minister said in a statement on Friday by her spokesperson, Yunus Abdullahi, that the proposed increase followed the recommendation of the presidential technical advisory committee. Mr Abdulahi said early this year the federal government constituted the committee comprising competent and leading economists from both the public and private sectors chaired by the Lagos-based Economist and Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Bismack Rewane. The committee, inaugurated on January 9 this year, was mandated to profer advice on ways to realise alternative sources of raising funds for the implementation of the new minimum wage by the government. The committee submitted its report on March 21 with the increase in the VAT rate from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent as one of its key recommendations to government to handle the issue. The committee based its recommendation on the observation that the prevailing VAT rate in Nigeria was still about half the African average and amongst the lowest in the world. Kogi Governorship: Dino Melaye rejects Campaign DG position Kogi State senator, Dino Melaye, has rejected his appointment by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the Director-General of the Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council. Mr Melaye made the announcement in a tweet on Friday. “Let me state categorically that I have turned down the position of Director-General of the PDP Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council. I wish PDP all the best. When truth is a casualty there is chaos. Senator Dino Melaye,” the tweet read. Let me state categorically that I have turned down the position of Director-General of the PDP Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council. I wish PDP all the best. When truth is a casualty there is chaos. Senator Dino Melaye — Senator Dino Melaye. (SDM) (@dino_melaye) September 13, 2019 The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Olagbodiyan, earlier on Friday announced that Mr Melaye has been appointed to chair the state’s governorship campaign council. Xenophobic attacks: Nigerians return from South Africa with tears, sorrow and trauma It was harrowing experience for some Nigerians who were airlifted from the OR Tambo Airport, Johannesburg. Their flight, which was scheduled to take off at 9:10 am, was delayed for about seven hours. Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, confirmed that immigration issues triggered the delay. But the many hours of waiting and anxiety ended as the Boeing 777 aircraft belonging to Air Peace landed last night at the Lagos Airport. The aircraft touched down at 9.37pm and taxied to the premises of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) via the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, with returnees recounting tales of regrets. As they alighted from the aircraft, they expressed bitter experiences in the hands of their South African hosts. They were received at a temporary camp opened for their profiling by Mrs Dabiri-Erewa, who said the government has available to each of them N40, 000.00 recharge card to enable them communicate with their family members. In appreciation of the gestures, the returnees rose in euphoria to sing the national anthem. Buhari’s govt will deliver uninterrupted power — Minister The Minister of Power, Engr. Saleh Mamman, has said the Muhammadu Buhari next level administration will deliver uninterrupted power supply to Nigeria before the end of its tenure. This was as the Managing Director of Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company, Engr. Garba Haruna, assured that his company was ready to play its part by evacuating the power to be generated from the Kaduna power plant for distribution to consumers. The Minister of Power and the Minister of State for Power, Mr. Goddy Jeddy Agba were in Kaduna State on a two-day working visit. The minister, after inspecting the 330KV transmission station in Mando and the Kaduna power plant in Kudenda, assured that the ministry will ensure that all ongoing power projects in the country are completed and power is delivered to the good people of Nigeria. He however charged the distribution companies to utilise the power to be generated from the Kudenda Station which is almost 86% completed.