Action Alliance (AA) governorship candidate in the last election in Imo State, Chief Uche Nwosu, has urged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to accept the verdict of the Election Petition Tribunal as an act of God. He advised them not to challenge it at the Supreme Court. In a statement in Abuja, the nation’s capital, Nwosu said the judgment was clear on all sides. He said it would be an effort in futility to contest the verdict at the apex court. Nwosu told former Vice-President Abubakar that all the motions he filed at the tribunal were dismissed, adding that everybody should join hands with the President to deliver dividends of democracy to Nigerians. He said: “If I were to advise, I would say the PDP and its presidential candidate should not go to Supreme Court because there is a judgment you see and you just let go and support the President so that Nigeria will move forward. “The best thing the PDP would do is to allow President Buhari to continue undistracted so he can deliver the dividends of democracy to Nigerians. “You can see clearly that the judgment has shown that President Buhari won the 2019 presidential election clearly. “The issue of President Buhari not having certificates was dismissed, just as the issue of security agencies helping him to win the election. Almost all the motions brought by the PDP and its presidential candidate were dismissed. What it means is that it was a free and fair election. “Remember President Buhari is somebody who does not believe in rigging an election. He said it before the election that if he should lose, he would go back to Daura – his home town in Katsina State – and that if he should win, he would continue. The people didn’t believe, but on the day of election, you saw that PDP won many states and many National Assembly seats. “President Buhari believes in democracy and rule of law. So, we, who believe in him and are supporting him, are happy. I want the PDP presidential candidate to support President Buhari so he can concentrate on governance.”