Refusing to let her physical disabilities hold her back, a physically-challenged entrepreneur, Miss Maria Gorrathy Iche, got involved in several activities before finding her calling in textiles. After studying Fine and Applied Arts at the Federal Polytechnic, Oko, Anambra State, the indigene of Imo State has opened her own textile designing business. She shared her experience with DANIEL ESSIET. Miss Maria Gorrathy Iche, a Fine and Applied Arts graduate of Federal Polytechnic, Oko, Anambra State, is an example of a lady who did not let her physical disability hinder the pursuit of her dreams. She had treatment for years, but she did not let her disability come in between her and his dreams. With her strong will power and dedication to succeed, she decided to study Fine and Applied Arts. Today, she is enjoying and making a living from it. She started her business with N20, 000 after her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in 2016. She has set an example for those who want to live their dreams. She has proved that disability could be turned into an opportunity. Her dedication has made her  a notable figure and a leading  textile designer within her local community in Imo State. Miss Iche has overcome all the odds to write her name in gold. She is making a living from textile designing. Her collection include handmade bags, assortment of dresses and beads. Speaking with The Nation, Miss Iche said she received help and support along the way. For her: “There is something called opportunity. God sends it and you have to grab it. When opportunities fell in my lap, I grabbed them. It has made me who I am today.” After she enrolled for her Ordinary National Diploma (OND), she discovered her  interest  in fashion and passion for colours. Miss Iche said physically challenged entrepreneurs would continue to face challenges because the society had not shown them enough support. She faced rejection, but she soldiered on. She said it is her dream to see her craftsmanship celebrated on a national platform, saying this is what will bring her joy. She is determined to work with physically challenged artisans in villages across Imo State, if the government supports her. Her plan is to establish an organisation that provides scholarships to underprivileged students to pursue careers in textile design and bead making. Her goal is to provide longtime employment to local artisans who are contributing to collections that are relevant.