The Institute of Nigeria-China Development Studies, University of Lagos, (UNILAG) has launched a newspaper, Nigeria-China Times Newspaper, a publication of the institute and the Chinese Investors Association for Development and Promotion, to promote collaborations and trade between both countries. The newspaper was launched during a seminar on research and collaboration opportunities between Nigeria and China organised by the institute recently. Deputy Vice Chancellor (Development Services), Prof Folashade Ogunsola, said at the event that the university would support the institute’s effort to engage in meaningful research activities about the business, culture and the needs of the people of both nations. Ogunsola said since its establishment last November, the institute has served as a resource centre for Chinese foreign investors and a think-tank for the Nigeria-China bilateral relationship. She said both nations needed to collaborate and focus on the areas of mutual benefits and bridge gaps where necessary. “We would love to see better relationship, cordiality; lots of values exist between Nigeria and China which is beyond the trading relationship that is in existence. “With the institute, a symbiotic relationship and bi-directional relationship can exist. There is a lot we can learn from each other,” she added. The institute’s Director, Olufemi Saibu, a professor of Economics at the university, said the institute would facilitate inward and outward trade relations between the two countries. He said the vision of the institute is to “become an institute for exchange of intellectual ideas and research excellence in pursuit of knowledge for development, mutual trade and economic activities that will impact positively the Chinese-Nigeria economies”. He added: “Since inception, selected people from the institute have paid a visit to China on two occasions where issues bordering on research and collaboration were discussed. “The institute would provide a platform for profound and innovative research which will help propel Chinese investors and encourage investments, especially as relates to China-Nigeria relationship.” Saibu also disclosed the intention of the Chinese government to establish a Chinese-African Institute, one in UNILAG and the other South Africa. Ronnie Liu, the Chairman of Chinese Investment Association and the institute’s co-chairman, spoke on:Business and investment opportunities in Nigeria and China. He said there were opportunities to be tapped by the people of the two countries. “The association is trying to help more Chinese come to Nigeria, and know more about Nigeria in order to foster collaboration in trade and research. We hope to use the platform to train more Nigerians,” Liu said.