The ongoing fight against malnutrition in Niger State is currently being hampered by lack of funds to combat the scourge, the state Nutrition Officer, Hajiya Amina Isah, has disclosed. Speaking at a two-day health and nutrition budget meeting for officials of nutrition line MDAs from Kaduna, Nasarawa and Niger states, Isah lamented that cash backing has been a serious problem facing funds releases in the state. According to her, ministries, departments and agencies in Niger State always get funds approval on paper but there are usually no cash backing. “After getting budget approval, we write memos, get approval, but to get the cash is a very serious issue. This is the area I will really like to see improvement. That is why we are here in this meeting with people that matter, such as the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Accountant-General. “We are equally here with members of the Niger House of Assembly, Deputy Speaker, chairmen of House Committees on Finance, Health and Appropriation to garner their support,” Isah disclosed. Isah further bemoaned the huge number of malnourished children in the state, disclosing that a reasonable number of children under five years in the state were acutely malnourished. “We are currently implementing Community Infant and Young Child Feeding programme in eight local government areas, as part of intervention to prevent malnutrition among children under five years. “We are equally implementing Community Management of Acute Malnutrition in one council to provide access to curative services and save affected children from dying of acute malnutrition. “We will be able to treat affected children and carry out effective preventive intervention only if needed funds are made available.” The Permanent Secretary of the state’s Ministry of Finance, Mr. Mohammed Sadauki, promised to ensure timely cash backing of approved funds for nutrition intervention. The meeting was organised by Civil Society Scaling-Up Nutrition in Nigeria (CS-SUNN), Alive and Thrive (FHI 360) and Save the Children International (SCI) to push for improved nutrition funding.