Kare-Dadin Kowa, an agrarian community in Kebbi State has joined the growing solar-powered communities in Nigeria. Last week, the Federal Government inaugurated a 98.8KW solar hybrid mini-grid power plant. For a border community which produces the best rice and millet in Nigeria, the facility will not only improve their ways of lives, it will also boost their trade and end the long dark years, writes CHINAKA OKORO.  For Kare-Dadin Kowa, a small riverside community in Arewa Local Government Area of Kebbi State, things are no longer the same. The tiny community with a total population of about 3,180 people has agriculture and fishing as its main economic activities. Residents of this agrarian community have been in darkness for decades and had resigned to fate until the ‘unexpected’ happened. Power supply is a major problem in Nigeria, which the Federal Government has battled unsuccessfully to fix. Successive administrations’ efforts to remedy the situation have proved futile. But, solar power is coming to the rescue. The Muhammadu Buhari-led administration is trying its best to fix the power sector. One of the ways through which it’s tackling the problem of power supply is the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) through which electricity is provided for universities and rural communities.  Kare-Dadin Kowa, an agrarian community in Kebbi State is the latest beneficiary. So, on Tuesday last week, there was a new vista for this community that has been in the dark for years. That was the day the Federal Government inaugurated a 98.8KW solar hybrid mini-grid power plant for the community. The ecstatic members of the community rolled out the drums to celebrate an end to long years of darkness. As the inauguration lasted, the people watched in amazement as they were about to experience a new lease of life. They, including the old and the young, were excited as they lined the streets to witness the historic event. The traditional troupes added colour as they sang and danced to the rhythm of the traditional music to the admiration of the guests. Determined not to rest on its oars until the unserved and underserved communities across the regions of the country have equitable access to uninterrupted and sustainable power through an off-grid independent power plant, the President Buhari-led administration again fulfilled one of its mandates  on Tuesday, September 17, 2019. The entire Kebbi State literally converged on Kare-Dadin Kowa community to witness the historic inauguration  of a 98.8KW solar hybrid mini-grid power plant. The newly inaugurated solar hybrid mini-grid plant would provide clean energy to 483 residential buildings, schools, places of worship, health centres, 82 commercial buildings which would also serve over 3,000 inhabitants of Kare-Dadin Kowa community. Implemented by the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) under its Rural Electrification Fund (REF), the fund strives to maximise the economic, social and environmental benefits of rural electrification grants to promote off-grid electrification and to stimulate innovative approaches to rural electrification. The first call of the Rural Electrification Fund (REF) will energise 12 communities and deploy 19,000 Solar Home Systems (SHS). REF projects are administered using a Public Private Partnership (PPP) model. Praising President Buhari’s commitment to enhancing the well-being of people living at the grassroots, Minister of Power, Saleh Mamman, an Engineer, congratulated members of the community in particular and Kebbi State in general on the success of the inauguration. He further stated that the ministry under his leadership is committed to electrifying  Nigeria. “Under my leadership, the Ministry of Power will continue to provide requisite policy interventions to ensure that transformative projects such as this will have the desired impact of electrifying Nigeria,” he said. In his remark read  by the   representative of Kebbi State Governor and Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development Aminu Umar,   Governor Abubakar Bagudu  commended President Buhari-led administration’s  Next Level Roadmap in rural electrification. He said: ”The solar hybrid mini-grid will expand and transform the economic landscape of Kebbi State. Small businesses such as welders, cold room operators as well as processing mills can now operate more effectively with reliable and clean electricity as a result of this project. This solar installation has 380 panels that will provide electricity to over 3,000 residents of this community. We are the land of equity and this project is further ensuring the distribution of equitable power to the people of Kebbi State. “My vision is to industrialise Kebbi, making it an economic hub. This is why we have focused on the provision of electricity within Kebbi State by partnering and supporting on-grid providers, with new transformers and injection of funds to stabilise and ensure constant power supply to the state. “The impact of this power project will also be felt in other sectors such as tourism. With an available supply of clean energy, commerce and industrial activities will increase in the state. We all aspire for a fully electrified Nigeria and we will achieve this with your continued support and dedication.” In his address, the representative of the Managing Director of Rural Electrification Agency and Executive  Director, Rural Electrification Fund, Dr Sanusi Ohiare praised the commitment of the Federal Government by staying through to its words. “Kare-Dadin Kowa community is the second of 12 communities earmarked to benefit from Rural Electrification Fund (REF) grants. The project being inaugurated is implemented by the Rural Electrification Agency, with the goal of providing equitable access to electricity across Nigeria. These days REA provides electricity to 82 commercial businesses, 482 residences and over 3,180 residents (including women and children). “I must state that these are exciting times because history is being made in Kare-Dadin Kowa, Kebbi State and in Nigeria as a whole. “Not only have the people of Kare-Dadin Kowa been provided with access to stable electricity, but also, this project provided job opportunities for the industrious people of this community in engineering, construction and project management.  Thanks to the Federal Government of Nigeria’s Next Level Roadmap, more Nigerians can look forward to a Nigerian dream, where access to stable power is no longer dependent on alternative sources of electricity that are harmful to our health and the environment.” Ohiare expressed his appreciation to the Kare-Dadin Kowa Community for their openness and support, the private sector developer, Nayo Tropical Technology Limited for delivering the project to its full capacity and also his team in the Rural Electrification Agency, particularly to the MD/CEO, Mrs. Damilola Ogunbiyi for the guidance and tenacity in ensuring that the various initiatives earmarked under the Rural Electrification Fund come to fruition. Expressing his delight to the initiative which has brought his community out of perpetual darkness, the District Head of the community, Alhaji Musa Maina Jantullu said he recognised the significance of the project and was delighted to be one of the beneficiary communities. “This community has been in darkness for too long and this is why my subjects and my community are grateful to the Federal Government and the people of the Rural Electrification Agency for counting us worthy to benefit from solar technology. “There is no doubt that the electricity will improve the way of life of my people, intellectual ability of our students by having electricity to read. This is an agrarian community which produces the best and largest rice and millet in Nigeria. As a border community, this will, undoubtedly, develop our community. I am elated, my subjects are joyous and we promise to protect and sustain it,” he said. In his goodwill message, the Emir of Argungu Alhaji Samaila Muhammed Mera, who was represented by Alhaji Ibrahim Hassan, said: ”This is especially gratifying for us and our rural communities in Kebbi State.  We can now experience what we would normally refer to as city life now that we will have access to reliable and stable electricity. “We are a small fishing and agricultural community. So, this is a major development as new business opportunities in milling, processing, storage and fishery will now become a reality for our industrious people. I appreciate the dedication of the Federal Government in ensuring that Nigerians, irrespective of their geographical locations, can now have access to constant electricity.” In line with REF’s Public Private Partnership (PPP) model, private  sector participation and investment was also critical to the successful implementation of the project. The MD/CEO, Nayo Tropical Technology Limited, Anayo Okenwa said the installed solar hybrid mini-grid was constructed in line with international standards and best practice. “As an indigenous firm, we are proud to have leveraged the skills and capacity of our host community, in addition to providing the enabling environment for skilled labour and job creation,” he said. The Director, Rural Electrifcation Fund, Bulus Maiyaki commended  President Buhari for ensuring that Nigerians have increased access to clean and reliable electricity in their homes, businesses and schools. He also praised the efforts of the Ministry of Power, the National Assembly and their Committees on Power in creating an enabling environment for the successful implementation of Rural Electrification Fund projects across Nigeria. He acknowledged the outstanding leadership role of the MD/CEO of Rural Electrification Agency, Mrs. Damilola Ogunbiyi and Kebbi State Governor Bagudu for his support, the Emirs and district heads for creating enabling environment for the project to be executed. He also thanked Nayo Tropical Technology Limited for its incredible efforts and professional expertise demonstrated on the project with the state-of-the-art installation.