Following the conduct of primary election to pick chairmanship candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the local council elections scheduled for November in Adamawa State, the party has announced results for 18 of the 21 local government areas. The primary election had commenced throughout the state by 12 noon on Sunday, and results for the 18th LGA arrived the state Secretariat of the party in Yola just before 3pm on Monday as the party was rounding off a press briefing to announce the results that had arrived the secretariat. The state Publicity Secretary of the party, Mohammed Abdullahi, who announced the results to newsmen, indicated that the only one woman emerged chairmanship candidate out of the 18 so far determined. The publicity secretary gave the names of the elected candidates and their respective LGAs as Muhammed Ribadu Lawal (Mubi North), Musa Usman Teran (Hong), Ahmed Bobo (Maiha), Umar Hamman Joda (Jada), Phillip Ahmed (Shelleng), Mahmud Gurumpawo (Ganye), Hamza Zubairu (Mubi South) and Dumas Maina (Gombi). The others are Iya Aliyu Muhammadu (Girei), Ibrahim Abubakar Abba (Yola North), Mark Maina Dauda (Demsa), Joshua Ediba (Lamurde), Salihu Bayos (Mayo-Belwa), Saidu Yahaya Nuhu (Fufore), Diascos Wadube (Michika), Lazarus Kefas (Song), Nafama Timu (Guyuk) and Sophia Elisha (Numan). Results were still being expected from Yola South, Madagali and Toungo LGAs when this report was filed late afternoon Monday. The APC state publicity secretary, who affirmed that Sophia Elisha for Numan LGA was the only woman out of the 18 candidates, recalled that only 13 were women among the 226 councillorship candidates who emerged from the councillorship primary of the party last week. He said the poor outcome disappoints the party which had offered free nomination forms to women to encourage their participation. “Women are still not coming out” he lamented, telling the newsmen who attended the briefing, “Please educate women to come out. They were offered free nomination forms but they still did not venture out. Please encourage them in your own ways.”