An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court in Lagos has discharged and acquitted a driver, Richard Tayo Olalere, of stealing N806,500. Magistrate Mrs. O. A. Akokhia found Olalere, former head of Lagos State Persons with Disabilities Multipurpose Cooperative, not guilty, following a 13-month trial. The police arraigned the defendant on April 30, 2018 on a two-count charge of conspiracy and stealing of N806,500 belonging to a bus owner, Mr. Vitus Nwamafio. The police alleged that Olalere and others at large, between April 2013 and March 2014, conspired and stole Nwamafio’s N806,500. The offence contravenes sections 409 and 285 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2011. The defendant pleaded not guilty. During the trial, he told the court that it was a case of a bus hire purchase agreement gone bad and that he had even repaid Nwamafio N577,000. According to him, a misunderstanding arose after he refused to assist the claimant to transport his family to the village. In a May 30, 2019 judgment made available to The Nation yesterday, the court held that the prosecution failed to prove the charge. Magistrate Akokhia held: “I dare say that there is nothing on the oral documentary evidence preferred by the prosecution pointing to a fraudulent taking of the sum stated in the charge. Rather, what can be deduced is that the defendant defaulted in the performance of the Hire Purchase Agreement, which he made with PW1 (Nwamafio). “The allegation that the defendant was issuing threatening words was not substantiated anywhere in the evidence preferred by the prosecution, hence this honourable court is unable to arrive at a conclusion that there is an intention by the defendant to permanently deprive PW1 of the said sum or the bus, subject matter of the Hire Purchase Agreement. “This honourable court therefore holds that the evidence preferred by the prosecution failed to establish that the defendant stole the alleged sum, rather it is the case that the said sum was being owed not stolen. “Accordingly this honourable court finds that the prosecution has failed to discharge its duty of establishing the ingredients of the alleged offence against the defendant. “….The defendant herein is hereby discharged and acquitted on the two counts charge preferred against him and I so hold.”