President Muhammadu Buhari’s Special Envoy to South Africa Ambassador Ahmed Abubakar expressed “concern at recent events in South Africa” during a meeting with President Cyril Ramaphosa, the latter’s spokesperson has said. Khusela Diko, the spokesperson to the South African President, also said in a statement that President Buhari’s state visit would reinforce the bond between both countries. Diko stated that Buhari’s visit to South Africa, billed for next month, would further strengthen the bond between both countries and jointly develop responses to challenges affecting people and businesses in South Africa and Nigeria. According to him, President Ramaphosa held discussions, on September 6, with Ambassador Abubakar on violence in South Africa and developments in Nigeria around South African businesses. Diko said:  “The visit to Pretoria by the Special Envoy followed a recent meeting between Presidents Ramaphosa and Buhari in Yokohama, Japan, on sidelines of the Tokyo International Conference on African Development. “In their discussion, the Special Envoy conveyed President Buhari’s concern at recent events in South Africa, in context of the strong and cordial relations that characterise the interaction between the two countries. “President Buhari conveyed his commitment to the values of prosperity and the advancement of Africa that are shared by South Africa and Nigeria. “Nigeria stands ready to assist South Africa in establishing the root causes of and developing sustainable solutions to the challenges concerned. “President Buhari has undertaken that where challenges emerge in Nigeria, the Nigerian government will act against lawlessness and the targeting of South African assets in Nigeria.” According to him, President Ramaphosa also reaffirmed South Africa-Nigeria relations to be firm. He stated that both partners remained resolute in a shared commitment to building Africa at peace with itself and others. Also, the South African Acting High Commissioner to Nigeria, Bobby Moroe, said his country remained committed to strengthening bilateral ties with Nigeria. Mr. Moroe told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja that the relationship between Nigeria and South Africa would remain strong and on course.