The fourth season of Big Brother Naija, “Pepper Dem” is still taking Nigeria by storm. While the housemates struggle for the grand prize of sixty million Naira, fans have been scouring the net to find out more about their favourite contestants. Below is a list of the most-searched Big Brother “Pepper Dem” housemates on Google Nigeria. According to Google Search, the top trending Big Brother Naija 2019: Pepper Demhousemates since the commencement of the competition are Mercy :  The 26-year-old video vixen and businesswoman based in Lagos loves cooking, swimming, travelling and dancing. Her on-screen relationship with fellow contestant Ike, as well as her fashion sense and good looks, keep Big Brother Naija fans wanting more and searching for her online. Mercy is the most-searched Big Brother Naija 2019: Pepper Dem contestant on Google. Tacha :  The 23-year-old social media sensation loves to show herself to the world and the Big Brother Naija stage is the ideal platform. The businesswoman has grown her popularity on social media through the show and is the second most-search Big Brother Naija 2019: Pepper Dem contestant. Her stern character adds to the excitement of the reality show. Mike :  Mike Edwards stunned Big Brother Naija 2019: Pepper Dem fans when it was revealed that he was married. He is also a CEO and an athlete with a resilient spirit. Founder of the first Black-owned cigar brand in the United Kingdom, he has been able to position himself as a guru in the Big Brother Naija house and his accent has made quite an impression on the audience. Mike is number 3 on the list of most-searched Big Brother Naija 2019: Pepper Dem contestants on Google. Seyi :  Popularly referred to as the grandson of Awolowo, he has indeed made his mark in the Big Brother Naija 2019: Pepper Dem household. From being head-of-house to having a heated argument with Ike at one point, he has a strong personality that has stood out since day one of the show. The bubbly entrepreneur is also a medical doctor who has stated his commitment to his journey of self-acceptance, his girlfriend and his belief. Ike:  The 26-year-old Steve Ikechukwu Onyema, originally from Imo State, is said to be the look-alike of Marvel’s Black Panther actor, Michael B. Jordan. His relationship with fellow housemate, Mercy, among other activities in the house, has made him one of the contestants to watch out for. He ranks fifth position among the top searched Big Brother Naija 2019: Pepper Dem housemates according to Google Search.