Dana Air’s drive for strategic route expansion received a boost at the weekend as the carrier acquired a Boeing 737 aircraft. It is the first time the airline was acquiring a Boeing 737 aircraft it its 11 years of operations where it has flown over 4.5 million passengers. The Managing Director / Chief Executive officer of Dana Air Jacky Hathiramani, who disclosed this in Lagos, said the aircraft arrived Lagos about 1am on last Friday. He said the arrival of the first Boeing 737 aircraft was part of its promise to its passengers earlier in the year that the airline will acquire some Boeing 737 aircraft to increase its capacity and meet the ever increasing demands of passengers. He said Dana Air was committed to its strategic route expansion and fleet renewal plan, and its desire to continue to provide unmatched on-time performance, world-class in-flight services and seamless air travel to its teeming passengers.  According to him: ” Earlier in the year, we noticed that there were fewer aircraft in the country and less capacity to meet the demand at the time, so we decided to assure our passengers that we will acquire some Boeing 737 aircraft to ensure that they travel at ease without having to worry if they will get flights to certain destinations even at peak periods. “The arrival of the first of our recently acquired 737 aircraft is a firm confirmation of our resilience, operational efficiency, deep passion, and our commitment to continue flying safe. “It also underscores our mission which to earn the loyalty and respect of our customers by consistently demonstrating our commitment to service, and providing affordable regional air transport services that focus on innovation, quality and service excellence. ‘With our fleet size likely to hit nine soon, we are ready to give more Boeing 737 rated Nigerian pilots and engineers the opportunity to be gainfully employed. We would also deploy this Boeing 737 to strengthen our existing route network while new routes will be announced soon in line with our careful and methodical route and fleet expansion project.”