Vice President Yemi Osinbajo a few days ago declared at the Annual National Management Conference of the Institute of Management in Abuja that all the ministers recently appointed will render their first performance report to the Presidency in December 2019. Having been given specific mandates, the vice president believes the ministers have their duties cut out for them. The presidential election took place on February 23, 2019. The ministers were inaugurated on August 21, almost four months after the president and the vice president were inaugurated on May 29. The stark reality that virtually all sectors of the Nigerian economy are suffering from endemic management failure was highlighted by the vice president. A good observation, we must agree. We totally align with Prof. Osinbajo that the ministers must hit the ground running. We also commend the idea of keeping them on their toes and for them to be subjected to regular evaluation to determine those to continue and the ones to be dropped. Nigeria at this point in time must be treated as though in the economic emergency ward, literally. However, we must point out that the lateness in nominating these ministers was a bit worrisome, both to the local and external economic watchers. We are in a world that works with the speed of light and actions and words of policy makers matter every minute. The speed with which the ministers should have been appointed would have made some difference and had some psychological impact on them and equally made them realise the sense of urgency needed. While we applaud the idea of accountability at that level and the need to make ministers responsive and responsibly accountable, we also acknowledge that barely four months on their duty posts might be too short a time for some comprehensive and valid evaluation of their performance. We believe that standing on past administrations’ style of blindly nominating ministers for Senate screening without their knowing their portfolio is an ill-wind that blows no one any good. Most of the ministers were posted to territories they have some real learning to do and a December performance card period might not truly show their performance capabilities. This however does not imply we disagree with the proposal. We commend any step that can elicit a sense of purpose and accountability, not only from ministers but from all public servants, including those in the states and local councils. Like the vice president rightly observed, there is a total endemic sectoral decay, but a stampeded evaluation might be counterproductive. We suggest that, like the ministers were told during their two-day pre-inauguration retreat, the real economic situation of the country must propel them to swift and committed action. They must be advised to be less partisan and see the country as deserving of their total allegiance and commitment. We equally believe that there must be an internal mechanism of monitoring such that immediacy of corrective measures is possible, to save the economy from drowning further. Those ministers that seem too lethargic to move on with the progressive economic rejuvenating steps must be dropped and more dynamic and upwardly mobile people appointed in their stead. Nigeria has an abundance of natural and human resources; so, she has no business being the poverty capital of the world. The periodic evaluation is welcome in ways that do not appear like hurrying into perdition. Consistency in policy execution seems to be alien to past administrations in the country. The government must not be permissive with ministers but must not rush the evaluation processes in ways that might be counterproductive. Being chosen from more than a hundred million Nigerians must be seen as a rare honour and an opportunity to truly serve and not to be served or be upgraded to untouchables. We urge the Presidency to remain consistent in evaluating the ministers’ productivity transparently. That way, those involved would realise that their image is at stake and might be persuaded to be more focused.