Celebrity endorsement is the mother of all side hustles. In recent times, it has guaranteed a steady stream of hefty income for our biggest celebs with some of them earning as seven or eight digit sign-on fees. Once an individual reaches a celebrity status, be it in music, sports, acting or comedy, he is at the point of hitting it big.  Brands, intent on connect in with their existing customers and attract new ones, are always quick to get celebrities aboard to help them promote their products. Several successful companies are happy to invest in a famous face because it guarantees an exponential jump in sales in the long run. Companies around the world also use celebrities endorsement to communicate their brand ideals to particular sets of customers and win market share. When selecting a celebrity endorser, a company might consider the credibility, physical appearance, intellectual weight, lifestyle and fan base. This week, we serve you celebrities who have landed the most lucrative endorsement deals in the business, including the corporate concerns, home appliances, cosmetic, equipment, clothing, food industries and lots more. Funke Akindele aka Jenifa Funke Akindele, popularly known as jenifa, is known for her success with sponsored ads and recently is believed to have made more money from brand partnerships than from her acting career. Apart from her major deal with a real estate brand, she is also a brand ambassador of a popular product. Idowu Philips Idowu Philips, widely known as Iya Rainbow, is a Nigerian veteran actress who has monopolised the twin roles of mother and grandmother for years in some of biggest movies. Ngozi Nwosu Veteran Nigerian actress and producer Nwosu has many movies to her credit and is one of Nollywood’s most famous faces. Helen Paul Helen Paul, aka Alhaja Donjazzy, who recently bagged a Ph.D in Theatre Arts from the prestigious University of Lagos is a comedian, singer and actress. Saka Afeez Oyetoro is a Nigerian comic actor and lecturer,  popularly known as Saka. Saka’s first big endorsement deal was with a telecom firm. He has since notched other deals. Odunlade Adekola Odunlade Adekola is a Nigerian actor, singer, film-maker, producer and movie director. He is arguably the most celebrated Yoruba movie actor in the industry at the moment. There is hardly a day that a movie featuring him doesn’t appear on our screen. He has quite a few endorsement deals. Olamide Nigerian hip hop recording artist, song writer and producer, ecords mostly in Yoruba, his native tongue. Olamide Adedeji known by his stage name Olamide but popularly called Olamide Baddo or BaddoSneh is one of the biggest Yoruba hippop artistes of his generation. Phyno When it comes to endorsements, Nigerian artist, producer and song writer, actor and the most popular igbo rapper, Phyno, is a master. He has a few good endorsements in the bag. Dbanj Popular Nigerian musician-Dbanj has everything in his favour: good looks, gorgeous body, a winsome smile and several musical hits. No wonder endorsements have not stopped rolling in, even if he has not been very active in the music scene in recent times. Dbanj is still shinning. Omawunmi Omawumi Megbele, known by her stage name Omawumi, is a Nigerian singer and songwriter who gained attention as the 2007 runner-up on West African Idols, a reality TV show part of the Idols franchise but has become a force to be reckoned with in the music industry with Genevieve Nnaji One of Nollywood’s veteran and most recognisable actresses, Genevieve  Nnaji, is a Nigerian actor, producer and director. Nnaji has starred in quite a few blockbusters. The extremely photogenic actress is every brand’s dream. Wizkid Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun (born 16 July 1990), known professionally as Wizkid (sometimes stylised as WizKid), is one of Nigeria’s biggest hippop stars. Davido The Omo Baba Olow crooner, David Adedeji Adeleke better known by his stage name Davido, is a Nigerian singer, songwriter, record producer and entrepreneur. Burna Boy Nigerian international Afro-fusion singer and songwriter Damini Ogulu, popularly known as Burna Boy. Burna has been in the news recently for his very successful album, African Giant. Tiwa Savage Tiwatope Savage, Nigerian singer, songwriter, and actress, known professionally as Tiwa Savage, is a hardworking and highly talented music super star.