The need to make youths and young graduates in Nigeria entrepreneurial-minded has been repeatedly underscored, no thanks to the economic recession that hit the world. Federal Government swiftly responded by directing management of tertiary institutions to set up entrepreneurial centres at their various institutions. Nonetheless, how far are these centres applying their knowledge andhow acceptable are they by the private sector? Mr Arinle Adekunle Ahmed MD/CEO Rinllandded Nigerian Limited, a business development company, says his outfit is extending a handshake to interested tertiary institutions nationwide with respect to water production. He spoke with them. ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA Virtually all tertiary institutions nationwide have entepreneural centre, yet unemployment is still on the rise. How do you think this could be addressed? It’s unfortunate that, every year, Nigeria produces thousands of graduates but with no commensurable employment opportunities. This simply shows that we are building an army of youths  with nowhere to place them. Thankfully, the Federal Government mandated institutions of higher learning nationwide to set up entrepreneurial centres. However, this is never enough. It is not about giving these students the theoretical framework without  the practical opportunity; and that is where we (Rinllandded) come in. What actually inspired the involvement of your firm in higher institutions? We believe you cannot give what you don’t have. If schools claim they are giving entrepreneurial skills to the students, can they also beat their chest that those students can also practicalise these things when they eventually graduate? These are areas our students are lacking. If we want to entrench in them entrepreneurial skills, they should be involved and encouraged right from school because it is through that process some of them will be determined to become job creators after graduation. So this seems a major concern for you, right? Yes, and this is one area we are hoping to partner with some universities so as to inculcate practical skills in them. We have been doing that with the Lagos State University (LASU) over the last four years now. So what exactly do you do with LASU? As  it  is the tradition every year, all the 300-Level students of LASU must take up a vocation at the school’s Centre for Entrepreneurial Studies. On our own, we handle a course under LASU enteprenurship programme tagged: ENT 307 which is “Water treatment and production.’ During the course, we take the students through water treatment, packaging, production, distribution, and even management which is the business side of water production. We ensure each student is being attached to one water production company or another which eventually stimulates their interest. Fortunately, some of the students we had trained are today proud owners of water production factories. What does it take for interested schools to be part of the programme? As I said earlier, we are a business development company. We don’t require any money from any of these tertiary institutions because the market is already there.  We are the one that will deploy our money, equipment and logistics. We will also build the factory for them. All we just need is their consent, a piece of land for the factory, as well as the name of the school which will be ideal for branding.  After this, we can then work out a percentage with the institution which will also be on a win-win basis. So what is the aim? Aside the profit the factory makes for these institutions, these factories, shall over time, become like a laboratory for interested students to acquire more knowledge in water production. I can beat my chest that any serious student who shows enough commitment in water production could earn as far as N500,000 within the first year of operation.