The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has disclosed that total direct remittances to Nigeria in the first seven months of the year has risen 136 per cent to $11.54bn as against $4.9bn reported in the corresponding period in 2018. The apex bank revealed that diaspora remittances into the nation’s economy continue to soar amidst series of foreign exchange reforms that include licensing of many foreign exchange companies. Home remittances from Nigerian migrants in the Americas, Europe, Asia and many Arab and African countries have been rising for some years. For example, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) said recently that remittances from abroad could strengthen Nigeria’s economy with an estimated amount of $25.5bn, $29.8bn and $34.8bn in 2019, 2021 and 2023, respectively. In 2018, migrant remittances were 77% of the Federal Government’s budget. Nigerians in diaspora in the same year sent home 10 times the Financial Direct Investment (FDI) from foreigners doing business in Nigeria. With $25.08 from Nigerians in 2018, the World Bank ranked Nigeria with the highest remittance in-flow in Africa and the fifth globally, behind India, China, The Philippines and Mexico. We applaud the patriotic feelings of Nigerians abroad, many of whom left home because they could not find fulfillment or realise their potential in their country of birth. It is gratifying that Nigeria’s brains and brawn losses to foreign countries have a positive side for the country, especially for providing family members left behind funds to assist them in respect of education, nutrition, health, and in some cases, housing. It is noble that the Nigerians abroad remain empathetic and willing to provide social security for the less fortunate of their kith and kin at home. But it would appear that the steady increase in home remittances in the last five years is more of a result of growing empathy on the part of Nigerians abroad than of direct or indirect result of licensing of new foreign exchange companies by the CBN. We congratulate Nigerians in diaspora for holding on to the tradition of family support that is becoming increasingly more inevitable today than when they left the country, and that is more difficult to sustain by those at home because of increasing inequality. Instead of complaining about brain drain, the governments – federal, state and local – must rise to the demands of the time. In particular, the Federal Government ought to be encouraging its citizens abroad with efficient delivery of consular services that their counterparts from other countries receive as of right. For instance, there should be no stress for Nigerian citizens abroad to access Nigerian embassies for services that other nationals take for granted – obtaining or renewing passports or travelling certificates in cases of emergency. The story of a Nigerian who got frustrated last year to the point of destroying vehicles in the premises of the Nigerian Embassy in London for failure to renew his passport does not demonstrate adequate sensitivity to the needs and concerns of Nigerians abroad. As important as financial remittances are to developing countries, there is another resource that Nigeria is in a good position to benefit from its diaspora community – social remittances or the flow of skills, knowledge, ideas and values that migrants transfer toward development of their home countries. In addition to informal social security benefits provided by financial remittances, communities in countries such as China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, and many other places benefit significantly from values added to education, health, employment, business, governance, and technology from citizens abroad. Such benefits generally go beyond migrants’ immediate family members to the wider community. To have adequate access to social remittances, governments at all levels need to work harder by improving infrastructure and enhancing democratic governance, especially the rule of law, to make the country attractive to citizens in diaspora. But nothing we have said should be taken to mean that governments should abdicate their responsibility to make the country better for Nigerians. When all the stakeholders play their part, Nigerians at home would find something worthwhile to do while even those abroad may find cause to return to help develop their fatherland.