Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, has advised students to take advantage of the N250 million grant given to the institution by the Bank of Industry to support creative and entrepreneurship ideas. Ogundipe spoke during this year’s Accounting and Entrepreneurship Summit for Students, organised by the Nigeria University Accounting Students Association. The event, with the theme: Technological advancement: The Nigerian economy and the future of the accounting profession, held at the main auditorium of the institution. It featured hundreds of students from tertiary institutions nationwide. Ogundipe, who noted that N50 million has been earmarked for training and renovations, added that the outstanding would be given as loans to start-ups among the students, depending on their proposal and cost required. He said: “We will be giving out loans between N1 to N2million to students that are able to come up with great innovative business ideas. We are also planning to register a limited liability company for our students while we will recommend experts to mentor them.” Ogundipe added that the summit was appropriate and in tandem with his vision as he concludes his maiden Professor Ogundipe Innovative Challenge (POIC) 2019. He boasted that UNILAG is well equipped to mentor and provide all the needed support for students with creative business ideas. He challenged participants to take advantage of the summit and the lineup of facilitators on ground to speak to them, adding that as youths, the future of accounting profession is in their hands. Head of Tax and Corporate Advisory Services of PwC Nigeria, Taiwo Oyedele challenged participants to open their minds, networks, share opportunities and be ready to diversify. He reminded the students that the accounting profession is a critical sector in every nation’s life, noting that understanding the economy, its complexity, trends and its opportunities, is imperative. Oyedele bemoaned the lopsidedness in the nation’s tax system which he said, favours the rich that pay less at the expense of the poor that pay more. A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountant of Nigeria (ICAN) Joseph Aborowa challenged the students to develop the art of integrity as they prepare themselves for the marketplace, saying organisations fall and rise due to the premium they place on integrity. Some of the sessions during the event were anchored on: tax sustainability of the Nigerian economy; leveraging technology for business growth; integrity, learning and excellence which are keys to remaining relevant in the profession: and excelling in entrepreneurship, among others. In his words, the President of NUASA, Opeyemi Oderinde, said the programme was aimed at helping accounting students to keep abreast of the latest trends and issues in the profession so they could be more equipped to stay ahead.