SECURITY chiefs got an order on Thursday from President Muhammadu Buhari to end crude oil theft, Inspector-General (IG) Muhammed Adamu told reporters after the security chiefs met with the President at the State House in Abuja. Adamu said the President specifically told security agencies to intensify security along the petroleum pipelines and other facilities to check the menace. IG Adamu said: “Sequel to the improvement in the general security situation in the country, we have been charged by the President to ensure there is a near zero crime society in all geo-political zones; in fact, the whole of the country. “So, we’ve also been charged to increase security along the pipelines, to make sure that crude oil theft is stopped completely because the loss that the country is facing in that regard is not tolerated.” The IG also noted that the country had witnessed a significant drop in the activities of bandits and kidnappers, following an improvement in security situation across the country. He said: “We have noticed within this quarter that the security situation in the country is stable. We made comparison of what happened in the previous quarters and this last quarter and we saw that there is tremendous decrease in kidnappings, banditry, armed robbery and acts of cultism. “You can see from the situation in the Northwest zone of the country that banditry and kidnapping have reduced tremendously and we have statistics to back what we are saying.’’ The police boss revealed that a good number of bandits and kidnappers had been apprehended on the Kaduna – Abuja and Kaduna – Birnin Gwari roads. According to him, many of the bandits’ camps had been destroyed while the police have intensified efforts to apprehend those bandits who refused to surrender. He said: “Those that refused to accept peace initiatives, we have been able to identify their camps, especially along Kaduna – Abuja road; on Birnin Gwari – Niger axis and we went to the dens of these kidnappers. We went to their camps and we dislodged some of these camps. “In fact, in the security meeting we gave specific numbers of the camps we destroyed and the casualties the bandits recorded as a result of that. “So, that had made some of them to surrender and some of them relocated. Those that have relocated, we are following them to know the new locations with a view to apprehending them.” He said security agencies were also advised to support the peace initiative on Tiv/Jukun crisis in Benue and Taraba states to achieve sustainable peace in the affected areas. “Recently, there have been series of peace initiatives, especially the Tiv/Jukun crisis, the Federal Government came up with initiatives by bringing the leadership of the two states and their traditional rulers. “We have been asked to support that initiative and see to it that dialogue succeeds and that there is peace between the Jukun and Tiv.”