Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu said on Thursday that the state could longer rely on the old waste disposal method, which stood at 10,000 tonnes yearly. He spoke at the Simpson Transfer Loading State, Sura, Lagos Island, at the launch of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) blue box. He said the launch was being held to minimise waste and create a green economy that would provide jobs and make the people healthier. Sanwo-Olu said the programme would start from Victoria Island, Surulere and designated estates under the health and environment programme. He hailed LAWMA for the launch and promised to give out the boxes free for now in the pilot programme. The governor urged Lagosians to take ownership of the programme and ensure the green environment generates enough fund, especially from donors. He said if successfully implemented, it would ensure the production of fertilisers that would help farmers to generate enough food for the citizenry. Sanwo-Olu advised traders, women, men and children to own the programme to make it work. LAWMA Managing Director Dr. Muyiwa Gbadegesin said the blue box programme is a single stream recyclable collection programme that will encourage separation of recyclable materials from the general waste at the point of generation. He enjoined Lagosians to endeavour to have two containers – a black container for waste and a blue container for recyclables. Gbadegesin said: “To kick-off the blue box programme, we are distributing these colour-coded recycling bags to each household through franchised recyclers for separation of recyclables. The bags will be collected on designated dates by the assigned recycler and transported to the sorting hubs within the area at designated days of the week. Recycling companies, who are franchise holders, will come to pick up the boxes.” He said the colour-coded bags would be distributed by recyclers and environmental volunteer corps, who would educate and encourage participation, as well as collate data on the field. The managing director said the collected recyclables would then be transported to the community recycling centre in the area for further sorting and sale to off-takers. He added that as a way of encouraging compliance, LAWMA would promote the sorting culture with a reward system. Participatory households would accumulate coupons distributed by the franchisee, which would be exchanged with several redeemable options that included, but not limited to reduction in the amount paid for waste bills. Gbadegesin said the state is moving towards a green economy where citizens will be empowered, children used as change agents and cart pushers shown how best to make a living. Commissioner for the Environment & Water Resources Mr. Tunji Bello said the launch was a good beginning to reduce waste, encourage recycling, create jobs and have a healthier environment. He observed the challenge of the state as that of having a small land space compared to the millions who migrate to Lagos on a daily basis in search of greener pasture. The commissioner encouraged residents to key into the modern way of waste management to create wealth.