Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State has vowed to be personally involved in the fight against rape by seeing to it that all rape suspects are duly prosecuted. The governor who made the vow while receiving members of a coalition of nongovernmental organisations who conducted an anti-rape street rally in the state capital on Wednesday, said he had known about no fewer than 10 reports of rape since he was sworn in as governor and the trend must stop. The governor said, “I want to assure Nigerians and Adamawa people that I am an advocate against rape, and I will ensure that this trend that has been going on is stopped. Since I came into office about three months ago, I have read more than 10 cases of rape in Adamawa State that have raised my concern. “I have told the Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice that whoever is involved in any rape case, we must follow the file and see that we come to the logical conclusion and ensure that justice is done in this state.  “I will ensure I supervise it. I will oversee it personally, to ensure that justice is done to our daughters, especially to children of the masses that are taken for granted. We will ensure that justice prevails against whoever is indicated as rape suspect, no matter how well placed.” Members of the group of NGOs which staged the anti-rape rally, Adamawa Coalition against Rape, which had taken their message to the state House of Assembly, the Chief Justice of the State, the Commissioner of Police, among other places, were received by the governor, accompanied by his deputy, Chief Crowther Seth, at the main gate of the Government House, Yola. Presenting the case of the Coalition, one of the spokesmen, Mr Yusuf Sunday who is the Executive Director of Clear-View Integrity Foundation, had told the governor, “Cases of rape are increasing and victims are suffering unnoticed. We feel it’s high time we raised the conscience of the society. “We say enough is enough. We say justice delayed is justice denied. Adamawa has to move forward with the world against rape. That is why we are out: NGOs, faith-based organisations, media and all well-meaning individuals to bring our cry before you. Please rise for Adamawa people.” Another of the leaders of the Adamawa Coalition Against Rape, Hajia Asma’u Joda who is the founder of Centre for Women and Adolescent Empowerment, and who handed a letter on the anti-rape rally to Governor Fintiri, urged the governor to do his part and be a leader by example with how seriously he takes the matter of rape, so that the judiciary would take its cue and dispense timely justice for victims of rape.