•Mushrooming of private schools is ruining education fast The public schools are in trouble, and they have been for a long time. The infrastructure is awful, the teachers few and need teaching, the environment seedy, and discipline sometimes decadent. So, parents have resorted to self-help in two ways. One, they send their wards to Europe, Canada and the United States. For those who can afford less, they go to Ghana or Benin Republic. The other alternative is to send their children to private schools in the country. Private schools, on the surface, are the exact opposite of the public schools. Their teachers are literate, erudite even; the classrooms are furnished with comfortable seats and desks and the blackboards or chalkboards intact. Some of them have air-conditioners. So, the parents think their wards are in the privileged class over the public schools victims. They are promised better education, better discipline, and an assured future. But the story is looking less sanguine these days. This is because the proprietors of such schools are seeing them more as businesses rather than centres of nurture and education. It has been suffused like many other national endeavours with the spirit of lucre. The owners are caring less about how much education they impart as how much money they make. But it is not helped by government policies that have continued to make the private schools compelling to the parents. All over the country, the private schools are of three main types. The first is of high quality by Nigerian standards. These schools are well-furnished, in well-heeled settings, especially in the top cities of the country like Lagos, Ibadan, Port Harcourt, Kano and Kaduna, and the teachers and administrators are also well-trained and experienced. Some of them are even embraced by foreigners from the west, particularly because the foreigners have stakes in them. They are also secure with police deployed to protect the children. These schools cost a pretty penny. Some of such schools extract millions of Naira in fees. The lower level to that is often cheap only relative to the first category. But they cost hundreds of thousands a term and are often burden, though embraced reluctantly, by the parents who would not settle for bad schools. But these schools are furnished and have moderately good teachers. These are passable. But the third category is the most problematic. These are mushroomed. Some of them are built without roofs, without chairs or seats, without discipline, and with curricula of doubtful integrity. It is often a breath-taking sight often when newspapers publish students receiving classes in ramshackle buildings, the roofs only open the pupils for a drench-filled day. They have few books, their uniforms threadbare, and the teachers also uninspired. Governments like Lagos have clamped down on some of them in the past, and it seems that the private schools are feeding a need. The parents are often beguiled into thinking some of these private schools are in good shape. What seems to happen is that the schools are inspected on take-off. The proprietors have enough money to put the classrooms, equipment and facility in place, employ teachers and head teachers. But they do so in anticipation of profits so as to keep the investment going. But the returns do not catch up with the deterioration. And the schools lose seats, suffer broken windows, teachers atrophy, roof crack, and suddenly the school is no longer a school but a patchwork of infrastructure with a wrong name. These are even the best of them. Most of them are cynical enough to entice parents by just calling themselves private, and that flatters the parents who want the class distinction of having their children not attend public schools. The consequence is far-reaching for the society, and only governments can stop this by diligent inspection and saving public schools.