Homicide detectives have arrested a 23-year-old woman Stella Peter for allegedly stabbing her live-in lover to death for  refusing to finance their daughter’s one-year birthday party. The incident occurred Tuesday morning at 2, Tejuosho Avenue, Surulere where they have lived for three years. It was gathered that Peter, a native of Kogi State, had an argument with her Niger State partner identified as Bala Haruna, 25, early on Tuesday following his inability to raise N30,000 for their daughter’s birthday yesterday. The couple, it was learnt, started quarrelling before 6am after Haruna, who charges mobile phones for a living, was said to have given his woman N3,000 to buy biscuits and share among kids in the slum neighbourhood. According to a neighbour who identified himself simply as Alhaji, the woman got angry, insitimg she wanted to host a party with a hired disc jockey for the celebration. “Today was their daughter’s birthday. She said she wanted N30,000 to do birthday party for the child but her husband said he did not have money. “He gave her N3,000 that she should buy biscuits and share to other children but the woman got angry. They argued and it turned to a fight. That was when she took a kitchen knife and stabbed him. “The blood was pumping out. It could not be stopped. Even when he was taken to the hospital and mortuary, the blood was still coming out. He died in the house here because it was blood and water that was coming out. “Now, I am afraid of women and I don’t think I will ever get married,” the neighbour said. When our correspondent visited the residence located directly behind Oba Tejusho Palace, forensic experts from the state government and homicide detectives from the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) Panti were sweeping the scene for fingerprints and other exhibits. Their room was cordoned off while the officials were evacuating their equipment. Petty traders along the avenue condemned the suspect for demanding such money from Haruna, who they said operated his phone charging business from a makeshift qiosk by the canal. “How can you kill your husband over birthday party? Where did she expect him to get the money? The young man does not even have money to do business. He is a phone charger. People pay him N50 to charge their phones. He also assisted people to upload music to their memory card,” a woman said. Confirming the incident, spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) they received the compliant 6am, adding that the woman would be charged with murder. “The couple who were not actually married, lived together for three years and have a baby who just turned one. An argument ensued between them which turned violent and the woman used a kitchen knife to stab the man in the back which led to his death. “The woman accused the man of refusing to release money for their daughter’s birthday party. Homicide detectives have taken over the investigation. The suspect confessed to the commission of the crime. She will be charged to court for murder,” he said.