Kinsmen of former Managing Director, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Chief Timi Alaibe, in Kolokuma-Opokuma at the weekend endorsed Senator Douye Diri for the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the party’s September 3 primaries. Top leaders of the PDP, stakeholders, youth and women groups were said to have adopted Diri, who represents the Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly. It was learnt that the meeting where the decision to back Diri was taken was presided over by the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Tonye Isena, who also hails from the local government area. The meeting was attended by the Chairman, Kolokuma Okpokuma Local Government Area, Deinye Obaragu, a former Chairman of the Council, Wisdom Fafi, who represents the area in the Assembly and others. The leaders said their decision  to adopt Diri was based on his sterling  records of performance in the public service  and his effective exploitation of various public offices he had so far occupied to promote and develop society. They said Diri was the preferred aspirant because Bayelsa needed an experienced public figure of tested capacity to build on the eight years of exploits by the state governor, Seriake Dickson. They noted that Diri’s years as a crusader for Ijaw interest in the Ijaw National Congress (INC), the House of Representatives and the Senate showed clearly that he had the will, the courage and capacity to protect the interest of Bayelsa and the Ijaw nation. But Alaibe in a media chat at the weekend said he had all the qualities required to fly the flag of the PDP and win the general election, adding that he came into the race prepared for governance. He appealed to the delegates to make a wise choice on September 3, adding that any bad decision would plunge the state into misery and regrets for four years. While saying that other PDP aspirants in the race were qualified to govern Bayelsa, Alaibe noted that he was better positioned with the requisite experience and connections to develop Bayelsa. 