GERMAN coach Gernot Rohr has admitted that the October 13th international friendly against  the Selecao of Brazil  in Singapore is a  very good test  for the Super Eagles, even as he vowed  to restrict the use of mobile phones and social media while players  are on international duty. The Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) on Monday disclosed on its website that  the reigning Copa America champions will be playing two friendly matches  against  Africa  Senegal and Nigeria on 10 and 13 October respectively with the likelihood that star players like Neymar, Roberto Firmino and Philippe Coutinho would be on parade at the National Stadium in Singapore. “We are happy  about this particular match coming up  against Brazil  even if they are not an African team that we’re going to play  in  the 2021 AFCON qualifiers,” the former FC Bordeaux manager.“ Of course, it’s Brazil and as such, it’s a big match for us  to be played far away in Singapore;  and I hope we can  have more than  two good training sessions before the match (against Brazil)   like we had before the match against Ukraine .” According to Rohr, international friendly against the traditional  soccer nations  such as Brazil serves as twin purpose of preparing the Super Eagles for the upcoming  continental qualifiers (against Benin Republic at home on  14th November  and away to Lesotho on 19th November) as well as  improvement of the side’s  rating in the monthly FIFA-Coca Cola rankings. “It would be very important for us to train hard for this match because we have to make a very good game  against one of the best teams in the world because    a good result  will improve our rankings in the world,” noted  the 66-year-old coach. “This is going to be a wonderful match for us to play  and I hope all our injured players would be available for the match because it’s a very big match.” In a related development, Rohr informed that the general ambiance around the Super Eagles camp has improved   post the 2019 AFCON  in Egypt  with restriction and use of social media when the players are on international duty. “Of course,  we have better communication and conversations   in the team now because the phones are restricted during breakfast, lunch, dinner and during our meetings and I’ve also advised the players against  social media which sometimes is not very good,” revealed  Rohr. Meanwhile, match organisers  have disclosed that tickets for the two matches between  Brazil against Senegal and Nigeria will go on sale today  at the SportsHub website. The NationSport gathered that ticket for a single game is   priced from $29 ( about N10,150) onwards, while there are special-bundle prices from $49 ( about N17,150)onwards for two games. Fans may also choose the $299(about N104,650) SuperFan Package, which includes VIP lanyard and pass, access to a dedicated VIP lounge, Centreline platinum tickets with padded seats and drink holders, as well as refreshments.