THE Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Emmanuel Tonye Isenah, may resign on Monday following the pressure mounted on him by some People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leaders to quit his position ahead of the November 16 governorship election. A source who spoke on the development said Isenah decided to resign so that he would not be blamed in case the PDP failed to win the election. The source, who spoke in confidence, said: “Isenah hinted of his resignation while addressing staff of the Assembly after presiding over plenary on Friday. “Members of the House that witnessed the Speaker’s briefing were Felix Bonny Ayah, representing Southern Ijaw Constituency 1, and Moses Marlon, representing Southern Ijaw Constituency 3. Isenah came under intense pressure to relinquish his office in the House of Assembly to enable his party balance political equations ahead of the November 16 governorship election. The speaker was said to have reached an agreement with Dickson and other PDP leaders to vacate his office in the event that Senator Douye Diri, who hails from his Kolokuma-Opokuma Local Government Area, emerged the candidate of the PDP for the election. Following the emergence of Diri, PDP leaders were said to have asked Isenah to surrender his position to another lawmaker from Southern Ijaw to enable the party garner votes from the council, but Isenah initially insisted that he would not let go of his position before the governorship poll, adding that he was yet to see how abandoning his office would help the PDP win the coming poll.. The Special Adviser to the speaker on Social Media, Ranami Afagha, indicated that PDP leaders were blackmailing the speaker to leave the office for a lawmaker from Southern Ijaw. He said they were telling Isenah that his stepping down was crucial for the PDP to win the forthcoming poll. He wrote: “’Mr Speaker, Rt. Hon. Tonye Emmanuel Isenah, if you step down as speaker, then the PDP will win the governorship election. If PDP does not win, then you are the cause because you refused to step down as speaker.’ One of the blackmails against Mr Speaker.” Afagha, however, advised the Speaker to step down if the PDP insisted they needed his office to win the election with less than 50 days to go. He said some of the leaders also resorted to blackmailing the Speaker with an allegation of bribery to change the tide of public opinion against him. He said: “Please, kindly disregard any blackmail being peddled by those who want the Rt. Hon. Tonye Emmanuel Isenah, the Bayelsa 6th Assembly speaker, out of office. “Their blackmail is to incite the public who are always standing with the speaker from when he became an assembly member from the Labour Party to when he was elected speaker. This they are doing to incite the masses to rebel against the Speaker, who are always there standing with the Speaker. “This is why they are out with this blackmail that the Speaker has collected money to step down as Speaker. All they want is public rebellion against the speaker. “The speaker will not betray the trust of the masses. The speaker still stands with the public, and whatever decision he will take is for the good of the public and the masses who have always stood with and by him from the day he was elected speaker. “The speaker has not collected a kobo from anyone and will not collect. The speaker will address the public and tell you why he will step aside for the House of Assembly to function in full for the sake of the masses and the public.” Governor Dickson has taken measures to regain the confidence of Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, popularly called the Bayelsa’s Kano in terms of voting, ahead of the November 16 governorship election. There were fears that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members in Southern Ijaw, which has the second voter population after Yenagoa, were making plans to move to the All Progressives Congress (APC) after losing the party’s governorship ticket. Dickson and the party leaders were said to be worried by defections of PDP members in the council and the likely mass exodus that could hit the party in the area if nothing was done to assuage them. About eight out of the 21 PDP governorship aspirants in the just-concluded primary election who came from Southern Ijaw all lost the poll to Senator Douye Diri, who hails from Kolokuma-Opokuma, in the same Central Senatorial District. 