Following a successful series of seasons since its Nigerian premiere in 2013 which featured former child star, Sharon Ezeamaka, Timini Egbuson and more, MTV Shuga is set to return to Nigeria for its fourth season. Thousands of young talent filled the grounds of the audition venue – Classique Events Centre Oregun, Ikeja – on Thursday, 4 April, for a shot at making the series, which airs from September 2019. “I left my job as an engineer to make it to this audition because acting is my passion, and I made a promise to myself that I’ll keep knocking on the door of fame till it opens for me,” said Adesewa who traveled six hours from Edo State to get a chance at the auditions.” By the time the casting doors opened at Classique, Adesewa and many like her who travelled from within and outside Lagos State had formed queues that stretched for nearly two kilometres. Their eccentric fashion choices, catchy hair statements and colorful costumes were complemented and nervous chatter, while some hopefuls rehearsed their monologue, and all made small talk, as they waited to impress the panel of judges which included Nigerian Television & Film Director, Tope Oshin, Head Writer, MTV Shuga Nigeria,  Kemi Adesoye, Nigerian TV Producer & Filmmaker Tolulope Ajayi and Senior Producer, MTV Staying Alive Foundation, Wyn Baptiste. On hand to give encouragement to the auditioned candidates were people who were in their shoes not too long ago – Shuga stars and MTV talents such as Timini Egbuson, Jemima Osunde, Bukola Oladipupo, VJs Ehiz, Sammy Walsh and Nenny B and more, who turned up to lend their support. For Oscar Madueke, who had high hopes for a call-back after the audition, “getting picked would change everything.” Another enthusiastic audition hopeful, Promise Okpala said: “It’s awesome…really awesome. I have followed all the six auditions of MTV Shuga and coming for the auditions has always been on my bucket list. So when I found out they were having it here, I was like this is the chance to become the next big thing!” Successful candidates will have the opportunity to star with returning cast members of MTV Shuga, and launch a high profile career on the back of the series which has launched several stars, including Academy Award winner Lupita Nyong’o.