KWARA State Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed has put in place a-24 member transition implementation committee (TIC). The committee, headed by the Secretary to the State Government Alhaji Isiaka Gold, would be inaugurated today by the governor. Permanent Secretary Political, Cabinet and Special Services, Tunde Shuaib Aremu, will serve as the secretary of the committee. Other members of the committee include Mrs. Susan Modupe Oluwole, Head of Service, Alhaji Wahab Yusuf Baba, Chief of Staff, Government House, Kamaldeen Ajibade (SAN), Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Education and Human Capital Development, Hajia Balikis Oniyangi and Finance Commissioner Demola Banu. Others are Works and Transport Commissioner Alhaji Aro Yahaya,  Information and Communications Commissioner Alhaji Ishiak Mohammed Sabi, Commissioners for Energy Alhaji Eleja Taiwo Banu and Health Commissioner Alhaji Usman Kolo Rifun. The committee members also include Special Adviser, Government House Alhaji Ibrahim Kayode Adeyemi, Executive Chairman, Kwara State Internal Revenue Service (KWIRS) Prof. Muritala Awodun, Special Adviser Political Alhaji Toyin Olookoba Sulyman, Chairman SUBEB Lambe AbdulKareem, Special Adviser, Communication and Strategy Prince Tunji Moronfoye, Chairman, Harmony Holdings Limited Prof. Kenneth Adeyemi and Director General, Bureau of Lands, Alhaji Salman Ibrahim. Also part of the committee are  former Education Commissioner Musa Yeketi, Senior Special Assistant, Media and Communications Dr. Muyideen Akorede, former chairman, Civil Service Commission Alhaji Salman Adelodun Ibrahim, Chairman, Teaching Service Commission Rasaq Ibrahim, former permanent secretary, general services Muritala Shehu and Elder  David A. Adesin. In a statement, Gold said the committee members will interface with the incoming administration to ensure a smooth transition. The statement added that “the government TICs inauguration follows the completion of the administration’s handover notes by a separate committee headed by Kwara State Head of Service, Mrs. Susan Modupe Oluwole and comprising cabinet members and other government officials”. 