Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi  Ambode  has inaugurated the state transition committee to ensure a seamless transition to the next administration on May 29. Ambode lauded Lagosians for remaining steadfast and committed to the progressive ideals, which the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), has sustained in the last two decades and still continuing. The governor, who spoke through the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Tunji Bello, at the ceremony at the Cabinet Office Conference Room,  Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja, added that a smooth transition to the next administration was imperative to ensure that the machinery of government continues to roll smoothly. He described Lagos as a delicate state with very significant importance in the economic importance in the economic and social stability of the nation. The governor said in about seven-week time, the tenure of this administration would come to an end with a new administration under the leadership of the Governor-elect Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. He added that the gathering was to formally inaugurate the members and kick start the process. The governor expressed his profound appreciation to Lagosians for the rare privilege to serve them and  keeping faith with his administration. “Government is not a spirit or a short distance race.  It is an unending race in which every successive administration builds upon the achievement of the past administration. “For us in Lagos State, it has been a progressive race in which every successive administration build upon the achievement of the past administration,” Ambode said. He urged the committee jointly to be  chaired by the Deputy Governor-elect Dr. Obafemi Hamzat and Secretary to the State Government and members of the committee to accord the assignment the diligent and commitment it deserves. The Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, stated that putting in place the committee members was important for  continuity. He added that the members would put in their best to achieve the best results. Also speaking, Hamzat noted that a seamless transition is very necessary between the present administration and the incoming one, adding that it is in the best interest of the state. He gave a commitment that the committee members would hit the ground running and would work hand in hand for the progress of the Centre of Excellence. The 20-member transition committee also include: Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Adeniji Kazeem as the Dep,  Co-Chairman,  the Head of Service as Dep. Co- Chairman,  Commissioner for Finance  Mr.  Akinyemi Ashade – member,  Commissioner for Works,  Ade Adesanya – member, Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Mr. Fela Bank-Olemoh – member,  Special Adviser to the Governor on Urban Development, Mrs. Yetunde Onabule – member and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works and Infrastructure Olujimi Hotonu  – member. Others are: Permanent Secretary State Treasury Office/Accountant General  Mrs.  Abimbola Umar – member,  Permanent  Secretary Ministry of Economic Planning  and  Budget  Mr. Yomi Kadiri – member, Mr. Ayo Gbeleyi -member, Mr..  Sam Egube – member, Dr.  Muyiwa Gbadegesin – member,  Tayo Bamgbose-Martins – member, Mr. Bayo Sodade  – member,  Mrs. Solape Hammond – member, Mrs. Bunmi Fabanwo – member, Mrs. Bukola Odoe -member and  Mrs. Toke Benson -Awoyinka, member.