Ahead of the official announcement of the zoning formula for National Assembly leadership, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Yekini Nabena, has asked the leadership of the party to ensure even spread in all offices in the interest of the nation. Nabena advised the party to zone the Speaker of the House of Representatives and deputy Speaker to the North Central and South East respectively while the South South should be allowed to produce the Deputy Senate President. In a statement made available to The Nation, Nabena who is also the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, said with the President and Vice President from the North-west and South-west respectively, other parts of the country should be allowed to produce principal officers of the leadership of the National Assembly. He said warned that if the party does not get it right now, 2023 elections might turn out to be a free- fall all in the ruling party. He said: “The APC has elected National Assembly members from all geopolitical zones of the country. “Hence, the party’s leadership and indeed the presidency must take deliberate efforts to provide a fair and justifiable zoning arrangement for the 9th National Assembly leadership. “The zoning arrangement must also respect the fact that the North-west and South-west has already produced the President and Vice President respectively. “So, for equity and adherence to the principle of federal character which is a constitutional requirement, the positions of Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives in the incoming 9th National Assembly must be occupied by APC members from the remaining four geopolitical regions of the country.” He said that it was evident that the Party’s National Working Committee (NWC) under the leadership of the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has already zoned the Senate Presidency to the North-east. Recommending a zoning arrangement for the remaining positions, he said “The Deputy Senate President should be zoned to the South-south while the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives should be zoned to the North-central and South-east in any order agreed by the party’s leadership.” While not unawares his recommendation was in conflict with the aspiration of presumably the South-west led by a member/aspirant from Lagos state for the Speaker, House of Representatives, Nabena said: “the South-west already has a slot filled by the Vice President. “In any case, the South-west does not necessarily translate to Lagos or Ogun state. This is a sentiment widely shared by our members from the zone. “As I earlier stated, the party’s leadership must take deliberate steps to provide a fair and justifiable zoning arrangement for the incoming 9th National Assembly leadership. “Our actions and inactions will have serious implications on party unity and positively or negatively affect our standing ahead of 2023.”