HOUSE of Representatives Garba Datti Mohammad has backed the All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership on zoning the leadership of the Ninth House. Mohammad, a ranking member in the Green Chamber from Sabon Gari Federal Constituency, Kaduna State spoke with The Nation. According to the APC lawmaker, the leader of the House, Femi Gbajabiamiila ordinarily should have been elevated to the position of Speaker without any fuss. He said: “That is because it’s the normal convention in all democracies of the world. The majority party will always constitute the leadership and whoever is the head of that party in parliament that has the majority party automatically becomes the presiding officer. “It happened in recent time. Just last November, after the midterm election in the United States (U.S.), Nancy Pelosky became the Speaker. She was the Minority Leader but once they (her party) became the Majority, she automatically became the Speaker. “And this is the second term she has emerged as the Speaker; not even through election! It was just automatic. There was no election, although we have some slight differences in our constitution. “To me, the decision of the party leaders is right. These (Gbajabiamiila and Lawan) are two leaders that have done a lot for this party, so they deserve to lead.” On the argument of the Northcentral lawmakers that they contributed more to the emergence of the President through their number of votes, he said: “Well, anybody can argue whatever he wants to argue but the hard fact is, these are our leaders and we have majority now, so automatically they should take over because they have never been found wanting in their positions. “They have played very vital roles. Like Femi, he has been in the leadership since 2007 as Minority Whip, Minority Leader to Majority Leader and he has performed wonderfully well. “Then you can never take away experience in this system; competence, experience, doggedness, everything you are looking for; and he has paid his dues, so, to me, there is no issue.” Speaking on the position of some PDP lawmakers that Gbajabiamiila can never be their Speaker, he said: “The minority can always have its say; the majority will always have its way! You can say whatever you want, the only thing is to try and unite as a party. Once we unite, PDP has no mouth to talk. “They cannot decide who becomes the presiding officer. They can decide who becomes the Minority Leader and the Minority Whip but they cannot decided the Speaker; that is if we put our house in order. I don’t think there will be much problem,” he said. He agreed that the party should call some of the aspirants to order, Mohammed said:  “Yes. I think the party has started doing that. I know of a person that even the president himself talked to him. I know of another person who his governor will talk to him either today or tomorrow to step down. “So, I am sure we will have it right when the chips are down. Some are just flying kites, some are serious and some are not serious. We know that.”