The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mallam Muhammad Bello has revealed that the Strategic Health Development Plan (SHDP) II is to cost about N162billion over a five-year period. Speaking at the official launch of the FCT Strategic Health Development Plan II (2018-2022), the minister said that while the government will make statutory budgetary provisions available, other financing gaps will be addressed with funding by Development Partners, World Bank Assisted Programmes, Private Sector and Out of Pocket expenditures by end users at the health care facilities. The minister who was represented by the Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat (HHSS), Mallam Adamu Bappah, said, “In every country, the health sector is critical to social and economic development with ample evidence linking productivity to quality of health care. In the FCT, the vision to be one of the 20 best capital cities in the world by the year 2020 and mission to provide infrastructure, services and the administration for the development of a first class Federal Capital Territory comparable to the best in the world” is closely tied to the development of its human capital through the health sector. “Because of the strategic importance of this sector, the development of the FCT Strategic Health Development Plan II was approved in August, 2017. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) on the 5th of September, 2018 endorsed the plan which was subsequently launched by Mr President on 8th of January, 2019. “This administration is committed to providing effective and affordable healthcare services.  Among the achievements are the commencement of health service provision from the Karu and Zuba General Hospitals, construction of thirteen (13) Primary Health Care Clinics, Provisions of ten (10) solar powered boreholes, upgrading and rehabilitation of nineteen (19) primary and secondary health facilities across the six FCT Area Councils. The FCT continues to record giant strides in immunisation especially Yellow Fever coverage (96.6%) where FCT came first amongst the six implementing states for November 2018 mass vaccination campaign.” BelIo implore all stakeholders to use this framework to adequately harness the policy gaps and program interventions required to improve the performance of the health sector towards the delivery of quality, efficient and sustainable health care for all the residents of the FCT. He also commended the FCTA Health and Human Services Secretariat for putting up this robust plan which will go a long way in improving health care services in the FCT if properly implemented. Meanwhile, the Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat (HHSS), Mallam Adamu Bappah, who was represented by the Director Administration and Finance HHSS, Alhaji Musa Abdulraheem said health indicators even though improving, have remained below country targets and internationally-set benchmarks. According to him, key challenges facing the health sector in the FCT which the Strategic Health Development Plan II seeks to address includes; increasing and sustaining accessible and affordable health care delivery particularly to the hard to reach areas in and around the Federal Capital, rehabilitating dilapidated health infrastructure, expanding the provision of functional services such as health Insurance scheme, Free Antenatal and Under Fives Program, increasing employment and retention of health care workers. He, however, noted that these will lead to reduction in mortality and morbidity indices, reduction in the burden of diseases amongst the populace, improving productivity and ultimately, the attainment of National Health Goals as well as International targets such as the Sustainable Development Goals. He went further that the FCT Strategic Health Development Plan II seeks to establish and provide specific guidance on the reasons to deepen investments in the health sector and the outcome objectives to be achieved, which include substantial improvement in the health system and service delivery with the aim of reducing disease burden, increasing life expectancy and healthy years for the FCT populace. He said, “This plan was developed in accordance with extant national health policies and legislation, National development agenda: Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), Vision 20:20:20 and international declarations and goals to which Nigeria is a signatory to, namely; SDGs, Ouagadougou Declaration on PHC, Abuja declaration and the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness. Based on a multidimensional assessment of the health sector, the framework is made up of 15 priority areas distributed under five strategic pillars, with each of the priority areas having one goal. The plan has 47 strategic objectives, 208 interventions and 747 activities distributed amongst the priority areas. “The implementation of the FCT Strategic Health Development Plan II will be guided and monitored by the Monitoring and Evaluation plan which will track its progress and link inputs to intended results. This document was collaboratively developed by stakeholders in the FCT such as Area Council Services Secretariat, Area Council Health Departments and Secretariats, Education, Social Development, Federal Capital Development Authority, Environmental Protection Board, Development Partners, Civil Societies, Private Sector, Regulatory Agencies, Medical and Health Associations.” Similarly, while presenting an overview of the of the plan, the  Desk Officer, FCT Strategic Health Development Plan,  Dr. Chinenye Orjioke said there is the need to mobilize sufficient resources for its implementation becomes imperative adding that: “a starting point woould be to advocate for an increse in the FCT’s General Government Health Expenditure (GGHE) towards the attainment of the 15% benchmark. While it is understood that government’s allocation may not sufficiently address the funding need of the strategy, the large share of out of pocket payments reported for the national and sub-national health accounts is equally unacceptable,  especially asit exacerbates the financial risk of beneficiaries to health services.”