A Lagos High Court  has summoned a businessman,  Prince Tunji Ogunwusi, his company, Prime Waterview Holdings, and three others over a housing scheme to which  over 800  people subscribed. The subscribers’ funds have not been accounted for five years after their initial deposit for the scheme. The others are Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) president Ifeyinwa Omowole, National Treasurer, Tosin Odusola and former Chairman of Lagos State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Deji Elumoye. They are to appear before Justice K. O. Dawodu tomorrow. A copy of the April 1, 2019 summons, titled: “Request to appear before the Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR) Judge”, signed by Deputy Director Mrs Achere Cole  and Lagos Settlement Week (LSW) Administrator, Rosemary Ubajaka reads : “Be informed that the 3rd (Odusola) and 6th (Prime Waterview) respondents have been requested to appear before Hon. Justice K.O. Dawodu at the Lagos Multi-Door Courthouse on Wednesday, April 10, at 2pm prompt to give reasons for their refusal to submit.” Omowole,  Odusola and Elumoye  floated the scheme, initially for women journalists; then incorporated their male counterparts and subsequently  all interested Nigerians. About 800 people subscribed  and made payments  in dollars and naira, many committing about N2 million. The project was expected to be executed by  Primewaterview. The houses have not been built and  subscribers have  not refunded since then. After 26 of the subscribers reported the matter to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ogunwusi admitted receiving N70 million from NAWOJ, but claimed that he spent it clearing bush and importing electrical fittings from China. The respondents have evaded the summons of the Lagos State Multi-door Courthouse where the 26 subscribers are  seeking a refund of their payments, interests and damages, among others. Their counsel, Oluyinka Olujimi, said the summons   indicated that the ADR was set to dispense with the dispute. “We will see if they will treat the court with disdain. We will keep our fingers crossed till then,” he said, adding that since Justice Dawodu’s court sits a day before the scheduled ADR, it is very important to have some key members of the petitioners to be in court for the two days.” Of the six defendants, only NUJ was present at the last sitting in February.  Omowole and Elumoye were represented by a lawyer, Yinka Kalejaye.  Primewaterview and Ogunwusi were not represented. Omowole and Elumoye through their lawyer, requested for a date in April for their appearance.