A coalition of civil society groups said on Monday that desperation by politicians and massive deployment of security operatives contributed to the lapses witnessed during the 2019 election. It also declared there was institutional conspiracy to sabotage the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) preparation for the election. In its report made public on Monday, the coalition faulted attempts by politicians to put the blame of the hitches witnessed during the elections solely at the doorsteps of the electoral body. The report, which is a summary of the various reports on the 2019 election by the coalition of CSOs, led by the Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA), claimed there was institutional conspiracy by the political class and actors to sabotage INEC’s preparations and processes. The report identified vote buying, violent attacks on perceived opponents, intimidation and abduction of INEC officials, snatching and destruction of ballot boxes and papers, to burning up of INEC offices and electoral materials as some of the ways the political class ruined the election. The report stated in part: “The politicians, their agents, and thugs constituted the greatest menace in the conduct of the 2019 general elections. “From brazen acts of vote buying, violent attacks on perceived opponents, intimidation and abduction of INEC officials, snatching and destruction of ballot boxes and papers to burning up of INEC offices and electoral materials in Plateau, Anambra, Akwa Ibom, Imo, Benue and Abia states, the political parties and politicians showed their desperation for power. “The resultant losses of lives and properties in such places as Lagos, Rivers, Kogi, Plateau and so on, and the widespread violence that attended these were recorded by our observers as perpetrated by politicians and their political thugs. “The recruitment of thugs by the political class from one part of the country to another before the elections evidenced by the arrest of young men travelling en masse at Uyo was as never seen in the history of our elections. “The violence that followed the elections was as a result of the hate speeches by the political class at campaign rallies and the conduct of some of the party primaries that ended in violence. “Most political party agents seen on the field did not have proper identification tags from INEC the parties printed their own tags for their agents. “It has become a recurrent problem of the political parties not following the guidelines for party agent’s accreditation.” The report said under such aforementioned circumstances, there was little the INEC could do since it doesn’t control the security apparatus and other relevant institutions such as Nigeria Air Force and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) which are key stakeholders in the electoral process. “What happens when politicians suborn state institutions to sabotage INEC and its carefully laid out plans and preparations at the last minute, which was exactly what happened leading to the postponement of the Presidential and National Assembly election that was supposed to be held on Saturday, February 16, 2019? “Some ad-hoc staff became suborned by politicians, considering that they are not permanent staff of the Commission and with a lot of them susceptible to the temptation of immediate gratification for a day’s work without consideration for the consequences,” a segment of the report stated. On the role of security agencies during elections, the report stated that in many places, the security personnel deployed for the election turned a blind eye to breaches by overzealous party agents and their thugs. It states in both elections, the number of security agents deployed per polling unit was inadequate and in terms of their response to incidences that occurred in their Polling Units, they were grossly inefficient. Speaking while presenting the report Acting Executive Director of CTA, Faith Nwadishi commended some INEC staff for their courage and refusal to be bought over by politicians. She said: “Of course, we did not expect that the political class would accept INEC’s exercise of its independence without a fight, but what shocked Nigerians was the extent they could go to undermine INEC. “The brazen manner the security services were used to intimidate INEC officials in their offices and on the field were terrible. “Yet, INEC officials nationwide refused to be intimidated by threats and violence unleashed on its officials and ad-hoc staff. ‘’Indeed, INEC’s brave conduct may have saved our nation from conflagration because it was obvious that elements of the political class, including elements of the ruling class, were bent on mayhem if they didn’t get their way.” The highpoint of the event was the presentation of award of excellence to the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Enugu state, Emeka Ononamadu, for distinguishing himself during the 2019 General Elections. The event also witnessed the presentation of certificates of service to CTA observers.