The police commands in northcentral states of Kaduna, Katsina, Niger and Kogi have been recording success in the fight against armed banditry and other violent crimes. Augustine Okezie, Katsina and Precious Igbonwelundu report. Why govt should tackle insecurity, by NLC The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) National President Ayuba Wabba has urged the Federal Government to tackle insecurity headlong. In his address at the states’ delegates conference of the Benue State chapter of the umbrella union in Makurdi, the state capital, he said Nigerians were being abducted and killed daily. He said government must fight violent crimes to attract investment into the country. On the N30,000 national minimum wage signed into law by Mr. President, the NLC president advised governors to cut down their running cost and corruption to enable them pay. He said Labour would not accept anything less than N30,000. Wabba also urged the Federal Government to discountenance the advice by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that Nigeria should remove fuel subsidy. The NLC president stressed that Labour would resist any increase in the price of petroleum products, especially the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), popularly called petrol. “We will resist any attempt to transfer incompetence of government to poor workers through an increase in pump price,” he said. Wabba expressed dismay over the decay in infrastructure in public institutions, such as schools and hospitals. The union leader called for total rehabilitation and reconstruction of public utilities for the benefit of those who cannot afford medical vacation abroad. The Comrade Godwin Anya-led Benue NLC Exco was returned unposed for another term in office.  Kidnapping: Masari commiserates with communites Katsina State Governor Aminu Bello Masari yesterday visited Yar Santa and Tsamiyar Jino villages in Kankara Local Government Area to condole and commiserate with the residents over recent bandit attacks. Some residents were killed in the attack while property estimated at  millions of naira were destroyed. A statement yesterday by the governor’s Special Assistant (SA) on Media, Alhaji Abdul Labaran, said Masari condemned the activities of the bandits. It said President Muhammadu Buhari had directed security chiefs to, within the shortest time possible, route out the bandits terrorising parts of Zamfara, Katsina and Kaduna stateswith abduction for ransom, arson, murder and other forms of banditry. The governor assured the residents that his administration would address the security situation without sparing anybody found culpable, regardless of their positions or status in the society. He said: “We will not hesitate to deal appropriately with anyone found to be connected or in any way involved in the activities of the bandits. “Peace and normalcy must return to the area, as securing the lives and property of citizens is the sole raison d’etre for government, and failure to do that is tantamount to shirking the responsibility of the oath of office. “Rest assured that the government will not abandon you in your hour of need because we will take the fight to the bandits wherever they may be.” Masari expressed confidence that with the renewed determination of the government and the commitment of the security agencies, it was only a matter of time before the activities of the bandits are successfully contained, the same way the Boko Haram insurgency has been contained. The governor maintained that security had been tightened in the affected areas with the deployment of additional personnel, including over 100 policemen, the launching of special military and police operations on ground and air, as well as provision of additional formal and informal logistics. He added that security is the business of everybody, more so that there is no sufficient security personnel to be posted to every part of the country. Masari said: “Security and the maintenance of law and order are beyond the capacity of the men and officers of the security agencies. Therefore, there is a need for everyone, especially leaders in the society, to contribute towards ensuring the safety and security of their respective environment. “It’s the duty of parents, religious and other opinion leaders to educate the youth and monitor their activities to ensure that such are not in conflict with the interest of the larger society.” The Nation recalls that the state has been hijacked by incessant kidnapping and other cases of criminality, particularly in the eight frontline local government areas bordering Zamfara. The recent launch of Operation Puff Arder by the Inspector General of Police (IGP) in conjunction with the state government, appears to be yielding good result.  Banditry: Police arrest more criminals in Katsina The Katsina State Police Command yesterday announced the arrest of more suspected criminals and syndicates terrorising the state, especially suspected kidnappers, cattle rustlers and bandits. Police spokesman Gambo Isah, a Superintendent (SP), told reporters in Katsina that the arrests were part of the clampdown on all forms of crime and criminality across the state. He said the command under Police Commissioner Sanusi Buba had been recording successes against suspected criminals. Gambo said the arrests included a notorious member of cattle rustling/ armed robbery/kidnapping syndicates, which led to the recovery of one locally-made pistol and an axe from the suspect, following a tip-off. Those arrested include Jafaru Yahaya, 40, from Mallamawa village in Tsafe Local Government Area of Zamfara Dtate, for alleged robbery, kidnapping and terrorising residents  of Zamfara Sate and Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State. Gambo said the suspects were  apprehended while allegedly attempting to invade the home of Alhaji Garba Gajere in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State. The police spokesman said Yahaya confessed that he was paid N300,000 to kidnap or kill Gajere but declined doing so because of the cordial relations he had with him. He said Yahaya asked his victim to refund the N300,000. Also, security agents arrested suspected members of a robbery and kidnapping syndicate. The police said a partrol team attached to Kankara Division recovered one fabricated rifle from the suspected while responding to a distress call at Yan-Geme village. According to him, six suspects allegedly trespassed into the house of Alhaji Salmanu Abdullahi of Yan-Geme village and whisked away his wife to an unknown destination. Also, an armed robbery syndicate that specialised in strangling commercial motorcycle riders, popularly called Okada and robbing them of their motorcycles, was smashed. The police said they arrested Harisu Audu,  23 and Tanimu Abdu, 18, both  of Kubulen Gada village of Niger Republic, were arrested. They said the suspects hired an  Okada rider, Mustapha Alto, of Sharifawa village, Daura Local Government Area of Katsina State to Dan-Nakola village, Daura. On the way, the suspects  allegdly used a cable wire and strangled the victim until he lost consciousness. They allegedly stole his motorcycle, a  Daylong brand, which was unregistered and valued at N193,000. The suspects were apprehended and the stolen motorcycle recovered at Birnin Kudu in Jigawa State. The suspects were said to have confessed to the crime. Gambo assured that the suspects would soon be charged to court.  18 notorious ‘kidnappers’ held as police recover 22 AK47 rifles, others The police yesterday said they have arrested 18 suspected kidnappers and robbers in the Northcentral. The arrests, it was learnt, followed earlier arrest of Mallam Salisu Abubakar, said to be a ‘Spiritual Father’ to kidnappers and armed bandits in the North by detectives attached to Operation Puff Adder. Those arrested include Abubakar Ibrahim (aka Dan Habu), 37, said to be a native of Kabam in Igabi Local Government Area of  Kaduna State. He was said to be responsible for the kidnap and murder of Kajuru monarch, King Agom Adara, and several other heinous crimes. Others include Johnson Okafor, 44; Shaibu Iliyasu (aka Smally), 20; Ishaik Dabo (aka Keke) 38; Mohammed Nasiru, 25; Aminu Haruna, 25 and  Shafiu Alhaji Gudau, 25. Others include Auwalu Hamisu, 24;  Ado Ya’u, 35; Ibrahim Yusuf, 30;  Ibrahim Audu, 22; Salisu Ajah, 50; Nasiru Umaru, 25; Magaji Abubakar, 27; Salisu Ali, 18; Lawal Shadari, 22; Junaidu Lawal, 18 and Usman Musa, 43. According to police spokesman Frank Mba, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), the suspects were arrested in Kaduna, Katsina, Niger and Kogi states. He said 22 AK47 rifles, five locally-made pistols and a cache of ammunition were recovered from them. Mba said a combined team of police detectives used actionable intelligence obtained from the spiritual godfather and other sources to tactically smoke out the kidnappers and armed bandits from their hideouts in Birnin Gwari, Rijana, Katari, Mai Daro and Buruku Forests in Kaduna State before they were eventually arrested at different locations and times in Kaduna, Katsina, Niger and Kogi states. “Meanwhile, police investigations have positively linked the arrested suspects to some of the most heinous crimes committed in Kaduna State and its environs in recent times. “Specifically, Abubakar Ibrahim (aka Dan Habu, 37, a native of Kabam in Igabi Local Government Area  of Kaduna State, who was arrested on April 15 at Rigachikun, confessed to the kidnapping and gruesome murder of HRH King Agom Adara of Kajuru Local Government Area and many other kidnappings and murders. “Similarly, the arrested gang members were also indicted by investigations for the kidnap and murder of Mallam Yakubu Usman, 40, of Jere Local Government Area, Kaduna State among others,” Mba said. He said all the suspects are currently aiding police investigation, adding that they belong to different, fairly independent vicious gangs whose operations were centrally coordinated by the spiritual godfather. “Efforts are currently being intensified to arrest other gang members still at large, and recover all weapons in the gangs’ armoury. “The Inspector-General of Police (IGP) re-assures the nation that Nigeria Police,, working in concert with other security agencies will not rest on its laurels until kidnapping and other violent crimes are subdued and sanity restored to the land,” Mba said.