Heritage Bank PLC has joined Magodo Residents Association (MRA) to promote cultural diversity and ensure the success of the maiden edition of Magodo Cultural Day 2019. The two-day event was held on Friday and Saturday, with a business dinner at Radisson Blu Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. Addressing the organisers at the dinner, the Regional Head, Lagos Island, Heritage Bank PLC, Abiodun Agbaje, said the management was impressed with the response and participation of the residents and others in the cultural exhibition and celebration. He said at inception, the management opted to focus at those areas that other banks had neglected with a view to making a difference and impacting on the financial needs of its prospective customers and the society. Agbaje said: “Things difficult for bigger banks, Heritage Bank has done it successfully. We are open to assisting any investor that shares vision and mission with us.” He said in line with its mission to create, preserve and transfer wealth across generations, the bank decided to support this year’s Magodo Cultural Day with the belief that diverse community promotes creativity networking and success. Agbaje assured the audience that as long as the MRA members were ready to patronise the bank, management would be glad to support the cause again next year and beyond. Impressed by the success of the outing, Jade Niboro, chairman, MRA, noted that for the first time, residents came together, connecting. He said the cultural exposition created an avenue for families living on the estate to interface with diverse cultures. Niboro said: “Our culture outlines our identity and influences our behaviour. Celebrating our cultural diversity will better make us acknowledge, incorporate and relate with others on the estate. We used the recently concluded Cultural Day to embrace our diversity. With this celebration, our interaction level will increase, there will be more exchange of ideas, beliefs and cultural traits. We are extending an open arm to other culture and encouraging a healthy exchange of culture. We are learning to understand our beliefs and values better.”