Rotary District 9110, in collaboration with some clubs, has donated 21 wheelchairs to Benola Cerebral Palsy Initiative at the District Centre in Ikeja, Lagos. The clubs are Rotary Club of Victoria Garden City (VGC), Rotary Club of Ikoyi Metropolitan and Rotary Club of Accra East (District 9102), Ghana. District (9110) Governor Kola Sodipo said they embarked on the project to assist cerebral palsy patients to enable them move around. He said it is good to do good, especially to people who find themselves in difficult situations that they did not cause such as the cerebral palsy children and adults. He said by the donation, the children would be happy. “Let us continue to do good because the good we do will come back to us,’’ he added. He thanked Benola Cerebral Palsy Initiative and pledged his continuous support to it. Rotary Club of VGC President Victor Edomwande said the idea to embark on the project came about  during his investiture and that it was aimed at touching the lives of the less privileged, who are physically challenged. It was the first time his club would execute such a project, he added. Each of the wheelchair cost between N55,000 and N100,000, he disclosed, adding that their target is to provide 1,000 wheelchairs. He thanked the partnering clubs for their support. Benola Cerebral Palsy Initiative founder, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Femi Gbadebo (retired), described the gesture as “a wonderful thing.” He said it was part of the vision of the group to take care of children and adults living with cerebral palsy and assist their parents on how to manage them. He noted that cerebral palsy is a condition that deserves special attention of all, urging drugs manufacturers, corporate organisations and the government to give those living with it due assistance. He said over 650,000 Nigerians live with cerebral palsy and that the wheelchairs were a drop in an ocean. At the moment, about 500 patients were on the queue, he said. However, with the advice of medics, they would be offered to those in need.