As part of his anti-corruption drive, President Muhammadu Buhari has tasked university administrators across the nation to ensure “frugality” in their use of available resources. President Buhari’s who was visitor at the second convocation ceremony of the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE), Delta state, held weekend, explained that following the frugal policy of his administration will help prevent waste and allow fruitful use of the meagre funds made available for institutions. The president, represented by the Minister of State for Education, Professor Anthony Onwuka also directed the release of the varsity’s take-off grant. Emphasizing that government will not tolerate any form of corruption, he said, “I admonish university administrators across the country to imbibe our policy of frugality in order to avoid wastages and manager fest of corruption. “I therefore sound this warning that we will not condone corruption in whatever guise. The very scarce resources that are made available must be judiciously utilized to give value to the system.” Further challenging FUPRE to be innovative and take the lead in technological revolution in Nigeria, the president said, “no doubt, energy is critical to nation building and also a major challenge to our nation at this time. “Nigeria has continued to be a net importer of refined Petroleum products in addition to its poor levels of electricity generation. I task the university and other agencies to rise and surmount these daunting challenges through the establishment of modular refineries and sustainable power generation to take this country to the next level.” Commending the varsity’s management for the recorded achievements in the past two years despite the “paucity of funds,” Chancellor of the University and Emir of Zamfara, HRH Attahiru Ahmad, assured of his continuous support to ensure the training of high level manpower for the petroleum industry. He commended the host monarch, Ovie of Uvwie, HRM Emmanuel Sideso Abe 1, and the Delta state government for their peaceful disposition and support towards the school. On his part, the Pro-chancellor, Professor Shehu Zuru, in his address appealed to the federal government, including the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board and other stakeholders in the oil and gas sector to support the varsity. Noting that the council is committed to taking the institution to its ‘next level’, he stated that a “deliberate funding policy” through implementation of all sections of the University Establishment Act is “urgently” required to propel the needed growth and development of FUPRE. The vice Chancellor of FUPRE, Professor Akii Ibhadode has charged the federal government to saddle universities with relevant tasks in its development plans. In his address which was presented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Administration), Prof (Mrs.) Prekeyi Tawari-Fufeyin, he explained that such tasks, as peculiar to the varsities, will enable them contribute “to national development, in real terms, thus creating wealth and employment for the nation, export of Nigerian technology,” among other benefits. Congratulating the graduands, the VC urged them to “develop other potentials” and continue to seek opportunities to better the society and humanity. Two personalities Hon. Prince Chinedu Nwoko and Mr. Abiola Oyedotun bagged honorary doctorate degrees, the former announcing a N1 million naira go ft to students graduating with first class honours. However, the best graduating student, Abel Okojunu, from the Department of Mathematics, made a 4.95 GPA and was among three others who were recipients of the vice chancellor’s prize. 