Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday said the Nigerian military has the capability and wherewithal to overcome the current security challenges across the country, asserting that they have in recent times been very busy doing a good job of confronting the security challenges. He also said the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari decided to reposition the Armed Forces to cope with the challenges of security threats by modernising, re-equipping and retraining military personnel. The Vice President made the remarks at the Eagle Square, Abuja, on the occasion of the Nigerian Air Force Research and Development Competition and Exhibition which was part of activities outlined to commemorate the 55th anniversary of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). Osinbajo lauded NAF for partnering with other reputable institutions across the country to make huge investments in research and development, noting that with time, the Air Force would establish its footprints on global stage. The vice president, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, also said: “There is no doubt that the resources required to realise the full potential of the Armed Forces are limited in view of the competing demands from other sectors. Nevertheless, the Federal Government of Nigeria will continue to do its best to sustain the current tempo of development. “It has become more important than ever before that we really look inwards and gradually wean ourselves of overdependence on foreign technology and become more innovative in the use of local resources. “It is in view of the foregoing that I want to specially commend the Nigerian Air Force for the efforts being made at harnessing the available research and development potentials, especially in the military aviation sector”. The vice president therefore called on all stakeholders to embark on fruitful collaborations and joint partnerships to fund more research and development activities in the country. In his address, the Chief of  Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, said NAF priortised research and development activities with home grown technology as the basis to actualise his vision for effective and truly professional Air Force. He said: “Globally, it is acknowledged that research and development has proven to be the catalyst for technological and industrial advancement. There is also a consensus among scholars that national development can best be enhanced through indigenous research and development efforts.  