A total of eight corps members deployed to Anambra state for their national service on Tuesday denounced publicly their membership of cultism and drug addiction. No fewer than 15 of them also publicly gave up irregular migration, while others publicly embraced the Nigerian culture for the first time. Speaking during the closing ceremony of 2019 Batch ‘A’ orientation course at the Umunya camp, the NYSC State Coordinator, Kehinde Aremu said the achievements were recorded as result of trust and team spirit among camp officials. He said, “We have confidence that they have finally given up drugs especially marijuana. We also have every reason to believe that those who renounced cultism won’t go back to it again. “A marriage proposal of love with rings was publicly made this last Sunday between two corps members on camp. “Your excellency, you will be the special guest of honor when they fix their wedding date because it is Anambra wedding. “These are the manifestation of the spirit of Anambra, the light of the nation.” Aremu revealed that the repentant corps members would be handed over to the National Drug Law enforcement agencies for proper follow-up. He further challenged them to see themselves as revolutionary torch bearers, good ambassadors of the leading youth organization in Africa and shining examples to other youths. Governor of the state, Chief Willie Obiano, disclosed his administration’s plan to improve the remuneration and allowances of corps members to be posted to the rural and hard-to-reach parts of the state. Obiano, represented by commissioner for Youth Empowerment and Creative Economy, Bonaventure Enemali, was optimistic of the corps members’ readiness to positively elevate the fortunes of the state with their talents, education and high sense of responsibility. “Ample opportunity shall be given to you to contribute and excel in the implementation of government programmes, especially in areas of providing manpower for quality education, health care, agriculture, among others. “We shall not spare any effort in ensuring that your proven expertise and creative energy are fully harnessed towards making Anambra’s light more luminous and to improve the lives of the citizenry,” he assured. 