Rector of the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH), Obafemi Omokungbe, has charged newly-elected Deans of various schools to provide harmonious and conducive environment for teaching and learning. Speaking at the inauguration of the new Deans, Omokungbe congratulated them for their electoral success. He noted that the office of Dean also serves as the Rector’s representative in each School.  He admonished them to live by the rules of the College. “As the Chairman of your School Board be open-minded and treat each case on its merit. Be transparent and show respect for all shades of opinion. The ultimate, however, is for you to always play by the extant rules and regulations. Deans of School must take their place in the scheme of things and be held accountable for the activities of their staff and students. Therefore, this inauguration is not a welcome party but a solemn occasion to bring home publicly the enormity of the responsibilities of the office of the Deans. I wish you the strength, guidance and wisdom to cope with the demand of this office,” he said. Also speaking, the Registrar Dr S.O. Momodu said it was the first time a ceremony held to inaugurate newly-elected deans. He said the event was organised to stress the importance of the dean’s office, in view of the key role they play in determining the successful administration of the college. Responding on behalf of the others, the Dean, School of Environmental Studies, Dr Julius Oke thanked the Management team for the initiative, urging that it should be followed by a retreat on what is expected of them. He also pledged support the college management. “I want on behalf of the Deans to pledge the support to the Rector and Management. As a major stakeholder in this project called YABATECH, we are behind you and when we say this.  It is in two ways as we pledge our supports and seek for Management encouragement and patience, we want likewise for Management to support, encourage and be patience with us knowing that as stakeholders we would not want this project to fail,” he said. The new Deans are: Dr. Adekunle Adeyemi (School of Arts and Printing); Dr. Julius Oke (Environmental Studies); Mr. Aderohunmu Joseph (Science); Dr. Peter Okolie (Technology);  Ikpen Willington (Liberal Studies); Mr. Olalekan Alaba (Technical Education); Mr. Ojo Williams (Management and Business Studies); Ize Balogban (Engineering); and Mrs Olajumoke Shobande (Student Affairs).