Wrestling in Africa is a centuries-old sport predominantly associated with men. Some communities also featured traditional women wrestling for courtship, ritual initiation into womanhood and measuring physical attractiveness. However, traditional women’s wrestling doesn’t have a lot of fighters due to lack of encouragement from the relevant quarters. African Traditional Wrestling In traditional African wrestling, many women faced discrimination for various reasons. For starters, women were seen as physically delicate to participate in wrestling.  Moreover, women were seen as home-bound caregivers, while fighting was mostly left for warriors. Besides the societal challenges, lack of freedom and gender parity in sports also made wrestling a man’s world (patriarchy). Conservative religious considerations and cultural heritages also hindered women from participating. In some African communities, women were not even allowed to witness elaborate mystical rites surrounding wrestling. In Nigeria, Guinea Bissau, Senegal and other African states, festivals such as King Oussouye and Jola involved women wrestling. These festivals welcome female wrestling heavyweights from various regions as it’s the only place women could participate freely without prejudices. Women Wrestling Teams in Africa Today, some African communities have standardized women wrestling, encouraging female participation. For some women, official participation in tournaments and matches is still out of the question, but there are some who are defying the odds to make a name in the sport. As such various African wrestling women teams are gaining popularity in the continent. Nigeria is one of the top countries in Africa when it comes to women wrestling. In a soccer-crazed country, Nigerian football betting with Betway would seem more appealing than women wrestling. Nonetheless, the country’s wrestling federation is gaining popularity due to the achievements of players such as Odunayo Adekuoroye. Odunayo took gold medals in the 2014 and 2018 women Commonwealth games. Senegal is also standardizing women wrestling, with national team coaches using festivals such as King Oussouye to recruit participants. The national women’s wrestling team also attends the festival to see female wrestlers showing their prowess. It’s during this festival that Isabelle Sambou got recruited after showing strength and promise in wrestling. Sambou is a five-time national champion and a nine-time gold medalist in the women’s AWC (African Wrestling Championships). In 2015, the World Wrestling union (WWU) also crowned her the African Wrestler of the Decade. However, Sambou has had to make several sacrifices for her passion. The Future Of Women Wrestling In Africa Female wrestling is a known sport in various African countries, but it’s not very popular like male sports. Nonetheless, various women wrestlers are striving to advance it despite the obvious challenges they continue to encounter in their quest. As such, we can expect to see more women being recognized as strong combatants as betting companies like Betway continue to embrace the sport. In Africa, women’s wrestling is amid a continental change in an excellent subculture led by tough and progressive heroines. There are various exciting changes taking place and fans can only expect the sport to be more thrilling and entertaining than today.  