President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday decried the use of cyberspace for election manipulation. The President said nothing must be spared to guard against the abuse of the cyberspace for ulterior motives, warning that misuse of the platform could subvert the democratic rights of citizens and propagate violence. He said Nigeria has taken the lead in cyber policing in West Africa, working with regional and global partners. In his keynote speech at the 2019 Annual Investment Meeting (AIM) in Dubai, the President said a certain level of regulation was needed to preserve the integrity of the digital economy. At the ninth edition of the AIM were world leaders from both the public and private sectors. The theme of the summit is: “Mapping the future of foreign direct investment: Enriching world economies through digital globalisation.” Acknowledging that digital globalisation is transforming the world almost every day with innovations and ideas, Buhari cautioned that the cyber world would remain a constant threat if left unregulated. The President, according to a statement by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, decried the use of the cyberspace to manipulate elections, subvert the democratic rights of citizens as well as propagate violence. He was not, however, specific. He also lamented the steady rise in fake news and cybercrimes, particularly when platforms are hijacked and manipulated by criminals. Buhari, therefore, called for collective efforts, led by the public and private sector leaders, to address the emerging threats of digital globalisation. He said:  ”Today, we have a cyber-world that is intangible but real. This borderless world is powerful, and it impacts the lives of billions of people, no matter how remote their physical locations are. “People work in it. People socialise in it. And people invest in it. This presents enormous opportunities. But it also remains a constant threat if left unregulated. “On the one hand, it has made the human race more productive and more efficient. Today, we have digital banking, virtual currencies and many social platforms that connect people and cultures. “On the other hand, we have seen platforms hijacked and manipulated as evidenced by the steady rise in fake news and cybercrimes. “More recently, we are also witnessing the use of the cyberspace to manipulate elections, subvert the democratic rights of citizens as well as propagate violence. “In effect, the digital world has become the new frontier for both good and evil. Therefore, the challenge for world leaders must be to ensure that this space is inclusive, accessible and safe.” The President reflected on the digital revolution in Nigeria, buoyed by impressive statistics on mobile phone penetration, technology hubs and the advent of young entrepreneurs attracting investments of over 100 million dollars to the country. His words: “In Nigeria, our mobile phone penetration exceeds eighty per cent. This means the majority of Nigeria’s 190 million citizens are fully connected to this new digital world; especially our youth. “Sixty-five per cent or 170 million Nigerians are under the age of 25 years. These bright minds are the drivers of this emerging digital sector. “Today, Nigeria has close to 90 technology hubs and every day, new ones are coming up and they are all developing solutions for Nigerian, and indeed global problems. “Already, these young entrepreneurs have attracted investments of over $100 million dollars, a sizeable amount from overseas, including Silicon Valley. “As many of you from this region are aware, Nigerian start-ups always have a very impressive outing at the Gulf Information Technology Exhibition (GITEX). Many have won prizes.” Buhari told the summit that as leaders in the public and private sector, it was their responsibility to create the enabling environment for young people to flourish and reach their full potential. Sharing the Nigerian experience, Buhari said: “When we came in 2015, we immediately agreed that any future economic growth must be inclusive. As the Nigerian youth population is fully digitalised, it is clear that the idea of having an inclusive economy cannot be achieved without digital inclusion.” According to the President, the Federal Government plans to create the largest digital database in Africa, with over 30 million Nigerians and legal residents already captured in the country’s digital identity system.