The Chief Whip House of Representatives, Alhassan Ado Duguwa has explained the rationale behind APC’s choice of Femi Gbajabiamila as the Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives, as done against the will of the party in the 8th Assembly arrangement. Alhassan Ado Doguwa who won his fourth House of Representatives seats from Tudunwada/Doguwa Federal Constituency, said he was going for the post of the Majority Leader as part of the original arrangement of the ruling party. Speaking to Reporters on Tuesday in Kano, Doguwa insisted that, “it is apparent that the party is considering the original zoning formula suggested in the 8th Assembly, which had at that time Femi Gbajabiamila from Southwest as Speaker, M.T Monguno Deputy Speaker while my humble self as Majority Leader”. He opined that the Northwest having got the highest number of elected members at the lower legislative chambers, the 9th House of Representatives should give northwest the position of the deputy Speaker as well as the majority leader. Doguwa noted that public service delivery is not the same as providing privately made goods and services to market, “The public accountability is not the same as profit margin, because there are different forces involved which must be understood and improve if we must serve the public better”. He said, “I as Honorable Ado Duguwa today I understand the public service delivery and quality of life and economic fortunes of Nigerians are directly at stake as such as a leading figure I will encouraged and ensure a more collaborative relations with the Executive arm to enrich equatable as well as efficient outcomes”. Duguwa maintained that the 9th National Assembly members needed to use their skills, innovatives and ingenuity in taking the nation to the next level. ” We must focus energy and creativity on getting things done, as leaders we must be faithful honour national call, meeting the needs of our Citizens, schools, water, roads, healthcare and shelter “. He warned that in this level,government in collaboration with the National Assembly must sure that government  delivered dividends of democracy to  the citizens. “But no doubts that our nation must always have new challenges the most important of challenges is the challenge of sustainable development and by which a capacity most be build meet the yearnings of the millions of the citizens. He said his desire is to bring about fundamental changes in public and private sector collaboration in order to move to the next and desired level. Doguwa promised that as the Nation usher in a new 9th National Assembly his treasure of experience will certainly give vigour and depth in setting a new legislative agenda in pursuit or the Nigeria goals. “My Leadership and experience are needed to engendered and sustain robust commitment to worthy causes that require effort and sacrifice”,