Wife of the Oyo State governor, Dr Florence Ajimobi has assured the people of the State that the All Progressive Congress (APC), will bounce back and come back to power in 2023. This is as she also solicited for support and prayers of the people of the state, especially women for the incoming People’s Democratic Party (PDP) government, saying God had destined the Governor-Elect, Mr Seyi Makinde to take over from her husband. The Oyo First lady made the remarks while giving what could be described as her valedictory speech at the April edition of the quarterly prayer rally organized by the Women Intercessory Network, which held at the Remembrance Arcade, Opposite Government House, Agodi, Ibadan at the weekend. She said “We are very proud, it is a women intercessory network devoid of any political party. I am the wife of the governor of Oyo state and my husband is an APC member but this is not a political ground. We are here to pray for the government of Oyo state and for our nation at large. “I want to implore our women, like I have said earlier that they should make sure they bring every woman here so that we will continue to pray for the administration of the incoming governor. “But that doesn’t make me less an APC member, we are coming back in 2023 by the grace of God and on this ground that God has continued to answer prayers, APC is going to come back in Jesus name.” Read also: Ogun APC group tasks governor-elect, deputy on infrastructure Noting the place of prayers for the success of any political administration, Dr Ajimobi urged the Governor-elect not to compromise the issue of prayers stressing that, no government irrespective of how well intentioned and focused could achieve anything without the backing of God. She disclosed that it was the “aggressive, consistent and effectual prayers of the people, especially women at the prayer rally” which had been on since the last seven years that assisted the administration of her husband to effectively restore peace into the state which was almost becoming a banana republic. Dr Ajimobi further pointed out that WIN is not a project of the APC government but a project set up by anointed women of God to ensure that Oyo state is transformed into a state where peace and stability would reign. She expressed joy that the objectives of the Network were achieved. She also promised to attend future prayer rallies, to join thousands of women praying for the state regularly. “My wish is that WIN must not die. We should endeavour to do our best and ensure that all those plotting to bring the state backward are destroyed by the power of God Almighty. We shall attend future prayer programme of WIN because this state will not go back to the era of brigandage. “Any group dreaming of taking back the state to backwardness should be regarded as agents of violence. They would be visited by the wrath of God. I am not cursing but our desire for this state is peace and progress which we are leaving behind”, the outgoing First Lady stressed. Mrs Ajimobi emphasised that the women should ensure that more members were mobilised to the program which according to her was neither for Christians and Muslims alone and not restricted to any political party. Highpoint of the event which could be described as the valedictory for the Ajimobi administration was the special prayer session and cutting of birthday cake to celebrate the Governor’s wife 60th birthday. The event was well attended by women from across the state, wives of political office holders, female politicians and political appointees, children among others. 