When Shakespeare said in his play Macbeth that “there is no art to find the mind’s construction in the face,” it appeared to be incontrovertible. But an event at Warake, Owan East Local Government Area of Edo State was strong enough to invalidate this age-long axiom. When Governor Godwin Obaseki addressed farmers in the local government on his plan to make them Agriprenuers through a collateral-free loan he accessed from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on their behalf, it sounded strange to them. There was an element of disbelief on the part of the farmers. Issues seemed compounded when Governor Obaseki revealed to them that loans could be given to them without collateral and that the profits accruing from the farming exercise entirely belong to them.  This time, one could find the mind’s construction on the faces of the farmers. From their facial expressions, there was no way they could hide their reservations. It appeared so outlandish to the farmers who gathered to listen to Governor Obaseki on how he intended to make them agriprenuers. It was not something they ever fathom could happen in Nigeria that they could be given loans without collaterals and become sole owners of the entire proceeds from the ventures. To some of them, they would rather wait till harvest time when money from the proceeds of the farms would be handed to them before they would believe that the country has really changed. The farmers asked several probing questions in a bid to ensure that they heard right that money would soon be deposited in their various bank accounts. Governor Obaseki had secured N5 billion loan from the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) Anchor Borrowers’ Programme under the Commercial Agric Credit Scheme for rice and maize production.  The rice and maize would be cultivated on over 10,600 hectares of land across the three senatorial districts. Rice would be cultivated at Iguoriakhi, Iguomon, Illushi, Warrake and Agenebode while maize would be cultivated at Usugbenu, Sobe and Ekpoma. The target is to harvest 17,000 tons of rice and 11,000 tons of maize at the end of this year’s planting season. The loan was secured after the state government carried out an experiment last year with the FADAMA III additional financing programme. Despite the setback occasioned by flooding that destroyed most of the rice farms, many farmers that participated in the scheme, especially those that insured their farms, smiled to the banks. Represented by his Special Adviser on Agriculture, Forestry and Food Security, Prince Joe Okojie during a sensitisation tour of the different farm locations, Governor Obaseki urged the farmers to carry out proper supervision of the farms for good yields. The farmers were taught how to access the loan and how much they stand to make at the end of harvest if things were done accordingly. They were also warned against selling their produce to other merchants except the off-takers that entered agreement with the state government. Explaining how the loan would be expended, Governor Obaseki said N2.2 billion would be used for crop production, N2.3 billion for land development and N100 million for irrigation. He said N1.2 billion would be for rice and maize cultivation. Obaseki said flooding disaster would be avoided by planting early before the flood comes and doing another planting after the flood has receded, adding that experts would be engaged to give technical support to the farmers while a bank has been engaged to oversee appropriate disbursement of the funds throughout the farming season until harvest. He said: “We have engaged a lot of agronomists. We have employed the services of Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) that is going to be our technical partner and who will bring on board a lot of agronomists that will help us. “We are trying to deploy best practices for the cultivation of the crops this season and hope that we get better yield than those of two years ago. We will not allow side selling. You are to sell the produce to the off-takers we have signed contract with. The CBN will come after you if you go contrary to the rules and regulations. “The ultimate beneficiaries are the farmers. All you have to do is to be dedicated to your farms for you to have good yields. We took about N5 billion under the Commercial Agric Credit Scheme, about N2.2 billion is for crop production, N2.3 billion for land development and about N100 million for irrigation. “We hope to produce millionaire farmers this year. We do not anticipate a drop in the price of rice. We hope that we are able to produce about 17,000 metric tons of rice after cultivating about 4,400 hectares of rice farms.” One of the beneficiaries expected to grow maize, Afadama Enotaye said: “Before now, we have been anxious about the matter, but from I have seen today, I think the government is committed to do something great which we are happy about. Since we have a dynamic SA on Agric, we pray that our patience for the past three years will pay off this time around. “We are very prepared to engage in serious farming. We will ensure that we didn’t disappoint the confidence that the government has reposed in us. We still find it difficult to believe it is true because we are not contributing anything.” Mrs Gloria Ogala at Illushi, Esan South East Local Government Area, said she participated in the scheme because of the cheap loans farmers could access from CBN’s Anchor Borrowers’ Programme. “We find it difficult to access loans here in Illushi and the ones we get come with high interest rates. For instance, if you borrow N200, 000 at the beginning of a planting season, you pay back N400, 000 at the end. This drastically affected our profits. I am happy because the state government wants us to make a good profit from farming”, she said. Another farmer at Warrake, Mr. John Aregbokhia, said the programme would encourage youths to take to farming as a business, going by the profit to be made at the end of each farming season. He said: “We usually make about N1 million from 20 hectares of rice farm but we have been told that we can make about N4 million from the same farm land. This is really wonderful. I have no doubt that the programme will be a success because we did something similar last year and the outcome was positive.” Field Officer, NIRSAL, Mr. Paul Jatau, said NIRSAL is partnering with Edo State government to provide technical support and inputs for the farmers. He urged them to take advantage of the opportunity provided by the programme to scale up their operations into commercial enterprises. He explained that the state government secured financing for the projects, which could only be accessed by the farmers when necessary requirements have been met. 