TGI Distri Limited has launched its Terra Seasoning Cubes. The cubes which come in two variants; Beef and Chicken, were designed to meet the requirements of Nigerians, especially in terms of aroma and flavour. The Terra Seasoning Cubes is produced by West African Cubes (WACUB) Limited at its plant in Sagamu, Ogun State. Speaking at the launch,TGI Group Executive Director (Foods and Dist.) and the Managing Director of TGI Distri, Mr. Sunil Sawhney, said Terra seasoning cubes was a true cooking sensation that would allow everybody to enjoy great a taste. He said: “We are now releasing two variants; Beef and Chicken into the market. Both variants come in single cubes of 4gm. Terra Cubes have particularly been designed to meet the palate requirements of all Nigerians especially in terms of aroma and flavour. They are also designed to preserve the aroma of meals during and after cooking”. Sawhney said the responses from product testers and early adopters have been encouraging and was enthusiastic about the release of the seasoning revolution to the market. The Executive Director, Commercial of TGI Distri, Dr. Onyekachi Onubogu  explained that the Terra seasoning was  launched with two SKUs to address different pocket power; 50-cube pack and a 25-cube pack. “We are also launching with 5 free cubes in the 50-cube pack and 2 free cubes in the 25-cube pack as a consumer promo” On choice of the brand’s pay-off line “Locks the aroma in; Gets the taste out”, Onubogu said terra seasoning cube had been formulated and manufactured to preserve the aroma of meals during and after cooking. “We have ensured that our chicken and beef variance truly enhances the taste of Nigerian culinary so when you cook with terra cubes you love the aroma, the aroma is fantastic. I challenge everyone to try it, the aroma is unique and it ensures that your taste is enhanced” he said. He was positive about the acceptance of the brand in the market, having identified the needs of the consumers through consumer researches done and using a strategic marketing and sales initiatives.