Senator Fatimat Raji Rasaki represents Ekiti Central at the National Assembly. In this interview with SINA FADARE, she speaks on the Buhari administration, Ekiti politics and why she failed to secure renomination into the Senate. The APC is now in full control in Ekiti State. What can be done to erase the agony of the past? Since Ekiti State has just emerged from a previous reign of terror and perfidy, which nobody will ever pray for again, it is very pertinent that the APC should try to run an all-inclusive government where everybody will have a sense of belonging. Ekiti people have witnessed the years of holocaust and uncertainty when Fayose was the governor. This time around, the music has changed for the better. Likewise, the dancing step. The APC should prove to the people that it is different; that it has a mission and a purpose in government. That purpose should be tenaciously followed, so that all those who worked for the party are integrated. Also, the party should avoid the pitfalls of the past where hangers-on who contributed nothing to the success of the party were parading themselves as warlords over the party. The party should make sure that it has a listening ear to all the needs and aspirations of the people, particularly in the area of employment generation, in order to ban poverty and penury. You dumped the PDP for the APC. Do you have any regret? No, I have no regrets, as long as President Muhammadu Buhari appreciates my little contribution towards his victory. While I was in the National Assembly, we had a group that was supporting the aspiration of the President then; though we were not from the same party. One day, we had a cause to visit the President and l told him that though we are not in the same party, but l will always support his aspiration, because we are from the same constituency. The President is from the same military background with my husband. Therefore, there is a meeting point and l cannot do otherwise. When my husband was contacted, he told me straight that the President was his boss and that l have no choice than to support his political aspiration no matter the party affiliation. Politics is a dynamic game and at times, all things work for good. The PDP in Ekiti then was more or less a theatre of war. There was only an emperor that symbolised the governor who did not want to recognise anything about party politics. He was all in all; nobody could talk to him and anybody who had any meaningful opinion that was contrary to his view was tagged an enemy. There were about four factions of the same party in the state. It was a chaotic situation, no respect for elders of the party. Because of what the few ones who called themselves executive of the party were benefitting from the crumbs from the table of the master, only the governor was dictating where the party goes. No meetings, no discussion, no dialogue, there was no rally point. In fact, things fell apart to the extent that the centre could not hold. At this stage, l had no choice than to leave the party for APC. When l joined the APC, some people thought that l was committing a political suicide, but l had made up my mind and there was no turning back. A lot of offers were also made, including the promise of a return ticket to those of us in the National Assembly, if we supported the political aspiration of the President then. That was why immediately l decamped l went home to my constituency because l carried them along as l was negotiating. l told them that l was fully ready to work for the  re-election bid of the President. I am happy that l was able to mobilise and actualise this dream. But, the APC later denied you the return ticket earlier promised by the Presidency. How do you feel about that? As a human being, l am not happy about the development. At that level, if you make a promise it should be fulfilled, since l have fulfilled my part. When l got to my state, it was a different ballgame. Some people believe that they are the all in all in the party and that they can do whatever they like. These people believe that whatever was agreed in Abuja is not binding on them at the grassroots. Unfortunately, this set of people have nothing to offer in terms of contribution and mobilisation to win an election until l joined the party and brought in my political experience which assisted us in winning the governorship.  Everybody knows the political integration of Fayose and my constituency — Ekiti Central, which encompasses Ado Ekiti, the state capital. It was a keen political battle, but we won, with the support of the people at the grassroots. The most interesting aspect of it was that when the chips were down, the so-called people who said they were the owner of the party and that Abuja could not dictate to them were found wanting when it mattered most. They could not mobilise the people to vote; they had to rely on people like us to do that. As a party loyalist, l did not want the President to see me as a spoiler. Therefore, I have accepted all the political shenanigans that took place, to scheme me out. l have taken it in a philosophical way that if we could win all our elections, there would always be other positions. How did you lose the Central senatorial ticket to Opeyemi Bamidele? Everybody knew that Opeyemi Bamidele was incapacitated and could not move around as he would have done, due to his health condition. But with the help of the party and my people at the grassroots who believe in me, we all went out to campaign for him. As a serving senator, l campaigned vigorously that anything they did was for me. Even some of my supporters who felt that l was cheated were of the opinion that l should play a spoiler’s role. But, l told them that in party politics, the party decision is supreme; no matter how unfavourable it may be. I told them that we should work for the success of the party, so that posterity would be on our side. Thank God that l took that decision and l am happy that the President appreciates my little contribution towards his electoral victory. There are many tendencies within the ruling Ekiti APC. What do you think needs to be done to close ranks? We should be able to tell ourselves the naked truth. All members of the party knew that without the contribution of the forces that joined the party at the tail end, success could have eluded the party. Therefore, the party should go back to the drawing board, by giving everybody a sense of belonging. It should also identify all those that contributed to its success and rally them for a common aspiration and future electoral success. Those who thought they were an island and the owner of the party should realise that a tree cannot make a forest.  These are the people who were nowhere to be found when the chips were down. If we did not put all the political machinery that we assembled, it could have been difficult to beat the incumbent governor. We need to have a round table discussion and tell ourselves the bitter truth, so that we can move forward. Another four years is just around the corner and there will be another election. The earlier we harmonise and come together as a force, the better it will assist us in our future elections. How would you summarise the last tenure of Governor Fayose? The people of Ekiti were unlucky to have witnessed such a draconian era in their history. It was a whole four years in the wilderness. When he wanted to come back to the party for the second time, l was one of those who took him round to sell his candidacy to the people. But, somewhere along the line, he pretended to have learnt his lessons and indicated that he was coming back to make a difference. But, alas, he came back as an emperor and grounded everything that was good in Ekiti State. He had no single manifesto to follow; he will just wake up from the bed and whatever idea that came to his head was what he implemented. We thought that he was matured enough to take Ekiti State to a greater height, but unfortunately he did not understand anything about good governance. The money he spent on the so-called overhead bridge could have turned around the fortunes of the state in terms of economic viability and the multiplier effect could have been massive. But, he left a legacy of poor governance and political clownishness. If he had a dream of eating corn, behold immediately he wakes up, he would drag all the state apparatus out and be looking for where they are selling fresh corn. And before you knew it, that was what would be done for that day. In fact, the Fayose era was like a bad dream that nobody would ever pray to experience in Ekiti again. What is your expectation of President Buhari’s next level agenda? The President should be ready to take the bull by the horn and go out of his way to pick those people who are competent among those that worked for him to make his new cabinet. There are a lot of hangers-on who have relocated to Abuja now and are desperately looking for one position or the other. He should run a security check on all these people, so that they will not be a cog in the wheel of his progress in his second term. He should try and work with those people who are loyal to him, so that they will be on the same page in order to take the country to the next level. He must look for a round peg in a round hole in terms of seasoned technocrats that can assist him to put the county on the path of enviable glory.