The 6th annual conference of Women of Wisdom tagged the love party holds on Saturday, April 13. Founded by Folasade Murtala, Women of Wisdom also known as W.O.W, the interdenominational ministry was commissioned to help women in their pursuit to discover purpose and build a profitable life. The vision of the organisation is to build builders, train trainers and raise women of prayer and purpose. Tagged WOW free shopping spree, Murtala said it started “started as a result of a leading I had. The instruction is to bring women together, meet their basic needs and tell them about the love of Christ.” She added: “This event is all about showing love to the womenfolk, especially the needy, we provide them and their children with basic needs such as food stuff, clothes and shoes etc. We remind them of the love of God. “A lot of women are going through challenges in the quietness of their homes. Some are struggling with self-esteem, lack of provision for their children and many other serious life issues. “It’s a way of ministering to women letting them know that we care about them and for their children. It’s actually a family thing, even though the men are not included in the giveaway, but by extension, the man is also a beneficiary because we know whatever a woman gets, is for the whole family. “Last year over 800 women and children benefited from our free shopping program, and this year our target is one thousand people. “The response last year was awesome, people were blessed, lives were touched and generally, WOW made a great impact in so many families.” Even though the free shopping is targeted at women, men are not left out in this year`s conference as there are other segments profitable to the spiritual, physical, financial, health and marital fruitfulness of both male and female attendees, organisers stated. The theme of the party is “All-round fruitfulness”. Venue is The Kings Chambers 42, Association Avenue, Ilupeju Lagos. Time is from 10:00 am. The guest speaker for this event is Bishop Francis Wale Oke of the Sword of the Spirit Ministry, Ibadan Oyo State.