•NAF jets to fly into facility Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson has said the Bayelsa International Cargo/Passenger Airport would begin commercial flight operations in about two months. A statement by his media aide, Fidelis Soriwei, said Dickson spoke when the Air Officer Commanding Mobility Command, Yenagoa, Air Vice Marshall Uburufih Peter-Uzezi and top officials visited him at the Government House in Yenagoa. According to the governor, the government is intensifying efforts to complete the airport fencing to prevent animals from straying into the runway. Flights would come in from Abuja and Lagos. Dickson, who praised the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, for the partnership to secure the airport by deploying its personnel in the facility, also lauded officers and men of the force for their exemplary conduct and professionalism during the last election. According to him, personnel of the Air Force showed that they are disciplined, well-trained and are alive to their duties, the people, country and their own code of conduct. The statement reads: “During the elections, soldiers turned themselves into agents of political actors. May that day never come in our country when all organs, especially of the security apparatus, will or are expected to become political operators; may that day never come in this country. “Time and time again, I have had the unpleasant duty of leading and mobilising this state for peaceful elections, only to be confronted by agents of the Nigerian state that should be apolitical, playing active political roles, killing, maiming and terrorising our people.” Dickson, who also received the new Commander of the Joint Task Force (JTF), Rear Admiral Akinjide Akinrinade, however assured that the government would continue to partner all arms of the military and security services to ensure peace, stability and development of the state. Air Vice Marshall Peter-Uzezi said the Air Force would soon start flying its planes into the Bayelsa International Cargo Airport to create confidence for flight operators and to show that the facility is safe for business. He praised Dickson for his development strides in the state, including the construction of the airport with the longest runway in the country and for partnering the Air Force and its sister organisations. The Air man, however, appealed for funds to complete the Community Secondary School in Zarama, Biseni, Yenagoa Local Government Area, which was offered to the Air Force to cite a Comprehensive Secondary School, expected to resume academic work in September.