Stalwarts of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo state regarded as ‘estranged’ member on Wednesday met in Akure, the Ondo state capital under the leadership of the former deputy governor of the state, Alhaji Ali Olanusi. At a well-attended meeting, the runner-up of the APC 2016 primary election, Segun Abraham was in attendance with other stakeholders including the lawmaker representing Akure North/South federal constituency, Afe Olowookere, pioneer APC chairman, Isaac Kekemeke, Chiefs Felix Ayegbusi, M.A Akeju, Adewale Omojuwa and Gboyega Adedipe. Others were Pius Omolola, Mrs Yetunde Ogundipe, Mrs Kehinde Adeniran, Kunle Eko-Davies, Omo’ba Abayomi Adesanya, Gani Muhammed and other party elders from across the state. Olanusi, who is a member, APC Board of Trustees (BOT) of mandated each representative from the 18 local government areas to appraise the last Presidential/National Assembly in their respective areas,in which their major complaints were anti-party activities and lack of funds to mobilise voters. The former deputy governor decried the level of anti-party activities of some members of the party in the state which according to him caused the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari in the state with some Senatorial and House of Representatives candidates in the state. Olanusi said prior to the election, the group had adequately alerted the national leadership of the party on the alleged compromise of the party leadership in the state. He alleged that the APC leadership worked against the party because their anointed candidates failed to clinch the party tickets for the National Assembly elections. Olanusi alleged that leadership of the party in the state directed many APC supporters especially top government officials to mobilise for the candidates of the opposition Action Alliance (AA). He however enthused that If Buhari had won the presidential election in Ondo state, the ‘anti-APC forces’ would have claimed the credit despite working against the party in the state. The BoT member said” We had envisaged this problem in Ondo state, and that is why we cried to the National leadership of the party on the anti-party activities of some leaders of the party before the election. “But they failed to listen to us, and didn’t recognise our voice then, for me, I am for the growth and unity of the party. We shall progress, we will not allow those enemies of the party who have no fear of God and respect for elders to come back and rule us again. The APC former chairman, Isaac Kekemeke, noted that funds disbursed to Ondo state by National leadership of the party for 2019 general elections were diverted. Kekemeke, insisted that APC leadership in the state financed the AA in the state, urging its national leadership to intervene on the affairs of the party in the state ahead of next year governorship election. The 2016 runner-up, Abraham who came to the state for the first time after the controversial primary election said his ‘stolen mandate’ was retrievable. According to him,” I am not desperate to become governor, but my interest is to salvage the state from inept governance and move it to the desired level for future sake”. Abraham said since his case was still pending in court, he would not comment, but however appreciated the leaders of concerned APC group in the state and their numerous supporters for their steadfastness and love for him. He predicted victory at the end of the day, urging them to remain resolute and resilient for the development of the sunshine state.