The Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress  (APC), in Sokoto state and party Chairmen across the 23LGs of the state as well all the state and National Assembly elected APC members unanimously passed a vote of no confidence against the party’s Northwest National Vice Chairman, Barrister Inuwa Abdulkadir. The decision was sequel to the sustained and flagrant anti-party activities by the party official. However, the State Executive Committee reached the decision at a meeting of the party which was also attended by the Chairmen of the party in all the twenty-three local governments of the state. Accordingly, the party said it regretted that, Abdulkadir has consistently and continued to romance and openly work for the opposition party, rather than his supposed party, the  APC. The party’s stand contained in a statement issued by the state Publicity Secretary,  Sambo Bello Danchadi said leaders of the party have therefore called on the National Leadership of the APC, to urgently do the needful, take all the necessary steps to remove Alhaji Inuwa Abdulkadir from office. Meanwhile, the state chapter of the party has passed a vote of confidence in the leadership of the Chairman of the Northern Senators Forum and Coordinator,  North West,  Presidential Campaign Council,  Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko. This was brought to the fore at a courtesy call on Senator Wamakko, following a meeting of the State Executive Committee, the local Governments Party Chairmen and all elected Party representatives at Federal and State legislatures. Speaking during the epoch-making visit, the Sokoto State APC Chairman, Alhaji Isa Sadiq Achida,  Turakin Achida, disclosed that,  the entire party machinery in the state was satisfied with the leadership style, commitment and foresight of Senator Wamakko in championing the cause of the APC and Sokoto State. In his response, Senator Wamakko, who represents Sokoto North Senatorial District thanked the party leadership for the confidence reposed in him and pledged to uphold their trust. He thanked the entire party supporters in the state for their patience, even in the face of theft of the party’s mandate, he assured them that justice will surely prevail as APC will soon reclaim its governorship and legislative seats were unjustly taken away. In a related development, the party has chided the Sokoto State Government and the Peoples Democratic Party  ( PDP), on the ongoing acts of intimidation against civil servants perceived to be loyal to the APC. The party decried that, the ongoing arbitrary and punitive postings of such workers were majorly intended to settle political goals, rather than furthering service delivery, as well as taking Sokoto State to the NEXT LEVEL.