To ensure effective and sustainable developments across the Niger Delta region, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), has called for a shift from “political coluration” of the organisation. Speaking at the 2019 NDDC stakeholders forum for Delta state in Effurun, Uvwie council area of the state, the state Co-ordinator, Dr. Ogaga Ifowodo, disclosed that President Muhammadu Buhari has given directive to facilitate payment of arrears amounting to N1.8 trillion owed the commission by the federal government. According to him, this is part of the administration’s commitment to ensure lasting peace and development in the oil-rich region. He streesed that stakeholders seeing the commission as affiliated to political parties has led to disruption of several projects that should have benefited the people of the area. “The idea that the NDDC flourishes now and the glory belongs to APC is wrong. The people who belong to the party are a tiny minority of the populace. If you are in power and say the NDDC should be sabotaged, then our people will be sabotaged. Let us reexamine this political colouration,” Dr. Ifowodo said Highlighting some issues that have caused setbacks for the commission since inception in 2001, he explained that “avoidable competition” with state governments, the NDDC’s subjection to many masters among other reasons, have led it to stray from its core mandate. Earlier in his welcome address, Acting Managing Director of the NDDC, Prof Nelson Brambraiyefa, said there was need for all “to woo investors back” to Niger Delta. Noting that the theme of the programme ‘Peace as a panacea for sustainable development in the Niger Delta’ is apt considering the challenges facing the commission, he revealed that the “Governors’ Advisory Committee” will be reactivated to promote collaboration with governments. The meeting had three plenaries presented by Col. Wilson Ijide (Rtd), lecturer at the Department of Psychology, University of Ibadan, Dr. Philip Esavwede, Faculty of Law lecturer, Delta State University and Dr. Omonigho Otanocha, MD FUPRE Energy Solution Limited, Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun, respectively. Stakeholders at the forum include security personnel such as Air Commodore Augustine Vonumbagai, Commander 37I Nigeria Air force Detachment Warrior, Col. MHB Many, Commander Sector 1, Operation Delta Safe (represented). Also present were representatives of the Ovie of Uvwie, Olu of Warri among other traditional heads and community leaders and stakeholders.