•The tragedy of doting lover turned cold-blooded beast Money was at the root of the murder for which 27-year-old Adeyemi Seidu got a death, sentence on March 27. The circumstances of the murder suggested it was a money-ritual killing, prompted by a get-rich-quick mentality. Justice Samuel Bola of an Ondo State High Court, sitting in Akure, found Adeyemi guilty of killing his girlfriend, Khadijat Oluboyo, in July 2018. Adeyemi is a graduate in Quantity Surveying, Federal University of Technology, Akure.  Khadijat was in her twenties and a final-year student of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Ondo State. She was the daughter of a former deputy governor of Ondo State. According to the autopsy report, “there was an abnormal shaving of the hair on the deceased head and the pubic region while her two upper front teeth had been broken off leaving only some fragments left.” This aspect of the report seemed to give credence to suspicion that the killing was ritualistic. Adeyemi is said to have buried her corpse in his room in Akure for five days. How Khadijat died showed that she was a victim of violence. The autopsy report said:   ”There were fractures on the bones of her neck, shoulder along with her second to the sixth ribs on both sides, a dislocation of her hip joints with another fracture on the upper part of her thigh. The injuries could not have been self-inflicted but given by another party and inflicted with a significant pressure, especially the upper thigh region, which had a lot of muscles. There were lacerations on her chest, which damaged two major vessels known as the femoral artery and vein that circulate blood in the body. The combined effects of the injuries led to Khadijat’s death.” During the trial, a witness, Adeyemi’s bother, had testified that the killer told him that Khadijat was dead and buried.  The witness said Adeyemi begged him to get a sack to dispose of the corpse. He told their father, who informed the Police. Their father corroborated the testimony. Incredibly, Adeyemi had claimed that Khadijat was killed by two unidentified “boys.” His story: “She told me that she wanted to receive some visitors in my place, and she brought two boys in…I left them in the room. But after 30 minutes, one of the boys called me in and I discovered he held a small gun in his hand while the other boy was on her, naked…The boys strangled her to death and threatened me not to shout or else they would kill me. They later forced me to find a digger with which they dug the ground in my room and buried her.” It is commendable that the murder trial was concluded in less than a year.  This case shows that justice can be delivered in reasonable time. The trial judge said the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that Adeyemi intentionally killed Khadijat, and sentenced Adeyemi to death by hanging.  The punishment makes a strong statement that murder is a capital crime, and should serve as a deterrent. The money-ritual angle says something about our society.  There are frequent reports of suspected money-ritual killings across the country, which reflect a dark side of the society. Murder is evil; it is even more so when it is connected with a get-rich-quick idea. It is sad that a love story became a tragic tale, apparently because the killer loved money more than his lover. It is tragic that Khadijat was killed. It is tragic that Adeyemi has been sentenced to death. An important moral of this tragedy is that the love of money should never be taken to extremes.