An Islamic charity organization, Jaiz foundation has distributed Zakat items and cash worth N3.5m to indigent persons in Lagos. No fewer than 79 persons were supported with the fund to ameliorate their educational, economic and health challenges. Some of the items distributed as empowerment were grinding machines, sewing machine, generator sets, refrigerator, industrial gas cooker and cylinder. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Jaiz, Imam Abdullahi Shuaib disclosed that N6m had been earmarked to be distributed as Zakat in Lagos. He explained that out of the N6m, the foundation spent N5.5m and the remaining N500,000 meant for educational support will be released soon. Imam Shuaib explained that the motive behind the support was to break the cycle of poverty among the Muslim faithful. He said: “Today we have about 79 beneficiaries for educational, economic empowerment and health challenge support. What we have seen today is practically around N3.5M we have disbursed. And we still have outstanding N500,000 to disbursed in the few weeks in Lagos. “The total Zakat we are disbursing in Lagos is N6 million, for we have earlier disbursed N2.5M. We have an outstanding of N500,000 for educational support which we are going to disburse in the next few weeks.” According to Imam Shuaib, the beneficiaries were lucky to have been picked, adding “there are so many people with pathetic cases that need fund, but we do not have enough to go round. Even Government is unable to meet the challenges of the people not to talk of charity organisation like us.” Chairman on the occasion, Jelili Sulaimon, urged the beneficiaries not to sell the materials given to them. According to him, selling the materials is like selling their future. “Be innovate in your business and it will grow. The solution to reducing unemployment is to be self-employed. Jaiz Foundation has done well by empowering you with materials needed to be self-employed. You can only reciprocate their gesture by making good use of these materials,” he said. Sulaimon, who is the Chairman of Alimosho Local Government Area in Lagos, thanked the foundation for helping the government to reduce poverty in the society. One of the beneficiaries, a 300-level undergraduate studying Electrical and Electronic Technology Education at the Federal College of Education Technical, Akoka, Lagos Abdulrahman Bakare said he will use the money to pay his school fees. “I want to use the money to pay my school fees and fund some basic needs”, he said. Also, Mrs. Salamah Shaibu, who got a refrigerator, said she will use it to boost her frozen food business.