THE workers at the College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti, Ekiti State, yesterday passed a vote of no confidence on institution’s governing council. The workers, under the aegis of Senior Staff Union in Colleges of Education, Nigeria (SSUCOEN), Ikere-Ekiti branch, alleged that Chief Afolabi Ojuawo-led Governing Council had engaged in alleged actions, which were capable of destroying the institution. The union described the alleged unlawful disengagement of five Senior Staff without any justification as  ‘outright illegality’, saying such decision negates the principle of justice and fairness. They gave the governing council a seven-day ultimatum within which to rescind its decision and failure to comply will propel the union to embark on industrial action and litigation process. A communique made available to reporters in Ado-Ekiti yesterday by the Chairman Mr. Oluwole  Olusona stated that the decision was reached after the union congress held on April 9, 2019 at the College Hall. The union said there was no reasonable justification for their premature retirement, other than their positions had been scrapped on the recommendation of the visitation panel constituted by the state government. They said there was nothing unconstitutional in the promotion, saying the National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE), had in 2016, elongated the Administrative Officer and Accountant’s cadres to level 15 and which was approved for implementation in the college by the then governing council. The union added that the affected staff were consequently promoted to the position of Senior Deputy Registrars and Senior Deputy Bursar. The affected members of staff were in the rank of Senior Deputy Registrar and Senior Deputy Bursar and they included R.S Omole, Mrs. B.S Momoh, J.O Onifade, Mrs F.A Adeusi and Francis Adebayo. It called on the government to investigate the frivolous spending of 34m on sitting allowance and feeding within two months by Ojuawo-led Governing Council in spite of the 11 and five months unpaid cooperative deduction and salary arrears respectively. The union, however, expressed worries that the best hands and highly experienced staff had just been sent packing without committing any offence. But, the Acting Provost of the College, Dr. Victor Kehinde, said the Governing Council had not done any illegality but acted based on the report of the visitation panel, which was accepted by the government and later released as white paper. Dr. Kehinde said the white paper recommended that those in the position of the same Deputy Registrar and Senior Deputy Bursar should be scrapped because the position does not exist. “Dr. Fayemi in an attempt to reposition the institution inaugurated a visitation panel in November 2018 to look at certain things in the college. “And people submitted petitions, including members of the Senior Staff Union, which were carefully considered. “And the panel came out with that recommendation scrapping the positions. “So, if they came out with recommendations and government accepted them, then, the new council had no choice than to implement it,” he said. 