A retired Director, (name withheld), Ministry of Women Affairs and Community Development has been arraigned for alleged child theft in Delta state. The director, who retired from the Department of Child, Asaba was arrested after security agents acting on a petition swooped on a couple who implicated him. Delta Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, Peter Mrakpor who made this known Wednesday during the maiden media briefing of the Task Force on Anti-Human Trafficking and Illegal Migration in Asaba. Mrakpor who doubles as the taskforce head, said the 17 member Taskforce is saddled with the responsibility of checking human trafficking and Illegal migration. He said the issue of prostitution surrounds the issue of oath taking among victims by their sponsors, adding that Delta State is top among States with the highest number of illegal migrants. He identified three categories in the illicit trade to include Nigerians who after being denied visa overseas, attempt crossing the Mediterranean Sea. According to him, the other group includes young females lured abroad with promises of a good life, but belong to a syndicate engaged in trafficking young girls for prostitution. He said the third group includes young girls or boys used as domestic help often extorted by an agent. Mrakpor solicited support from the media, stressing that such collaboration was important to adequately sensitise Deltans. He urged the media to assist in changing the orientation of prospective victims, adding that the Taskforce will also consider the use of town criers in the dissemination of information regarding illegal migration. He lamented that some of returnees are uninterested in government rehabilitation programmes, adding that shortly after release from government custody the victims embark on another journey abroad. Mrakpor disclosed that three rehabilitation centres are being proposed for the three senatorial zones to ensure that returnees are properly rehabilitated. On the case of the arrested serial child trafficker “Madam Cash”, the taskforce chairman said the suspect was in prison custody after the state amended charges against her to include kidnapping. His words, “Madam Cash, the serial child trafficker is at Ogwashi-Uku Prison. Trial is on. Initially, she was charged for child stealing which is a bailable offence; she abused her bail conditions after going back to child stealing. The state amended the charge against her to kidnapping after her re-arrest.” 