Ex-militants in Akwa Ibom state under the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) have expressed confidence that Governor Udom Emmanuel will perform better than his first term in office. In a statement on Sunday in Uyo, leaders of the ex- agitators, General Nick Sintei, Prince James Ukpong and Sunny Okon Nathan congratulated the governor over his reelection. They lauded the governor’s achievements so far particularly in attracting viable industries to the state. “On behalf of the entire genuine ex-militants in Akwa Ibom state, we the leaders Gen. Nico Sintei, Prince James Ukpong , and Sunny Okon Nathan congratulate His Excellency, Deacon Udom Emmanuel on his landslide victory at the March, 9 2019 election. “Your victory was not only expected but deserving given your recorded achievement since assumption of office in 2015 particularly your relentless effort towards the industrialisation of the state. “We have no doubt that you will even perform more and impact more on the lives of the people in your second term in office. “We the ex-agitators will remain law abiding citizens and will continue to support positive policies and programmes of government.” They however expressed concerns that many groups parading themselves as ex-militants are springing up all over the state and urged government and security agencies in the state to look into the issue. They stressed that they have found out that the names of those parading groups are not in the list of militants that embraced the amnesty programme. “We are aware that their names are not captured in the original list of militants that dropped arms during the Presidential Amnesty Programme in October 2009, therefore they are impersonators. “We have also found out that they are not also part of the state amnesty programme put in place by this government. “We therefore use this medium to appeal to government and security agencies to investigate their activities and fish them out. “This will help to avert miscreants to cause mayhem under the guise of ex-militants,” they stressed. 