The employees of Tai Solarin College of Education (TASCE), Omu-Ijebu, Ogun State, have asked the provost of the college, Dr. Lukmon Adeola Kiadese, to voluntarily resign his appointment as the college’s provost as the college staff passed vote of no confidence in him. This was made at the resolution of the Coalition Staff Union of the College (COTAS), headed by Mr. Daniel Aborisade while briefing journalists on the outcome of its meeting with the new Ogun State Commissioner of Police, CP, Bashir Dabup Makama, at the college auditorium and degree conference, Omu-Ijebu, Ogun State. He said the CP had met with members of warring groups to cement a truce brokered to end the crisis that engulfed the institution management.  He said that the brewing crisis started two and half years ago when the provost resumed office with the promise to find lasting solutions to the crisis that engulfed the institution, which ranged from unpaid salaries, salary arrears, unremitted pension, cooperative deductions and promotion arrears. While staging a walk-protest to Area Command Igbeba, Ijebu-Ode, the coalition was chanting solidarity songs and carrying placards with inscriptions like ‘Police is our friends,’ ‘Kiadese must go,’ ‘Enough Is Enough,’ ‘Dr. Kiadese, it is time to go’. Against the backdrop of sending police to arrest its members by the provost, Aborisade asked the Nigeria Police to stay clear from the matter as the issue was between the Ogun State government, the college’s provost and the entire management, but demanded the resignation of the provost as he could not handle the institution’s matter. Meanwhile, the commissioner of police has appealed to both members to sheathe their sword and allow peace to reign in the college for the betterment of the students and management both academic and non-academic staff, noting that there’s nothing to gain in crisis but enmity. Makama said that it was good to press for their demand but they need to do it in a peaceful atmosphere, assuring them that no member of their union would be arrested, molested or maimed by any police officer under his purview in the state.