The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has advised  President Muhammadu Buhari to inject fresh ideas into the running of the economy, besides sustaining  the tempo of his positive economic policies. NCRIB President Shola Tinubu gave the advice during the Council’s press conference and quarterly media briefing held at its office in Lagos. While expressing the council’s delight that the 2019 general elections have been held, throwing up new political office holders to steer the affairs of the nation for the next four years, he said it was quite heartwarming that the polity, has given new hope of stability. According to him, politics and economy are inextricably woven, as one negative or positive development in one would most assuredly affect the other, and vice versa. He observed that the stability of Nigerian political environment is an harbinger of a stable and progressive economy. Tinubu said: “As actors in the financial ecosystem, the NCRIB is using this platform to advise the government to inject fresh ideas into the running of the nation’s economy while at the same time sustaining the tempo of existing positive economic policies already put in place by the government. The reflation of the economy should be anchored on enhanced promotion of local capacity to reduce over dependence on foreign goods and services, and by so doing, reduce the strain on the nation’s currency vis- a-vis other foreign currencies. “Government must create an improved enabling environment for business and professional growth through initiation and tenacious pursuit of laws and regulatory prescriptions that would enhance economic growth.   In specific terms, urgent attention must be paid to reducing poverty, which has as its bye product, unemployment and poor standard of living. “While Nigerians are awaiting government to give more teeth to implementation of Oil and Gas reforms, power sector reforms and human capital development and redouble efforts in promoting agriculture, more attraction should also be given to the state of security in the country. Since insurance thrives more when the economy thrives, it is our belief that the industry will witness desired northward trend when the economy is on a sure sound footing.” Speaking on building collapse, he said: “In the light of recent building collapse in Lagos and Oyo states as well as other similar disasters, the NCRIB is quite touched. It is our belief that the unfortunate incidences are actually accentuated greatly by the lax of regulatory enforcement in the construction environment. “To combat this, government needs to be more proactive in implementing building laws. Also, they have to continually engage stakeholders in the construction built environment and related institutions to elicit their input for a long lasting solution to the malaise. While the council commiserates with the victims of the building collapse, we like to use this opportunity again to call on government to give more impetus to the implementation of the enforcement of compulsory building insurance as enshrined in Section 64 and Section 65 of Insurance Act 2003”, he added.