In this piece, Onye Imman revisits the controversial governorship and House of Assembly elections in River State and contends that the polls did not reflect the true wish of the people The evidence of participation in a process, school, election or professional course is the certificate. In the specific case of an election, the proof of victory is the Certificate of Return issued to the winner of an election. For those who watched the high political melodrama that recently happened in Rivers State, that was claimed to have ended on April 3, 2019, with the declaration of Nyesom Wike as the winner, nothing demonstrates what happened as a drama more than the certificate. Were the certificates issued to Wike and others so declared as winners of the controversial elections  dated March 14, 2019? Many have urged the electoral commission to clarify it. It has been alleged that the election, which started on March 9, was deferred to the following day, March 10 after it appeared that the candidate of the African Action Congress, Biokpomabo Awara, was in the lead in several state constituencies. On March 27, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC announced a new timetable for the conclusion of the election, saying it would be concluded between April 3 and 5. Did the commission predate the Certificates of Return? Was the commission trying to work towards the answer? This should also be clarify. Some have actually asked whether the chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, was aware of the complaint that tended to summarise the alleged partisanship of the commission and its officials operating in Rivers State. Indeed, some have alleged a close relationship between Wike and Yakubu when the governor was supervising Minister of Education when he had oversight over Yakubu who at that time was also the Executive Secretary of the Tertiary Education Fund, TETFUND. If the two of them worked well together, did it affect the poll? Of course, the controversies may have opened the eyes of sceptics to what characterised the general elections, but it may have been the simplest of the brutal attacks on the people of Rivers State during the elections. There were far more surreptitious incidents that occurred before and during the election. Despite his so-called bravado and defender of the cause of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and its presidential candidate, we now have reason to believe that, in desperation for a second term, that Wike acted within and outside his party to buy favour. One will for now not like to present the discord that occurred within his party after his sponsored presidential aspirant Aminu Waziri Tambuwal lost the party’s presidential ticket and the willingness of the Rivers State governor to sabotage his party for his self-political preservation. Of course, many will recall the threats against Atiku Abubakar and the distress that permeated through the PDP after Wike and his aides stormed out of the convention ground when it emerged that his choice for the presidential ticket did not win. That behaviour goes to underscore the willingness and capacity of a desperate person to undercut any political process that does not favour him. That behaviour was first seen in 2015 when, he sabotaged the established zoning pattern for the governorship of Rivers State. The poll was also characterised by violence. If from outside he was able to shoot his way to power, then, one could only imagine what he did when he sat on the power throne in Rivers State. The governorship election in Rivers State and the other elections that took place in the state were characterised by manipulations that occurred in the country with officials of INEC at the state and federal levels allegedly acting as collaborators. The recruitment of card-carrying PDP members as election officers was an act of partisanship. When this was revealed to the embarrassment of INEC, a promise was made to replace the PDP chieftains with non-partisan persons. However, despite entreaties, the Resident Electoral Officer for whatever reasons after initially promising failed to act on the issue. He went on to accept even outrageous results returned by the PDP election officers. If the state INEC was partisan, the clear lead of the national officers was undoubtedly an encouragement to them. How did the commission at the federal level show bias? INEC in Abuja removed the APC candidates’ names from their list, even before they were required to do so. The commission obeyed orders they were not party to and ignored the ones they were party to in anticipation of a Supreme Court order that would finally nail APC. The commission also ignored numerous complaints and petitions by the opposition and carried out the collation of the governorship and state constituency elections and announced bogus results. Where did they get the new result sheets? They even disregarded obvious violence and announced results wherever it suited them. The actions of INEC in the last general election in Rivers State may have appeared as a horror movie and fiction. Did INEC in Abuja and Port-Harcourt partner with Wike in denying the people of the state their right to choose who should govern them? Many stakeholders, of course, know that the conspiracy was more than the eye can behold, the permutations for 2023 within and outside the APC being a crucial matter. But, the truth shall always vindicate the just. Rivers shall survive the present tyranny.