•Groups write APC Chair Oshiomhole
•Northcentral group backs ex-Gombe governor Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje’s ambition to become the Senate Presidency in the Ninth Senate yesterday received a major boost with the endorsement by the North East Consultative Forum (NESF). Five other groups in the Northeast have also reportedly supported the former Gombe State governor. A source close to Goje noted that baring last minute changes, the former governor “is likely to declare his interest for the exalted position of Senate President this weekend or next week”. A statement by the NESF said the groups endorsed Goje after an emergency meeting at the Zaranda Hotel, Bauchi, on Wednesday. It listed the groups to as North East Elders’ Mobilisation Forum, APC National Youth Caucus, Borno Discussion Circle, Gombe Political Associations and North East Youth Awareness for Good Governance. “To this effect, the groups have written the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, on their endorsement of Goje,” the statement said. In a letter, dated April 17, titled: “North East stakeholders endorse Goje,” the conveners, Mustapha Saidu and Alhaji Bello Ambo, hailed APC for zoning the Senate presidency to the Northeast. They said: “Following very wide consultations among stakeholders, party members and North East Consultative Forum and after careful assessment of his contribution to the party and Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, we hereby present to you Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje as the choice of the people of the Northeast for the Senate President of the Ninth Assembly.” Also, A Northcentral group, under the aegis of North Central Alliance for Danjuma Goje, has expressed its support for the former Gombe State governor to become the Senate President in the Ninth Assembly. Addressing reporters in Kaduna, the group’s chairman, Nasiru Isiyaku, said: “The intimidating profile of the Gombe Central senator kept rising like one bright star in a million galaxies. Senator Goje, who is eminently qualified, has demonstrated to his constituents that providing good governance is not rocket science. “Senator Goje, as a faithful member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) family in Gombe State, has since raised the bar of servant leadership. This we can all see in the numerous youths empowerment programmes he launched, while also awarding contracts and solely financing the construction of several beneficial infrastructural projects across his constituency. “Equally, Senator Goje, as the chairman of various Senate committees for eight years, doggedly fought to bridge the yawning gap in employment and infrastructural distribution to various states and geo-political zones…”     