Office automation and document management solutions provider, Brother International, has upgraded its products range from the business machines to the document scanners as part of the brand’s regional growth strategy. The products were launched in conjunction with the firm’s partner and authorised representative in Nigeria, Skysat Technologies, during a dealer conference and training on the new digital printers, held in Lagos. Assistant Manager, Planning Division, Brother International, Virginia Jonathan said the products would help their customers including home-based and medium to large-sized businesses to  increase productivity, improve work-flow,  enhance organisational efficiency and   reduce costs. According to her, the firm is working to address the demand in market by delivering and offering high quality products from Laser and Inkjet printers/MFP, high speed document scanners to innovative labeling printers. She noted that with the partnership with Skysat Technologies, Brother International is billed to provide excellent sales and after sales technical support services for its products in Nigeria. “From the business machines, Brother’s latest Ink refill tank system series delivers enhanced print quality, paper handling capabilities and page yields for SMBs and SOHOs. Specifically targeted for high print volume home offices and small workgroups. The new products have been designed to cater to the ever-changing needs of the consumer who is always looking for quality and cost-effective document management solutions.’’ She added: “They are developed for the heavy-duty scanning demands of the SMB market; all offer full network functionality, which allows the machine to work harder for multiple users on various devices, without the need for a link to a central PC.” MD, Skysat Technologies, Izzat Debs, said the launch was to recognise the firms existing leaders and to thank them for their patronage. He said the products launched are exciting, special and would do wonders in the market. “We have noticed that Nigerians don’t want to have a monopoly of brands but they are looking for other brands too to be available but with the capabilities and features these products have, we will complement what the customers are looking for,” he said.