A Lagos High Court yesterday dismissed an application, praying it to reject the  confessional statement of a lawyer, Udeme Otike-Odibi, accused of killing her husband, Symphorosa, last May 3. Justice Adedayo Akintoye held that Otike-Odibi’s request, through her lawyer,  Oluseye Banjoko, did not satisfy the requirements of the law. The judge rejected the defendant’s prayer that a trial-within-trial should not be conducted to ascertain how the statement was obtained. She fixed the trial for May 23 to determine whether the  statement allegedly obtained from the defendant by the police last May 4 should be admitted in evidence. According to Banjoko, the statement was invalid because it was  made in her lawyer’s absence  and without being videoed, as required by law, among other reasons. He relied on Section 93 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL) of Lagos State, 2015 and Section 35(2) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). Dismissing the application, Justice Akintoye held: “This court does not find that the said confessional statement was obtained contrary to Section 93 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL).” The court also considered Section 35(2) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which provides that a person accused or detained has a right to remain silent or avoid answering any question until such person has consulted a lawyer. Justice Akintoye said: “The defence counsel has not been able to establish that the defendant was not given the option to remain silent or to avoid answering any question until after consultation with a legal practitioner or any other person of her choice. This has not been proved to be so. He who asserts must prove… “It is also important to point out that the defendant, of all people, was well aware of her right, being a lawyer herself and as such, could have decided not to speak to any police officer. “To now imply that she is not aware of her rights or that the police forced her to speak, appears to be very far-fetched to this court. “The end result is that I do not find that the confessional statement being sought to be tendered has in any way contravened Section 93 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL) of Lagos State, 2015 or Section 35(2) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “The prayer for an order rejecting the confessional statement for having been procured contrary to the above stated laws is hereby refused…the motion…is hereby dismissed.” Otike-Odibi was arraigned last June 13, on a two-count charge of murder and misconduct with regard to a body. She is accused of stabbing her husband, Symphorosa,  also a lawyer,  to death and cutting his manhood last May 3 at their Diamond Estate, Sangotedo, Lekki, Lagos, home. On January 23, a prosecution witness, Olusegun Bamidele, told the court that Otike-Odibi, 48, hit Symphorosa on the head with a frying pan several times before stabbing him in the stomach with a kitchen knife. Bamidele said Otike-Odibi told him that she then sat beside her husband’s body on the bed and said: “‘If this your manhood is the one that is giving you licence not to have the feeling of another person, it’s better we cut it off,” which she proceeded to do before putting a piece of it in his right hand. The witness, an Assistant Superintendent in the Homicide Section, State Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Panti, Yaba, said he recorded her statements with her approval, after cautioning her. But when Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Titilayo Shitta-Bey sought to tender Otike-Odibi’s two statements, Banjoko opposed her, following which the judge ordered a trial- within-trial to determine the statements’ admissibility. But on February 25, Otike-Odibi brought an application  to stop the trial. Rather, he urged it to reject the confessional statements. 