FASHION, fads and followers are three things common to most celebrities. Most celebrities are fashionable, they make and follow trends and they are loved by a huge number of people who are always on the lookout for the things that they say or do. This week, we bring you the most stylish and dapper male celebrities who command large followings and who rock their garbs both on and off the red carpet.  They are the ones who constantly appear dapper and well put together as they strut down the red carpet at movie premieres, awards shows or photo shoots. These dandy, supper and dapper men are not just at the top in their fields as celebrity artistes, athletes and actors, but also the best dressed around. Their life is a rollercoaster of red carpet events and formal and informal photo ops.  Ebuka Uchendu Nigerian lawyer and media personality Ebuka Obi- Uchendu, who is best known for hosting the reality TV show-Big Brother Naija, the long running Rubbin’ Minds talk show on Channels TV as well as co-hosting The Spot and Men’s Corner on Ebonylife Television, often appear on the list of the best-dressed men known for being faithful to a timeless style with which they know what works for them. Being good-looking helps but not all the handsome men know how to effortlessly rock the traditional natives and western clothes like Ebuka does.  He has come a long way since he came to be known with simple but stylish forgettable garbs! Slowly and steadily, Ebuka is fast turning into a fashion icon whose sartorial style oozes class on and off the red carpet.  Wizkid This talented singer, songwriter and performer’s outfits are usually snappy, trendy and unique. It appears as if he likes to keep his style snappy, faddish and contemporary in order to keep his millions of fans hooked and happy. Of course, the superstar is better known for his chart-bursting hits than for his hip outfits. On the red carpet, Wizkid combines his hipster dress sense with huge doses of swags and this combination gives him a power personality that completes his unique blend. He’s definitely a guy who knows how to dress well!  Noble Igwe When it comes to dressing well, Nigerian blogger, and the founder and Chief Executive Officer of 360 Group, Noble Igwe, is a master on and off the red carpet. The fashion savant, critic and dresser is a master of both the native and foreign ensemble. Bold and open to the craziest of ideas, Igwe is the only one on the scene who seems to have the power to make and seemingly break rules as he wills without being attacked by Nigeria’s critical fashion conscious crowd. His views are very well respected.  Denola Grey His dresses have evolved over the years. Today, the media consultant has an elegant, modern style and no coarseness; although sometimes he also chooses to take a little more risk.  Odion Jude Ighalo This famous Nigerian professional footballer who plays as a striker for Chinese club Shanghai Greenland Shenhua and the Nigerian national team does not take huge risks with fashion, instead, he is a classic man who seems to know what fits him well and what does not. And believe us when we tell you that he likes to stick to what works for him, for the greater part.  Dbanj Popular Nigerian musician-Dbanj has everything in his favour- Good looks, gorgeous body, a winsome smile and several musical hits. While he is performing, you are likely to see him strutting around the stage wearing designer sneakers and jeans but not a shirt. But off the stage, DBanj is always very well-dressed in the best of solid designer wears that money can buy. He prefers classy bespoke wears that play to his strength.  Richard Mofe-Damijo Nigerian actor and former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism in Delta State, Richard Mofe- Damijo RMD’s presence on televison, regardless of the role he plays, leaves such a deep imprint that it is hard to forget. He brings a lot to his appearances on the red carpet where he looks stylish with things that others would not know how to wear. Among others, RMD is a master of bowties and other gentlemen accessories.  Timaya Egberi Papa is one of the most humble and respected artistes of his generation and one of the most elegant gentlemen in the entertainment world. He wears his Niger Delta roots on his sleeves.  Bolanle Ninalowo In recent years, smoking hot, rugged Nollywood actor, Bolalne Ninalowo, has come to be known as one of the sexiest men in the movie industry, thanks to his rugged looks, snappy taste and choice of classic costumes. His regularly neat and fresh combinations make him one of the best-dressed male actors in Nollywood. Emeka Oparah One of Nigeria’s leading experts in crisis communication, leadership and corporate social responsibility, Emeka Oparah is the director, Corporate Communications and CRS at Airtel. But he is also the CEO of Ethelberts, a bespoke fashion label in Lagos. In addition to all this, Oparah is one of the many male celebs who often appear on the list of the best-dressed men for being faithful to a timeless, elegant sartorial style. He is not a copier of trends; he creates trends!