HOW can Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) serve the people better? It is by institutionalising it and providing its officials with light weapons, say its Chairman, Israel Ajao, a retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), and others. Ajao, Lagos State Commissioner of Police Zubairu Muazu and Lagos Island East Local Council Development Area Chairman Kamal Salau-Bashua spoke at an event to celebrate the agency’s second anniversary at Elegbata Sports Complex, Ebute-Ero. Ajao said his men were facing armed robbers and other criminals without any form of defence. The operatives, he said,   should be allowed to carry weapons for self defence,  hailing the House of Assembly for passing resolutions that can enhance the outfit’s operation. Crime mapping, Ajao said, had identified cultism among children as a challenge, which the Corps must address. On the use of arms, which he described as a sensitive matter, Ajao said it was only proper for the operatives to carry guns since they confront armed robbers. ‘’You do not expect somebody to chase armed robbers with bare hands, but that’s what we have been doing for the past two-and-a-half years. “I know it is a sensitive area and we are not the police or a federal agency. But if we are working for the safety of residents in a non-discriminatory way, since we are all Nigerians, then, an amendment in that area will enhance the agency’’, he said. Ajao said securing Lagos was not easy, but thanked the government for making things easy by providing  funds, vehicles and other logistics. ‘’We patrol difficult terrains, use specially packaged bicycles and do foot patrols as well. We engage in intelligence gathering. These have resulted in peace in Lagos’’. Salau-Bashua said  the law establishing the agency should be revisited to institutionalise it. He attributed the peace enjoyed on Lagos Island to the Corps’ diligence and resilience. Muazu, represented by Area ‘A’ Commander Bode Ojajuni, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP),  praised the corps officials for their discipline and dedication to duty, noting that the police had enjoyed good synergy with the agency. He said: “The LSNC were excellent in the last election, and I commend them. This is one of the best partnerships the police are having. I have worked with them, so I know how disciplined they are. I get situation reports from your office regularly and the CP is delighted to work with you.” Also at the event was the Head, Law Enforcement Training Institute (LETI), Prince Adebowale Ojora, who emphasised the relevance of continuous training.