The internal crisis rocking the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau state on Wednesday led to the suspension of the chairman and his deputy by the state working committee. All has not been well with the party’s internal structure since it lost the governorship contest to the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC). While briefing newsmen at the party secretariat in Jos, publicity secretary of the party Hon John Akans said: “The Plateau state chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended its Chairman, Hon. Damishi Sango, Deputy Chairman, Hon. Amos Gombi Goyol over alleged diversion of Presidential campaign funds and N9.8 million meant for Internally Displaced Persons during the 2019 general elections” Akans revealed the suspension of the principal officers has the backing of 16 members of the State Working Committee of the party. Akans said the suspension takes immediate effect. Akans who read the letter of suspension to journalists in said the Party’s vice chairman, Northern Zone, Hon. Chris Hassan has taken over the leadership of the party as acting chairman pending conclusion of the disciplinary committee’s investigation of the alleged funds. “The Party Chairman Hon. Damishi Sango and his Deputy Hon. Amos Gombi Goyol have been suspended based on the reasons the resources send to the State for Presidential elections were not accounted for by the Chairman aided by the Deputy Chairman. “The chairman concealed the amount sent by the Presidential Campaign Committee and created a fraudulent unseen template used as sharing formula unknown to the State Party structure. “About N5 million raised and saved by the party to help Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) to help relieve their pains were also not accounted for up till this moment. “No mention has been made of the said funds and it is worthy to note that the Deputy Chairman is the chairman Committee on IDPs for the party. “Also, about N4.8 million meant for PDP Plateau State retreat was equally not accounted for by the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman.” Akans said the party was plunged into confusion during the general elections due to the highhandedness of the chairman and Deputy Chairman of the party who disregarded advice from party’s elders and critical stakeholders. In a swift reaction, Sango said he was not aware of all the allegations raised by the party. He expressed surprise he was betrayed by people he considered close to him in the party. “I am not aware that I have been suspended, I have not seen any letter to that effect. “I am surprised that I was betrayed by people I considered close to me in the party. “There was a State Campaign Council, which the Governorship candidate, Sen. Jeremiah Useni was part of it. All money was disbursed by the campaign council.”