As the nation celebrates the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked Nigerians to continue to pray for the President Muhammadu Buhari led government in the task of taking the country to the next level. In its Easter message to Nigerian Christians signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issah Onilu, the APC said Nigerians should also remember the essence of the sacrifice of Jesus which is love. The party appeal to Nigerians to rise above our perceived differences which pit brothers and sisters against themselves, adding that love and tolerance will take Nigerians above internecine violence, killings, agitations, and other divisive tendencies. The statement reads: “the All Progressives Congress (APC) wishes to felicitates with Christians at home and abroad on the joyous occasion of Easter which commemorates the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, a major Cornerstone of the Christian faith. “As we merry with friends, family and other loved ones for the festivities, we are implored to also remember the essence of Easter which is recognition of the love, sacrifice and suffering Jesus Christ bore for humanity. “The APC urge all citizens irrespective of religious affiliations to imbibe these selfless attributes displayed by Jesus Christ in our relationship with our neighbours and in our national life. “In our collective efforts to progress as a nation, we must all rise above our perceived differences which pit brothers and sisters against themselves. Love and tolerance will take us above internecine violence, killings, agitations, and other divisive tendencies. “We urge Nigerians to also use the occasion of Easter to pray for the safety and well-being of our Armed Forces and other security personnel deployed to flash points around the country to ensure safety of citizens and their livelihoods. “We seek the continuous prayers and support of Nigerians for the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration in the ongoing task of taking the country to the Next Level of our shared progress, peace and prosperity.”