Sir: I was an eyewitness when the Union Jack was lowered forever and the green white green flag of Nigeria spread out for the first time at about 12:10 a.m of October 1, 1960. It was the most colorful scene that may not appear again on the horizon of Nigeria. The fireworks that followed were unprecedented. It was joy trekking from Race Course, now Tafawa Balewa Square to Abule-Nla road, Ebute Meta. Lagos Island to Mainland was a beauty of light to behold. “Nigeria we hail thee,” was the first National Anthem of Nigeria (1960 – 1978). That anthem was changed in 1978 to “Arise o compatriots” – still sung till today. Interestingly, none of those agitating for the restructuring of Nigeria ever mention changing the national anthem. My question: why do we always sing only a verse of the two short stanzas that make up the national anthem at public functions or occasion?” That second verse, in my view, is the ‘glory’ of the anthem. It says, “O God of creation, direct our noble cause, guide our leaders’ right, and help our youth to know; In love and honesty to grow, and live in just and peace, great lofty height attains to build a nation where peace and justice shall reign.” That is the only verse of the two stanzas where God is mentioned. But Nigerian leaders have refused to honour God by neglecting to sing that last verse. No wonder, herdsmen, Boko Haram and kidnappers are on the prowl as it appears that Satan has taken control over the nation called Nigeria. The United Kingdom’s national anthem is wrapped round Queen. It has five verses and every verse ends with; “God save the Queen”. The Queen is a symbol of unity, not only in Britain but also in the Commonwealth of nations. The United State of America (U.S.A) has the most interesting national anthem.  It was an Independence got through war: “And the rocket’s red glare, the bombs bursting in the air, gave proof through the night that our flag was still there; O say does that star – spangled banner yet wave; O’er the land of free and the home of the brave?” In the last stanza of U.S.A national anthem, it says; “Their blood has washed out their footsteps pollution. No refuse could save the hireling and slave, from the terror of flight or the gloom of the grave. And the Star – Spangled banner in triumph doth wave.” Now, the United Kingdom and the United States of America want to be wiser than God. I hope Nigeria will not follow their steps. I am using this write-up to appeal to the Nigeria Army, Navy, Air Force and Police bands to always play the full national anthem on functions or occasions.  omoajai_sunday05@yahoo.com