The governorship election will hold in Edo State next year. There is a realignment of forces in the two major parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Aspirants are warming up for the race, Correspondent OSAGIE OTABOR reports. A COLD war is on within the ranks of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the governorship tickets for next year’s election. The first term tenure of Governor Godwin Obaseki will expire in November next year and various aspirants are  warming up to contest against him. Candidates that contested on the platform of the APC and the PDP in 2016 are Governor Obaseki and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. They are now battling the intrigues within their  parties ahead of next year’s polls. APC Within the APC, it is a battle between ‘the Establishment boys and Abuja politicians’. The clock is ticking for the Edo State chapter of the APC. There are fears of an implosion in the Edo APC over the governorship ticket. In a few months’ time, those against a second term ticket for Obaseki will come out in full blast. The governor has not declared his intention to run for a second term, but his supporters are already propelling him to seek re-election. There are also indications that he might be denied the ticket, because there is a huge divide between the leaders of Edo APC on whether or Obaseki should be given the nod for a fresh mandate. The battle is between those regarded as ‘Establishment boys and Abuja politicians’. Establishment boys are those  appointed by Obaseki or perceived to be benefiting from the administration. Abuja politicians are those not happy with Obaseki’s style of governance and claim that they were neglected after working to install the government. They are also known as boys of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole who is also National Chairman of the APC. Some political appointees have indicated that their offices have become redundant because they are regarded as Oshiomhole boys. Those interested in contesting against Obaseki for the APC ticket are General Charles Airhiavbere, Dr. Pius Odubu and Chris Ogiemwonyi. Those allegedly penciled down to replace Philip Shaibu as the Deputy Governor are Philip Ugheoke, Johnson Oghuma and Abbas Braimah. There is no rift yet between Oshiomhole and Obaseki, but to the party leaders on both divides, the cold war is real. Oshiomhole has kept his plans to his chest, even though some APC leaders are waiting for directives from the National Chairman before declaring their support for any aspirant. The outcome of the presidential and National Assembly elections in Edo State shocked Obaseki when he got reports of how some APC leaders sabotaged the election because they were allegedly neglected. The sins of the governor, in the view of some APC leaders, are many. Top on the list is that Obaseki is stingy. They see his governance style as an attempt to create an eldorado when hunger is biting them. Some claim that he wants to retire them and raise new leaders from their domains. There are complaints of no appointments into various boards of ministries and parastatals. Contracts and juicy appointments are given to those who did not work for the party and non-party members from Lagos State, according to them. They also accuse Obaseki of having no regards for Oshiomhole and other party chieftains. An APC chieftain who confided in our reporter said there was no rift between Obaseki and Oshiomhole. He said those attempting to build a wall between Obaseki and Oshiomhole thought they would benefit more when the two leaders are fighting. Another chieftain said Obaseki was more focused on working for the people rather than his second term ticket. The source said the coast would be clear from November after Obaseki’s second year anniversary. Meanwhile, support for Obaseki is swelling by the day. A political group, the Edo Elites, comprising notable leaders of the APC, academics and professionals, began the campaign to ward off any aspirant from reaching out to them, by printing exercise books and other items to be distributed across the state. The inscription on one of the books reads: “GGO Year 2020. 4+4 loading and Continue to give us more of the developments in Edo State.” Last month, leaders of the APC in Oredo Local Government Area dumped their son Airhiavbere to adopt Obaseki as the sole candidate of the party for next year’s governorship election. A communique issued at the end of the Oredo APC meeting by the Chairman, Godwin Alabi, reads: “Considering the pace of development in different sectors of Edo State, from infrastructure to education, industrialisation, civil service and judicial reform, prompt payment of pensioners and civil servants emoluments, among others, we are convinced beyond doubt that the only way to sustain the current rapid growth is to ensure that Governor Obaseki continue as governor. “We, therefore, with full sense of responsibility call on him to run for 2nd term and thereby adopt Governor Obaseki as the sole candidate in the forthcoming 2020 election. We will ensure as, leaders of the party in Oredo, our readiness to pull our resources together to ensure that Governor Obaseki not only fly the flag of the party in governorship election, but as governor for second term.” Last week, the State Executive Committee (SEC) of the party rose from its meeting to pass a vote of confidence on Governor Obaseki, because of unprecedented achievements of winning all the 24 seats in the State House of Assembly during the last general election. Publicity Secretary, Mr. Chris Azebamwan, who signed the communique after the SEC meeting, said the party would continue to sustain its commitment to give Obaseki the needed support to keep it focused and on track. A huge billboard close General Airhiavbere’s GRA residence suggests that he is interested in the 2020 governorship. The billboard reads: “Hope is still alive”. He has been suspended from the APC for alleged anti-party activities, but he has insisted on contesting the governorship primary against Obaseki. PDP The victory of the APC in the last presidential election has compelled the PDP to return to the drawing board on who will be its candidate for next year’s election. Some leaders said Pastor Ize-Iyamu is no longer keen on contesting for the governorship, because of the outcome of the presidential election. Before the last general elections, Ize-Iyamu had always emphasised the need to focus on winning the presidential election, which he believed would enhance the party’s chances of clinching the Edo governorship. At various occasions, Ize-Iyamu had been introduced as the Edo Governor in-waiting. In 2018, when the party undertook a thank you tour of the 18 local government areas, its chairman, Chief Dan Orbih, had insisted that Pastor Ize-Iyamu remained the party’s candidate until the court ruled on a suit challenging Obaseki’s qualification. Orbih, who said he could not abandon Ize-Iyamu in the middle of the river, stated that until Ize-Iyamu gets into that position (governor) he would not be tired of supporting him. He added: “Even if I am no longer chairman of the PDP, I will still support him. It is proper for me to do what I am doing now. This is because we still have a pre-election matter in court, challenging the qualification of Governor Obaseki. Until the case is decided, he remains a candidate of the PDP. Until that case is decided, we will accord him all privileges.” Some PDP members are, however, rooting for Senator Matthew Urhoghide or Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, the member representing Oredo in the House of Representatives, to be given the party’s ticket. They allege that there is no love lost between Orbih and Ize-Iyamu. The PDP is believed to be waiting for the APC to commit a political blunder as it did in the National Assembly elections for it to return to power in the state. Members of the Edo APC are watching to see where the pendulum will swing, as regards the imaginary fight between Oshiomhole and Obaseki.