The national leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is in a celebratory mood. He has been on the march since February, when as a sagacious political general, he led APC to another historic victory at the federal elections. Thanks to his indefatigable leadership, the president won a resounding victory. While Tinubu was deservedly being toasted for the historic victory, he clocked 67 years of age on March 29. Before the 2019 general election, there was worry whether President Buhari would be re-elected. That worry was attenuated by the emergence of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party. Atiku who is reputed for his financial muscle also had the support of the politically exposed generals who have providentially decided who ruled Nigeria since after the Nigerian civil war. Buhari perhaps knew that with the array of political opponents primed against him, he was back to the pre-2015 default setting. Historically, prior to 2015, Buhari has always amassed about 12 million votes mainly from the northwest and northeast. That huge number was however never able to gift him the presidency in his previous attempts. So, to gain the national spread and additional votes, Buhari needed a strategic inroad in the southern part of Nigeria. Of note, his dalliance with southern vice-presidential candidates in previous efforts, didn’t yield much. With time running out because of age, Buhari needed a strong partner to achieve his dream. Tinubu having successfully established his political war machine as a veritable fighting force in the southwest political arena, also needed a thrust into the centre. The PDP which has built a formidable amalgam of economic predators as political activists was a no-go area for the progressively minded Tinubu. So, with a capacity to envision even in a near-hopeless situation, Tinubu set forth to cobble a political alliance that will project the Gen. Buhari as the presidential candidate. He successfully achieved that with his army of lieutenants, as Buhari and his party won the presidential election in 2015. But that success was almost mismanaged, as forces around President Buhari decided to hijack power and use it for ends not contemplated from a party that prides itself as progressive. Slow to action, the APC-led federal government was portraying a provincial style that could have truncated the alliance, if not for the foresightedness of Tinubu. Those who joined the alliance from the PDP and could not wait for the fog to clear as the reality of failure set in, plotted from inside, as they strategized towards 2019. The National Assembly became the test ground for supremacy. In wisdom, instead of bringing down the house he laboured to build, Tinubu was patient, even as the president was hedged in by the provincial forces. Seeing that unless something was done, the second coming of the president was going to be a monumental tragedy, those who genuinely loved the president, like his wife, began to shout for oxygen if the president is not to be politically strangulated. Even as his followers were mounting pressure for a tactical withdrawal, Tinubu maintained his equanimity. No doubt along the line the president may have realized the futility of going the mile alone with the political stragglers, who can only offer sycophancy in place of hard work to make Nigeria progress. As the general election drew near, the intra-party crisis deftly led by Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the man who eventually contested against him in 2019 worsened. By the time he had done half term, Buhari would have seen that Tinubu was genuinely offering his sagacious political capacity to stave the impending failure that lurked around his presidency. Also the untainted loyalty exhibited by vice president, Professor Yemi Osibanjo SAN, an ally of Asiwaju Tinubu, especially while the president was hospitalized in a London hospital would have convinced Buhari that Asiwaju is a dependable ally and not a foe. So when in 2019 the cloud gathered against the re-election of President Buhari, it was to Asiwaju Tinubu that he turned to, for political leadership. Luckily since the umbilical cord had not been severed, Tinubu accepted the challenge to wage political war against tested military cum political warriors like Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, Gen. T. Y. Danjuma, and a host of others. But for that strand of alliance that survived the greed of those who tried to build a wall around Buhari, his presidency would have suffered the pre-2015 trauma. Marshalling his political arsenal to action, Asiwaju delivered President Buhari’s second term ambition, despite the heavy odds.  It goes without saying that Buhari saw wisdom in entering into alliance with the sagacious Tinubu, and his dream of becoming the president of Nigeria perhaps would have perished if not for that alliance. Now that Buhari has a second chance, he should make the alliance work for the people of Nigeria. The alliance can work to deliver a pan Nigerian government without the veneer of sectional appointments and decisions that puts Nigeria on the tailspin. The best birthday gift for Tinubu would be to establish a government that would give all Nigerians a sense of belonging. The type that will project progressive policies, so that Tinubu can joyously look his followers in the face and say: I told you that the choice we have made is the right choice. Considering the experience the president garnered in his first term, there would be no excuses to buoy if he sets up a sectional government whose only interest would be to enjoy the lucre of office. What the stragglers have eaten in the first term should be enough for their life time. As Tinubu celebrates his 67th birthday I believe he knows the work ahead to turn Nigeria around at the centre is definitely more than what has been done in the past four years. The precocious intellect that gave Lagos the master plan that has propelled her to one of the top five economies in Africa must be assembled to gift Nigeria the much needed push. Where it is necessary, he should nudge the federal government openly as he did over the proposal to increase VAT. There is no time to waste. If he must, he should be willing to turn to devil’s advocate, if that is what is needed to redirect the government, whenever they go in a wrong direction. Perhaps President Buhari if he has not been doing so, should borrow Tinubu’s style of allowing the fest of intellect before any major policy is shaped. He should not carry into second term those who hedge him in, in the name of protection, while making his government so insular and sectional. Here is wishing Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu many more years of service to his fatherland, in good health of mind and body. 