Easter is a celebration observed by Christians all over the world. It is a season that marks the major essence of the Christian faith, the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ. As recorded in the Holy Bible, after the fall of man, fellowship was lost between man and God. Man kept on sinning against a holy God, which led to the destruction of the world, by water. A certain man called Noah was however saved, with his family, with God hoping that the new generation would live without sin. Burt that turned out false, as sin started again, this time from the house of Noah. The Bible also tells us of prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel, Hosea and even John the Baptist who prophesied ahead of time of a coming Messiah, who would take away the sins of the world. The Messiah came, and was named Jesus Christ. He lived his life on earth without sin, but according to the plan of God, he was later betrayed with a kiss by one of his disciples after he and his disciples had the “last supper”, accused of claiming to be the son of God, and he was crucified with two thieves. Jesus died, and rose again, three days later. He became the ultimate sacrifice of sin, paying the highest price of death, shedding his blood to reconcile man back to God. This forms the essence of Easter. It is a period to reflect on Jesus Christ, the savior of mankind, who came to die for the sins of the whole world, so that all men who believe in him, through his death can live a triumphant life on earth, and gain full access to the holy God. Easter is usually celebrated somewhere within the first four months of the year. There are some who stay away from meat and pork during the period of the Easter season, especially on Good Friday, the day Jesus died (as widely accepted), unlike the Christmas, where chicken becomes the major food to enjoy. Some Catholic members in Nigeria believe that eating meat or any of those sorts on Good Friday amounts to eating the flesh of Jesus. Prominent Nigerians have addressed the nation on the essence of Easter and lessons to learn from it. According to President Muhammadu Buhari, Easter is a time to emulate the love, sacrifice and forgiveness shown by Jesus Christ. “The Christian festival commemorating the resurrection of Jesus Christ is also a time to emulate the virtues of love, sacrifice, forgiveness, humility, courage and endurance, which Christ embodied and remarkably demonstrated during His earthly ministry. Let us use this auspicious season to show love to our neighbours, and cater to the needs of the less-privileged in our midst.” For former President Goodluck Jonathan, there is hope of triumph ahead for the nation, and it will not be wise to give up now. “I urge us not to give up on our ourselves and our nation no matter the challenges that confront us today. Through our faith and collective actions, we will overcome the tempests of violence, misery and insecurity that threaten our nation. We are more than conquerors and the future of our nation is bright, if we work as one. Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode told Nigerians to see this season as one “that presents us the viable opportunity to think about how we can help to steer our nation back on the road to peace, stability and prosperity, by working in the spirit of togetherness because no nation can make any meaningful progress in an atmosphere riddled with pockets of violence and killings. This is the time for us to avoid all divisive, parochial, ethnic and religious sentiments and rivalries, and begin to live more harmoniously with one another, as Jesus Christ enjoined us to.” Easter is a time of reflection. It is a time to see how best we can reconcile back to Jesus Christ, and live the life he taught us to live, for the world to be better. It is a season of love, sacrifice and forgiveness. It is important to note this fact, and live by it. Adeyinka Akintunde is a graduate of Philosophy from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife Nigeria. A social commentator and Online Reporter 