In low-income countries like Nigeria, World Bank statistics show that more than 90 per cent of waste is mismanaged: disposed in unregulated dumps, along waterways, or openly burned. Poor management of waste has consequences on the environment, safety and health. It creates breeding grounds for disease, contributes to global climate change through methane generation, and threatens ecosystems. Studies have shown that more than 60 per cent of the trash put in waste bins could be recycled. Estimates say that Nigeria generates more than 32 million tons of solid waste annually, and collects only 20 to 30 percent. Recycling has also proven to be a solution to unemployment, which is good news for a country with more than 30 million unemployed youth. Some young Nigerians are already setting the pace in the recycling industry. Aside
from contributing to a cleaner and safer environment, they can earn a sustainable living from recycling or upcycling. Olabanke Banjo is one such example. Her passion for minimizing environmental pollution gave rise to Cyrus45factory, a creative agency focused on creating bespoke avant-garde and ultra-modern furniture products using tires. Cyrus45factory was “actually born out of pure coincidence,” says Banjo. “In 2016, I was staying with my big sister in Lagos and her neighbor wanted to get rid of a huge pile of tires. Where they saw a problem I saw an opportunity. Being a lover of revamping old items, I told them not to throw away the tires, that I’d figure out how to discard of them. I really didn’t have any idea what I was going to do with the tires.” “But the creative mind in me thought I should be able to make a table out of them, because of their round shape. And if I put some wood underneath, they might look like a table. So, with the help of Google and my very creative mind, I made my first coffee table, and that is how Cyrus45factory started.” According to Banjo, one of Cyrus45factoy’s goals is to minimize the damage caused by tire waste – tires are non-biodegradable, and burning them creates both environmental and health hazards.  “Every year, there are about 150 billion tires disposed of around the world. SoCyrus45factory seeks to prevent them from going to incinerators, where they’d be burned, by turning them into artsy and functional household items and furniture. This is how we are providing solutions to environmental challenges,” says Banjo.
Since 2016, Cyrus45factory has been able to upcycle close to 500 tyres, and has
received local and international accolades. “We’ve won some awards,” says Banjo. “We were awarded the ACE Award best eco-friendly product in 2018, and I personally won the 2017 All Youth Award most enterprising youth entrepreneur. We were invited by the African Union to come and speak on entrepreneurship in Addis Ababa in Ethiopia. We have also been featured in
several international media platforms such as the BBC and the Financial Times. Generally, we have made some strides, and we still intend to do more in the coming years.” Banjo says the company is &quot; implementing a method that Nigeria and the entire world can use in disposing of waste, particularly tire waste.” The entrepreneur would also like to change the current narrative about made-in- Nigeria products – that they are of inferior quality and lower standards. She would like her products to be able to compete in international markets. “In the next ten years, we hope to expand to other parts of Africa, as well as to homes and offices, and ensure that everybody uses eco-friendly products,” she says. This article is being published as part of Earth Beats, an international and collaborative initiative gathering 18 news media outlets from around the world to focus on solutions to waste and pollution.