An Ekiti State High Court, Ido Ekiti Judicial Division, on Wednesday resolved the lingering ownership crisis surrounding Agamo, Iludun Ekiti in Ilejemeje Local Government Area. The Court said Agamo is a communal land belonging to the entire Iludun Ekiti and not individuals, groups or families. Justice A.A Adeleye, while delivering judgment in suit number HID/8/2017 filed by Rev David Adeosun and five others on behalf of themselves and their families against the Owa of Iludun Ekiti, Oba Kayode Akinola, and three others over the ownership of Agamo, held that title to Agamo land is vested in the whole Iludun community. Justice Adeleye, in the judgment, said: “I find as a fact that the claimants are not the first settlers at Agamo and therefore not owners of the land in dispute. “Agamo belongs to the Iludun indigenes as a communal land since the land has not been partitioned. “This is a fact pleaded, and led in evidence by the counter claimants, but not disproven by the defendants. “Consequently, a reigning Owa of Iludun is entrusted with the management custody, control and supervision of the Agamo farmland in conjunction with other principal or prominent indigenes of the town for the benefit of the entire community.” The applicants had in the suit filed on June 28, 2017 sought among others “a declaration that Agamo farmland belongs to Oke Iludun Quarter under the headship of Joseph Adeosun and Daniel Kolawole families,” seeking declaration as null and void sale of Agamo and other farmlands amounting to 100 hectares belonging to the applicants but sold by the defendants. The applicants had also sought “an order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendants whether by themselves, their agents or privies from further trespassing on the plaintiffs’ land at Igbo Oge, Agamo, Eyin Eran”. But the defendants, the Owa of Iludun and others, in their joint statement of defence/counterclaim denied the positions contained in the applicants’ statement of claim and prayed the court to dismiss applicants’ claims. Consequently, the defendants sought, among others, “ a declaration that the entire parcel of land situate, lying and being at Agamo farmland, Iludun Ekiti, Ekiti State exclusively belong to the Iludun community as a communal land same having not been partitioned”. They also sought “declaration that none of the three principal quarters constituting Iludun Ekiti community – Oke Iludun, Oke Ilomo and Ojomoko can lay sole claim of ownership on any part of Agamo farmland, same having not been partitioned. “A declaration that the incumbent Owa of Iludun is entrusted with the management, custody, control and supervision of the entire Agamo farmland as the head of the community in conjunction with other principal or prominent indigenes or members of the town for the benefit of the entire community.”