The 12th edition of Bamako Encounters, an African Photography Biennial has announced its curatorial team that includes Artistic Director Bonaventure Soh Bejeng Ndikung, the co-curators Aziza Harmel, Astrid Sokona Lepoultier and Kwasi Ohene-Ayeh. Photographers Akinbode Akinbiyi and Seydou Camara will be the artistic advisers, according to a statement by the organisers. The biennial, which has as theme Stream of consciousness will hold at the Malian capital Bamako from Saturday November 30 to Friday January 31. It is organised by The Ministry of Culture in partnership with the Institut Français. Dr. Bonaventure Soh Bejeng Ndikung, a Cameroonian, is an independent curator, author and biotechnologist. He is founder and artistic director of SAVVY Contemporary Berlin. He was curator-at-large for documenta 14 in Athens and Kassel, and guest curator of the 2018 Dak’Art Biennale in Senegal. As the previous editions, titled Telling Time (2015) and Afrotopia (2017) have shown, Bamako Encounters offers the possibility for artists to process a subject with their inspiration, as well as aspirations; to draw out beauty, expression, reflection, and personal interpretation. In the continuity of this editorial approach, the 12th edition will be devoted to the topic Stream of consciousness, a literary metaphor calling for a deep, lyrical, vibrant reflection on the act of photography: its specificity, its prerequisites, its requirements, its transmission in a world of hyper-visibility and countless pictures. In the vision of the curator of the exhibition, The Niger River has a symbolic place in this year’s theme as the incarnation of this “stream of consciousness”. He has even – boldly! – described it as the “cultural cornerstone of the continent”. The notion of dialogue between the continent and its diasporas dispersed throughout the world (Americas, Asia, Oceania, Europe) is also integrated into the festival as a pan-African approach. The Biennial, which is celebrating its 25th anniversary, is organised around thematic exhibitions on contemporary photography and is held in various locations in Bamako including the National Museum of Mali, National Library, Modibo Keita Memorial and the District Museum. Seminars, workshops, lectures and film screenings equally take place alongside the exhibitions during the biennial, which has served as a catalyst for creativity resulting in many photographers on the continent gaining international acclaim. Easily the first event dedicated to African Photography, it has become one of the most followed events on the world cultural stage where talents are tapped and works by great masters are admired, discussed and analyzed. Bamako Encounters, which is a genuine platform for discoveries, exchanges and visibility is an essential venue for the advancement and promotion of African photographers alongside meetings with professionals from different parts of the world. Managed by the African House of Photography and co-produced by the Institut Français, Galerie Médina and the Ministry of Culture of Mali, the biennial attracts over 30,000 visitors to exhibitions in Bamako, while 100 to 200 photographers are exhibited and invited to be part of the event during the professional week. Institut Français, Royal Air Maroc, African House of Photography, Conservatoire Balla Fasake Kouyate, Palais de la Culture Amadou Hampate Ba, CICB, INA, Mémorial Modibo Keïta, CNPM, Reseau Kya Culturel, Photo Art Mali, ASAMSA, European Union, Stichting Doen, Galerie Médina and others will be supporting the biennial.