In last week’s article, I discussed some background to the campaign of family planning. I gave you some of the burden of having children that you may not be able to look after. I will continue from where I stopped last week. With this in mind, the reader can see the damage that unplanned pregnancy can do. The psychological and physical complications are huge indeed. Of recent, the federal government has started to campaign on the need for uptake of family planning in the country. I suppose we should pay attention and heed the call. Not just yourself, the nation of Nigeria is burdened with unwanted children and poorly trained children that are neither productive not useful to the society. Apart from the high expenditure that poor family planning brings upon the family, the women that bear these children suffer from depletion of their body reserves. Women suffer from poor career attainment too. The nation pays an astronomical price for poor family planning. Here is another excerpt, which I have copied from my upcoming book: Beyond Fears: A Practical Information Guide on How to Live, Work and Do Business in Nigeria. “Driven by poverty, children are employed when they should not. In 2006, the number of child workers was estimated at about 15 million, according to Information Sheet – Child Labour in Nigeria, UNICEF 2006.” What should you have in mind before you decide on family planning? The first thing to decide with your spouse is how many children you can both take good care of. Your ability may be for one child or two or five or none at all. You will need to consider your own personal needs and your own health. Determine the current financial commitments to look after a child from pregnancy, medical care, housing, school fees, clothing and so forth. Multiply these expenses by the likely number of children that you want. Add your own and spouse’s likely expenses. These final figures, accounting for inflation, will give you the task that you are up against. Now judge these figures against your own income or family revenue. Is it enough for you? The next issue you need to know is that one type of family planning method may not necessarily be suitable for you. The fact that one person finds a method good may not imply that you will like it. The third factor to decide upon is which of you couple or in a relationship should take the family planning. I must say that majority of family planning are focused on women. Sadly, women bear most of the contraceptive procedures. For a long time and for all the wrong reasons, the burden of family planning has fallen on women. Thankfully, we now have new suitable methods for men, as we shall see later: those men can make significant impact by taking up a contraceptive method instead of the women. If one method of contraception fails or not suitable, you should consult your doctor to change it. I have seen couples who gave up on family planning because of side effects, but ended up with subsequent devastating effect of unwanted pregnancies. While some very effective family planning methods are very cheap, available and effective, some others may be a bit pricey or not available. Your doctor or nurse will take you through them all so that you can decide on what is good for you. The final information you should know is that when family methods are used strictly as directed or as it’s supposed to be used, then you can be assured that your chosen method will work effectively barring a very small chance of failure. In effect, in family planning, there is nothing that can give you a 100 per cent guarantee. In all, family planning is worth trying.  Next week, I will discuss the various methods that are available for family planning. If you need support on what I have discussed here, you may call 08188343865 for assistance.  