The Plateau State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) crisis has escalated, following the suspension of two key party officers. The party was plunged into crisis after its defeat by the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the last general elections. Its publicity secretary, John Akans, said: “The Plateau State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended its chairman,  Damishi Sango, deputy chairman, Amos Gombi Goyol, over alleged diversion of presidential campaign funds and N9.8 million meant for Internally Displaced Persons during the 2019 general elections” Akans said the suspension of the principal officers got the backing of 16 members of the State Working Committee. He said the suspension takes immediate effect. Akans, who read the letter of suspension to reporters in Jos, the state capital yesterday, said the party’s National Vice Chairman, Northern Zone, Chris Hassan, has taken over the leadership of the party as Acting  Chairman, pending the disciplinary committee that was set up to investigate and recover the alleged funds. He added: “The party chairman Hon. Damishi Sango, and his deputy Amos Gombi Goyol  have been suspended, based on the reasons that the resources sent to the state for presidential elections were not accounted for by the chairman aided by the deputy chairman. “The chairman concealed the amount sent by the Presidential Campaign Committee and created a fraudulent unseen template used as sharing formula unknown to the State Party structure. “About N5 million raised and saved by the party to help Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) to help relieve their pains were also not accounted for up till this moment. No mention has been made of the said funds and it is worthy to note that the Deputy Chairman is the chairman Committee on IDPs for the party. “Also, about N4.8 million money meant for PDP Plateau State rettreat was equally not accounted for by the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman.” Akans said the party was plunge into confusion during the General Elections due to the Highhandedness of the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the party who disregarded advice from party’s elders and critical stakeholders of the party. He said the State PDP Campaign Council has also been dissolved with immediate effect and urged the chairman and other campaign council members to return party properties in their possession. In a reaction, Sango said he is not aware of the allegations raised by the party and expressed surprised that he was betrayed by people close to him in the party. He said: “I am not aware that I have been suspended, I have not seen any letter to that effect. I am surprise that I was betray by people I consider close to me in the party. There was a State Campaign Council which the Governorship candidate, Sen. Jeremiah Useni was part of it, all money was disbursed by the campaign council.”