It was all glitz, glamour and excitement as the high and mighty trooped in, in their hundreds to the prestigious Eko Hotel Lagos, and Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja to be part of the 2019 international fashion exhibition sponsored by the trend setting Kachins Personalised Coultur. The high octane events which held in Lagos and Abuja respectively and ended at the weekend drew the admiration of participants, guests and stakeholders. Kachins, a real fashion sensation in Dubai – the iconic suit makers have been operating for over three decades in UAE and have become pioneer trendsetters across the region in the bespoke tailoring industry. The brand over the years has created a niche in Nigerian market by learning, adapting and introducing new styling trends and techniques in the personalised industry. Successfully injecting novel fashion nuances with its fusion of style and comfort in the men’s fashion industry – making it an iconic essential for every gentleman’s wardrobe. However, after a successful exhibition last year in Nigeria, Kachins decided to have yet another one this year as well. Anil Ramchandani, Kachins Head of Business Development said, “We were extremely happy and delighted from last years’ exhibition experience. It was a huge success and a great event. The turnover was exceptional and we got good number of enquiries. We have seen the love for fashion in Nigeria and the way Men and Women dress with so much attention to detail; this is what encourages us to bring our bespoke services to Nigeria. I believe there is a lot of potential in this market and are absolutely excited for this year’s exhibition and looking forward to another successful event.” During the exhibition, the brand showcased a wide array of different types of fabrics, patterns, accessories, suiting styles along with the option to custom make hand-made or machine-made business suits, shirts, jackets, trousers and even traditional clothing such as kaftans and babarigas. The event highlighted the importance of traditional skills, elegance and luxury of the bespoke tailoring world. A suit at Kachins takes at least 30 hours of manual labour to complete. The experience begins with a consultation with one of the brand’s Master Tailors – the aim is to discuss each customer’s specific tastes and needs. You can define the style and cut which you prefer and can choose from an exclusive collection of fabric from Italy, United Kingdom, and Switzerland. Suits are embellished with details – buttons, embroidered name, etc – chosen by you to make formal occasions and relaxing moments equally exclusive and personal. Through the exhibitions, customers had the opportunity to learn about the process and the quality of the product first hand. With a keen eye for styling, each design come to life by the hands of the tailors who create (handcrafted) every Kachins Bespoke tailored masterpiece by using measured techniques and personalising it down to the smallest detail.  The in-house style expert’s main focus is for the client’s personalised distinction to flourish in their ensemble. Kachin’s luxury bespoke tailoring house is a one stop destination for all bespoke lovers, stylish and fashion savvy people, offering a perfect suit for every type of man. There is no doubt, the fashion industry has a lot of potentials that needs to be harnessed especially with exhibitions of this nature. Brands like Kachins should be encouraged to showcase their unique fabrics and designs more often in the country.