Leviticus Okon, a member of Eiye Confraternity, was on his way to kill his third victim, a member of Aiye Confraternity, when policemen accosted their vehicle along Second East Circular road in Bénin City. Other occupants in the Toyota Camry car took to their heels but Leviticus was not lucky. He was apprehended and a locally made pistol was found on him. Police interrogators later discovered that Leviticus was responsible for some killings in the ongoing cult war between Eiye and Aiye confraternities. Several persons have been killed in the cult war in different parts of Bénin City and environs. The area worst hit by the cult killing is Upper Sokponba where several persons including a police Sergeant, Monday Ehigie and Manager of the hotel owned by Osaze Odewingie, Osato Okunkpolor were killed. Upper Sokponba begins from the popular Third Junction up to Abraka in Delta State. What worsen the situation in Upper Sokponba is that cultists now robbed people of their belongings. Residents in Upper Sokponba now rush home before 7pm or it would be difficult for them to get tricycle also known as Keke to take them home. Notorious areas along the Upper Sokponba are Erediauwa, Aifuwa, Three House, Nomayo, Uyiosa amongst others. Activities of the cultists and robbers have crippled business activities in the area especially for the beer parlour operators and traders who sell petty things at night to eke a living. Mr. Ogbemudia who owns a chemist near Three House said he now closed his shop by 7:30pm instead of 9pm. Ogbemudia said business was not booming as usual. It is now a nightmare for Tricycle operators at Aifuwa, Three House and Avbiama Junction to stay behind till 8pm. Before the recent cult killings, the tricycle operators used to work till 11pm. They said many of them have been robbed and beaten by cultists and robbers. One of them who pleaded anonymity said he has been robbed four times. “They used to carry bottle, knives and sticks. I have been robbed four times. They would beat us and take our money away.” On why they did not report the security situation to the police, he said they have reported severally but the policemen sent to the area only set up road block to extort money from commercial drivers. Last month, suspected cultists invaded the Oba Akenzua Secondary school and stabbed two students. Speaking to newsmen when he was paraded, Leviticus described the war between Eiye and Aiye confraternities as a generational war that would be difficult to stop. Leviticus who claimed to have killed only one person said the other cultist escaped with bullet wound. His words, “the first person I shot did not die. The other one died. We were on our way to kill another person when we were arrested. “The one we killed is a bus conductor. He is a member of Aiye. The fight is generation fight. The fight does not end.” But Governor Godwin Obaseki has vowed to tackle cultists and cult related activities in the state because of hundreds of investors willing to invest in the state. Governor Obaseki who noted that the investors had to be assured that the state is safe and secure for their businesses to thrive said his priority is to providing security and tracking of cultists and cult related activities. Obaseki spoke at an interdenominational church service to celebrate peaceful elections in the state and victory of the All Progressives Congress in the March 9, House of Assembly elections. The APC won all the 24 seats in the Edo State House of Assembly. He vowed to invoke the full wrath of the law on cultists adding that plans were on to set up a Special Security Squad on cultism in collaboration with the Nigerian Police. According to him, “I am going to go heavily on cultism. We are setting up a special squad on cultists. We must make Edo safe and make people know Edo is safe to do business. “I am giving full effect to the law on cultism. I will also not accept thuggery and ‘Agbero’ in this State. If we find anybody collecting revenue illegally. We will take appropriate action to deal with whoever is involved. “Security is now my number one priority. We have started investing in security. We have raised the Security Trust Fund and it is the sustainable ways of dealing with security. We will be knocking on your doors to support the Security Trust Fund. “We have a lot of economic plans. We have to convince the investors that Edo is save. The issue of cultism is going to be my next agenda. We already have a law in place against cultism. I am going to give full effect to that law. Please if you have any person or relation who is involved in cultism, tell them to desist from it. “In the next several months, I am going to go tough on cultism. With the new Commissioner of Police of Edo, we have set up a Special Squad on cultism, to deal with offenders and render it history in the state,” he said The governor called on parents to urge their children and wards to stay away from cult-related activities as no one will be spared if caught in the act, adding that the necessary laws on cultism which were passed by the state House of Assembly will be effectively used. Governor Obaseki however said there was no excuse for non-performance on the part of the APC given the massive support from Edo people to the party’s candidates particularly in the state House of Assembly election. “Every achievement made by my administration so far has been divinely directed as God directs my everyday activity. “This victory throws up a lot more responsibility as the victory in the election shows the people trust our administration and we can’t afford to fail them. “All the 18 local government chairmanship seats in the state are occupied by members of the APC. All the newly elected 24 Edo State House of Assembly members from various parts of the state are APC members. “So with our party’s dominance of the political space, we have no excuse not to deliver. I want to rededicate myself and this administration, and reinforce our earlier promise to put Edo people first at all times and to make life more comfortable and better for them.” Edo State Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Bishop Oriname Oyonnude Kure, had in his statement urged Governor Obaseki to tackle cult activities before it gets too late. Kure suggested the setting up of a committee to look into ways of providing lasting solution to stopping cult activities in the state. He stated that secondary schools in the state were becoming citadel of cultism instead of learning. In 2018, the Edo State House of Assembly repealed the 2004 anti-cultism law and replaced it with a new law which prescribed 21-year jail term for secret cult members and 7-year imprisonment for anyone who harbours a cultist. The Bill also prescribes that all offences under the law shall be by summary trial and empowers the police to arrest suspected cultists without a warrant.