The Lagos State Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Hyginus Omeje has read riot act against all okada and tricycle riders and operators operating in the state. At a sensitisation programme organised for all riders and passengers safety in Ifako-ljaiye Local Government, by Community Safety Partnership (CSP) in conjunction with the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) and the council, Omeje said anyone caught driving against traffic would be referred to psychiatric hospital for insanity test, besides having their vehicle impounded. Omeje, who was represented by Route Commander Ofure Ihenacho said all road users have a right of way on the road and charged all to use the road responsibly. Omeje who described riders as exposed road users charged them to ensure they are properly kitted anytime they are on the road. To minimize crashes, he also charged them to dress smart and wear reflective jackets at night, wear safety helmet and provide a spare for their passenger, avoid wearing slippers and use eye protector to shield the eyes from sand particles and dangerous rays. He said no rider should flout traffic regulation including stopping by traffic lights and arming themselves with appropriate documents. “At all times, you must remember that the road is a common heritage and all users must use it responsibly in order to minimise crashes, deaths and avoidable loss of property,” Omeje added. Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Chairman Apostle Oloruntoba Oke charged riders as important stakeholders in the transportation system to have a change of attitude and see their job as critical to other road users. He said the programme was organised to sensitise riders to what they need to do to stay alive, adding that since most riders are bread winners of their families, they needed to be armed with what they could do to promote their safety. Oke said: “Stop conducting yourselves as unruly and uncouth. Stop looking down on yourselves; stop the inferiority complex that makes you look down on yourselves. See what you are doing as critical to the social and economic development of the state.” Oke, who was represented by the Secretary to the Local Government Ayo Jeje, said the roads would be safer if the riders develop good self-esteem and become a good safety ambassador on the road. He said the local government will not hesitate to strictly enforce the transportation laws and sued for voluntary compliance to the state’s laws. The Local Government Coordinator of the National Orientation Agency (NOA) Mrs Ngozi Mbaeri lamented the attitudinal problem, which she said is the bane of Nigeria’s development, and charged all riders to be responsible citizens in the onerous task of making the local government safe of road crashes. “As okada riders know that your safety as well as that of your passenger is your responsibility and do everything reasonably and responsibly while on the road,” she said. A Psychiatric Doctor Dr Mrs Olajumoke Koyejo said riders must reduce dependence on psychotropic and mind altering drugs which are often responsible for the growing incidence of accidents on the roads. Koyejo who works with the Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Lagos said more and more young Nigerians are losing their minds and becoming prone to harm as a result of drug abuse, which according to her “rewires the workings of the brains, making them susceptible to losing their mind and or causing fatal accidents on the road. “A rider who takes all types of concoctions and drugs before getting on the motorcycle would not be be in full control as his judgments would be altered and his reasoning impaired,” Dr Koyejo said. She told rider; “be jealous with your life and guard it jealously. Don’t overwork and don’t over fire yourself. If you are tired, rest and go back to work. Stop chasing money at the detriment of your health.” Crime officer Hakeem Rasheed said anyone, including any police officer found plying one way should be treated as criminal a d charged with attempted suicide. Among other stakeholders at the eve t are representatives of the Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS), Mr A.I Ali, members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), led by Comrade Atanda Idowu, artisans, Community Development Associations (CDA), members of the Motorcycle Operators Association of Nigeria (MOAN) and market men and women.