THE post-election actions and inactions of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s administration in Enugu State in sustaining the tempo of peace and good governance have further demonstrated the governor’s sheer dexterity, vision, passion and commitment to rapid development of the state as well as the wellbeing of the people. Ugwuanyi, who was overwhelmingly reelected through an election that was adjudged as one of the most peaceful and transparent exercise in the nation’s history, has remained grateful to God and residents of Enugu State for His abundance of grace and the people’s unceasing prayers, show of solidarity, goodwill and support. The governor saw the people’s love and support as a re-investment of their trust and faith in his administration to render more selfless service. The renewed mandate was therefore, a veritable platform to continue to reward them with good governance as the true heroes of democracy. Consequently, Gov. Ugwuanyi in his acceptance speech pledged “to devote our energies and time to work hard for the wellbeing and prosperity of all our people”, declaring that “now is the time to get back to work”. He reaffirmed his resolve to continue to serve with the fear of God to improve the lives of the people and lift the state to unprecedented heights of development and progress. Shortly after his reelection, the governor, who had earlier paid ‘Thank-you visits’ to markets and streets of Enugu, returned to the streets on a post-contract inspection of roads such as the old UNTH road, Enugu, Ogidi Street and Onyeama lane in Asata, Enugu, preparatory to immediate rehabilitation and reconstruction. He also inspected the ongoing reconstruction of Carter Street, Asata, Enugu, which was awarded by his administration during the pre-election period, as well as the erosion menace at Okwuosa Bridge, Ogui, Enugu, where he promised a swift intervention. A few days after, contracts for execution of the inspected projects and many others, such as the zonal secretariat annex at Nsukka town and additional works at Nkwo Inyi-Akpugoeze-Mamu Forest road in Oji River Local Government Area and Nike Lake junction – Harmony Estate road  Amorji Nike – Adoration Pilgrimage centre (Phase one), were awarded, totaling over N1.1 billion. Also in the post-election period, the Ugwuanyi administration awarded multiple contracts for the construction/reconstruction of urban and rural roads and 263 classroom blocks including the purchase of two Hilux vans for effective monitoring and supervision of the projects. Approval was also given for the construction of a state-of-the-art administrative building of the Enugu State University of Education in Ihe, Awgu Local Government Area. The foundation-laying of the first university of education in the entire Southeast geopolitical zone was performed by Gov. Ugwuanyi few days ago amid jubilation and excitement. The state government during the period under review also approved the purchase of 22,150 set of lockers and chairs for students; 1,228 set of tables and chairs for the teachers; 1, 130 marker boards for teaching and 1,960 ceiling fans for conducive learning environment, amongst numerous ongoing projects. Other development projects that received the approval of the government for “better urban, inter-local government and community road infrastructure”, include, Aludele road, Nsukka; Bishop’s Court road, Awgu; Access road to Igbo Ano Specialist Hospital, Igbo Ano, and failed culvert, pavement and surfacing at Onuiyi road, Nsukka adjacent to Zik’s residence. All the projects were in keeping with the governor’s commitment to full implementation of the 2019 budget to advance the cause of development in the state for the wellbeing of the people. Recently, Enugu State came second in the list of the five most reformed states in ease of doing business in the country that were rewarded by the Federal Government at the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) Awards 2019. On the journey so far, the World Bank Ease of Doing Report in 2014 ranked Enugu State 27 out of the 36 states plus the Federal Capital Territory of Abuja on “where it is easy to start a business and where not.” On his assumption of office in 2015, Ugwuanyi, promised to ensure a significant increase in the state’s rating through innovations and far-reaching reforms and transformation of the commercial environment, es and programmes that affect ease of doing business in the state. institutions, regulations, policies, processes and programmes that affect ease of doing business in the state. The consequential effect of the initiatives was the quantum leap of the state’s rating from 27th position in 2014 to 3rd in 2018 by the World Bank Ease of Doing Business Index. Not too long ago, Enugu State was singled out and praised for its resilience, consistency and commitment to sustainable reforms and innovations, at the two-day workshop organised by the Southeast Governors Forum to review the region’s performance on ease of doing business and also appreciate reforming states. From the foregoing, Gov. Ugwuanyi’s sustained tempo of rapid development of the state after his reelection, his administration’s outstanding performance in the 2018 World Bank Ranking vis-à-vis the recent prestigious award by PEBEC, the commendations from various institutions and relevant stakeholders, and the existing peace in the state, among others, are eloquent testimonies to the reality of good governance in Enugu State. Now that it has ended in praise and the good works have continued, the onus is on the people to remain steadfast in their unceasing prayers and unwavering support for the high performing governor for his administration to do more in the coming tenure. Enugu State is truly in the hands of God.