Bauchi State Governor-Elect Sen. Bala Mohammed on Saturday stated the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) in the state will engage the services of 5 Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SANs ) 10 other senior lawyers and 50 indigenous lawyers from Bauchi in defense of his mandate at the Election Petition Tribunal. The disclosure followed the Petition filed on Saturday by the outgoing Governor, Mohammad Abubakar and the All Progressive Congress in Bauchi State challenging his victory in Court at the last governorship election. Addressing journalists shortly after the submission of the petition on Saturday at the Tribunal, the APC Chairman Uba Ahmed Nana had said Gov Mohammed Abubakar the gubernatorial candidate of the party at the last election is seeking justice from the Court. The governor-elect however noted that though his party is yet to be served a copy of the petition, it is readily prepared to tackle Gov Abubakar and the APC in the foreseeable judicial contest. Addressing newsmen at the Command Guest House in Bauchi while receiving the group known as the Body of Bauchi Lawyers of Conscience who volunteered to mobilise 50 lawyers in his defense, Mohammed said: “The issue of APC taking me to the Tribunal is a normal thing , that is why  it is provided in the electoral act. “I want to use this opportunity to thank my supporters and the people of Bauchi for their show of patience. The petition is nothing to worry about because we have taking necessary measures. “Though we have not been served, once we are served and we see the details and we are going to respond “We are also going to engage our lawyers, about five Senior Advocate of Nigeria, SAN, about ten other senior lawyers and 50 Bauchi indigenous lawyers. “That is to say the APC petition at the Tribunal is dead on arrival due to the support of the Body of Bauchi Lawyers of Conscience (BOBALAC).” Mohammed, while accepting the offer of BOBOLAC to be part of his legal team, said he is highly privileged to be rendered such services by the lawyers of conscience and quality. “My legal team has accepted your partnership as your kind gesture shows patriotism,” he said. He said further that his election is an act from God saying it has come to many as a surprise. Honorary President of BOBOLAC, Jibrin Sa’id Jibrin, said his team of lawyers is ready to work with the legal team of the governor -elect. 