ORGANISERS of Africa’s largest creative and entertainment industry conference, NECLive, have expressed a huge expectation for the 7th edition of the annual event, taking place on April 24, 2019 at the Landmark Events Centre, Lagos. While over 10 million people from across the world are expected to be reached by this year’s event, which will be streamed live, over 3,000 live participants are expected at the venue based on data recorded from past editions. Organizers promise that this year’s edition will be the biggest yet. Themed: Mobile, Data, Consumers and The Future Of Entertainment, #NECLive7 will examine how mobile tech and monetisation continues to affect consumers as well as creators; and what it all means for the future of entertainment in Nigeria. Organised annually since 2013, #NECLive brings together practitioners from all sectors of the entertainment industry for conversations, workshops, exhibitions and master classes. The conference has hosted over 100 celebrity guest stars and speakers, and has attracted over 20,000 live participants since its inception six years ago. The list of speakers, panelists, moderators and exhilarating performances lined up for this year’s edition promises to be the best yet. During the conference, ideas will be exchanged in more exciting ways while discussing challenges and introducing a strengthened pathway for growth in the Nigerian entertainment industry. Convener of NECLive, Ayeni Adekunle commenting on the upcoming conference, said: “The platform presents attendees and industry players a strategic opportunity to network among stakeholders with the much-needed insight to effectively operate in this $8 billion industry. NECLive continues to be free registration for all attendees, but participants are required to pre-register on nec.ng” #NECLive has immensely contributed to shaping the direction of the entertainment industry in Nigeria. The ultimate goal of this year’s edition is to further elevate the interaction of participants with germaine innovations, engage audience with memorable touchpoint experiences at exhibition installations and showcase diversity in the future of entertainment. To be hosted by ace comedian, Tee-A, for a seventh consecutive time, interested participants are advised to register early for free on nec.ng.