Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, celebrated the Easter holiday with troops deployed to the north-west of the country to flush out bandits, kidnappers and other criminal elements in the zone. According to the spokesman of the Air Force, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, the troops were called upon to remain resolute in their commitment to ensure safety of lives and properties in the zone. He explained in a statement that the Air Chief also expressed satisfaction with the performance of the troops so far. Air Commodore Daramola said: “The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has hosted officers, airmen and airwomen of the Air Task Force (ATF), Operation DIRAN MIKIYA, to a luncheon to mark the 2019 Easter Celebration. “The occasion, which held at the ATF Headquarters in Katsina, provided an opportunity for the CAS to interact with the troops who have been working tirelessly to restore peace and stability in the Northwest of Nigeria. “Addressing the troops, the Air Officer Commanding, Special Operations Command, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Napoleon Bali, who represented the CAS at the event, expressed satisfaction with the performance of the ATF. “He extended the good wishes of the CAS and encouraged the personnel to remain resolute while sustaining their efforts towards eliminating the activities of armed bandits in Zamfara and surrounding States with a view to ensuring peace in the Country. “AVM Bali lauded the magnanimity of the CAS in ensuring that the personnel have a few hours to unwind in celebration of the holy season. “He said this would no doubt boost their morale and assuage the pains of their inability to celebrate the season with their families. “He also commended the Commander 213 Forward Operations Base Katsina, Group Captain Hadi Ahmed, for providing necessary base services support to ensure the smooth operations of the ATF. “Also present at the luncheon were the Commander 17 Brigade Nigerian Army, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Colonel Buhari Madaki, as well as officials and staff of civil agencies operating at the Musa Yar’Adua International Airport.”