ACTRESS and presenter Doyin Kukoyi who was a year older on Thursday has said that behind every smile, there is a story. Posing in different pictures, the presenter of Gbajumo Osere revealed that she had been through a lot in the past month, but was able to pull through. “It’s another beautiful year and I am super happy,” she said. “Thank you Almighty Allah for the gift of life. I am grateful for the love and care. It’s been a tough and rough journey (especially in the last couple of months) but with Your Grace, I am thankful. Looking forward to achieving greater heights in the coming year. Behind the smile, is a lot of story to tell. Alhamdulilahi. Happy birthday to me.” Doyin who is also an actress shared the note posted by her son, Ayomide. The write-up reads thus: “When I say that there’s no other Mom like you, I don’t just mean that you’re a kind, loving mother. I mean that you’re a kind, loving, intelligent, gentle, inspiring, generous, sweet, real and rare friend and you’re my mother. Happy birthday Mom. If I can grow up to become even a LITTLE of what you are, I will consider myself to have achieved a LOT.I am so lucky that you are my Mom. You give so much to me. Because you invested all your time, energy and tender, loving care in me, I have a wealth of friendships, family, happiness, honor, respect and love. I’m so grateful that you’re my mother. Today is my turn to say a prayer for my mother whose prayers have always been about the happiness of her children. I hope that the sun shines as brightly on you today as your love has always show on me.No star has ever sparkled like you. No angel has ever earned her wings like you. No diamond is as rare as you. There’s no mother like you. Happy birthday to the woman who I never allow to touch any of my things but always ask when I can’t find some of my things. Happy birthday mom. Despite my selfishness and stupidity, you’ve always given me your love, no strings attached. You’re not crazy, so you must be the world’s best Mom. “Adedoyin Habibat Kukoyi may you always be happy and free of tears, I wish you all the joy of the world as your birthday is here today. May all of your dreams and wishes come true. You are more than just a mother to me, you are my teacher, my strength, my guidance and my best friend. Thank you for giving me every part of yourself. Thank you for Always being by my side during the rough and hard times, always having my back and showing that you care. I want to tell you that your tears on me would never go in vain. I can’t wait to come back to Nigeria after University and take you round the world (You will be my Chioma and I’ll give you all the Assurance you want and deserve).” Responding to her son, the actress and presenter wrote: “You woke me up to this Ayomide. Was looking forward to your write up and as always you got Me all teary. Thank you for loving me unconditionally. I thank God for giving you to.”