A chieftain of ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Edo State, Stanley Osifo, has urged the party on vigorous consultation to pacify the aggrieved members of law makers elected under the platform of the in the both chambers before the inauguration of 9th National Assembly in June to prevent 2015 scenario from playing out. Osifo stated this in Benin-City Saturday in a telephone conversation with The Nation. He appealed to Nigerians to always strive to place competency above any other interest if they desire to make Nigeria a great country and subdue selfish interests which has been a hindrance to greatness in the country. The party at a separate dinner with senators and house of representatives members elected on the platform of APC in Aso Villa adopted Senator Ahmed Lawan and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as Senate president and Speaker respectively. But the decision of the party to back the house leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila earlier in the week for the 9th National Assembly speakership, has been met with mixed reactions by governors, law makers and APC state chairmen in the North-Central. The Edo State born politician dissented on the concept of rubber stamp in legislative-executive relationship which some feelers opined that party’s choice will create. He said the legislative arm of government is guided by law that enriches its role as watchdog role on the executive. He opined that with president Buhari that many adjudged as a man of integrity as chief executive and commander in chief, the issue of rubber stamp cannot occur saying the president can check himself to ensure that things are done properly. The business man turned politician cited the frosty relationship between the executive and the 8th National Assembly as the reason for the yearly delay in passing Nigerian budget into law which, he believed has slowed down Buhari administration to deliver on electoral promises in the last four years. Osifo expressed optimism that having a National Assembly that has connection with executive in terms of administration will ensure that things are looked into holistically for the progress of governance. He stressed that for president Buhari to throw his weight behind the party’s choices to become senate president and speaker, it means he knows and believes in their pedigrees. According to him, “There should be consultation with the aggrieved parties, to ensure that the past mistake does not occur. We need someone that can look at things holistically and able to proffer right solution to ensure that we move forward as a nation.” “The emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki and Hon. Yakubu Dogara as senate president and speaker respectively in 2015 was a gang up against the party’s plan. So this time around the party should ensure that whoever emerges as the senate president and the speaker should be people that will be willing to work with the executive to ensure that the executive delivers on the electoral promises to Nigerians,” he counseled.