WE are not surprised at the finding by the Rice Processors Association of Nigeria (RIPAN) that over 20 million bags of rice (approximately one million metric tonnes) were smuggled into Nigeria between January and March. According to RIPAN chairman, Mohammed Abubakar, investigations conducted by the association in the last few months indicated that “all our international borders have been converted to smugglers’ route and our markets are filled with smuggled foreign rice.” “Nigeria currently loses huge revenues, foreign exchange and jobs to this menace. Nigeria rice processing companies are shutting down because of their inability to gain market access. More painfully, millions of small-holder farmers are stuck with their paddy because the millers can no longer afford to buy from them”, he told newsmen in an interview in Abuja, last week. He did not spare officials of the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) at the borders, some of whom he accused of colluding with smugglers to undermine the nation’s quest to attain self-sufficiency in rice production, warning that the magnitude of loss to stakeholders would be too devastating to cope with. “The development, if left unchecked, could impact negatively on the integrated rice processor’s capacity, which had increased from 800,000 metric tonnes in 2014 to 1.6 million metric tonnes in 2018″, he said. We sympathise with the millers’ body. Indeed, the threat from smuggling, given their exposure to other players in the rice value chain, borders on an existential one. The issue, however isn’t that the problem of smuggling, particularly of rice, is a recent phenomenon but the failure of the Federal Government to recognise it for what it is – a serious act of economic sabotage – and confront it accordingly. Surely, the Federal Government has a surfeit of intelligence to  stamp it out. For instance, only last December, Heineken Lokpobiri, Minister of State for Agriculture had cause to decry the abuse of the Economic Community of West African States protocol allowing neighbouring countries to bring in rice into Nigeria. According to Lokpobiri, “people from Thailand would go to Benin Republic with their parboiled rice and then re-bag them as though they were produced in Benin Republic and then smuggle them into Nigeria, thereby denying the people of Benin the opportunity to grow rice and then benefit from the Nigerian market”. Earlier in 2018, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, acting on intelligence on three shiploads of 120,000 metric tons of Thailand rice headed for Nigeria via Benin Republic could not but raise the alarm. The preceding Christmas, he spoke of some 500,000 metric tons of rice also denied entrance from the same country. Unfortunately, as if part of an incipient culture of denial, the Federal Government continues to tout the decline in import of Thai rice from 644,131 metric tonnes in 2015, to 58,260 metric tonnes in 2016, and 23,192 metric tonnes in 2017 as achievement while pretending to be oblivious of the corresponding figures from our other neighbours. For instance, rice imports from  Benin Republic rose geometrically from 805,765 metric tonnes in 2015, to 1,427,098 metric tonnes in 2016, and 1,811,164 metric tonnes in 2017.  Cameroun also witnessed a surge in Thai rice imports from 449,297 metric tonnes in 2015, to 505,254 metric tonnes in 2016 to 744,508 metric tonnes in 2017. In the circumstance, only the Federal Government still lives under the illusion that those dramatic surges in imports are headed anywhere other than Nigeria – sadly for an administration that has acquired a reputation for aggressively pushing for self-sufficiency in the nation’s major staples which the illegal trade directly undermines. We  agree with RIPAN that the time to tackle the menace of rice smuggling is now; just as we shudder to think of the grave risk of the failure to act on the initiatives and the linkages that they have spawned in the rice value chain. While we agree that the customs management can do more to curb corruption and indolence in the ranks of its men, the nature of the problem is such that require engagement between the Nigerian government and our ECOWAS neighbours. For far too long, our ECOWAS neighbours have taken advantage of our good neighbourliness to undermine our economy; the rice issue obviously provides one avenue for the Federal Government to demonstrate, for once, a clear resolve to defend our national interest.