The Controller General (CG) Federal Fire, Dr. Ibrahim Alhaji Liman has condemned the attack on men of the Federal Fire Service (FFS), who responded to a fire call at Federal Housing Authority (FHA) Estate Lugbe, Abuja. They were attacked by hoodlums on arrival at the scene. The unfortunate incident which took place last week Sunday at about 6 in the evening led to the damaging of the fire truck that was taken to the scene. According to a statement issued by the FFS spokesperson, Ugo Huan, the incident has since been reported to the Nigerian Police for investigation and prosecution of those involved in the criminal act. The Controller General who expressed sadness over the unfortunate incident  wondered why individuals will want to destroy Fire Trucks which are procured for the purpose of extinguishing fire and  the safety of lives and property. He warned that on no account should any body attack Firemen or Fire trucks at fire scene, narrating that the late response to fire scenes are as a result of late calls been put across to the Fire Service as  last option after personal efforts to put out fire has yielded no result. He went on to advice every Nigerian to have the Fire Service emergency number nearest to them and also call in good time. The CG Fire while condemning the attack in very strong terms, warned that henceforth no attacks and assault on its personnel or facilities will be tolerated. He charged all community leaders to warn their subjects on the attack on Firemen which is becoming a trend, because the Service will not hesitate to stop its Men from responding to fire incidences in places that are known for attacking Firemen as the safety of Men of the Service as well as equipments is paramount. He therefore warned that henceforth individuals with the habit of always attacking Firemen at fire scene should desist or be ready to face the full wrath of the law, as the Federal Fire Service will ensure the prosecution of such individuals. Furthermore he advised motorists to give way to  Fire Trucks when they hear the siren, as obstruction of the truck is also been responsible for the delay in getting to fire scene. The Federal Fire Service is doing its best in ensuring the safety of lives and property with the available manpower and equipments and we will continue to do so  as we also call on all Nigerians who are also stakeholders to support us.