Education Minister Adamu Adamu has congratulated the Rector, Federal Polytechnic Offa (FEDPOFFA), Dr. Lateef Olatunji on the recognition and patent right given to the Deputy Rector (Academics) Dr Jimoh Abdul for the production of a Hydrogen Storage Tank. The Patent Right was awarded him by the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu in Abuja on the completion of his research on Production of Hydrogen Storage Tank with Palladium Additive. In a message to the Rector, Adamu praised the polytechnic for keying into the nation’s drive for technological advancement, urging the institution to keep it up. During the presentation of the patent, Dr Onu admonished Abdul as well as all academics present at the occasion to keep up the drive “so that we can together move Nigerian nation from developing to developed nation.” Explaining the details of the research, Abdul said the innovation was all about the use of hydrogen gas as a replacement for fossil fuel to power vehicle. He said he took up the research to eliminate the carbon-monoxide a poisonous gas expelled into the air from exhaust of cars, which is dangerous to health. Abdul said the hydrogen system had numerous advantages including: “The outcome of hydrogen from car exhausts is steam (water) or H20 which is always friendly to the environment. More so, the use of hydrogen is more economical than petrol though it may be expensive at the initial stage but as soon as the car adapts to the use of hydrogen system, it becomes very economical.” Olatunji said he was delighted that the feat was recorded in his time – the first in the 25-year history of the polytechnic. He congratulated the polytechnic community on the great honour done the institution. “A lot of good things have been happening recently to the Polytechnic.  This is a proof that the Federal Polytechnic, Offa is on its way to the zenith of academic and technological excellence as we have vowed to take the lead among technical institutions in innovations and meaningful fabrications towards national development,” he said. He thanked staff members for their support.