A 17-year old girl (names withheld) has narrated how the resident Pastor of the Amagba branch of the Living Faith Church a.k.a Winners Chapel, Pastor Kingsley Emeka Mokwunye, introduced her to alcohol and has sex with her severally. The teenager who spoke to reporters in Bénin City said Pastor Kingsley also slept with her in her father’s house. She was in tears as she narrated how the affair began in September last year shortly after she finished her secondary education. Stating the reasons for opening up on the love affair, she said she wants to leave the state for lack of concentration and that she wants Pastor Kingsley to be jailed. According to her, “He used to call me to advise me to stay away from boys, to live a good life and always respect my parents. I took it like he was my own father that I could trust and tell him anything I want to say. “That was how he started calling me, talking to me till it gets to a time he told me that he likes me. I took it as a normal thing. He started taking advantage of me. He tells me I do not know what he is doing for me. He started showing me things I have not seen before and took me to places I have never been to. That was how it started. He was the first person to show me how condom looked like. He taught me how to take alcohol. “He told me not to tell my parents. He said they will understand what he is doing. He slept with me many times including our house when my parents are not at home. “Thinking about the thing has affected me educationally. I could not read. The whole thing was disturbing me. When I told his wife, she said I was lying and told me to come to their house and repeat it before her husband. “I want Pastor Kingsley to go to jail. I was always shocked anytime I am in church and see him preaching. I was afraid of telling my mother what was happening”. Her father who is also the Board Chairman of the church branch, Mr, Paul Obidah, said he was shocked that a Pastor he trusted as could destroy his only daughter. Paul said what pained him was that Pastor Kingsley had sex with his daughter in his house and even when his daughter was having her monthly flow. He said he want justice in the case and not swept under the carpet. His words, “I have been in the church for the past 27 years. I started the church in Kaduna State. Abioye led me to Christ. I have been in Kaduna all these years. It got to a time. I decided to relocate home. “We have been in Bénin serving God with our heart. Many pastors have come to the branch and go. I see the pastors as Oyedepo, the founder of Living Faith. There was a day Pastor Kingsley came to my house, I could smell alcohol from his breath. “One day, his wife came and said she wants to see our daughter. I left her to discuss. I heard my daughter telling her she has something to tell her. The next day, the woman came and told me she has seized her husband’s phone because of the calls her husband was making to my daughter. I just said maybe it was a family friend matter. She said he went to pick my daughter at school, I said maybe he bought her ice cream. “I was sleeping when something struck me to ask my daughter what is happening. I called and asked her to open up to me. She began telling me how the Pastor used to make love to her in my own house. The different hotels he took her to. She said it was a burden to her. She said she does not know what the pastor gave to her. “This is a Pastor we trusted. We talked and do everything as a family. I didn’t know he has been doing this nonsense in my house. This is a girl that does not go out. She has been in