No fewer than 2,074 new intakes into the Sokoto state University on Tuesday matriculated for the 2018/ 2019 academic session. At the ceremony, Vice Chancellor, Professor Sani Muhammed Dangoggo called on the students to shun all unethical conducts and tendencies in violation of the university’s rules and regulations. Dangoggo while administering oath on the newly admitted students noted that examination malpractice, cultism, drug abuse, indecent dressings, reckless driving among others were unacceptable. The Vice Chancellor explained new students were inducted into the three faculties of Arts and Social Sciences, Education and Science. According to the Vice Chancellor, the university had always remained resolute and committed to maintaining the tempo on academic excellence and standards in all spheres of pursuits. “Students have no excuse not to dedicate themselves to their studies and ensure good moral conducts and behaviors,” the VC said. He further said that the university sponsored over 200 academic staff for various postgraduate programmes in and outside the country. He outlined that the institution was fast committed to providing the required teaching and community services for the development of humanity, while stating that “we have developed all necessary facilities for use to support both teaching and learning in the university community.” He commended the unprecedented intervention efforts from the Sokoto state Government, Petroleum Technology Fund (PTDF) and TETFund in further strengthening and building the university’s  academic staff capacity for excellence. Also speaking, Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council of the university, Barr. Inuwa Abdulkadir who congratulated the matriculating students, emphasized the need for them to exhibit high sense of moral conduct and commitment  to their studies. Abdulkadir added; “You should know that the oath you took is significant and should be respected by been law abiding to the rules and regulations during the course of your studies. “Remember that you went through tough and rigorous process before securing admission,” he advised.