For residents, motorists and others, the Lagos-Ibadan expressway has become a nightmare. Many dread being on the road to avoid being caught in the web of its unending repairs. They are, therefore, looking forward to its early completion, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE. For 10 years, residents on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway have had to cope with the hazards of an unending repair that has turned using the arterial highway into a major nightmare. Just as they were looking forward to an end to their trouble in 2017, as promised by the Buhari administration, the government, hinging on new additions to the planned repairs, has extended the project to 2021. The Federal Controller of Works, Mr Fred Kuti, who announced the shift, said it was to capture the realities of the road and provide safety nets for the growing number of people using the road. Many residents have, in the last decade, devised ways of beating the heavy traffic on the road. Temidayo Lawal, who has been living with friends and his wife in a shop within Agege, have moved to their home at Aseese, on the corridor. Both worked in Lagos – Temidayo at Ogba, and his wife at Agege. They realised returning to their Assese home was the only way to beat the traffic and its attendant stress. Jide Idowu said living along the Lagos-Ibadan corridor had become hell for many residents. A media lecturer and publisher, Idowu who lives in Magboro, said he is considering moving over to Lagos to beat the traffic and retain his sanity. He said: “What is going on along the Lagos-Ibadan  Expressway is extremely frustrating to people living along that corridor. You go out most times but cannot say how and when to return home. If there’s no accident, there would be one event or the other from the many of the religious organisations along the corridor that would lock down the corridor.” He called on the government to be more serious and deliver the project to the relief millions of people who bear the brunt of the ongoing repairs on the corridor. Week in week out, residents and the people have been recording major lockdowns on the highway. One of such was recorded on Tuesday. It lasted till Wednesday. Many motorists caught in that nightmare spoke of how they were trapped for hours. A motorist said he could not get to Sagamu until 1am, that is, seven hours later. Another one, Joseph, claimed he missed his flight. His major concern is processing fresh documents and buying a new ticket. Jide said though the Tuesday incident was the worst this year, such  had become a regular feature since the Federal Government took over the repairs from Bi-Courtney, to which it was concessioned for repairs on a PPP in 2009. Before its concession, the road, arguably the country’s busiest road, which according to the FRSC, accounts for 25,000 motorists hourly, had become a death trap.The government’s intervention and the establishment of the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) failed to scratch the surface of the rot, as gaping craters have continued to claim lives along the corridor, forcing the government to change the repair template. With the failure of the concessioning model, the Goodluck Jonathan government had no choice than to cancel the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), took over the road and broke its repairs into two. While the Lagos-Sagamu interchange was awarded to Julius Berger, the country’s most successful construction giant, the Sagamu-Ibadan interchange was awarded to Reynolds Construction Company (RCC). Section I of the highway – from Lagos to the Sagamu Interchange which cost N70 billion in 2013, has risen sharply to N134 billion, the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing stated in December. For Damola Egbedeyi, the Lagos-Ibadan highway has exposed Julius Berger’s inefficiencies. Trusted by the government to deliver, the contractor has been prevaricating and may end up taking 12 years to deliver its job. Meanwhile, some of the portions already repaired have started failing, due to pressure of use. Conversely, while Nigeria may end up spending 12 years to deliver mere repair on one of its most critical highway, Chinese engineers four years ago delivered the reconstruction of the San Yuan Bridge, which links 48 routes in Beijing, from start to finish in 43 hours. The People’s Daily Online, which flagged the story, had reported that the road serves 200,000 vehicles daily. Undoubtedly, the economy is said to be losing to the unending project. Admitting that the project is causing pains to road users, Punch, which has its offices on the expressway, in an editorial demanded that the project be completed this year. It urged the Buhari government to mobilise resources at its disposal to deliver. It challenged the government to insist that the contractor deploy appropriate strategies in reducing the impact of the repairs. Founder of Safety Beyond Borders Mr Patrick Adenusi said the nation is hemorrhaging to the unending repair. Adenusi, who linked the crisis on Tuesday to gross road indiscipline occasioned by motorists driving against traffic, wondered what would happen if the state urgently needs evacuation when achieving sanity remains a mirage. He said: “Apart from unending project, one ugly thing that happened on Tuesday was the failure of the government to enforce the right use of the road. If we cannot enforce the law against one- way driving, and make such acts illegal, we may be faced with even more grave consequences.’’ According to him, affected in the gridlock would be Nigerians who missed their flights as their planes would not wait for them. ‘’There may be those who are being rushed to the hospital, or those who need to meet appointment with their doctors. There may be those who are going for job interviews and other sundry needs, who were caught in the web of traffic. There are those who may suffer permanent consequences of the gridlock,” he added. He called for aggressive and massive campaigns against one way driving as part of ways to enthrone road sanity. Adenusi, who said this has become a national malady, asked the National Orientation Agency (NOA) to develop adequate strategies to fight the menace. People must be stopped from continuing to take the law into their own hands. He said Nigeria is losing heavily to this indiscretion, adding that on the average, a state like Lagos may be losing at least N2 billion monthly to traffic gridlock. “I did a rough calculation of our wastage on the transportation sector and I said ‘if about 100,000 vehicles are held up in traffic in Lagos daily and had expended over N1,000 on fuel, that is N100million wasted’. By Friday, it would have become N500million and if this is multiplied by four weeks, we would have lost N2 billion. Because we have more than 100,000 vehicles on Lagos roads alone, I know we are losing more than that. “We are not counting the man-hour, or the impact of the stress on motorists, or even on the vehicles, neither have we bothered to count the volume of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere all because of this lawlessness.” Dr Joseph Shojobi declared that the Lagos-Ibadan highway started when the Federal Ministry of Works abdicated its responsibility and allowed its right of way to be encroached upon by developers. “Rather than strictly enforcing the 500 metres setback along the entire road, people were allowed to encroach and they built even right into the road, creating a huge challenge of expansion and repair. Shojobi, who had been involved in transportation planning in the country since 1967, pointed at the structural as well as operational challenges that have continued to fester, making the road to turn out as it has become a monumental failure. Besides the encroachment on the road, Shojobi, who retired from the Faculty of Engineering, University of Lagos in 1976, queried why Julius Berger could not provide alternate roads in line with global practices for such a task before it began the project. “The standard practice is to submit the design of such a road to the Federal Ministry of Works. We do not know whether this was submitted, but we do know that none has been created since they took over in 2013 and we do not know why the ministry has failed to demand for compliance to this very important element of a project of this magnitude.” He queried the absence of police traffic control department on the length of the route. He said traffic police and not the Road Safety Corps, ought to drive enforcement on the road and the failure to take ownership of the space have led operators to devising all manners of means to perpetuate illegality on the road. Shojobi identified poor compliance to regulations, arguing that many vehicles, especially trucks have no certificate of road worthiness a necessary document for all road users. The retired don, who has been in private practice since retirement, insisted that to get it right, the government must begin to move in the right direction and put machinery in place to put flouters of its laws in check. Founding Dean School of Transportation Studies, Lagos State University (LASU), Dr Tajudeen Bawa’Allah, expressed disappointment at Julius Berger’s failure to accommodate the pressure on the road while its repairs were going on, by creating a parallel road. Exploring the opportunities further, Bawa’Allah said such a road unless not maintained, may be income earner as they may be tolled to generate more revenue for the government. He called for more private sector involvement in the provision of basic social infrastructure, if the nation is to bridge the gap of the deficit. Bawa’Allah, who recalled that the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had disclosed that the nation’s debt profile is one of the lowest in the world, called for massive borrowings  to fix the infrastructural gaps. He also called for more investments in pipeline networks to accommodate wet cargoes which are being ferried across the country by tankers. “We cannot continue to be transporting wet cargo by road. It doesn’t show that we are on the right path of economic development. Deploying pipelines to transport wet cargoes would reduce accidents, reduce pressure on the roads, and make the roads last longer, he added. The retired university don challenged the government to make road and pipeline development its main focus in the next four years. What has remained perplexing to industry watchers is that the same government that is achieving the Darman Miracle on the rail sector where the speed train which took off from scratch is well ahead of schedule by one year is finding the repair of the 145km Lagos-Ibadan highway intractable. The onus is for the government to prove that it is attuned to the prerequisites of good governance. One very sure way of winning back a waning goodwill is the timely delivery of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. One wish more work could be accomplished to hasten its delivery before the commencement of the rain. Would these remain only wishes?