•Condemns extrajudicial killings The Lagos State chapter of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) has urged Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to decongest prisons before he leaves office on May 29. Speaking yesterday during a peaceful march to the Alausa seat of the government, as part of the activities to mark the 30th anniversary of the group, the Chairman, Comrade Alex Omotehinse, said a visit to Ikoyi and Kirikiri Maximum/Medium Prisons during the week showed that they were congested. He advised the government to intervene. He said most of the inmates were those who committed minor offences and whose cases were being delayed by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), who he said, had little time to go through the files. Omotehinse condemned the spate of extrajudicial killings by the police, citing the killing of Kolade Johnson by the police at Onipetesi, Ikeja on Sunday. “Today is the Day 5 of our 30th anniversary. CDHR was formed in 1989 when a unionist, now a lawyer, Mr. Femi Aborishade, was detained under Decree 2 by the then government of Ibrahim Babangida. “We have visited the prisons and we saw the deplorable conditions under which the inmates are being kept. “Part of our discovery is that one of the prisons had 3000 inmates over its capacity. Many of the inmates are victims of circumstances. “We are challenging the police to respect human dignity. We want them to respect human rights. If they want to take people to court, they should do so. “For instance, they take someone that commits capital offence to a magistrates’ court that does not have jurisdiction and then the file will be taken to the DPP that will not attend to it for eight or even nine months. “We are not encouraging building of more prisons. We want the government to decongest the prisons in Badagry, Kirikiri, Ikoyi and others. “We have a lot of cases pending there. A file that is not up to 30 pages will be pending with the DPP for months,” he said. On extrajudicial killings, Omotehinse said this should be condemned by right thinking persons. He recalled that he led a protest when three people were killed at Makoko last year. “Police officers who killed people were allowed to go scot-free in the past. But I am impressed that this time, the police commissioner has paid a condolence visit to the bereaved family. “It is only a court of competent jurisdiction that can sentence people to death. “Some of the people in the prisons were made to sign their statements under duress. “We appeal to Governor Ambode to decongest the prisons. The Attorney-General should also be up and doing,” Omotehinse said. The activists were later addressed by the Special Adviser to the Governor (SSA) on Civic Engagement, Taiwo Aiyedun, who hailed them for their courage and for fighting for the common man. “The government identifies with your agitations,” he said. Omotehinse presented a letter and a gift to Aiyedun for transmission to the governor, who he praised for his developmental projects across the state. 