The Kaduna State Government yesterday announced the imposition of 24-hour curfew on Kasuwan Magani area of Kajuru Local Government Area of the state. The curfew followed the eruption of fresh crisis in the area on Thursday, during which three persons were killed and a house razed. At dawn yesterday, the state government announced the imposition of the curfew to check further bloodshed. Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, who broke the news said the curfew was with immediate effect. A few hours later, government reinstated dusk to dawn curfew in Kujama and Maraban Rido communities of Chikun Local Government Area until further notice. Aruwan said: “The Kaduna State Government has further reviewed the security situation in and around Kajuru Local Government Area. “Consequent to this review, the government has decided, as a preventive measure, to reinstate dusk to dawn curfew in Kujama and Maraban Rido communities of Chikun Local Government Area until further notice. “Effective today, Friday, 26th April 2019, curfew will be enforced from 6pm to 6am daily in Kujama and Maraban Rido. Residents of these communities are encouraged to support and cooperate with the security agencies as they uphold peace and security.” It was gathered that trouble started when the body of a Hausa boy was found in a well. Some Hausa boys soon gathered and launched a reprisal attack on Adara boys who were returning from the market. One of those attacked was rushed to St. Gerard Catholic Hospital where he died yesterday morning. An eyewitness said: “Two of our boys were coming from the market in the evening on Thursday and decided to follow the bypass. “They were attacked and thoroughly beaten by some Hausa boys. One of them was taken to St. Gerald Hospital where he later died as a result of the beating.” Security operatives were subsequently sent to the area to check the situation from degenerating. The Chairman of Kajuru Local Government, Cafra Caino, said the situation had been brought under control, following the curfew imposed on the area by the state government to avert further violence. “Yesterday there was tension and security personnel were deployed and the whole area was cordoned,” the chairman added.  The Kaduna State Police Command yesterday announced the arrest of 34 suspected criminals and the recovery of 486 livestock from cattle rustlers in the state. The Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdurrahaman, told reporters in Kaduna that the feat was a fallout of the recently launched ‘Operation Puff Adder’ by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar, and “the subsequent confidence building campaign the Command vigorously carried out under my supervision, particularly along Kaduna-Abuja Expressway.” The CP said the efforts recorded some successes with the arrest of 34 suspects belonging to different suspected criminal gangs who allegedly terrorised citizens of the state.” He added that the command within the period under review recovered 486 livestock made up of 393 cows and 93 sheep from rustlers. The CP said while nine of the suspects were arrested for alleged criminal conspiracy and armed robbery; 18 suspects for criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and armed robbery; six of the suspects were nabbed for criminal conspiracy, armed robbery and cattle rustling. Abdulrahman said that most of the suspects were between the ages 20 and 30. The CP said among the suspects was Mohammed Jamilu, 30, who allegedly specialises in “defaming high profile personalities by putting his victims in fear of death or grievous hurt through false information that is capable of inciting disturbance to extort money from his victims. “The suspect went round meeting clergymen and telling them that the executive Governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai had contracted him to eliminate some notable clergymen in Kaduna State. “The Police acted on intelligence and arrested the suspect and he has confessed to the allegation,” he said. He said the operatives from the command’s intelligence unit recovered from the suspects three AK47 rifle with 27 round of live Ammunition, one locally made pistol and one Dane gun. “Also recovered from him include a pair of army camouflage uniform, a navy blue-cloured Honda Civic vehicle with Reg. No. BL688GWA, Chassis No. JHMEJ933005017783 and two unregistered red coloured Bajaj motorcycles. “Others are: a Samsung S8 plus, a Techno handset, one axe, four cutlasses, assorted charms, one pincher and a dog.” He said the command would arraign the suspects in court once it concluded its in