Seun Kuti, son of legendary musician, Afrobeats founder and socio-political activist, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, shared a rare photo of himself and his father, Fela, via Instagram over the weekend. In the picture, Seun, as a boy, seems to be standing and looking forward, while Fela is seated, glancing sideway. “My main man and I, the way we were always together ehn, e still dey pain many of them oooo,” he wrote. Seun also revealed he is keeping his promise to the survival of Fela’s political ideology and his band, Egypt 80. “Dem still dey wonder why u loved me sooo much but dem no fit know. Baba MOP don become Naija Resisitance movement ooo @naijaresistancemovement and I dey keep my promise and the band alive. #quickupdate #getthesax After success in using his music to his thoughts on critical political, social and economic issues confronting Nigeria, Fela veered into politics. However, the party he founded, Movement of the People (MOP), was not registered by the then military government. After his death on August 2, 1997, Seun assumed leadership of Fela’s band, the Egypt 80, which continues to play till this day. And just like his father, Seun uses his music to advocate ideals which Fela stood for. He is also aligned with Naija Resistance Movement, whose vision is: “Rejuvenating Africanism In Our Motherland” and its mission is “A Pan Africanist Group Seeking African Solutions To African Predicaments.” The picture has generated over 5, 300 likes and over 200 comments. Among those who connected with his thoughts was broadcaster, entertainer and politician, Dayo Adeneye, who said: “@bigbirdkuti My brother, keep doing your thing & pushing the limits jare,” wrote the Ogun State Commissioner for Information and Strategy from dayod1adeneye. “Let the haters do their job. Teni begi lo ju igi a ruwe.” An Instagram user, sangoa, wrote: “Beautiful photograph Seun. You are your father’s son. May you live long and continue to fight for Africans, Nigerians, Yòrubás as well as constantly blessing the world with your gift of sound. Olodumare willing.” Other celebrities that interacted with the post include artist LAOLU, rapper FalzTheBadGuy, author Isiah Washington, actress Dakore Egbuson-Akande, TV host Ebuka Obi-Uchendu and Ghanaian musician Stonebwoy.