An Igbosere Magistrates’ Court in Lagos Tuesday sentenced a self-proclaimed car dealer, Adamson Oladimeji Mustapha, to five years imprisonment for stealing Nl9.8million from a United States-based businessman, Olusegun Adesanya. Chief Magistrate Adetokunbo Omoyele convicted Mustapha on one count of stealing contrary to Section 285 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011. Mrs. Omoyele discharged Mustapha of four other counts of conspiracy, stealing and bail jumping on the ground that they were not proven by the prosecution. The court also gave the convict an option of avoiding imprisonment by paying a N5million fine. “This judgment takes effect from the date of sentence,” Chief Magistrate Omoyele added. The Police Force Headquarters Annex, Lagos, arraigned Mustapha, 40, of 5, Adebola Ojomu Street, Aguda, Surulere, Lagos on April 22, 2013, before Mrs E. N. Johnson on a charge marked L/12/A/2013. The matter started denovo (afresh) in 2016 and Mustapha was re-arraigned for the same offences before Chief Magistrate Omoyele. He pleaded “not guilty.” Inspector Cyriacus Osuji told the court that between 2005 and 2011 in Lagos and Ogun states, Mustapha, with intent to commit a felony conspired with accomplices at large, and obtained several vehicles under false pretence from Adesanya. “He obtained six assorted vehicles valued at N12, 693,000 under the pretext that he was a car dealer from the complainant. “On the same date and at the same time, he obtained the sum of N3, 520,000 under the pretext that he was a dealer and he would use the sum to buy vehicles for the complainant.” The fourth charge, for which Mustapha was convicted, accused him of stealing the N19.8m, property of Adesanya, through false pretence. Osuji added: “Within the same period, the defendant, at the Force Intelligence Bureau Force Headquarters Annex, Obalende, Lagos, being a suspect in a case of conspiracy and stealing reported by Justus Olusegun Adesanya, with intent to prevent, pervert and obstruct the cause of justice, jumped police administrative bail granted to him.” He said the offences contravened Sections 93(3), 205, 312 and 409 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011.