A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State, Dr. Olusegun Osinkolu has urged the commissioner nominees just approved by the Ekiti State House of Assembly to refrain from corrupt and acts that could derail Dr. Fayemi-led administration. Osinkolu said their focus and premium task should be how to implement the Fayemi’s 4 -cardinal agenda  to transform and accelerate the lives of the predominantly agrarian Ekiti residents. He described those nominated by Fayemi as committed individuals in their respective communities aside from being  party loyalists, saying he has no apprehension that they will discharge their duties diligently for radical turn around of the state’s  socio-economic status. Fayemi had last week Tuesday sent names of 14 commissioners designate to Ekiti assembly for screening and approval and were later confirmed on the floor of the House on Thursday. The governor will on Tuesday inaugurates the cabinet members and subsequently assign them to the  Ministries they will superintend over. Speaking in Ado Ekiti on Saturday, The Director General Buhari/Osinbajo  Campaign Council said proposed cabinet members came at a time when the people are having high expectations from all sectors to compensate for the deprivation suffered in the past, saying they can’t afford to disappoint Ekiti populace under this circumstance. Osinkolu added that the All Progressives Congress as champion of progressive governance should run a government that can change the lives of the people for better, urging the nominees to bear this in mind that they are being appointed to serve and not to pursue personal gains and material acquisition . He said: ” Governor Kayode Fayemi met a lot of rots in the system caused by bad policies and laxity on the part of the immediate past administration. “He came at a time when several months of salary and pension arrears are owed. Deductions and gratuities to  civil servants and retirees   running into several millions of naira are outstanding and infrastructures in schools are dilapidated and our people are questing for radical improvement . ” I want the nominees to share the dream of our governor and his resolve to bail us out of this conundrum. “Under Ayodele Fayose- led government, over 40,000 people were displaced from the safety net like the social security scheme, Ekiti State Peace Corps, Youth in Commercial Farming (YCAD) and others being policies  initiated by Governor Fayemi in 2011 , apart from astronomic increase in the level of unemployment among youths . All these APC government would have  tackle for people to have a reprieve. “They must know that coming at this precarious time as commissioners is more of a service than material  acquisition. They must be ready to sacrifice their personal gains to benefit humanity and posterity shall be fair to them as leaders who put up appropriate fight for our people to be delivered from the bandage of poverty if they eventually prove their mettle”. Osinkolu appealed to APC members and other Ekiti populace to give them the required supports and play advisory roles where necessary for the success of the present administration.