The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said claims by its candidate in the February 23 presidential election, Atiku Abubakar, on the existence and functionality of a server at the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have been vindicated. Atiku and the PDP have consistently maintained the election results tendered by their lawyers as the authentic figures recorded in the last presidential election were authentic. In the said video, which has gone viral, a top official of the INEC was seen and heard confirming the existence of a central election results transmission server. The said INEC official also confirmed the Commission would put the central server to use for the presidential election. The figures alleged to have been obtained by Atiku from the INEC server has become the main plank of the PDP candidate’s argument before the presidential election petition tribunal. However, INEC had denied the existence of the server before the election petition tribunal. Also reacting to the video, spokesman for the Buhari presidential election campaign, Festus Keyamo dismissed it as “pure entertainment. But a statement Thursday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the Presidency has been jittery over the video. The PDP said the video interview speaks volumes about the reported denial by INEC of the existence of such a server for the 2019 general elections. The main opposition party also said President Muhammadu Buhari’s team has been in a frenzy to distract the presidential election petitions tribunal by externalizing its proceedings. “This is in addition to the Presidency’s feverish attempt to divert public attention by engaging in judicial interpretations and hauling insults on our party and candidate, Atiku Abubakar, over our determination to retrieve our stolen mandate in the court. “The lesson for all in the latest episode is in the undying verity that no matter how long falsehood appears to thrive, the truth will always come to light and prevail at the end of the day. “Instead of this pitiable resort to frenetic and chaotic play to the gallery, the PDP counsels President Buhari and his team to focus on facing the course of justice at the tribunal,” the statement added. The party advised Buhari and his team to curtail their desperation and respect the sanctity and integrity of the Court of Appeal by ending their externalisation of proceedings, which the PDP said, has been their calculated scheme to distract the court and derail the course of Justice. 