After last week’s air raid of Zamfara forests by the Nigerian Air Force to decapitate the armed bandits that have held the state hostage, the story is thatthe criminals are back in the villages, strolling around without molestation. While that may not be true, no doubtthe state has been on the boil, such that the so-called illegal mining in the state which has been fingered as a cause of the crisis has been banned. Also the federal authority has accused the traditional authority in the state of complicity in the crisis. The situation is so precarious that the state governor,AbdulazizYari, has visited the presidential villa on several occasionsto lament the insecurity in the state. His opponents however accuse him of always junketing; perhaps because his state is insecure, he feels safer to always stay outside the state. The senate and House of Representatives have also been lamenting and have been making resolutions to compel the executive to act. But despite all the effort, Zamfara remains unsafe. Similar attacks by bandits have also hit Sokoto, Kebbi and Kastina states, even as Kaduna State appears permanently on the boil. On the other side of the northern divide, Borno, Yobe, Gombe and Adamawa are under the direct attack range of Boko Haram. Further down, Taraba, Benue, Kogi, Niger, Nassarawa and Plateau are not spared from armed attacks. So, the scary scenario is that presently more than half of Nigeria is under attack. Of note, the concerned states are amongst the poorest in the country. When Nigeria is regarded as the poverty capital of the world, these states, save for a few of them, represent the hardest hit by all the indices with which poverty is measured. By one of such indices, provided by World Poverty Clock, 86.9 million Nigerians live in extreme poverty as at 2018. Without doubt majority of these extremely poor Nigerians come from these states. So, if about half of Nigerians are extremely poor, and the country is waging a warin more than half of its territory, the poverty level will get worse and more people will get poorer.Such a scary scenario as we are in calls for a national emergency beyond mere political grandstanding and the federal government must do more than authorizing jet fighters to bomb the forests of Zamfara. While it should wage war against the enemies of our country, the solution to the extreme poverty prevalent in the north requires more than what jet fighters can do. The fundamental challenge facing the region and indeed the entire country is poverty, and the solution lies in rejigging the economy. From the crisis facing Zamfara, Nigerians have become aware that the state is awash with mineral deposits, such that illegal miners have turned the blessing to a curse. So, the solution may actually be the legitimate exploitation of the minerals. Instead of wringing their hands in helplessness as the northern elites are doing presently, they should wakeup and demand for economic restructuring of the country. In their recent intervention over the insecurity in the northern part of our country, the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) led by Professor AngoAbdullahi, merely recanted the challenges facing the region without offering any solution. They spoke tongue in cheek when they said: “we demand for decisive, comprehensive and fundamental governmental action against poverty, underdevelopment and insecurity.” If the NEFand other elite groups in the region want to squarely deal with the challenge of poverty facing the region, they must champion the call for economic restructuring of the country. They should know that as structurally organised, the country cannot make the quantum progress that the region needs more than any other part of the country to begin the process of getting out of poverty and insecurity. Blame game will not do it, unless the idea is merely to grandstand. The first decisive step is to give Zamfara State the constitutional authority to mine its minerals, and thereby eliminate the illegal miners. The challenges facing Zamfara has shown that our country can no longer defer the urgent need to put states in the driver’s seat of what ordinarily should be their local economy. Clearly as Zamfara has shown, the lack of state economies have mutated beyond mere economic problem to security challenge, and it will be insanity for our country not to change the paradigm, while hoping for a change. Therefore, the northern elites must join those who have rejected the constitutional provision that the federal government should own exclusive rights to the mining of minerals in the country. The absence of a thriving and lawful local economy in the states, especially in the northern part of the country have become an existential problem. The precarious situation in many states across the country, is made worse by the dwindling revenue from the oil resources of the Niger Delta, and any further delay has become extremely dangerous. The second step is to constitutionally authorize states to have state police. A state like Zamfara may not bother much about recruiting police to patrol its cities, but will be interested in armed rangers to patrol its vast forests. Under the strange federal constitution we presently operate, it can only operate armed vigilantes at the mercy of federal authority. Without its own local police, the state will have to rely on policemen and women, most of whom may be posted to the state as a form of punishment. Unless the security challenges are quickly dealt with, Zamfara State and her sister states will continue to get poorer, and as their condition get worse, the nation itself gets poorer. The federal government in the past few years have relied on borrowed funds to argument its budget deficits. Such economic practice is clearly unsustainable, and one way to solve the problem is to expand the national economy. The federal government can easily do that by shedding the exclusive legislative list in favour of the states. Without being an economist, Nigeriacannot sustain the present scenario of borrowing to fighta war against Boko Haram and other armed insurgencies; not to talk of investing in infrastructure to boost the national economy. Without bridging the over one trillion dollar gap in infrastructure deficit, our country can easily slip back into recession anytime. The northern elites must worry about the financial capacity of the country to continue to wage the war against Boko Haram and other armed insurgents, which is exacerbating, because of poverty. President Buhari can justify his concern for the economic and security crisis facing the country, by preparing the necessary executive bills to amend the exclusive legislative list and also section 214 of the 1999 constitution which forbids the establishment of state police, for the incoming 9th national assembly. That is what we need, not rhetoric.