It was fun for residents of Warri, Delta State, as comedian Bovi staged the Warri edition of the comedy show ‘Bovi Man on Fire’ last Thursday. The event which was part of Easter celebrations was sponsored by telecommunication giant, Globacom, with its High Networth Individual (HNI) customers given free tickets to watch the show. The show, which paraded Bovi and other comedians, including Kelvin Sapp, Young Chief Odogwu, MC Shakara and Mr. Flexy, lasted for over three hours with the audience thoroughly entertained. Commenting on the show, one of the Glo HNIs who got a free VIP ticket, Philip Oghenetega praised Globacom for always taking care of its subscribers. “Beyond the laughter and the fun, I think, we should personally acknowledge Globacom for delighting its customers and making them number one in everything,” he said. “I have been to shows and I can appreciate the value of the free ticket Globacom gave me to be part of this Bovi Man on Fire show, the first in Warri.” Managing Director of Bobsky BB Integrated Resources Mr. Bomlegaha Diyerin praised the company “for extending its hand of generosity to us by giving us free VIP tickets for a wonderful show like this. Globacom cares about its customers and we are not surprised that the company keeps waxing stronger everyday”. Mr. Stanley Omatseyione, a Globacom subscriber and a leading activation dealer, said: “One must give it to Globacom for having the interest of its subscribers and business partners at heart. I had planned to come for the show on my own and I was greatly relieved when Globacom sent the free ticket to me. This is very encouraging, and it gladdens one’s heart to note that a company as big as Globacom recognises one’s modest contribution to its growth.” Organised by Messers Brownhill Event Limited, ‘Bovi Man on Fire’ was attended by dignitaries  from Warri and environs, including Prime Minister of Warri Kingdom, High Chief Ayiri Emami, President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinick, Globacom’s number one trade partner in the Mid-West Region, Mr. Hanson Okuoimase, who doubles as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Nadal Heights System Limited and his wife, Hope, among others.