The rate of compliance to the local content policy has sharply risen to 60.23 percent in the last few months, thus raising the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The Chairman of Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc, John Coumantaros, who stated this recently in Lagos, noted that due to the federal government’s backward integration policy and efforts of key players in the nation’s manufacturing industry, local sourcing of raw materials in Nigeria has increased from 47.2 percent in 2014 to 60.23 percent in 2018. “While appreciating successive Federal Governments for increasingly recognizing the role of sectoral backward integration policies, which has provided incentives to looking inwards for inputs; as stakeholders in the private sector, I believe we must take active roles in promoting manufacturing competitiveness in the country,” he said. Coumantaros attributed the success achieved in the backward integration compliance to the support of the government towards the real sector. Stressing the need to enforce compliance, he expressed that it was important to promote the real sector of the economy as it will stimulate sustainable economic growth which will reflect on the welfare of the populace. “The first sector that comes to mind when you review the real sector of any economy is the manufacturing sector given its role in engendering inclusive growth. However, the contribution of the manufacturing sector to gross domestic product (GDP) in Nigeria is low when compared to other emerging economies, a development that has been widely attributed to the country’s crude oil based, mono-product economy. Hence, there is a need to look inwards to explore ways of increasing the sector’s paltry 8.9 percent contribution to GDP,” he stressed. Manufacturing, he noted, “Is essentially the main component of all value chains. Manufacturing can be accomplished through the efficient and careful development of value chains that facilitate higher-value-added processing using locally produced inputs and services in production. For manufacturing in Nigeria to truly succeed and play its rightful role in being a significant contributor to GDP, we must look at all aspects of the value chain – from inbound raw material procurement all the way to sales and after-sales service. “While appreciating successive federal governments for increasingly recognizing the role of sectoral backward integration policies, which has provided incentives to look inward for inputs; as stakeholders in the private sector, I believe we must take active roles in promoting manufacturing competitiveness in the country. For instance, due to government’s backward integration policy and effort of key players in the Nigerian manufacturing industry, local sourcing of raw materials in Nigeria has increased from 47.2% in 2014 to 60.23% in 2018 according to a survey conducted by MAN.” 