Pique, who spent four years at United as a youngster, returns to Old Trafford this week for the first time since moving back to Barca in 2008. Barca start the tie as favourites but United come into the clash buoyed by an impressive comeback against Paris Saint-Germain in the last round. Pique says he watched both games against PSG and urged his teammates to take the chances which come their way to avoid suffering the same fate as the French champions. “I think the PSG tie is a great example,” the defender said in a news conference on Tuesday. “I think [at Old Trafford], PSG played better. In the second half they scored and could have scored more. “But you can’t leave United alive. If you can beat them [by] scoring a lot of goals, you have to do it. “They have a great history and they showed that in Paris, even with a lot of young lads from the academy. “It’s a great example for us. We have to be switched on from the first minute until the last.” Pique, 32, spent his formative years at United under Sir Alex Ferguson. The Premier League side’s form has suffered since Ferguson’s retirement in 2013 but Pique still believes they’re England’s best club despite currently sitting sixth in the Premier League. “Since I played here, they have always been one of England’s great teams,” he added. “Obviously, teams have ups and downs and moments of transition but they’re the biggest team in England. “They consider the Premier League the same as the Champions League here — if not more important — and since the Ferguson era they’ve been the biggest team and will keep on being the biggest team. Things aren’t [going as well at the moment] but I hope they change and quickly they get back on top. “I spent several years here, between 17 and 21, my first as a professional. I played in good games alongside great players and also had some crazy times off the pitch. “I left my family and friends to come here and I returned to Barcelona an adult. It’s a special game for me.” Pique was briefly teammates with current United coach Ole Gunnar Solskjaer during his time at United and he has fond memories of the Norwegian, who has turned the English side’s fortunes around since replacing Jose Mourinho in December. 