There is a new luxury bus that gives travellers a paradise feeling. It is called Paradiso 1350 Bus Model. The new generation Marcopolo Paradisio 1350 is luxury personified from all indication – its look, body, movement, space for loads and tasteful interior. No doubt, travellers are in for a new experience with the Paradisio 1350. Courtesy of Weststar Associates Limited, authorised general distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria in collaboration with Auto Alternative Nigeria Limited, the authorised representative of Marcopolo in Nigeria, the new Marcopolo Paradisio 1350 bus was introduced into the Nigerian market last Wednesday. The introduction of this bus, Weststar said, highlights the growth and expansion of interstate road travel in Nigeria as the industry continues to follow suit with technological advancements from around the world. The new generation Paradiso 1350 has been designed to provide the best passenger experience and greater comfort and safety to the driver making it even better than its predecessors. The Paradiso 1350 bus is built with the ever reliable Mercedes-Benz 0 500 RSD bus chassis developed for middle and long distance travel. It is a robust and highly durable vehicle that is built to carry 24 tonnes and a body length of up to 14 meters long. The Paradiso 1350 brings external and internal changes that raise the level of sophistication, comfort, safety and efficiency in comparism to its predecessors. A renewed exterior sees the Paradiso 1350 appear with newly designed mirrors that offer better driver visibility, newly designed bumpers and side windows and a new visual identity in the front; while the rear comes with a larger back cover that improves access to mechanical components and rear windows with a new design. Another major feature of the exterior is the headlights with new internal design and integrated DRL (Daytime Running Lights), also included in the headlights are LED fog lights and an elongated side wall design giving a modern feel and flow to the light assembly. The interior of the new Marcopolo Paradiso 1350 is totally transformed from the driver’s cabin with new lighting to the dashboard with soft touch finish and more thermoacoustic comfort. Weststar Associates Limited Managing Director Mr. Mirko Plath said the introduction of the Marcopolo Paradiso 1350 bus model marks a move in the right direction for bus operators in Nigeria. According to Plath, the bus operators are ready to take their businesses to the next level. He thanked bus operators for continuing to put their trust in the Mercedes-Benz brand and that the collaboration with Marcopolo in Nigeria has certainly borne fruit over the years. The bus has an electric window next to the driver that comes as an optional extra, while the larger access steps come with injected profiles and indirect lighting for ease of entrance, other features include new floor coverings and a new roof design with superior lighting and LED details. The safety and well-being of passengers and the driver is highly prioritised as the space between the driver’s cab and the passengers’ section is partitioned with bulletproof glass and the drivers cab is also partitioned with a protective glass door. The O 500 RSD 2436 6×2 chassis is equipped with an OM 457 LA engine that comes with 6 in-line cylinders. The power output is 265 kW (355 hp) at 1,750 rpm and is operated via a 6 speed manual gear transmission. The Mercedes-Benz O 500 chassis is also very economical for bus operators as the electronic motors included in its engine ensure that the bus consumes lower fuel and has a longer life. With regards to safety the O 500 RSD chassis is equipped with safety features like the Top Brake auxiliary engine brake coupled with the conventional engine brake system. This brake system provides many advantages, such as increased braking power, higher speed on slopes, greater safety, less gear shifting, lower maintenance costs, longer life of brake and tire components and fuel economy. Also there is an anti-lock brake system (ABS) which offers greater safety, because the vehicle remains stable in adverse driving conditions and critical situations. In cases of sudden braking, even on smooth surfaces or rough roads, the ABS system prevents the vehicle from skidding.