To ensure reduction of social vices among young people, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has disclosed plans to resuscitate uniform youth organisations in all public and private schools in the nation’s capital. Acting Director, Youth Development Department of the Social Development Secretariat (SDS), Hajarat Titilayo Alayande, who disclosed this, described such platform as the best instrument to tackle crime. Alayande who spoke at the 2019 National camp of National Association of Uniform Voluntary Youth Organisations in Abuja, said the measure would help redirect young people to embracing positive ways of life.  “Uniform Voluntary Youth Organisations are in the business of instilling discipline in youth people. We will encourage all young people to belong to the uniform youth organisations, anyone they find interesting. “So, we are going to collaborate with the FCT Education Secretariat, in order to ensure resuscitation of Uniform youth organizations in all public and private schools in FCT. “Because, we feel that it is the best instrument to reduce social vices among young people. It ensures that we have coordinated activities around the uniform youth groups and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). “And we are still going to encourage them further to establish such activities within their neighbourhoods, so as to support conventional security agencies. We want to inculcate the volunteering spirit especially in the youth. “We need total re-orientation of the youth, to enable us address issues of drugs abuse, violence, kidnapping killings, gangsterism affecting our youth, so we want to put them back on track,” she stressed. Acting Secretary of SDS, Hajiya Safiya Umar, described the programme as very significant to the advancement of youth in FCT and Nigeria at large. Umar decried that today’s youth are not shown the way to be fully involved in volunteerism, hence they have continued to look for what to do, which has led to the all social vices in the society. She noted that when youth are completely engaged meaningfully, it will help remove redundancy, laziness and helplessness. She said, “The youth are the leaders of tomorrow, and we need to build them; we need to rekindle activities such as volunteerism back to the society so that the youth will feel belonged, inclusive of all, to enable them give their best. “Volunteerism is a sure way to start thinking what to do contribute to the society, because youth will now channel their youthful energies into during certain things that will be beneficial to the society.” On his part, Coordinator, National Association of Uniform Voluntary Youth Organizations, Abraham Kwaghfan, said the Association has a basic aim of bringing all youth together for a common goal. He revealed that the Association organised 2019 National camp with the theme: “Volunteerism, the role of uniform voluntary youth organisation in Nigeria,” in partnership with SDS Department of Youth, security and forensic studies of Nigeria and national youth council of Nigeria.