Tension brew in Iyemero community in Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State on Monday as suspected herdsmen allegedly attacked the community. The suspected herdsmen at the wee hour of Monday attacked Eda, one of the communities under Iyemero town. The gory incident has claimed two lives and three others were inflicted with various degrees of injury. Sources identified one of the dead as Mr Danjuma Ali, a Muslim farmer while the identity of the second person whose bodies had been deposited in the morgue of the General hospital, Ikole Ekiti is still undisclosed as at the time of filing this report. Those undergoing medicare  at the emergency  section of the Federal Teaching Hospital(FETHI), Ido Ekiti include: Mrs Jennifer Akoko , Mr Joseph Achebe and one other victim. The source said: “It  has happened  again  today, it has been a recurrent killing. Some herders called  Bororo stormed the farmstead and  shot these innocent people. “They came around 1am and were there till dawn. Our farmers  are all afraid to go their farmsteads. They all rushed to the palace of  Oba Ebenezer Agboola Ogungbemi,  the Olu of Iyemero Ekiti to take refuge. “We are mourning today at Iyemero, we are not happy about this incident and the government must do something about it”, the source said. The Olu of Iyemero, Oba Ogungbemi and  Olu-In-Council, restated their calls for establishment of a police station in the town to curb the attackers. The monarch, who spoke through the palace spokesman, Chief Ariyo Abejide, said there was urgent need for the teeming population of farmers in this farmstead to be protected and secured by the security agencies from another seemingly and imminent attacks and onslaught from the marauders. “These Fulani herders stormed the community through the border of Iyemero at Eruku in kwara state. This makes Iyemero  a porous exit and entrant, which portend dangers and insecurity to the community, ikole local government and the state in general”. Oba Ogungbemi urged the residents to be peaceful and  called  for immediate intervention of the state government in this regard. Also, the head of security and community  vigilante group,  Chief Jimoh Eshikin called  on the state government to empower the village hunters ,  in order to assist the security agents in effective Security surveillance  and patrol. When called for confirmation, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, said he has not been briefed about the matter.