Research has proven that castor oil seed which is also known as ricinus communis has approximately between 30 to 35 per cent oil that can be extracted through a number processes, ranging from manual to automated. Castor which is used as biodiesel is considered to be one of the most promising nonedible oil crops. Castor oil fuel-related has properties in pure form or as a blend with diesel fuel, which is primarily due to the extremely high content of RA. It has been established that a 15% blend of castor oil–biodiesel was an optimized blend of biodiesel–diesel proportions. The hydroxyl functionality of RA makes the castor oil a natural polyol providing oxidative stability to the oil, and a relatively high shelf life compared to other oils by preventing peroxide formation. The presence of the hydroxyl group in RA and RA derivatives provides a functional group location for performing a variety of chemical reactions including halogenation, dehydration, alkoxylation, esterification, and sulfation. As a result, this unique functionality allows the castor oil to be used in industrial applications such as paints, coatings, inks, and lubricants. Castor oil is used commercially as a highly renewable resource for the chemical industry. Availability: Castor seed is predominantly produced in the Northern states as well as across the eastern and states and some states in the west of Nigeria. Economic importance: Castor oil is largely used for developing low pour point lubricant base stocks through the synthesis of acyloxy castor polyesters. Its excellent potential serves as a smoke pollution reducer when introduced into lubricants during production. Pre-processing: Oil Extraction: The first stage in the oil extraction process is pre-pressing. The process is usually carried out under high pressure using a screw press known as the oil mill or oil expeller. Filtration: Extracted castor oil is filtered and the waste separated from the oil. It is thereafter taken back to the stream together with fresh material. The final material produced from the oil mill press is known as castor cake. Solvent extractor: Castor cake has about 10 per cent oil hence the cake is further crushed and moved to the solvent extraction to further oil. Degumming: Degumming is the first step in the castor oil refining process. It is the reduction of phosphatides and the metal content of the crude oil. The phosphatides present in crude castor oil can be found in the form of lecithin, cephalin, and phosphatidic acids. Water degumming, acid degumming, and enzymatic degumming has to be performed for efficient removal of these phosphatides Neutralization: It is important to remove the high Free Fatty Acid (FFA) content from the castor oil in order to produce a high-quality castor oil. This process of removal of FFA from the degummed oil is known as neutralization.  This is also to reduce or remove oxidation products of FFAs, residual proteins, phosphatides, carbohydrates, traces of metals, and a part of the pigments. Bleaching: Bleaching is the method used in removing coloured pigments and remaining phospholipids. It is done using activated earths under moderate vacuum conditions between 50 and 100 mmHg. The reduction in the oil color can be measured using an analytical instrument, called a tintometer. Deodorization: Deodorization is simply a vacuum steam distillation process that removes the relatively volatile components that give rise to undesirable flavours, colours, and odours in fats and oils. Monetary requirement: This is a huge project, although as little as N8million can put you on a very small scale production, but the higher the investment funds, the better it become. You can invest as much as over N150million for a standard factory. Viability: It is highly viable, as it is used in cosmetics, medicals, manufacturing of paints, coatings, inks, lubricants amongst others.