Kwara State Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed on Tuesday said his administration is bequeathing a legacy of service, peace and good governance to the incoming administration. He added that his administration is leaving the state better than he met it. Ahmed said challenges facing the nation’s economy affected his eight years administration. The governor spoke in Ilorin, the state capital, during inauguration of a 24-member transition implementation committee on hand-over of power to a newly elected government. “As you are aware, most of the eight years of our administration were marked by challenges in the national economy. Nevertheless, we leveraged our resourcefulness to modestly fulfil our pledge to uplift our people and our state while laying a solid foundation for its current and future sustenance. “Indeed, I make bold to state that we are leaving Kwara State better than we met it as we are bequeathing to it a legacy of service, peace and good governance,”  he said. The governor said the exercise is aimed at assisting the incoming government to settle down for governance quickly, imploring residents to extend similar hands of cooperation and support given to his administration to the incoming government “so that Kwara can continue to toe the path of development and progress”. The terms of reference of the TIC, he said, include: putting in place all necessary machinery for the smooth take-off of the in-coming administration; ensuring full liaison with all officially assigned representatives of the incoming administration for the appropriate briefing on the activities of Government towards providing a solid footing for the new government; any other matter the committee may find worthy for the effective discharge of its mandate. Ahmed urged members of the committee to bring to bear qualities that recommended their appointment in the discharge of their responsibilities. He added: “While I am confident that you will perform creditably, I therefore implore you to justify the confidence reposed in you by government and the good people of Kwara State.”