The Forum of Civil Societies Organisation in Nigeria, has commended Zamfara State Independent Electoral Commission (ZASIEC), for making adequate arrangements to conduct local government elections in the state. Alhaji Ibrahim Tudu, Leader of the forum made the commendation at a News Conference in Gusau on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the ZASIEC had fixed today, Saturday April 27, to conduct local government elections in the state. Tudu said that the commission deserved commendation considering its timely preparation and provision of all necessary logistics and materials for the elections. He hailed the state government for organising the local government elections in the state in spite of the prevalence of security challenges in the area. “It is a commendable effort by the state government to conduct the elections where some governors are complaining of poor allocation from the Federal Government. “This has shown that Zamfara state is democratic and ready to end the use of caretaker chairmen in the state, by making sure that democratic local government chairmen and councillors are elected. “Having conducted our free election observation exercise, our team observed that the state government provided necessary logistics for ZASIEC to organise and conduct local government elections in the state,’’ he said. Tudu said that the team also observed that the state electoral commission was committed to conducting free, fair and credible elections in the state, by providing a level ground for all political parties to participate in the election. “We also noticed that the ZASIEC accredited some reputable CSOs, National and State based organisations and journalists to observe the election. “After our consultations with various stakeholders, our team was reassured that consented efforts have been made to create conducive and peaceful atmosphere for the elections. “We are also calling on security agencies to be up and doing to provide a peaceful atmosphere in the state during and after the elections.’’ NAN 