The financial technology (FinTech) firm, Global Accelerex, is expanding its footprints to sub-Saharan Africa, having fully established itself as the Fintech firm of choice in the country. Its Managing Director,Tunde Ogungbade, who spoke during a media roundtable in Lagos, said the firm has positioned itself for rapid expansion into the African market, following the giant strides  recorded and its remarkable achievements in the country. “In our quest to constantly deliver excellent customer satisfaction, we opened the first customer contact centre in the industry. The facility is staffed with a team of passionate customer service professionals that provide sterling service to the delight of customers. The centre, which is open 24/7, enables seamless reception of inbound, outbound calls, and live call monitoring to guarantee quality assurance even on public holidays,” Ogungbade said. He said the firm launched the first Android Point of Sale (PoS) terminal certified for payment acceptance in the country, which is the N5 Android PoS device. It performs four times faster than any other payment terminal and has efficient battery conservation, lasting up to five days before the battery drains out. It is loaded with a lot of apps for the enhancement of business operational efficiency such as creation of sales records and invoices for merchants, and inventory management, which include stock monitoring, re-order level and automatic replenishment systems. He said with regional offices in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Owerri, Ibadan and Kano, which serve the six geopolitical zones in the country, the firm has been able to provide countrywide support for its customers. This is in line with its objective to make financial payments seamless and convenient for Nigerians. He said the firm has continued to blaze the trail in innovation and exceptional service delivery. Its in-house Innovation and Technology Team embodies creativity, flexibility and agility that give the company the much-needed leverage to compete favourably in the industry by developing cutting-edge solutions that enable customers achieve their business goals. “The culture at Global Accelerex is to adapt global best practices to the peculiar African market. Our solutions are tailored to meet the needs of small businesses, large corporations and government agencies, helping them in their payment and business processes to propel growth,” he said. Ogungbade said the firm decided to rebrand to take on a new look that reflects its status as a world-class FinTech player on the continent. He reassured the firm’s  customers that with the rebranding, it has a greater responsibility to serve them even better. “We not only provide and operate customised platforms that meet clients’ specific payment needs, we also provide value-added services that help businesses to effectively manage their business processes.  We have set new standards in cashless payment systems with exceptional service delivery, superior applications and ground-breaking initiatives, which have placed us far ahead our competitors,” he said.