There is no in-fighting in the top echelon of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), says the Chairman, Ogbese Marine Services Limited, Prince Olusegun Ologbese. Ologbese’s assertion came on the heels of insinuations in some quarters that officers and men of the NCS, especially those within Zone ‘A’ which has its headquarters on Harvey, Road, Yaba, Lagos have been locked in a supremacy contest in the discharge of their statutory roles and responsibilities. Speaking with reporters in Lagos, Ologbese stated that it was incorrect to say that Customs chiefs in Lagos have been locking horns over some seizures. Ologbese explained that the Surveillance Team of the Federal Operation Unit (FOU) of the NCS, on the directive of the Customs Area Controller (CAC), Comptroller Aliyu Muhammed, had gone to the Murtala Muhammed International Airport Command (MMIA), Lagos to seize donkey skin said to be worth N7.2 billion. According to the Ogbese Marine Services Limited helmsman, FOU is an overall enforcement unit of the NCS which can strike anywhere in Nigeria. The Customs Area Controller at the MMIA Customs Command, Comptroller Jane Shoboki, is a very experienced Customs officer who knows these facts and would not have raised an eye brow on the issue as being claimed in some quarters. I am sure she has not violated the rules of engagement, otherwise, Customs Headquarters; Abuja would have directed that she should be arrested. As far as I am concerned, no one should lose sleep over the erroneous claims, he said. He further stated that no NCS officer worth his salt would dabble into anything that would taint the reputation and image of the service. The consequences of doing so are too grave to contemplate if such a person is caught by the numerous layers of checks and counter checks put in place since Colonel Ahmed Alli (retd) became the Comptroller General of the NCS, Ologbese said. He commended Ali for the strides the NCS had made since his appointment, pointing out that with the support and co-operation of stakeholders, more would be achieved in the months ahead, especially in revenue generation, anti-smuggling and trade facilitation. He averred that the harmonious relationship among the various commands of the NCS in Zone ‘A’ and other stakeholders in the maritime industry, especially licensed customs agents and terminal operators have helped in no small way to ensure that the service actualise its mandate as a para-military organisation.