No fewer than 2,000 people have benefited from the Easter outreach organised by Evangel Pentecostal Church in Okota area of Lagos. The church offered gifts, free food, legal services, medical services, consultation and referrals for those with major health issues. The church’s General Overseer, Iheanyi Egiogu, said the gesture was to show love to others and let them know God loves them. “God told us to do something practical to show people that He still loves them and He has not given up on them. This outreach is to let people know that God is still interested in their lives and we have given out several items and services to over 2,000 participants whether they come to our church or not,” he said. According to him, one of the core values of Christians should be selflessness and love. “The Church should not lose its focus. Easter is a significant time in the body of Christ and beyond the festive, it is important to note what gave rise to Easter which is the death of Jesus and it is still relevant till today after two thousand plus years. Easter is to remind us of the Christian faith. “I know it is not a common practice in modern time to give because everybody in struggling but I know that if it is God’s work, God will make you to be a blessing,” he said. He noted that church is not about money, rather “it is about life and to take care of the life needs money. Church is not an end; it is a means to an end. Jesus brought light and life and He does well; if we all can do good like Him, the society will be a better place.” He said that over 60 percent of Nigerians are poor, saying it means the whole system is poor and addressing the issue of the economy is the greatest service anyone can do for Nigerians. He said: “Churches should do beyond revival and crusade meetings to begin to do economic empowerment seminars, how to teach a man to make more money with what he has. The church should become more socially responsible, teach them to work for a company to learn how to do things, teach them how to save. “Sometimes Christians get carried away with the spiritual dimension and forget that there is a social responsibility inside the spirituality. That you are a spiritually minded person means that you should be aware of the needs of the other man. As we are sensitive to sin, we should be sensitive to poverty also. Practical application on prosperity is what the church must teach people. it’s not all about lying on the altar and say you are broke, after lying on the altar, you should go out there and work.”