Come December, the Michael Otedola College of Primary Education(MOCPED), Noforija-Epe, will roll out the drums in celebration of its Silver Jubilee, its Provost Dr Nosiru Onibon has announced. He broke the news at the matriculation for the National Certificate of Education (NCE) students. Onibon said: “I wish to announce that plans are underway to celebrate the anniversary in grand style.’’ Onibon recalled that the institution, established by the Lagos State government in December 1994, has fulfilled its mission statement, which is: ‘’to  be a great and dynamic institution of higher learning for capacity building in primary and basic education.’’ Its mandate, according to him, is being carried out through training of qualified teachers, cutting-edge research, and passion for professional excellence. Onibon said the matriculation would be his second to superintend, first in acting capacity, and now as the substantive provost. The provost noted that over 600 new students were offered admission into five of the six colleges – Arts, Social Sciences, Languages, Primary Education, Sciences and Vocational Studies, as well as Education, which he described as the ‘mother of all schools’, where every student must take a course. He thanked the academic board, admission committee and the unions for their cooperation despite  challenges in the institution. With the matriculation, Onibon noted that the students would be entitled to some rights and privileges, adding that they were expected to comply with the school’s rules and regulation. He said: “To all our students, who are matriculating, as you may be aware, the college’s slogan is: ‘We are MOCPED, we are great.’ In view of my sincere desire to re-write the history of this great institution, you have a big-role to play through projecting the good image of the college positively. You are, therefore, expected to be good ambassadors throughout your stay and beyond.  You must collectively work on this. He continued: “As you take this solemn oath, I enjoin you to be of good conduct and obey constituted authority. You are admonished to desist from all manner of misconduct and youthful exuberance to avoid being sanctioned, as stipulated in the college regulations.” He admonished the new students to have a copy of the reviewed Students’ Handbook. He praised Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for funding the institution, and, most importantly, reducing tuition, a gesture Onibon noted, has further improved enrolment. He noted that the college stands out among its contemporaries with respect to improved infrastructure and information and communication technology (ICT). According to him, management is committed to further improving instructional materials.