Youths under the auspices of All Progressives Congress (APC) Youth Organisation at the weekend urged President Muhammadu Buhari to allocate 40 percent of his administration’s appointment slots to youths in the country. The youth organisation added that by so doing the President will be fulfilling one of his reelection campaign promises. They said “this promise, if fulfilled, will give the youths good sense of belonging and compensation for their contributions towards his victory.” Convener and acting President of the APC youth organisation Samsideen Ogunolu said this at the inaugural meeting of the group in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital. Representatives of the youths from Southwest, Southeast, North central and North-west attended the meeting. Ogunolu said: “We appreciate President Buhari to make the youths self-reliant by providing excellent empowerment schemes like N-Power programmes for graduates as a means of volunteering for the success of youths. “However, we appeal to the president to create more opportunities for our teeming youths being churned out of the various institutions of higher learning across the country. This can be achieved by creating more entrepreneurship programmes and equipping our universities to ICT compliant. “Similarly, we want to honestly appeal to the president to improve on free education as that will help indigent students and serve as indirect empowerment to widows who could not afford their wards school fees and reduce the number of out-of-school children in Nigeria. “We equally want to remind the president of his campaign promise to “Not too young to run” to support the emergence of youthful candidate in the next presidential elections and implore the youths to always vote beyond ethnic sentiment and religious lines. “The future of Nigeria and Africa at large rests in our hands and we need each other irrespective of political differences to accomplish this task. “All positive contributions are needed to bring positive transformation to our fatherland.”