The Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) has said that it would continue to ensure the delivery of world-class public and private buildings, with exquisite interior and exterior ambiance expected for healthy. Executive Secretary, FCDA, Engr. Umar Gambo Jibrin gave this assurance while declaring open a seminar organised in conjunction with Creative House at the Authority’s conference hall, last week in Abuja. He said, “This exhibition is the Authority’s modest contribution towards the promotion of optimum standards and international best practices in all aspects of the building industry. Much more, it serves as a forum where participants can offer innovative solutions and options to knotty interior challenges being faced in various building types. “The theme will provide a suitable platform for a one-on-one interactive between and among stakeholders in the building and also sensitize on the need and benefits of defining interior spaces with accent pieces and treatment through practical demonstrations.” Explaining what space definition meant, the FCDA boss said: “Space Definition is all about taking responsibility for the spaces we occupy by expressing ourselves with the things that mean most to us personally, professionally and socio-culturally. This is natural instinct. “This this exhibition is apt and timely as we all live, work and play in spaces. When we take responsibility for these spaces, we derive a psychological settlement and calmness that is subtle yet profound enough to affect our wellbeing and productivity.” The Executive Secretary, who was represented by the Director, Public Building, Engr. Emmanuel Oluwadamisi, while defining the word ‘accent’ explained that the word “does not stop with phonetics and languages. Within the built environment, accents are found and used both in the exterior and interior spaces. “Externally, there could be colours, columns and fixtures like doors or other forms that embellish and give character to both the structure and cityscape, silently speaking volumes about the individual, establishment or community.” Narrowing to interior spacing, Jibrin stated: “accents are generally used to aesthetically pull your spaces together for a personalised and yet functional ambience which enhances our general wellbeing and productivity, creativity and imagination.” Jibrin called on all relevant departments and agencies to also carry out similar trainings so as to “add value, richness, little colour, painting and artwork”, adding well as deepen the knowledge of space definition and aesthetics, hence the beauty of Abuja. Director, Department of Public Buildings, Anthony Osigwe, while speaking said that the seminar was the 30th in the series, adding that it transformed into an exhibition in 2016 and has continued to make improvement and innovations. He underscored the importance of space definition in designing and called on the stakeholders to always come together and work together for the progress of all. Chairman of the Capacity Building Committee who doubles as Deputy Director, Public Buildings, Ademo, in his address said that the objective of the programme, which was to bequeath a capital citity comparable to the best in the world. In ensuring the development of a modern city and society, in line with the dreams of its founding fathers, Ademo pledged they would remain open to new relevant technologies to achieve the best for the FCT and the country.