Behove: You could almost call the misuse of the verb behove an elite misusage, because it is always the big ones, public functionaries, the movers and shakers, who are fond of admonishing the rest of us to do this or that. Often they couch their admonitions as in the sentence below: It behoves on all people of good conscience to rally round the party and deliver this country from the jaws of destruction. In this sentence, the phrase behoves on is incorrect usage. Our writer’s manual, “Pop” Errors in English: Writers Beware, explains this thus: ‘The verb behove takes a direct object, so the preposition “on” added to it is not required.  Correct usage is to say, “It behoves someone to do something.” .The book advises that ‘It is important to be mindful of the meaning of “fashionable” and “prestigious” words like behove when using them. We say prestigious because their wrong usage is more commonly seen in official and political polemics and academic pontifications. If we recognize in this instance that when we say it behoves you, it means you have a duty or responsibility, then the prestigious gaffe of the sort we are resolving here will be avoided. Moreover, it is useful to note that there is no phrasal verb like behove on. So, the writer should simply say, “It behoves all people of good conscience to rally round the party and deliver this country from the jaws of destruction.” Best: Often, you encounter misusages such as very best, utmost best and the like. Then, you wonder whether superlatives like best require intensifiers to precede them, as in: The president is doing his utmost best. The superlative best does not require the intensifier utmost wrongly inserted before it. This is akin to serious misusages like most superior. Someone says that such superlatives are like “a lily that needs no gilding.” Regarding the sentence in consideration, the intensifier utmost is extreme verbosity, which is redundant and of no use. Consider the fact that utmost is one of the synonyms of best, you would appreciate what we mean better. Moreover, the standard English phrase is: do one’s utmost. The sentence at issue therefore reads better if we leave it at: The president is doing his best or The president is doing his utmost. Either way, you are a winner. But remember never to use utmost to modify best because, as explained above, utmost and best denote the same thing. Between: In the following sentences, the preposition between has been grossly misused, albeit in different ways: (a)…Meanwhile, between 1 – 3 August, the government and international community representatives attended transition workshops. (b)…The strength of the attackers was estimated to be between 50 to 100 armed men. (c)…Please share the books between the 10 students. In (a) above, the expression between 1 – 3 August is the same as saying between 1 to 3 August, because the dash (—) stands for the preposition to. But this is extremely odd, incorrect and meaningless. Correct usage is: between 1 and 3 August, or from 1 to 3 August. Note that the correct combinations in this kind of usage are always between . . . and; and from . . . to, never otherwise. Example (b) is a misusage in the mould of (a). The only difference is that while (a) is about dates, (b) is about numbers of men, and it could also be about a range of items or degrees of something, as in “the temperature ranges from 30c. to 40c.” or “the temperature is between 30c. and 40c.” The important thing is to be mindful of the correct combinations of coupled prepositions, as explained earlier, as may be required in each instance. The correct usage concerning the sentence at issue is thus: The strength of the attackers was estimated to be between 50 and 100 armed men. Alternatively, we could jolly well say: The strength of the attackers was estimated at 50 to 100 armed men. Kindly note in respect of (c) that the preposition between is mostly used to refer to two entities, not more. It is therefore wrong usage to share between 10 students. Correct usage is to share among any number of entities that is more than two. From . . . to: This coupled preposition is related to the foregoing, particularly in its misuse, as in: The launching of the Vitamin A and Polio Mop-up Campaign will commence from 10 – 13 August 2012. The issue here is that the expression from 10 – 13 August 2012 is not correctly written. Correct usage is to write: from 10 to 13 August 2012, because the dash used to denote to is not acceptable. The rule concerning the coupled preposition from . . . to is that once you begin with the preposition from, you must couple it with to, not dash. Thus, the correct expression in this instance is: from 10 to 13. Meanwhile, kindly note that it is an extremely strange usage for anything to commence from 10 to 13 August. Can an event continue to commence every day from 10 to 13 August? No. it will commence only on the first day and end on the last day. The meaningful thing to say is that the event will take place from 10 to 13 August or that it will take place on 10 – 13 August.”