The Kano Command of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA)  has nabbed  two suspects in possession of 2.927 kilograms of Cocaine in the state. The NDLEA Commander in Kano, Dr. Ibrahim Abdul who disclosed this while briefing Newsmen on Saturday in Kano said the suspects were arrested in a hotel along Katsina road in the city. He noted that, the arrest was first of its kind in the Kano Command similar to its recent discovery of an Indian Hemp farm in the state for the first time also. He explained that for over a month, the command has been trailing and monitoring the movement of the suspects following an intelligent report by its men. He added that investigation revealed that the suspects were arrested while swallowing the Cocaine to be transported to Sudan en route to Saudi Arabia. Abdul said that the arrest was part of the command’s effort towards bringing to the issues of drug abuse and trafficking to end in the state, “An onslaught meted on the hard drug barons resulted in the arrest of two suspects, Abdul Abubakar and Ibrahim Mustapha and also the seizure of 2.927 kilograms of Cocaine for the first time in the command,” he said. Abdul further explained that during the month, the command had arrested 4 suspects in possession of a pistol along Kano-Gwarzo road on their way to Funtua in Katsina State. NDLEA commander said that during the month in review, NDLEA had dislodged 50 hotspots within and outside the metropolis, adding that such success was recorded due to the command’s tireless efforts in fight against any form of drug abuse. “Within the month of April, we succeeded in seizing 836.927 kilograms of exhibits which includes 9.927 Cocaine, 250 kilograms of Cannabis Savita, 560 kilograms of Tramadol, and also a foreign drug imported from South Africa called Khat with 24 kilograms quantity”, he said. Abdul explained that the command had also couseled and rehabilitated 10 regular clients while 50 drug users were refered for brief intervention. According to him, the command had secured the conviction of five drug peddlers while 92 cases were still pending. Abdul also disclosed that recently four Airport officials were arrested  conniving with the peddlers to put exhibits in passengers luggage while traveling to Saudi Arabia. Responding to newsmen, the suspected Cocaine pushers admitted their offence, adding that it was their first time of involving in such criminal act.