Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday said the Nigerian Military has the capability and wherewithal to overcome the current security challenges across the country, asserting that they have in recent times been very busy doing a good job of confronting the security challenges. He also said the Present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari decided to reposition the armed forces to cope with the challenges of security threats by modernising, re-equipping and retraining military personnel. The Vice President made the remarks at the Eagle Square, Abuja, on the occasion of the Nigerian Air Force Research and Development Competition and Exhibition which was part of activities outlined to commemorate the 55th anniversary of the Nigerian Air Force, NAF. Vice President Osinbajo lauded the NAF for partnering with other reputable institutions across the country to make huge investments in Research and Development, noting that with time the Air Force would establish its footprints on global stage. The Vice President who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha said: “The Nigerian Armed forces have in recent times been very busy doing a good job of confronting our Nation’s current multifaceted internal security challenges. In a bid to reposition the Armed Forces to better cope with those challenges, our administration has made the modernization, re-equipping and continuous training of the Nigerian Armed Forces a top priority. “There is no doubt that the resources required to realize the full potentials of the Armed Forces are limited in view of the competing demands from other sectors. Nevertheless, the Federal Government of Nigeria will continue to do its best to sustain the current tempo of development. “It has become more important than ever before that we really look inwards and gradually wean ourselves of overdependence on foreign technology and become more innovative in the use of local resources. “It is in view of the foregoing that I want to specially commend the Nigerian Air Force for the efforts being made at harnessing the available research and development potentials, especially in the military aviation sector”. The Vice President therefore called on all stakeholders to embark on fruitful collaborations and joint partnerships to fund more research and development activities in the country. In his address, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar said the NAF priortised Research and Development activities with home grown technology as the basis to actualise his vision for effective and truly professional Air Force. He said: “Globally, it is acknowledged that Research and Development has proven to be the catalyst for technological and industrial advancement. There is also a consensus among scholars that national development can best be enhanced through indigenous research and development efforts. “Recognising these facts and realising that the effectiveness and sustainability of the Nigerian Air Force, in the long term, would be largely influenced by the growth of home-based technology, the Service has placed emphasis on Research and Development as a means of building indigenous technological capacity. “It is gratifying to note that our strategy fits into the focus of the Federal Government which places emphasis in promoting local content, home-grown technology and innovation as principal means of improving the Nation’s foreign exchange earnings”.