The gory tale of how Ogah Jumbo, an Assistant Superintendent of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), was allegedly murdered by two policemen is chilling. Ada, the wife of the deceased, said the husband was beaten and dragged on the ground for alleged traffic offence, and he died from the injuries. In her words: “They (traffic wardens) dragged my husband on the ground to their station. If you see his body in the mortuary, you will notice that his fingernails were chopped off and he bled to death.” We condemn the bestiality of the police officers and demand for justice for the deceased. If the incident as reported is correct, then the police officers might as well be psychopaths, instead of law enforcement agents. While disobedience of traffic regulation is condemnable, the punishment can never be wilful murder by those entrusted with keeping public order. As the enforcer of civic discipline, a police officer should be the epitome of discipline and decorum. But what do we get from the police? According to the 2016 World Internal Security and Police Index, a global rating coordinated by International Police Science Association and the Institute for Economics and Peace, the Nigerian Police is rated worst globally. Even by what amounts to internal public rating, an arm of the police, the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, became so notorious that many Nigerians marched on the streets last year asking that it should be scrapped. On a regular basis, the Nigerian police exhibit terrible tendencies. Either they are mounting illegal checkpoints or they are engaged in unlawful duties. Most police stations are like market places (apology to Fela) where the officials trade in liberty of citizens. On the highway, rogue policemen mount illegal checkpoints extorting money from motorists. Indeed, specialized police agencies earmarked for serious crimes, turn their station to debt recovery agencies. Driven by personal gains they torture parties to enter into undertakings. The attack on Mr Jumbo is even more appalling considering that he is part of the national security apparatus. While his colleagues in NSCDC have also occasionally misbehaved in dealing with the public, the fact that he is a security personnel should have availed him some better treatment. The tragedy that befell Mr Jumbo should be a pointer to security personnel that the resort to molestation of civilians is bad. Security uniforms must never be a licence to abuse privileges. For the police service commission and the Inspector General of Police, there is urgency for training and retraining of service personnel. They must ingrain in their members the need to respect basic human rights, as operational standard. No personnel who engages in any form of abuse should be allowed a minute more in the organisation. What we say of the police is also applicable to other law enforcement agencies in the country. Many of them misbehave once they are in uniform and bearing arms. We note that the police have already interdicted the officers. They should face disciplinary action, if applicable orderly room trial for their reprehensible conduct. After the administrative process, the duo should be tried for homicide. The police must not do anything to cover up the alleged crime, and the NSCDC should diligently pursue the matter. While the incident should not lead to a brawl between the service personnel of the sister organisations, there should be no compromise in seeking justice for Mr Jumbo. Perhaps it is time for the federal government to establish an interagency organ to deal with relationships between security agencies of government. Such an agency could operate from the office of the Ministry of Defence.