•Can Airtel change the game by beating competition to the Nigerian bourse? For nearly five years, Nigeria’s leading telecommunications giant, MTN Nigeria has been pledging to list its shares on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Upon being fined a whopping N1.04 trillion in 2015, for the serious misdemeanor of failing to disconnect over five million unregistered subscribers, the leading telco eventually got away paying about one third of the fine amounting to N330 billion. Among the conditions, for that lenient settlement, was that MTN would take immediate steps towards listing its shares on the Nigerian bourse. Till date, MTN never did. But while it has continued to shift the goal posts on the matter, competition may have plotted an ambush.  Last week, a national newspaper reported that the second largest telco in Nigeria, Airtel, may have opened high-level discussions with a view to listing on the NSE soon. According to the report, the discussion which took place at the corporate headquarters of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) was indeed a high-powered one, going by the roll call of attendees. Leading the convergence of stakeholders was the head of the powerful telecoms regulatory body, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbata. Others on the line-up were Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema; Managing director, CEO of Bharti Airtel Africa, Raghunath Mandava and also the Managing Director, Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Segun Ogunsanya. Represented were officials of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Stanbic IBTC Holdings Limited, a notable issuing house and underwriter. A meeting like this would only point to one direction, the market. Could it be that Airtel seeks to steal the thunder from the much dilly-dallying MTN? The South African giant which opened shop in Nigeria nearly two decades ago had promised to list in 2017 but reneged, shifting to 2018, yet repudiated its own vow to Nigerian government and people. Let it be stated that MTN or any other multinational is not under any obligation to take its business to the capital market for public subscription. But there are compelling grounds for MTN to beat the path to Nigeria’s stock market. First, the Nigerian arm of the telco has grown bigger than even its mother company in South Africa. In nearly two decades, it has been a veritable cash machine that has helped to immensely boost the company’s businesses across Africa and beyond. Consider the numbers: there are about 55 million MTNsubscribers in Nigeria as against 30 million in South Africa. The nearest subscriber volume to Nigeria is Iran, which has 49 million but the company is 51% government-controlled; and operates under the cumbersome brand of MTNIrancell. Yet MTN was long quoted in the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. It is even already quoted in the Ghana Stock Exchange, where it began operation only in 2015. It may, therefore, not be far-fetched to consider that MTN, in avoiding the Nigerian bourse, acts in irritating bad faith. And to think that listing on an exchange is so mutually beneficial to all parties – both the firm and the host economy. MTN Nigeria accounts for about 30% of MTN’s global $18 billion net worth. This amounts to about $6 billion. Fifty percent of this unleashed on the Nigerian bourse would give both parties immense fillip. While MTN’s initial public offering in Ghana last year was under-subscribed, Nigeria’s economy has ample capacity to absorb this quantum of MTN’s shares. This will amount to huge, cheap fund for MTN Nigeria to improve service quality beyond the reach of competition and pursue aggressive expansion into 4G and broadband networks. But most important, enlisting on the Nigerian market would amount to something that may be termed a ‘legacy’ move. This is probably Airtel’s gambit. Most of the major telcos have recouped their initial investments many fold. To grant Nigerians their scrip now would amount to rewarding about two decades of loyalty. Whoever gets to the Nigerian market first would instantly win the heart of about 100 million Nigerian subscribers who would be over-joyed to hold such blue chip shares. We therefore wager that whichever telco hits the NSE first is bound to be No. 1 in this huge, lucrative and rapidly growing market.