The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) has convicted another Medical Doctor, Nasiru Ibrahim for professional negligence. Ibrahim, who was facing a four count charge at the MDCN Tribunal, was sentenced to three months suspension from medical practice. He was sentenced three months each for count one and two. The sentence, according to the Charmaine of the Tribunal, Prof. Abba Hassan runs concurrently. He conviction is coming barely 24 hours after one  Kebbi sate based practicing Medical Doctor, Jamilu Muhammad was convicted for erroneously diagnosing a baby in the womb was dead and he need to carry out a surgery to evacuate the dead baby only to realise that the baby was alive after amputating the baby’s upper limb. The counts against him reads: COUNT ONE: ‘’That you Dr. Umor Nasiru Ibrahim, registered medical practitioner, practicing as such on 3st January, 2015 or thereabouts at Al-Noor Clinic and Maternity, Angwon Rogo, Jos, Plateau State, while managing one Hassana Salihu ( F ), now deceased, as a pregnant woman under your care, were grossly negligent in her management when you failed to promptly attend to her and ensure that she was transfused with blood, as appropriate for the management of her condition, thereby, conducted yourself infamously in a professional respect contrary to Rules 29.4a, 29.4h,and 31 of the Code of Medical Ethics in Nigeria,2008 Edition, and punishable under Section 16 ( 1) (a) and (2) of the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Act, CAP M8 LFN, 2004 (as amended)”. COUNT TWO: That you Dr. Umar Nasiru Ibrahim, registered medical practitioner, practicing as such on 31st January, 2015 or thereabouts at AI-Noor Clinic and Maternity, Angwan Rogo, Jos, Plateau State, while managing one Hassana Salihu (F), now deceased, as a pregnant woman under your core, conducted yourself infamously in a professional respect when you knowingly enabled untrained an unregistered persons to attend to her contrary to Rules 39.2a of the Code of Medical Ethics in Nigeria,2008 Edition, and punishable under Section 16 ( 1) (a) and (2) of the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Act, CAP M8 LFN, 2004 (as amended). COUNT THREE: That you Dr. Umar Nasiru Ibrahim, registered medical practitioner, practicing as such on 31st January, 2015 or thereabouts at AI-Noor Clinic and Maternity, Angwon Rogo, Jos, Plateau State, and while in full time employment in the Public Service, as the Medical Director, at the National Obstetric Fistula Centre, Ningi, Bouchi State, provided in-hospitol care to one Hassana Salihu (F), now deceased, as a pregnant woman under your care, in your private hospital, thereby, conducted yourself infamousty in a professional respect contrary to Rules 49.1c of the Code of Medical Ethics in Nigeria,2008 Edition, and . punishable under Section 16 (1) (a) and (2) of the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Act, CAP M8 LFN, 2004 {as amended). COUNT FOUR: That you Dr. Umar Nasiru Ibrahim, registered medical practitioner, practicing as such on 31st January, 2015 or thereabouts at Al-Noor Clinic and Maternity, Angwon Rogo, Jos, Plateau State, while attending to one Hassana Salihu (F), now deceased, practiced and held yourself out as a specialist obstetrician and gynecologist without having registered an additional qualification in obstetrics and gynaecology with the Medical and Dental Council/ of Nigeria, thereby conducting yourself infamously in a professional respect contrary to Rules 15 and 27 of the Code of Medical Ethics in Nigeria 2008 Edition.’’ After a painstaking deliberation on the affidavits and facts and documents, the panel reached the conclusion that a prima facie case had been established against the respondent. Reading the judgment, Prof. Hassan said “From The affidavits, oral evidence adduced, the documents tendered and admitted in evidence, This Honourable Tribunal finds as follows: That the Respondent failed to attend promple To the deceased who required urgent medical attention. “That the Respondent failed to do anything which ought reasonably to have been done under the prevailing circumstance for the good of the deceased “That the Respondent knowingly enabled an untrained, inexperienced person To attend to the deceased who was in child birth “That as a consuItant, the respondent offered in-hospitaI care to the deceased in his private clinic while in full time employment in the public service. On the basis of the above findings, the Chairman said: “The Tribunal holds that the aiiegations made against the Respondent have been proved as required by law. “The Prosecution has been able to show that the Respondent’s conduct in his professional capacity constitutes infamous behaviour, professional negligence, and unethical conduct which resulted in the death of the deceased. Pursuant to Rule 31 of The Code of Medical EThics in Nigeria, 2008 Edition, The Honourable Tribunal hereby finds the Respondent (Dr Umar Nasiru Ibrahim) guilty of gross professional negligence in all the three counts.” 