Organised Labour made up of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has asked employers of labour in the country, especially states and federal government to immediately commence the implementation off the N30, 000 minimum wage following the signing into law of the minimum wage bill by the President. In separate statements made available to The Nation, the NLC and TUC commended the President for signing into law the new national minimum wage bill of N30,. General Secretary of the NLC, Dr. Peter Ozo-Eson said in a statement made available to newsmen that signing the bill into law was only the first step and call for the immediate implementation of the law, given the fact that this process has dragged on for nearly two years. He urged employers, particularly federal and state governments, to commence immediate negotiations with the appropriate unions on the impact of the new law on the wage structure with a view to timely and judicious implementation. Also, the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) said it was gladdening that the bill passed by both chambers of the National Assembly before the general election has been signed by the President In a statement signed by the President, Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama and Secretary General, Comrade Musa-Lawal Ozigi, the TUC said the new wage would in no small measure give workers a sense of belonging. The TUC said while organised labour appreciates the approval of the new wage, it is also instructive to note that its gains have been eroded by inflation, adding that prices of commodities have gone up even when employers have not commenced payment. The statement said “the N30, 000 monthly National Minimum Wage that we are even asking for to a family of six actually amounts to less than N50 per meal per person. It is exclusive of utility bills, school fees, etc. “Given our extended family system as Africans we are also expected to once in a while extend hands of fellowship to parents, in-laws, relations, friends who have lost their jobs, brothers and people of the same faith. “We recall that some lawmakers promised to give the wage bill supersonic attention whenever it was brought before them and they have kept to their word. To us it means we still have men and women with milk of kindness left in them.” The TUC asked the President, the National Assembly and well-meaning Nigerians to prevail on governors to pay workers their salaries and pension to pensioners as and when due to avoid crisis in the industrial sector. 