A monarch in Ondo State, the Ahaba of Ajagba in Irele local government area of Ondo State, Oba Thomas Adesayo, has reacted to controversies on accounts of history that bedevil many communities. He said only traditional rulers can give valid history of their communities. The monarch was reacting to the numerous conflicting stories that trail the sources of many Yoruba kingdoms, especially the Ikale people, who occupied the South Senatorial District of Ondo State. Oba Adesayo while launching his book at the weekend titled: “The history of Ajagba Kingdom (Ahaba Dynasty)” to commemorate his 20th anniversary on the throne said the book was a child of necessity that made it imperative for him, despite his busy schedule, to correct some errors about Ajagba Kingdom in Irele Local Government Area and the entire Ikale nation. He lamented that many historians in the past had distorted the original history of the kingdom, noting that the 14 chapters’ and 56-page book was written to tell the real story of his community. According to him, “The history of Ajagba Kingdom has been seriously distorted by some writers and even some motivational speakers, notably within the context of Ikaleland. There have been some publications, which have threatened to distort the organic history of the people of many origins. “This book is therefore intended to straighten some records, in this regard. It will seek to serve as a profound treatise on the people that occupy a landscape called Ajagba. “I am persuaded that the correct history of a place will be a source of inspiration to the people and indeed future leaders of the area. They will know the reasons some things are done in some peculiar ways.” Oba Adesayo emphasised that Ajagba is the first settlement of all the communities that make up the Ikale nation, saying “the kingdom is the first in Ikale nation and so the monarch was the first kingdom founded in the 14th century while others were founded in the 15th and 16 centuries respectively.” The book reviewer, the Vice Chancellor of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA), Prof. Igbekele Ajibefun, had praised the monarch for putting the history of his people in writing. Ajibefun, who was represented by Prof. Victor Olumekun, said the written form would prevent the problems of communication gap peculiar to oral history that has distorted several historical facts in many kingdoms. The chairman of the occasion, the former Vice Chancellor of University of Lagos, Akoka (UNILAG), Prof. Tolu Odugbemi, and the chief launcher and vice chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP, South West), Chief Eddy Olafeso, lauded the monarch for the initiative. 