DESPITE the fairly strong showing of the opposition at the last polls, former president Olusegun Obasanjo remains sceptical about the cohesiveness and resoluteness of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to win subsequent polls, particularly the presidential election. If the opposition is to dominate the next election cycle, he suggests in a speech last Sunday, they will have to embark on internal reforms and purges. Arguing that he knew they would lose the 2015 presidential poll, but reluctant to say whether he sensed the disconcerting outcome of February’s presidential election, the former president advocates for radical changes in the opposition if they are to make a huge impression next time. Chief Obasanjo may be right about the PDP’s dire situation, particularly their indolence in facing up to the rigours of the last election, but it is doubtful whether even he understands the many-sidedness of the problems the party is contending with and why they lost the last poll by such a significant, though not destructive or irrecoverable, margin. If the former president’s self-righteousness is deemphasised or ignored, it should not be too difficult to accept his diagnosis of the ailment that continues to afflict the PDP and has now twice barred the opposition party from regaining Aso Villa. “I am not a perfect person. I have my shortcomings,” said the former president with disguised self-satisfaction. “If I deny my shortcomings, it means I am not being truthful to myself.” In the very next sentence, however, Chief Obasanjo betrays his true feelings: “…My shortcomings have nothing to do with my love for Nigeria. It has nothing to do with being greedy or selfishness.” Really? Is he so optimistic as to think his shortcomings do not either indicate or betray his contempt for Nigeria? And does his conscience not smite him over what many analysts think are his principle vices of greed and selfishness, two powerful shortcomings that in combination indicate a terrible flaw in a man? However, despite his self-confessed limitations, Chief Obasanjo is right to warn the PDP to watch their politics if they are to make significant inroads in 2023. He recommends that the opposition should assemble a critical mass of committed leaders and followers to strengthen the party for the huge task ahead in the next election cycle. It perhaps needs to be restated for the umpteenth time that the main opposition party cannot continue with their conservative approach to the business of politics if they are not to come to grief a third time. Twice they have been put to shame, in 2015 and 2019. A third time would mark them down as both incorrigible and uneducable. The country needs them, despite the excoriating attacks on their integrity masterminded by the ruling party and a sometimes hostile electorate. Yes, the country needs them, but nevertheless in a different shape and course. They must prove capable of the changes both Chief Obasanjo and the country are asking of them. Before the 2019 polls, this column more than three times fiercely admonished the PDP to embark on reform and purges in order to recreate and align themselves to the changing and radical needs of the country, particularly to sate the increasingly fickle and demanding needs of a less discriminating and less inquisitive electorate. Instead, the PDP, obviously unaccustomed to opposition politics and environment, desperately turned to the former Borno State governor Ali Modu Sheriff for succour. Yes, Mr Sheriff was as hard as they come: temperamental but pertinacious, domineering but courageous and combative, and contemptuous of his opponents but rich and accommodating. Such a man, on the surface, seemed very suited to the period needs of a party that had just received a merciless drubbing at the polls. However, the PDP later found out to their eternal regret that despite all of Mr Sheriff’s enticing gifts, nothing in his attitude or disposition makes him amenable to the long term needs of the party or even make him relevant to the development of its fundamental character. And just as the party emerged from a bruising legal and psychological battle with their interim chairman, they launched furiously into a bitter fratricidal nomination war that left them depleted and angry. Having burnt their fingers once while romancing  the obtruding Mr Sheriff, the party was reluctant to sleepwalk its way into the fatal embrace of moneybag governors who had attempted to hijack the party’s body and soul. In the end, they had had to settle for a new defector as their presidential candidate, and needed a coterie of other defectors in order to even be in a position to record some significant milestones in the last elections. They severely left alone the fundamental things that needed to be done, such as purging their ranks of the divisive and tainted characters whom the public regarded as emblematising and stigmatising the party. They also saw nothing wrong in sustaining their amorphous ideological character simply because the ruling Al Progressives Congress (APC) is also ideologically impure and imprecise. The PDP also had the peculiar problem of contending with, and helplessly relying on, many of their controversial leaders without whom, it seemed, they could not hope to survive. The party needed the money and standing and name recognition of those controversial figures. And given the ossification of Nigerian politics, particularly its mercantilist leanings and traditions, the PDP rank and file feared that if they were completely denied the experience and courage of the old brigade, they were courting disaster. It’s a double edged sword. Either they now summon the courage to change direction and embrace new forces and ideas, or they stay in their comfort zone and face the risk of being transfixed to death. Chief Obasanjo has appeared to call them to arms. They will do well to hearken to his voice and consider whether the next few years should not invite them to take the risks they have been wary of contemplating since 2015. Indeed, far more than the former president has sensitised them to the political and existential dangers they face, the PDP faces the equally major and urgent issue of fixing their fixation with the next election cycle, in this case, the 2023 polls. When Chief Obasanjo spoke in the presence of the PDP leaders that visited him last Sunday, he harped on the urgency of fixing the party ahead of the 2023 elections. But are the party’s problems not worth fixing regardless of the next elections and their hypothetical outcomes? As a matter of fact, had the party looked beyond 2019 in their pre-election politics, it is unlikely they would have performed more poorly than they did in February and March. They were desperate in 2015, and so glossed over the deep reforms they should have made in the party. They were equally desperate in 2019, and again glossed over the indispensable and fundamental reforms that should be their political elixir. Ignoring or deemphasising radical changes that would stand them in good stead in the near future in their short-term desperation to regain the presidential villa is counterproductive. Chief Obasanjo may be unqualified to serve as the party’s moralist and lodestar, but his counsel is not altogether worthless. If the PDP is to thrive and retain relevance now and in the future, and especially if they are to make a far more aggressive impact in the coming elections, they must look inwards, reform their methods, refine their philosophical and ideological platforms, purge their ranks of the jaded and mercantilist politicians that degrade their purpose and vision, and rediscover the altruism that ennobles their desire to reshape Nigeria and even Africa. They have shown some hunger for public office; they have however not shown nobility of purpose. They have become desperate to win elections; they must be much more desperate to be ideologically relevant. They have been more clearly conservative than the ruling party is progressive; they should stick to their conservatism and even make it sexy.