Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has reiterated his commitments to fight cultists  and  cult-related activities, killings in parts of the state. Wike spoke when members of the state Traditional Rulers’ Council paid him a congratulatory visit at the Government House in Port Harcourt, the state capital on Monday. He vowed his administration’s readiness to fight the hydra-headed monster to stand-still, appealing for the supports of the natural Rulers. Wike said: “We will not allow these cultists who want to paint the state black continue to cause mayhem. “We will take the fight to them. Enough is enough.  These people cannot continue  to kill our people “. He disclosed that he has already met with the State Security Council on the matter;  and modalities have been worked out on how to rid the state of cult-related killings. He urged the Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers to support the State Government in the fight against cultism, saying that prompt information will be useful in tracking down the criminal elements. Governor Wike stated that he will jealously guard the interest of Rivers State and ensure further development of the State. “I am a total unrepentant Rivers Man. I will continue to jealously guard the interest of the state”, he said. Governor Wike thanked the Traditional Rulers for the solidarity visit,  but regretted that some of them were involved in party politics,  despite  his advice that they should stay off the political terrain. Earlier, the Chairman of the Council who is also the Amayanabo of Opobo, in Opobo/Nkoro Local Government Area of the state, HRM.  King Douglas Dandeson Jaja said they were in the Government House to congratulate Governor Wike for a well deserved victory. He thanked Wike for extending the olive branch of peace to his opponents and urged the opponents to accept the governor’s offer. He lauded Rivers women for the wonderful role they played to defend votes across  the state, especially  standing firm to resist  the invasion  of Collation Centres by the Nigerian Army . In his royal blessings, King Jaja prayed God  to always grant Governor Wike the capacity  to lead the state in the right direction.