The kidnappers of the Lagos State Fire Service Acting Director Rasaki Musibau have demanded N3 million from his family, The Nation learnt on Tuesday. Musibau and six others were abducted at Iwoye along the Epe-Itoikin road, Ikorodu, last Saturday. The incident, it was gathered, occurred while the Fire Service chief and others were going to Epe. The kidnappers blocked the Itoikin bridge, ambushed occupants of a Sienna, Corolla and a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) and took them away. The Nation learnt that the abductors are also demanding N500,000 from the families of six other abductees. Some neighbours told The Nation that the Fire Service chief’s family are planning to raise the money. According to them, the response of the government has not been encouraging. Musibau, who they said, is the chairman of the Landlord Association in the area, is due for retirement in two months. A neighbour, who simply gave his name as Segun, said he heard from some leaders of the community that the kidnappers are demanding N3 million ransom. He said the community may assist the family to raise the money if the government is not proactive. “We are yet to see delegation from the office of the Commissioner for Special Duties, Mr Seye Oladejo. Although, it was learnt that the commissioner is not in the country, that does not stop the permanent secretary or any other top official from the ministry from visiting the family. We only saw the vehicle of the Fire Service the following day the incident occurred,” Segun said. Corroborating Segun’s statement, another neighbour, Wale, said the commissioner for Special Duties ought to have returned to the country immediately the incident occurred. “This is the normal practice across the world. Somebody in that calibre was kidnapped and the whole place is quiet as if it’s nothing big. I expect the  government delegation to have visited the family and neighbours. Mr Musibau is a community leader in this area,” he said. According to him, the kidnappers are asking the families of other people abducted to pay N500,000 each. “I am not surprised they are demanding such amount. They have been in this business for a long time without security officers stopping their unlawful activity. Many families who have been victims don’t inform the police because they are afraid that the kidnappers may kill their loved ones. It is because of the personality of the fire fighters’ boss that led to police intervention,” Wale said. Lagos State Government has urged Lagosians not to despair over the abduction of Musibau. It said all hands are on deck to ensure he and others return safely. Briefing reporters yesterday after the Security Council meeting chaired by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu confirmed Musibau’s abduction with others, but said security agencies were working to rescue them. Muazu, alongside heads of other security formations, expressed optimism of positive result, but declined to give details on the move to rescue the victims. “I confirm that there was kidnapping involving the director of Fire Service. Security agencies are working towards the safe release of the victims. We are working to ensure their safe return,” the CP said. On the fears being expressed over likely return of the spate of kidnapping, Muazu said security agencies were working to stop it, noting that there was nothing to worry about. “This present case does not mean kidnapping has returned to Lagos. I see this as a very unfortunate incident and I assure Lagosians that security agencies are putting their heads together to ensure we stop this menace,” he said. Muazu said the council reviewed the security situation since the last meeting was held, adding that the government, in partnership with security agencies, was working to ensure smooth transition of government to the incoming administration of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dr. Obafemi Hamzat. 