Not less than 20 persons have been reported killed in a fresh attack by unknown gunmen in Angwan Aku village, Kajuru Local government area of Kaduna state. A source who resides in the community, took place at about 7:00 am on Monday when the attackers allegedly dressed in military uniform and armed with AK47 rifles, machetes and sticks stormed the village shooting sporadically. The Nation learnt that, several others sustained various degrees of injuries from gunshots. According to the source, “The attackers stormed the village and started shooting indiscriminately. We all started running to the bush. As we were running, they were also pursuing us as we ran to the bush, some people were killed in the bush. ”Some of them were wearing military uniforms with bulletproof vests and they were speaking in Fulani language. I saw them from where I was hiding” he said. The source further alleged that, the police arrived the village in eight Hilux vans, but could not go into the bushes to pursue the bandits. “The police came in eight Hilux vehicles, but instead of pursuing the bandits who ran to the bushes, they just turned back”. He alleged. According to him, there had been speculations about an impending attack since last week, which the state government was aware of. “We had thought that the government would have taken the speculations seriously and be proactive, but they didn’t take it seriously and this had led to the killing of more of our people. It is rather very unfortunate”. He said. A former President of the Adara Development Association (ADA), Danladi Yarima, confirmed the killings in a telephone interview, describing it as unfortunate. He condemned the killings and accused the state government of bias in handling the crisis. The incessant killings in Kajuru communities started in February 10, 2019 when Fulani herdsmen allegedly attacked Anguwan Barde, an Adara community in the night and killed eleven people. The Adara were alleged to have embarked on reprisal attacks, killing many Fulani. Yarima, a lawyer, had in a recent statement said about 4,000 people have been rendered homeless following the destruction of their homes by bandits. However, efforts to get the reaction of Yakubu Sabo, spokesman of the Kaduna state police command was unsuccessful as his telephone was not connecting and he did not reply to a message sent to him on the Police/Media WhatsApp platform.