The Association of African Maritime Administration (AAMA) is commited to building a competitive maritime sector on the continent through continuous engagements and ideas sharing, its Chairman, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has said. Peterside, who spoke during the third session of the Executive Council (EXCO) of the association at the Farah Hotel in Casablanca, Morocco, said there was the need for concerted efforts by the various maritime administrations in Africa to compete favourably with their counterparts on other continents. Its Chairman, who is also Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Director-General, noted that the choice of the various countries in the EXCO was to ensure geographical spread, thereby making sure every region is well represented. A statement by NIMASA’s Head of Corporate Communication, Isichei Osamgbi, expressed Peterside’s optimism in building a viable African maritime industry that will compete with other continents. Peterside in the statement said: “I beckon on you all to note that our primary aim of coming here is to continue to uphold the tenets of the African Maritime Transport Charter (AMTC) to improve, among others, the capacity, capability and performance of Africa’s maritime administrations and the maritime/shipping sector with great emphasis on human resources development, technology and information sharing.” He enjoined participants to make valuable contributions to the course of promoting the African maritime administration as this will help to achieve set goals for the body in Africa. “Let me assure you that we will not relent in our efforts to build competitive and vibrant maritime and shipping sector and to give Africa a voice among the comity of maritime nations as Africa is our hope for sustainable growth,” he said. Peterside also expressed delight and optimism that the meeting will yield results and proffer way forward to actualising AMTC. The AAMA Executive Council is made up of representatives of Central Africa (Cameroun, Cape Verde), West Africa (Cote D’Ivoire and Ghana), East Africa (Tanzania and Comoros), Southern Africa (Mozambique and South Africa), North Africa (Egypt and Sudan) and Uganda, representing land-locked countries. The meeting had in attendance executive council members from Cape Verde, Ghana, Tanzania, Comoros, Mozambique, South Africa, Egypt, Sudan, Uganda and Nigeria. It would be recalled that in 2017, Peterside was elected AAMA Chairman during the 3rd conference of the body in Nigeria. In 2018, he was elected to continue his tenure as Chairman during the 4th AAMA Conference in Egypt because of the visibility his leadership has given AAMA globally. The 3rd Session of EXCO will focus on several issues that will continue to drive AAMA’s vision, ambition and strategy for the sustainable development of Africa’s Maritime Domain.