The initial public offering (IPO) of Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc was undersubscribed by 35.35 per cent as the company was only able to raise N1.22 billion out of IPO value of N1.89 billion. Official final allotment report for the IPO showed that a total of 1,212 applications were received for 262.52 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at N4.65 per share, totaling N1.22 billion. SAHCO had floated an IPO of 406.074 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at N4.65 per share. The IPO was an offer for sale, implying that the net proceeds of the IPO would go to the existing majority core investor in SAHCO, which was divesting partially to allow retail minority ownerships. Ten per cent of the shares offered for sale were earmarked for staff of SAHCO under an Employee Stock Ownership Plan to be set up and administered by a Trustee. The IPO, which opened on November 5, 2018 and was scheduled to close on December 19, 2018, was extended for 12 working days to January 09, 2019 as concerns over valuation and slowdown in the equities market appeared to weaken demand for the shares of the ground handling company. SAHCO was privatised by the Federal Government in 2009. Sifax Group acquired the entire share capital of the company. The Share Sale Purchase Agreement (SSPA) however mandates the majority core investor to divest 49 per cent of the shares of the company to the general Nigerian investing public. The board of the company had stated that SAHCO planned to ride on the back of the success of its IPO to further push its vision of becoming the leading provider of aviation handling services in the West African region. Chairman, Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc, Barrister Taiwo Afolabi, said the said the IPO opened up opportunities for Nigerians across the federation to be part of the privatisation success, noting that SAHCO is the leader in aviation cargo and Nigeria’s only ground handling company with affiliation with maritime cargo. He outlined that the company’s future strategy is to create long term shareholder value through the profitable operation and expansion of its business into other West African markets with a vision to become the leading provider of passenger, ramp and cargo handling services in the West African region. “In order to achieve this objective, SAHCO seeks to pursue growth and opportunities consistent with its business operations by focusing on operational excellence and efficiency, enhanced service delivery, strategic partnerships and alliances that would enhance its capability both in the domestic market and globally as well as strategic investments among others,” Afolabi said. 