The National Union of Lagos State  Students (NULASS) in tertiary institutions has appealed to the government to pay the outstanding 2017/2018 bursary and scholarship of its members. This is contained in the students’ petition to the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Kazeem Adeniji, obtained at the weekend in Lagos by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). It was signed by Miss Busola Okoya of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso; Qudus Olaguro, Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education; Bolaji Ojoare, Lagos State University; Ogunowo Olusola, University of Lagos; Waliu Adeyeri, University of Ilorin; Abdulaziz Adeduntan, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria; Oladele Moses, The Polytechnic, Ibadan and Suliat Olatunji, Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH). The students said of 10,585 beneficiaries, only 2,106 had received their payments from the 21 per cent of total fund released by the government. They also claimed that for subsequent payment to the beneficiaries, only students from Epe Division had been paid. The students said the selective payment appeared inequitable and grossly unjust to other divisions of the state. “On behalf of the entire students of Lagos State origin in all tertiary institutions across the nation, we write to thank the government for the release of part of the bursary and scholarship funds. “We are, therefore, appealing to you, to use your good office to prevail on His Excellency, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, for the release of our outstanding bursary and scholarship funds. “The scholarship board has begun the sale of forms for new applicants. “This presupposes that if this administration declines to offset the outstanding, it can become a backlog that will affect 2018/2019 payment. “We have greatly suffered because of this non-payment. A lot of our members are indebted one way or the other to book sellers and food vendors in and around their campuses. “Some rely on these funds for their sustenance in school,” they said. Contacted, the Executive Secretary, Lagos State Scholarship Board, Iyana-Ipaja, Mr. Steve Oshinowo, said efforts were on to secure the release of funds for 2017/2018 bursary and scholarship. NAN reports that beneficiaries include 1,394 local scholarship, 9,188 bursary and three foreign scholarship.