Billionaire business mogul and President of Dangote Group of Industries, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, is to be conferred with Honorary Doctor of Letters during the convocation of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Kaduna State, next Saturday. Also, 81 students are to bag First Class when 15,289 students line up for the ceremony. One-time President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Hassan Adebayo Sunmonu, is also to be conferred with Honorary Doctor of Science at the event. President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to honour the event. A statement yesterday by the university’s Registrar, Abdullahi Ahmed Kundila, said the convocation lecture, titled: It’s All About the Human Capital …Stupid, will be delivered on Friday by the Founder/Chairman of Africa Initiative for Governance (AIG) and former President of the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede. He said: “There are 15,289 graduands for the convocation. The number is made up of 10,803 first degrees and 4,486 postgraduates. The postgraduates comprise of 304 PhDs, 12 M.Phil, 3,092 Masters, 38 MBA by Distance Learning and 1,020 postgraduate diplomas. “The breakdown of the first degrees is as follows: First Class – 81; Second Class Upper – 2,043; Second Class Lower – 6,885; Third Class Honours – 1,502; Pass – 114 and Unclassified degree – 178. “Also, there are 15 best graduating students for the 2017/2018 across all faculties of the university. They will receive different prizes at the event from the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Ibrahim Garba. “As for the honorary degrees, the university will equally confer a Doctor of Letters on Alhaji Aliko Dangote, and a Doctor of Science on Comrade Hassan Sunmonu. “The two honorary degrees recipients will be honoured for their immense contributions to the economic development of Nigeria and humanity. “Activities lined up for the convocation include inauguration of a number of projects in the university by the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, on April 26. The projects are as follows: twin deanery building for Faculties of Life and Physical Sciences, Geology Department’s extension, ABU Business School extension, ABU Site II entrance gate, Area G internal road and Biochemistry Department’s extension. “Still on Friday, there will be a convocation lecture at 3 p.m at the university’s Assembly Hall. It is to be chaired by the Executive Secretary of National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof Abubakar Adamu Rasheed. “On April 25, Prof Rasheed will witness the showcasing of some ABU Centres of Excellence and inaugurate projects all at the famous Kashim Ibrahim Library (KIL). This will be after the Vice Chancellor unveils the new signage of ABU gates at ABU main entrance and the North gate. “The convocation will be rounded off with the inauguration of 10 blocks consisting of 360 rooms built at ABU Site II and donated to ABU by Alhaji Dangote to alleviate the acute shortage of student accommodation in the university. The students hostel blocks named after the donor (Aliko Dangote Hall) is to be inaugurated by Alhaji Dangote himself. “Another three blocks of hostels also constructed in Site II by the university under the NEEDS Assessment Intervention project 2013 will be inaugurated by the Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris. These hostels are named after the Emir in appreciation of the dogged fatherly role he always plays in the affairs of the university since his ascension to the throne 40 years ago. “Prof Garba is, therefore, inviting all 2017/2018 graduands, their parents and guardians as well as the public to this great event. “The Visitor to the university, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, will be the special guest of honour while Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufa’I will be the chief host. “The Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris, is to be the Royal Father of the Day while Prof Garba will be the host,” Kundila said.