he National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has received a grant from the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) to staff capacity, The Nation has learnt. The Commission’s Head of Public Affairs, Fatima Sanda Usara confirmed this development in a press statement issued at the weekend. According to her, the grant, which comes in form of sponsorship of staff for capacity building/training is designed to facilitate sharing of knowledge and expertise between staff of the Commission and relevant institutions. This is in line with the bank’s policy of developing institutions for maximum productivity and infrastructural development. NAHCON, she stressed, will enjoy provision of office equipment as part of the IDB’s development financing projects. In a statement signed on behalf of NAHCON’s Chairman, she said, “The Commission most sincerely thanks His Excellency, Dr. Mansur Muhtar, Vice President, Sectorial Operation of IsDB Headquarters in Jedda for the role he played in the actualisation of these schemes. The NAHCON Chairman equally expresses appreciation to Mr Mayoro Niang, Manager-Regional Hub of Abuja; Hon. Mohammed Gambo Shuaibu, IDB Executive Director Abuja; and Dr. Mahmud Kamar, Country Manager; who painstakingly coordinated and facilitated discussions that led to the timely realisation of this sponsorship scheme. “The Commission is confident that the equipment to be supplied and staff training will considerably enhance the progress of Hajj management in the country.” Meanwhile, NAHCON hosted Chief Executives of Umrah and Hajj licensed Tour Operators to an operational meeting recently. The NAHCON Chairman/Chief Executive, Barrister Abdullahi Mukhar Muhammad disclosed that the event was organised in preparation for 2019 Hajj operations, to offer an opportunity for the Commission and Licensed Tour Operators’ (LTO) to brainstorm on crucial matters necessary for the success of the 2019 exercise. The Chairman was particular on the manner some of the LTOs discharge their responsibility to their clients, which leaves much to be desired. Towards this end, he reiterated the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s readiness to support LTOs who are genuinely prepared to do business in the best interest of their customers and for the image of Nigeria in particular. The Chairman assured the gathering that government is willing to help strengthen those ventures pursuing their responsibilities with sincerity. Commissioner Operations of NAHCON, Alhaji Modibbo Saleh, after welcoming the participants, also restated the importance of LTOs to render quality service to their customers. He urged them to design best ways to settle their obligation to their customers because the Commission is ever ready to listen to both sides in times of contractual disputes and to do justice as an arbitrator. However, he said this could only be made possible where the LTOs spell out their services clearly and get the customer to sign an agreement to that effect. He also called upon them to comply with rules and regulations of Saudi Arabia in order to bring sanity to Hajj operation both from within and outside the country. 