The All Farmers’ Association of Nigeria (AFAN) has appealed to the Federal Government to re-introduce the Gross Enhancement Scheme (GES), saying it will not only benefit peasant farmers, but also boost agricultural productivity. Making this appeal in Zaria, Kaduna State, during the week, the AFAN Chairman in the state, Alhaji Nuhu Aminu, said it became imperative in view of the importance of GES not only to peasant farmers at the grassroots, but to the overall agricultural productivity. He lamented that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) Anchor Borrowers’ Loan Scheme was not yielding the desired benefits because most of the beneficiaries did not use the input-package supplied. Aminu said instead, the beneficiaries disposed such items instantly and collected cash. Apart from this, the input-package, he said, usually arrived very late. According to him, the package was usually supplied in the middle of the rainy season when crops cultivation had already gone far. He noted that the best way to assist peasant farmers is to re-introduce the GES to enable small holder farmers get fertilisers, seeds and chemicals at highly-subsidised rates. “We are not against the Anchor Borrowers’ programme, but the best way to assist Nigerians is through GES where a peasant farmer gets two bags of fertilisers, improved seeds and chemicals at half the market value,” he said. Aminu reminded the authorities that large scale farmers were not the ones feeding Nigerians, but small holder farmers, who farm and sell to feed Nigerians. He, therefore, called on the government to accord special attention to such segment of farmers, noting that large scale farmers sell their produce in bulk to food processing industries. “We are appealing to the President to ensure that he appoints a Minister of Agriculture, who will genuinely take the agricultural sector to next level of development. “There are many problems in the sector and we have actually written to the Vice President explaining some of these issues. “We are insisting that the best way to assist peasant farmers is to supply fertilisers to them through GES,’’ Aminu said. According to him, peasant farmers have no other means of getting the commodity at subsidised rates except through government policies and programmes. He appealed to the Federal Government to consider the possibility of re-introducing the GES programme for the benefit of grassroots farmers and the agricultural sector.