Tyres, including the extra, are very vital to safe driving. Several reports revealed a lot of accidents and fatalities caused by tyre blowout. It is, however, disheartening that a lot of vehicle owners and drivers are not paying the required attention to tyre standards. I would like to explore the essential facts about vehicle tyres in this article. The whole weight of a vehicle rests on the tyres. The tyres facilitates the movement of the vehicle through effective traction on the road. The condition of the vehicle tyres therefore, determines how well they carry the weight of the vehicle. The success and safety of other forms of vehicle maneuverings depend largely on the condition of the tyres. Braking – If the tread of a tyre is worn out, the tyre will have less traction on the road and braking will be impaired. Blow out – A weak tyre can easily burst while in motion. Overused tyres, tyres left for too long on the ground, expired tyres, and substandard tyres will easily burst while moving on the road. Expiration-Tyres are manufactured to last for between four and five years. The manufacturing date of a tyre is a 4 – digit code written as week and year of manufacture. When you add four years to it, the result will give you the expiry date of the tyres. An expired tyre like an expired drug, no matter how new it looks is a safety risk when used on the road. Tyre Inflation – The recommended inflation rate of a tyre is usually written on the door pillar of a car, fuel tank lid or elsewhere in kpa or psi. It is also written on the tyres. In my Corporate Driver Training sessions, I always advise vehicle owners and drivers not to rely on the inflation rate printed on the tyres, but more on those written on the door pillar or other parts of the vehicle. This is because the tyre manufacturer had no idea of the weight of the vehicle to use the tyres. The vehicle manufacturer, who already knew the weight of the vehicle, is in a better position to determine the appropriate tyres to use.  Never depend on the inflation rate recommended by Vulcanisers. Rather, depend mainly on the rate recommended by the vehicle manufacturers. Over – Inflation – When a tyre is over inflated, it wears off faster at the centre of the tyre thereby worsening the traction and fuels tyre blowout. Under-Inflation – When a tyre is under – inflated, it wears off on the sides thereby fuelling the overheating of the tyres and eventual blowout. Cornering – The condition of a tyre greatly determines the safety of a vehicle in negotiating a bend. A weak or under – inflated tyres while cornering may cause tyre burst or roll – over at sharp bends. Wheel balancing and Alignment – should be promptly done as and when necessary as part of the safe tyre management practice. The frequency depends on the condition of the road used. Tyre rotation -,should be carried out at the appropriate intervals depending on the distance covered by the vehicle and level of wears on the tyres. Vulcanising –  Modern technology that does damage the tyres should be preferred to the conventional method of removing and fixing of tyres. Tyre use – Drivers must avoid using the tyres to rub or climb road kerbs to reduce the rate of wear and tear on the tyres. Drivers should occasionally check to pick out broken bottles, iron and stones from the tyres to prevent a quick damage to them. Avoid using expired, worn-out, twisted, over – inflated, under – inflated and inappropriate tyres. The newness of your tyres should not a passport to over – speeding, always remember the condition of the road, weather and manufacturers error which could fuel safety risks on the road. FRSC, VIOs and other Traffic Management Officers should intensify efforts in the monitoring of the Standards of vehicle tyres right at the Motor Parks, Bus stops and on the roads to ensure compliance to vehicle and tyre standards to enhance safety on Nigeria roads.