The Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) has advised the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) clarify discrepancies in the data submitted to it by telcos in the ongoing Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card registration across the country. It also faulted the conversion of what would have been know-your-customer (KYC) data of between 92 and 95 per cent pre-paid telecoms subscribers to a crime-fighting tool when the Nigeria Identity Management Commission (NIMC)  has the mandate to mine such data. Its President, Olushola Teniola, who spoke on the sideline of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the association in Lagos, said the word data ‘scrubbing’ was unknown to telecoms while data management is not telecoms but information technology (IT). According to Teniola, there was no uniform SIM card registration criteria at the beginning. He added that the operators did what they felt was necessary. “If you can recall in 2012, I was in Abuja, we used to queue; I queued, so whatever methodology they used, whether it was thumbprint or you have to bring an ID, or whether, it was different because from one operator to the other, they have different processes, not too far different, but I never questioned whether it was the same process that was done by operator A or operator B. The sense that I got at that time was that the NCC was going to consolidate the information from all the operators. If you can recall, it took up to three attempts to get the exercise right. So, the period they seem they have enough information, to allow the exercise to be deemed okay, no one shouted. It was until the recent incidences of kidnapping and the security angle that they now use the information that have been collated over the period to seek to pinpoint the phone that’s in use that the kidnappers were using for criminal activities and what was registered on the data base,” he said. He expressed shock over the number of SIM data that was said to be invalid by the regulator. “I am shocked why the regulatory body can now make that statement; in fact, they said they didn’t say 95million and people deduced from the figures given but the NCC and if they are 50 per cent wrong, how did they know that it is not valid? What are they using to say it is not valid? Then they said they are scrubbing. I have never heard this term in telecoms and I am getting concerned when we are talking about data base management. Data management is not telecoms, it is IT and that is why I am really concerned about our level of telecoms knowledge in the industry; we cannot belittle the work of experts  in ATCON. The exercise was done because we, ATCON, presented SIM card registration to NCC because other countries were doing it because of identity fraud, and people impersonating others. “The administration wants to use it to address Boko Haram and insecurity, but I have just told you if I have multiple subscriptions, what about the other ways of enforcing the security issue by knowing where (the criminal is) which technology exists. So, I am a bit concerned that we are now basing that insecurity on a data base that wasn’t built for security. It was not built for security. It was NIMC that was built for security and why are we not using that as a reference point which one agency has access to? “So, our answer is that the NCC has to corroborate its findings with NIMC to get veracity and only focus on those areas that have anomalies and not subject consumers to re-registering again because there was no uniform process right from the beginning and as I know today, there isn’t any formal process.”