Total Nigeria has joined forces with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and other stakeholders in the health sector to kick malaria out of the country. The collaborators carried out series of intervention activities in Kutunku, a village on the outskirts of Gwagwalada, a suburb of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, to ensure prevention and elimination of malaria. Total Nigeria, in collaboration with its partners and some residents of the community, carried out environmental sanitation exercise, house-to-house net hanging exercise, diagnosis testing and treatment of malaria and distribution of thousands of Long-Lasting Insecticide-treated Nets (LLIN) to residents. The programme, which was held at the Primary Health Center, Kutunku was part of activities to mark this year’s World Malaria Day observed every April 25 globally. Executive General Manager, Total Nigeria, Mrs. Bunmi Popoola-Mordi, during the sensitisation exercise, said malaria was responsible for 92 percent of death in Sub-Saharan Africa. She said that there was an increase in malaria cases, especially in the Sub-Saharan Africa, describing the situation as “worrisome.” She said: “The Sub-Saharan Africa continues to carry a disproportionately high share of the global malaria burden, making the region home to 90 per cent of malaria cases and 92 per cent of malaria deaths. “That is why Total group in Nigeria is determined to join forces with all stakeholders and other corporate organisations in the push to prevent and eradicate malaria.” According to her, the selection of the community in the FCT was due to the high prevalence of malaria in the area, adding that its ultimate goal is to ensure a malaria-free environment. She noted that since the firm launched its malaria elimination programme, it has supported the efforts of the Federal Government through the donation of 2000 treated mosquito nets, environmental fumigation, clearing of drainages and refuse collection and disposal. She advised residents of the community to take personal hygiene seriously by ensuring that their surrounding are kept clean so they would not have any breeding ground for mosquitoes carrying malaria. Responding, the High Chief of the community, Muhammadu Sani commended Total Nigeria for choosing the community for the intervention programme. Sani assured the firm that he would work with his cabinet members to ensure that environmental sanitation was carried out in the community on a regular basis.