A cross-section of experts has impressed on small businesses the need to get additional skills set in order to be able to achieve their set objective. Firing the first salvo, Nnena Jacob-Ogogo, the Head, Women in Business, First City Monument Bank (FCMB), specifically advised women entrepreneurs to seek for more knowledge, improve their skills and leverage on good networks for them to scale up their businesses. Ogogo spoke at the Financial and Investment Opportunities for Women Conference organised by Women Helping Women Initiatives in Lagos. The event had in attendance women in career and businesses which feature financial literacy, building lasting wealth, securing loans for expansion, investment club membership, access to credit facilities and investment opportunities for women. She said that a lot of women think that taking loan in a commercial bank will not solve their business challenge but leveraging on relevant information and building once capacity and effective collaboration is the best way to go. She noted that starting a business requires careful planning and putting into consideration other factors which include the right business idea, a great team, right mindset, integrity, competence, financial discipline, and consistency. Ogogo added that we are partnering with Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) and women can now access loans at 15% which is much lower than the existing interest loans. She added that 40 women today have access zero interest loans from FCMB today and the next seasons of beneficiaries will be in May as the process has started. Also speaking, the Lead Coach Smart Strewards, Sola Adesakin charged women to developed culture saving and investment because when someone is faithful in little, such a person will be faithful in much Although she asserted that some investments are risky but noted that when a starts-up investors follow due diligent and the right principles, they will get it right. “As a start-up investor, have an investment that falls into security pocket, those investment that are conservative that will guarantee capital and income which is fixed,” she said. In her words, the convener of the conference, Winifred Ayanda said that the programme is aimed at providing innovative and dynamic framework for the development of financial literacy skills, wealth generation, management and investment opportunities.