Ahead of the Champions League semi-final, former Ajax Amsterdam forward, Tijani Babangida talks about his days in Ajax and the chances of the present crop of players in this interview with TAIWO ALIMI. Former Nigeria international Tijani Babangida enjoyed the better of two worlds during his playing career.  He was a member of Nigeria’s glorious football era (in the 1990s) and the Ajax Amsterdam superlative team that conquered Europe and the world around the same decade. Nigeria won the Africa Nations Cup (AFCON) in 1994 after 14 years, qualified for the FIFA World Cup, the first time ever and was ranked No 5 in the world. It has remained the best ever for Super Eagles. In 1996, Nigeria Olympic team, made up of mostly Eagles players, captured the soccer gold and qualified for the consecutive World Cup in 1998. Babangida was part and parcel of it all. Babangida joined Ajax in the summer of 1996 in a long-anticipated €5 Euro million move. He appeared in 29 league games, scoring four goals in his first season with Ajax. He played an important role in Ajax’s European campaign, scoring three goals, including one against Auxerre in the group stages, and the winning goal in the second leg of the UEFA Champions League encounter with Atlético Madrid at the Vicente Calderón Stadium that put Ajax through to the semi-finals of the competition. Babangida had a successful second season with the club as he helped Ajax to another Eredivisie title with a 39-point gap over PSV Eindhoven, while his 13 league goals in 26 games made him the club’s third top scorer, behind Shota Arveladze and Jari Litmanen. Ajax clinched the second title of the season with a 5–0 victory over PSV in the KNVB Cup final, with the Nigerian scoring the first goal. The incumbent president of Nigeria Players Union missed the Dutch team that conquered Europe via the EUFA Champions League in 1995 but was an integral part of the team that got to the semi-final of the continental tournament in 1997. In-fact that was the last time they got that far until now. Twenty-two years later, Ajax has again taken Europe by storm to make the ‘Last Four’ and ‘Baba’ as he is fondly called offered a glimpse into the secrets behind Ajax’s incredible Champions League scorecard and explained factors that makes the team tick. Taking to his LinkedIn handle, the speedy winger posted a picture of the 1997 and 2019 sets side by side with the inscription. ’22 years ago Ajax played in the semi finals of the champions’ league…most of these current players was yet to be born.’ Babangida thereafter spoke exclusively with The Nation where he goes  back memory lane about the Ajax tradition and style and leapfrogged into the present on the potentials of the new look Ajax team. He believed strongly that this team can beat any team in Europe, including Barcelona. “I will forever remember my time with Ajax,” he began.“There is a lot to talk about because I enjoyed my time there. It was a dream for me and it was there that I learn that hard work pays. “When I came to Ajax after what Finidi and the team did, it was a big task for a young player like me coming to the best team in the world. “ At that time I think I worked very hard towards that success because I started with a smaller team. When you start with smaller teams in Europe, you need to be exceptional. You need to be good to convince the scouts of Ajax to figure you out. “That was what happened and it made me proud. I had a lot of memorable moments at the club. The 1997 Champions League is one I will not forget. We made it to the semi-final and I scored a spectacular goal against Atletico Madrid. “Unfortunately we played Juventus in semi-final and lost that match. It was painful that we could not get to the final. I very much wanted to play in the finals, especially since they won two years ago before I signed for them.” Babangida said there is little difference between Ajax of his time and today’s that have become this season’s football fairytale. He offered: “Well Ajax in the 90s are the Barcelona of that era. I joined Ajax just after winning the Champions League and the World Club Cup in 1997. (George)  Finidi and (Nwankwo) Kanu were in that team. A compact team that was unbeaten throughout that season.” “I think this year Ajax team can go the whole way to win the Champions League after 24 years. They are young and fearless. They play total football and reminded me of what we used to be, a complete team that plays total football. They are team in the sense of the word. The players are young and strong and after eliminating Real Madrid and Juventus, they can go the whole way. I see them bringing back the glory of Europe to Amsterdam.” Meanwhile, it was reported  that  at the start of this season, most fans outside of Amsterdam would have struggled to name their players, yet now they roll off the tongue, Frenkie de Jong, Matthijs de Ligt, Hakim Ziyech, David Neres…the football world is falling in love with them. They have knocked out Real Madrid and they have seen off Juventus. Next up, they face Tottenham Hotspur in the semi-finals and Babangida believes the Boys from The Netherlands can go all the way again. Excerpts…  You played for Ajax during their glorious era in the 90s. What made that team tick? Well Ajax in the 90s are the Barcelona of that era. I joined Ajax just after winning the Champions League and the World Club Cup in 1997. And all kudos to Johan Cruyff who took the system of total football from Ajax in Holland to Barcelona. The tiki-taka style. Football is hard to play but playing simple is the most hardest of football. What can you remember of the Champions League victory of 1995? I joined the team after that victory but because I was playing in Holland and Finidi and Kanu were playing for Ajax, the team was on the lips of everyone. They had top players like the twins Frank an Ronald de Boer, Danny blind, Jari Litmanen, Marc Overmars, and Patrick Kluivert, Edwin van der Sar, Frank Rijkaard, Clarence Seedorf, Edgar Davids to mention but few. When you eventually joined Ajax, was it difficult settling into the biggest club in Europe? No. I get alone with most of the players. You are okay with everybody the moment you do what you are supposed to do, which is for you to perform well and help the team. You become friends with all. So what makes Ajax so successful? Ajax believed more on their Academy which I consider to be the best in the world. It is my opinion. All these players I mention above are all from their Academy. In addition to this, they will buy  few Scandinavian like Litmanen, Peterson, Laudrup and so on. The difference between Ajax and Barcelona is that Barcelona believe in using a star player, at least one in the system. They play total football of tiki taka too. They both have a flourishing Academy where most of their players come from but Barcelona would always inject a star player like Ronaldinho and Messi. That’s the only difference between Ajax and Barcelona. Did you experience any kind of intimidation coming to the best team in the world at that time? When I came to Ajax after what Finidi and the team did by winning the Champions League, it made the work of younger players like me very hard, coming to the best team in the world at that time. I did not feel intimidated. I tried to do what I can do. However, I was already known playing at Roda JC before coming to Ajax. I was loved by fans everywhere in Holland. So they already knew what I can do and that made playing for Ajax relaxing. Was there a comparison between you and Finidi? Finidi are I are different. We play different type of football and we are different players too. I played 90 percent of my football career in Holland, so Ajax took their time and years watching me before coming for me. And I did not disappoint them. What is your opinion about the new crop of Ajax players? They are young and strong. They understand the total football style of play, which is to ensure you get back the ball from your opponent each time you lose it. You run and chase the ball from opponent the more you lose the ball. It is expected that within 10 seconds of losing the ball you get it back. This is exactly what Barcelona play when the like of Xavi an Iniesta are younger. Now Barcelona can’t play like that but this young Ajax team can. How much of Holland is in you? Half of my life I’ve spent in Holland since 1991. I have grown with the system of Dutch football. Till date I am the longest serving Nigerian player in Holland. What kind of food do you like? I am all rounder. I eat almost all food be it local dish or continental. Do you think your son will play for Ajax one day? After his university whatever he wants to do is okay by me. What are your best and worst soccer moments? My best moment was winning the Olympics. And the worst was when Cameroon defeated Nigeria in the final of the Nations Cup in 2000. I have also scored many great goals and that makes me happy too. I remember the goal against Atletico Madrid   in the quarter-finals of the Champions League. It is one of my best goals and it is a moment I won’t forget.