The Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) yesterday sought an olive branch and unity among the different political actors. This followed the hatred and disunity this year’s general elections have generated among Nigerians. The institute said there is a need to draw the attention of political actors to the dangers of politics of bitterness and hatred that keep undermining the unity, integrity and corporate existence of the country. Its President and Chairman of Council, Mallam Mukhtar Sirajo, stated this while addressing reporters in Abuja, the nation’s capital, ahead of the institute’s annual general meeting (AGM) on “National Cohesion”. He said: “Nigeria is a unique and blessed country; it remains one of the most endowed nations on earth in human and natural resources. Unfortunately, this same entity that once lived in unity and harmony, fought battles to keep other nations together in peace, is now fast becoming a colony of hostility, aggression and den of terror. “The envy of other nations is now confronted with a strange future of hatred, intolerance and disaffection, tending towards the brink of collapse. This would cause patriotic minds to ask: what went wrong? What has happened to our once cherished culture of unity?” Sirajo urged the citizenry to take national unity more seriously, given the key positions it occupies in meeting the expectations of the people and promoting national development. According to him, no entity grows or develops in disunity. Sirajo insisted on the efficacy of peace in national coexistence, saying: “Let’s go back to our unique culture of love for one another, strong bond of brotherhood that knows no tribe or religion, habit of hospitality that does not emphasize state of origin, and let’s embrace tolerance as an option for co-existence.” On the AGM, the NIPR president said nation-building is a core mandate of the institute, which was why it decided to lead the discourse on national cohesion. He said the institute had selected Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah as keynote speaker and Vice-President Yemi Osibanjo the special guest of honour. 