The management and board of LAPO Microfinance Bank, one of the leading microfinance banks in the country has assured of its commitment towards support start-ups. Giving this assurance at the weekend was the Managing Director/Chief Executive of the bank, Dr. Godwin Ehigiamusoe. He spoke at the customers’ forum in Lagos. While noting that the purpose of the forum is to institutionalise the bank’s customers’ eccentricity which is basically to put them in the centre of transaction, he was however quick to add that the bank periodically assesses its relationship with clients and take action, but the gathering is still necessary to deepen the bank’s culture of engagement with people at the bottom in the society. The bank chief revealed that the bank in the last four years adopted Alternative Channel department to enhance delivery financial services to its clients. He promised the forum that the bank will continue to expand its footprints and prioritise provision of financial services especially credit to people who are excluded from mainstream financial system. Speaking on default as the fact of lending, Ehigiamusoe said the bank which started over 25 years ago as non-profit organisation, has over the year developed appropriate and effective strategies to ensure mitigation of the risk of default, saying though the bank like any other lending institutions has not completely eradicate possibility of default but able to manage it over the years. Speaking on how regulations of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has impacted on microfinance banks in Nigeria, the bank chief opined that regulatory environment particularly for microfinance bank by the apex bank has been significantly enabling compared to other African countries. He highlighted that the microfinance banks may not have the volume of loan access compare with commercial banks but their significant impacts in the society is enormous, ranging from meeting the needs of large number of people and helping their businesses to improve standard of living. Answering question on plans by LAPO to begin electronic banking to ease some of its manual processes, the bank chief noted that though no any separate delivery firm or company at this point can ignore technology and its impact but while making decision on the choice of channel to use, they should take to account the nature and characteristics of their clients base. According to him, “I strongly believe that there are challenges in the operating environment, but what is more important is the fact that this is a nation of very high population of very enterprising people. And so when you have a nation of enterprising people and you have regulatory environment that is significantly enabling, that pose a fertile ground for microfinance banks to blossom in Nigeria. “On the average we put in 13/14 billion naira every month to the market for people to improve on their businesses. And when you come to a forum like this listen to testimonies of people talking about assessing LAPO loans over the years have been able to improve their businesses and translating to improvement in their welfare, supporting their children’s education,” he explained. Some of the customers of the bank gathered at the forum, who could not hide their joy, commended the microfinance bank for its reliable and huge supports in time of need and promise to always support the bank to grow to an enviable height in Nigeria.