A group, The Campaign Concourse (TCC) has described as mere rumours, the purported suspension of Ondo state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu by the National Working Commitee (NWC) of the party. The group said the insinuation was sponsored by enemies of good governance ‘who are not pleased’ with the developmental revolution Akeredolu was offering the state presently leading to massive infrastructure, industrialization and grass root development. The group in a statement signed by its Coordinator, Amudipe Marcus in Akure, the state capital pointed out that the NWC of the party has not issued any official statement from Abuja or anywhere to pronounce the purported suspension. It wondered where the authencity of the story came from saying’ the APC has not at any point communicated the governor or the party at the state level on such decision which is traditionally the party’s business. The group said ” It is crystal clear that the purported suspension of Akeredolu was only sponsored by some detractors who are not happy with the development taking place across the state today. “We are aware that when some governors were suspended, the National Publicity Secretary of the party was the one who announced such suspension. Our question is, who announced Akeredolu’s Suspension? “It’s also funny that while some enemies of progress planted that story in the media,  Lanre Issa – Onilu said he was not aware of any suspension of Akeredolu. As we speak, the Governor has neither received any suspension nor query letter from the party. ” We like to advise the APC to be more concern about gaining more grounds. The party has suffered so much injuries. We are aware how Aregbesola sponsored the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in 2016 and also rewarded Bola Ilori by appointing him as a commissioner in his cabinet. “Till date, no one has punished Aregbesola or Bola Ilori for engaging in an open anti – Party activities especially when Ilori was the Director General of the AD candidate’s campaign organisation “The people of Ondo State stand with Akeredolu. The Governor has performed so well that he has represented that party well in the state. Those behind the suspension saga wanted to force such decision on the party leadership,but have failed. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor,Segun Ajiboye maintained his stand not to make any comment on the issue. 