The impact of the Asian-African Chamber of Commerce and Industry (AACII) Intercontinental Leadership Forum held in New Delhi, India  will linger on for a very long time. The forum, which drew diplomats from various countries, including Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Korea, Mallawi and South Africa with over 250 professionals and many industrial sectors, had its theme dedicated to the United Nations Sustainable Developmental Goals 2030. Leadership awards were conferred on leaders and organizations that have shown exceptional pace-setting performances in developing businesses. In his opening address, the Founder and Chairman of AACCI, Dr. G.D. Singh, called for collaboration between African and Asian countries for the development of business in Asia and Africa. He described the forum “as the first of its kind which gave an open platform which amalgamates the most brilliant talents and empowers the leaders of tomorrow.” In his own contribution, Mr. Chris Eze, Nigerian High Commissioner in India, highlighted the existing relationship between India and Nigeria in various areas, including agriculture, defence, trade, capacity building, health care, infrastructure and socio-cultural relations. He added that “India is a developmental partner of Nigeria with emphasis on strong knowledge and experience with a view to improving capacity building in diverse areas.” In his own contribution, Mr. Maxwell Ranga, Ambassador of the Republic of Zimbabwe in India, emphasized the need to tap natural synergies between India and Zimbabwe and scope for engagement in health care, agriculture, hospitality, infrastructure and SME sectors. The Asian-African Chamber of Commerce (AACCI) and Indian Importers Chamber of Commerce signed the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) which will strengthen business relations and develop reciprocal cooperation to establish a practical framework to facilitate the development of stronger business relations between the two chambers. All dignitaries at the event emphasized the role of Africa in the next economic boom and chambers like AACCI would be elemental in catalyzing this boom.