The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) has arraigned fourteen medical doctors for various allegations of misconduct. Fourteen medical doctors are facing trials at the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Disciplinary Tribunal. The Tribunal has equal jurisdictions with the regular High Court. The doctors are facing charges of alleged professional misconduct. It is the first session of the tribunal. The MDCN is the regulatory body of all medical and alternative medicine practitioners in the country, with mandate to discipline any erring practitioners whose actions or in-actions fall short of the medical professional ethics. The doctors took turn to take their pleads in the first session of the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Disciplinary Tribunal under the new Board of the MDCN. Hearing on the various misconducts will commence fully Tuesday. There are nine doctors standing trial from the Asaba Medical Centre, Delta state. The doctors are: Sunday Abiodun Ogafe Ojenuwah, Godwin Chukwuma Maduakor, Oyefara Babatunde, Okoye Pascal Nnamdi, Anunnobi Chijioke Ralu, Adigba Ese Onodjohwoyovwe, Ogwu Robinson Onyekachukwu, Dr. Henry, Okoye Chukwuka and Iyiola Akeem Adewale. They are to defend themselves on charges of grouse conduct of negligence in the management of a pregnant patient, Mrs. Rita Uche Ogbuego. They all pleaded not guilty when the case charge was read to them individually. The attempt by the prosecuting counsel to lump up the case as one rather than individual cases was however objected to by the counsel to Dr. Maduakor. Who noted that their charges were different and so they should be treated on individual basis. In the case of  Dr. Nwikwu Mezie Vitalis he was charged for leaving his clinic open for service without any trained hand to man it in his absence leading to death of a patient who came in for treatment in his absence. He pleaded not guilty when the case charge was read to him. Other Medical doctors standing trial are Shehu Abdullahi Muhammed and Umar Nasiru Ibrahim.