The Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences on Sunday said it arrested 26 suspected cultists, 64 miscreants and impounded 96 motorcycles in separate raids. A statement by the agency’s spokesman Taofiq Adebayo said the suspected Awawa cultists were apprehended at Agege and the miscreants at Oshodi during raids executed Saturday night at Isale-Oja, Funmilayo, Ile-Pako at Amoo, Orile by Canal, Papa-Ashafa, Dopemu and Old Oko-Oba in Agege areas of the state codenamed “Restore Sanity.” He said the motorcycles were impounded at Igando for plying on restricted routes, adding that the agency also dislodged over 1,500 illegal traders obstructing traffic flow in Igando. Quoting his boss Olayinka Egbeyemi, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Adebayo said criminal activities of cultists and miscreants were becoming a serious threat to residents, adding that it was an eyesore to see them rob, rape their victims and freely smoke Marijuana with underage boys and girls. The Chairman said dangerous weapons and substances suspected to be Indian hemp were recovered from the 64 miscreants which include three female teenagers, said Adebayo. “These miscreants and hoodlums were those attacking/breaking motorists windscreen and disturbing innocent members of the public by dispossessing them of thier valuables such as phones, wallets and jewelleries around Oshodi. “It is disheartening that most parents have abdicated their responsibility towards their children as youths are now found to be deeply involved in gangsterism. “Honestly, most of the violent crimes committed across the state were perpetrated by youths who lack parental care and joined cultism to avoid being intimidated by their peers. “He said that ‘Operation Restore Sanity to Lagos’ would be a continuous exercise and extended to every other area known to be inhabited by these undesirable elements across the state,” said Adebayo. On the activities of illegal traders, he noted that it has led to the death of some of the perpetrators, who were not quick to escape accidents. “CSP Egbeyemi maintained that in accordance with the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Laws, it was completely unlawful for anyone to hawk, buy or sell goods on railway tracks, road-setbacks, walkways and drainage alignment across the state,” he said. Adebayo said the Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu has directed that all 90 suspects be charged to court.  