The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is awaiting response from leaders of the party from the North East to fill the vacant position of National Secretary following exit of the former Secretary, Mai Mala Buni. Buni, who was re-elected as national Secretary at the June 24, 2018 National Convention of the party, is the governor-elect of Yobe state, leaving the position vacant. A highly placed source within the leadership of the party told The Nation that since the position is zoned to the North East, they would have to meet and agree on the next national secretary. “The NWC has little or no role to play in that regard. The position is zoned to them and we are waiting for them to send the name of their preferred candidate for the position. When they do that, we will announce the name. “The leaders and stakeholders of the party from that zone must meet to agree on a candidate and for now, we cannot say this is their choice because they have not informed us.” However, contenders for the position have begun lobbying leaders of the zone on why they should be selected as the next secretary. One of them, Muhammad Bello Mustapha, told The Nation he believes he was better placed to emerge as the APC national Scribe, saying he was not in the race to get appointment but to help create a formidable secretariat for the party. He insisted he has made so much sacrifice for the party, dropping his ambition at every interval he is asked to do so. “In 2014, I contested for the position of National Secretary and was asked to step down and I did. When Babachir Lawal left as National Vice Chairman, North East, I wanted to contest and again I was asked to step down and I did. “I was the last to step down from the race during the last convention and that was after several states have voted at the convention. “I am not in the race for the National Secretary position because I want appointment. “I want to head the Secretariat of the party and bring my wealth of experience to bear. I am qualified lawyer who has worked as Company Secretary before. So I have the experience that is needed for that position.” Reminded of the interest of other contenders especially from the Borno/Yobe axis with the likes of Kashim Imam and Arch. Waziri Bulama holding the upper hand, Mustapha said: “the position is zoned to the North East and not to Borno or Yobe states. “Of all the states in the North East, it is only my state Taraba that has never had a representation in the National Working Committee. “The highest position we have had is the position of Zonal Youth Leader. For the sake of equity, I think Taraba state should be allowed to produce the National Secretary. “Borno and Yobe have always claimed everything coming to the North East and I believe this should not be the case. “We are part of the one and should be given a sense of belonging. That is why people from Borno and Yobe state should not even be showing interest in the position. “If you look at it, we, In Taraba don’t even have a minister in this government.” He said expressed optimism that leaders of the party in the north east will do the needful and allow him become the National Secretary since he has gone round all to inform them of his ambition. He insisted he would rather lose the position in a free and fair contest than step down again for any other candidate. “When the position of National Vice Chairman, North East became vacant, they called all of us and we agreed for a consensus candidate. “That was how Comrade Salisu got the position. I believe there should be a consensus in my favour also. “But if that is not possible, I would prefer that we go to the poll. I am confident that I will emerge winner at the poll to become the National secretary.” 