Barely 48 hours after some ex-students protested against the management, the Governing Council of The Ibarapa Polytechnic, Eruwa, Oyo State has announced the dissolution of the entire management team as well as the suspension of the institution’s rector. The sack of the management team led by the Rector, Mr Iyiola Eyitayo was said to have followed the inability of the team to resolve the series of crisis rocking the institution, especially the alleged non-accreditation of some courses. Recall, that close to a hundred former students of the institution had during the week shut the institutions gate, thereby paralysing activities on the ground that they have not been awarded their completion certificates nor mobilised for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme two years after graduation. The Council Chairman, Dr Samuel Ogundiran disclosed the decision of the sack in a statement which was made available to journalists. According to the statement, the members of the management team were directed to proceed on their accumulated leave with immediate effect pending the time the matters on ground would be resolved. The statement reads, “There is no doubt that you are aware of the crisis circulating on the issue of non-accreditation of some courses being leveled against the school, the management of which you are a principal knows that some students who have graduated for some years but they could not be mobilised for the mandatory NYSC since their graduation. “You are also aware of other pertaining issues that actually require processing by the governing council. “In view of the forgoing and pursuant to the directive of the Governing Council of the Ibarapa Polytechnic, Eruwa after some consultation with the members and in consideration of the law and regulation enabling the Governing Council, you are hereby required to proceed on your accumulated leave with immediate effect pending the time the issue on ground will be resolved. “You are directed to hand over to the Deputy Rector Senior to you and you are to stop further withdrawal of funds unnecessary from all the school accounts by the current signatories.” Some of the ex- students of the school, who graduate in 2016 and yet to be giving their certificate and mobilised for their compulsory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) trooped out on Thursday in a protest to show their grievances, which led to the closure of the school by the protesting former students. The Governing Council has however appointed Mr. Peter Adejumo as the Acting Rector, Mr. Rauf Bello and Deolu Obagunle as the Acting Bursar and Acting Registrar respectively.