IN a bid to celebrate the Nigerian telecom industry and also promote Nigeria’s rich culture, DFO Media Concept in conjunction with DAK Marketing Services Limited has unveiled a beauty pageant platform, tagged Miss Telecom Nigeria. The maiden edition is scheduled to hold on Saturday, July 27, 2019 and it targets Nigerian young ladies within the ages of 18-30 for participation. Auditions would hold in Calabar, Enugu, Port Harcourt, Owerri, Benin City, Abuja and Lagos. And interested individuals are to visit   www.misstelecomnigeria.com to purchase a form. “Miss Telecom Nigeria is about celebrating the rich Nigerian Culture in a very unique way and it will also add glamour to the Nigerian entertainment industry,” said the Chief Organiser of the event, Mr. Festus Ogana, at the media unveiling in Lagos. “Nigeria is a colourful combination of cultures and landscapes, a place that fully embraces its African heritage and celebrates its diversity adding that the Nigerian telecom industry has helped in many diverse ways to boost the Nigerian cultural heritage.” Ogana further said that for close to two decades now, the Nigerian telecommunications industry received a boom with the introduction of the Global System for mobile Communication (GSM) and life and commerce in Nigeria revolve around the telecom industry. “Everyone irrespective of age, social status and even literacy level, go about with mobile phones and connect to global debates. Telecommunications has positively changed our ways of living – the way we think, relate and transact businesses.” Also speaking at event, the MD/Chief Executive Officer, DAK Marketing Services Limited, Elder Dede Kalu expressed his delight on the Miss Telecom Nigeria concept saying that the overall winner will represent the face of the Nigerian telecom industry. “There is no gainsaying the fact that the Nigerian telecom industry has contributed immensely to Nigerian growth,” said Kalu. “The industry has done so well and has significantly contributed over 5.5 percent to Nigeria GDP and Economy in the country. Therefore, Miss Telecom will be presented as a pageant that celebrates our rich cultural beliefs and heritage and the Nigerian telecom industry.” The event is supported by the Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) and Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) and other stakeholders.