The Senator-elect for Niger South District, Mohammed Bima Enagi, has said he will not be a bench warmer in the National Assembly. He promised to open up opportunities for his constituency, adding that  Niger South has not felt the impact and proper representation of their elected representatives. Speaking with reporters in Minna, Niger State capital, Bima promised  to improve the socio-econonic development of Niger South. He said: “We are in this game because we have seen what our people have gone through over the years, we saw yesterday, God has made us see today and we hope to know tomorrow. We are not happy with the trend of events in Niger South over the years and we believe we can contribute our quota to change the destiny of out people. “Unlike others before us, we are not in this game for any selfish interest, we only believe we can improve the socio-econonix economic development of our area. We believe that our area can do better than what is happening today. I can assure you that we will change the direction of politics in Niger South. “So many things have not been found well but we believe now, we can add value in that area. We are not just going to the Senate to make laws but to adequately represent our people. We are not going there to warm the bench and keep quite like other people. We are going tgere to bring the dividends of democracy to our people.” Enagi noted that Niger South Dsitrict, which is known as the Nupe Kingdom, should have been more developed, if his predecessors had been honest in bringing development to the area. He added: “God has given Niger South the population, natural resources, agricultural potentials, solid minerqkw and talents which we believe should have made our area better than it is now. This is the reason why I entered politics, to contribute my part in bringing back the glory of Niger South.” Speaking about his court case against Senator Mustapha Sani Musa, who contested his candidature for the zone, he commended the judiciary for not allowing itself to be manipulated. He said his predecessor, Senator Mustapha Sani Mohammed was only out to make a mockery of the judiciary. Enagi added: “This man was out to make a mockery of the Judiciary, he knew he never won the election, infact, he was the one who got forth in the position of the votes in the primary election. How can someone who polled not up to 2,000 votes say he won the election to someone who polled over 24,000 view. “The sad thing is that when he was in the Senate, he could not speak for the zone. He got the Senate seat on a platter of gold and did not do anything to improve us.”            