The National Basketball Association (NBA) and beIN SPORTS (beIN), the official broadcast partner of the NBA in France, has announced that the Charlotte Hornets and the Milwaukee Bucks will play in the NBA’s first regular-season game in Paris on January 24, 2020 at the AccorHotels Arena. The announcement was made live on the NBA Extra show on beIN SPORTS in the presence of Charlotte Hornets legend, Muggsy Bogues and was supported by a marketing, digital and on-air campaign that included banners adorning the Hotel de Ville, branded buses and bespoke content across NBA and beIN SPORTS digital channels. Tickets for The NBA Paris Game 2020 presented by beIN SPORTS will go on sale at a later date.  Fans can register their interest in tickets and gain access to presale information and more by visiting NBAEvents.com/ParisGame. The NBA Paris Game 2020 Presented by beIN SPORTS will mark the Hornets’ second game in Paris, having played a preseason game in the French capital in 1994 against the Golden State Warriors.  The Hornets’ roster currently features three-time NBA All-Star Kemba Walker, four-time NBA Champion Tony Parker (France) and fellow countryman Nicolas Batum. The Bucks will be playing their first game in France, having previously played a regular-season game in London in 2015.  The Bucks, who have the best record in the NBA, currently feature three-time NBA All-Star Giannis Antetokounmpo (Greece), who led the Eastern Conference in fan votes during NBA All-Star Voting 2019 presented by Google, as well as 2019 NBA All-Star Khris Middleton and 2016-17 Kia NBA Rookie of the Year Malcolm Brogdon.  The game will be the NBA’s 10th game at the AccorHotels Arena since 1991 and the 11th game in France all-time. The NBA Paris Game 2020 Presented by beIN SPORTS will be broadcast live in France and across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) on beIN SPORTS, by the NBA’s broadcast partners across Europe, and sub-Saharan Africa, and on NBA League Pass, reaching fans in more than 200 countries and territories around the world. The game will be supported by a full roster of marketing partners, including presenting partner beIN SPORTS, Beats, Nike, and Tissot, with additional partners to be announced in the coming months. In addition to the oncourt action, The NBA Paris Game 2020 Presented by beIN SPORTS will feature a variety of interactive fan activities, NBA Cares community outreach initiatives and Jr. NBA basketball programming that will bring the NBA experience to fans in Paris.