Ahead of May 29 exit date, some governors, ministers, and senators are pushing for the removal of the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu. They are mounting pressure on some Presidency officials to prevail on President Muhammadu Buhari to “ease out” Magu. It was learnt that many governors are jittery about Magu’s retention, following the clinical investigation of the outgoing Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. This is the third time in two years that attempt has been made to give Magu the push from office by some politicians who are opposed to Buhari administration’s anti-corruption campaign. There was a plot in January to send Magu on a course at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) on or before the conclusion of the general elections. The latest move is to sack Magu on or before May 29 when some of the governors would have completed their eight-year tenure. A source, who spoke in confidence with our correspondent, said those who wanted Magu out had been alleging that the EFCC chairman’s stay might not assist the interest of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. The source said: “The arrowheads, including outgoing governors, have begun smear campaigns to poison the minds of Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the First Lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, against Magu. “They are said to be relying on three bogus/ fake reports against Magu allegedly submitted to the Presidency by an unknown government agency. “They are also alleging lack of loyalty against Magu, claiming that he is working against APC’s interest from now till 2023. “They cite how EFCC’s probe led to Onnoghen’s sudden resignation. They allege that Magu can go to any length to expose them, especially the outgoing governors, when they leave office. “They are of the opinion that since they have skeletons in their cupboards, Magu can prosecute them once he is still in office. “The promoters of the plot have co-opted politically exposed persons in the APC and the PDP.” It was learnt that some Senators have also teamed up with aggrieved political office holders on the anti-Magu campaign. The source added: “Some senators are jittery over possible confirmation of Magu after May 29, as they are afraid that he may go after them once they lose their privileged positions. “They are aware that there are pending investigations against them, including over N1trillion unexecuted constituency projects. Magu is uncompromising in this regard.”