Members of the Academic Staff Union of Colleges of Education (COEASU) have been advised to be armed with facts when they negotiate with either the institution’s management or the government. Such an action, the union believes, wouldconvince the management on the union’s ability. And if management or government remains adamant, COEASU will be left with no option than to go on strike, the union added. The union spoke during its 50th Southwest Zonal Delegate conference hosted by COEASU of Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Oto-Ijanikin. COEASU National General Secretary Comrade Taiwo Abolaji Olayanju said in line with 21st century, ‘’negotiations should come before war’’. Olayanju, who is the Chairman of the COEASU Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos, continued: “We also want to tell our members that when we come to the negotiation table with the government or management, they should not come with bare hands but facts. When you confront the government or management with statistics to back up your agitation, a reasonable government or management will bow to superior argument. “We don’t believe in locking up the gates (of our campuses). We can fight the management but the idea of resorting to protests and shutting up the gates is one of the issues we are going to deliberate upon during this congress.” Olayanju recalled the suspension of COEASU’s strike with the Federal Government last November over some of the latter’s unfulfilled promises, saying the action aimed at giving the government some time. “There is a difference between ‘suspending’ and ‘calling off’ the strike, Olayanju stressed. “Suspension allows you to give a benefit of the doubt (to the government) to actualise your desires.  We have had some understanding with the government with respect to issues of arrears. When it comes to money, it is easy (for governments) to promise but difficult to fulfill. So, if in the end, we realised governments are simply paying lip service, we easily go and remove what (suspension) we hung there.” Earlier, AOCOED Provost Dr Aina Ladele charged her colleagues to remain committed to a culture of research. She craved the leadership of the union to exercise caution with their management in view of lean resources. “As we (COEASU) agitate, I enjoin us to display maturity,” ‘Ladele appealed. “No college of education nationwide is sufficiently funded, yet we have to meet the demands of COEASU, other unions as well as other competing needs of the institution. We know the challenges will always be there. We also enjoin you to ensure quality teacher education is not compromised. Besides, the very senior colleagues should not shy away from the task of mentoring the upcoming ones, while the younger lecturers too should be flexible to being mentored.” She praised AOCOED COEASU as well as other unions for ensuring that the 37 academic programmes of the college were fully accreditated by the National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE) last year. The host Chairman Comrade Ige Ajayi listed some achievements of COEASU AOCOED to include ‘’attaining the 65-year age retirement; putting a stop to quota system; reintroduction of committee-based system for union’s activities, constitution of advisory council for the executive, as well as accessing of pension funds by retired colleagues, among others. According to Ige, COEASU AOCOED is desirous that the congress address issues, such as life salary for chief lecturers, revival of all programmes that serve as internally generated revenue (IGR) for colleges, and addressing epileptic power supply. COEASU Federal College of Education Osiele Chairman Comrade Akin Akinyele, one of the delegates, lamented that his chapter still grapples with unpaid cooperative deductions, and unpaid peculiar academic allowances, lower cadre migration,  and unchallenged condition for promotion, “I have been promoted from Lecturer 1 to Senior Lecturer since 2017, yet I am still being owed promotion arrears as well as annual increase. That is not fair,” he said.