While reading Olukorede S. Yishau’s debut novel, it dawned on me that despite the ups and downs tormenting this country of ours, there are still certain people who still crave for hope daily with their pens. In In the name of our Father, the narrator carefully satirises the various challenges threatening the peace and the morality of the country (Nigeria) by portraying different malignity in the text. Although, In the name of our Father could be seen as mere fiction, yet, it is the reality that produces the wide contradictions in a nation’s ideas of national integration, uprightness, and morality. The prose narrative shows the level at which impunities keep blindfolding the truth and making innocent people face unfair treatments from implacable minds. The characterisation of Justus Omoeko reminds us of heroes like Ken Saro Wiwa, Dele Giwa and host of others. The piece arrests minds to the reality that in a country like Nigeria, people’s right (freedom of expression) is unsecured as they are liable to implication, arrest, and unjust trials by the cruel-hearted individuals who crave for fame, power, and positions at the expense of the corporate joy, peace and happiness of the masses. “…I was chained down like a beast…my life was in their hands and they were swinging it the way they wanted. He sentenced me to life imprisonment. Tears did not just come out of my eyes. It was one sad moment that Was beyond tears” (Justus Omoeko p.183-190). The plot structure points attention to the complexity of the social challenges all and around the society of the text (Nigeria). The inhuman enragement and death of Pastor Hezekiah plotted by the “supposed” man of God (Prophet T.C. Jeremiah) and the unfair treatment of Justus Omoeko question the place of truth, morality and sanity in our contemporary society. The thematic preoccupations such as corruption, simony (commercialisation of religious beliefs), sexual immorality, incest, mistrust and marital odds in the prose fiction depict clearly a country in the throes of degradation and catastrophe. In fact, for a male warden to forcefully lure an unnamed female in-mate into sexual intercourse in the prison (p. 196) question the place of sanity in our dear country. It calls attention to similar social issues in earlier literature such as The Trial of Brother Jero by Wole Soyinka, Nineteen Eighty-four by George Orwell, My Father lied by Onyekachi Peter Onuoha, Violence by Festus Iyayi, A man of the People by Chinua Achebe, etc. The prose text reiterates how selfishness can be laced on baseless facts and figures. Instances are in the propensity attributed to the ‘Brotherhood group’ and the leadership of the ‘C-in-C’. However, their activities remind us of the ‘Big Brothers’ and ‘Room 101’ in George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four respectively. And by extension, it brings anew the one-time unpalatable the military regime in Nigeria and the incurable scares the military experience left on million minds till today. Moreover, the ritual rites among the ‘Brotherhood’ ridicule the religious and political activities in Nigeria. It portrays the country as a place where evildoers commune with the devil in the secret and hypocritically present a different picture to the outside world. The text makes it possible to adjudge rightly the mystery under every rooftop called “worship centres” (House of God). It exposes the extent to which the deceived followers take the leaders’ coloured truth ‘hook, line and sinker’ and the extent to which people are desperate about getting rich with church founding today, “For starters, we are going to prepare the water with seven leaves for you to take the spiritual cleansing bath. You will use the palm front as the sponge” (p.32). No doubt, people rely on external inspiration instead of God’s. “…I will give you something that will make it easy for you to cram the Bible’ says Prophet T.C Jeremiah. (p.36) Pastor David and Prophet T.C Jeremiah are true metaphors of ‘Jero’s Metamorphosis’. While Alani’s sudden transformation to a ‘miracle-working prophet’, and his change of names instead of a change of attitude all fictionalise the ‘faking realities’ in some Christendom. No wonder, despite all these miracles in churches today, one keeps wondering why evils choose not to cease from the land (Nigeria).  Indeed, their roles make moral minds to keep doubting the reality of saints in Christendom. The narratology also thematises the joblessness constituting the high rate of abject poverty in the country. Alani’s advice to Tosin in (P. 14-15) points attention to why budgit’s (2019:1) states in their data analysis according to the “World Poverty Clock” that in Nigeria, “…over 87 million people are living in poverty which makes it the nation with the highest number of extremely poor people”. At times, one keeps wondering why evildoers, corrupt leaders and offenders keep escaping the wrath of the law no matter the level and gravity of the atrocities committed. Thus, the representation of the ‘Brotherhood’ in (p. 93) tells why poverty is on the increase and why atrocities are no longer considered with their grieving consequences today. Rebecca’s rape plight with her father on page 49 of the prose narrative brings to minds, the daily headlines in the Nigerian newspapers as regards the rampant social menace called “incest”. It refreshes in minds the carnalities that are adjusting daily in Nigeria. A brief glimpse of Georgina’s life’s ordeals in the story is equally significant to the Nigerian marriage discourse. The Nigerian marriage culture is that which encourages a daughter to always make her marriage work no matter the ordeal. Georgina opens up her marital challenges to her parents whom she believes got her back, but only for them to push her back to the lion’s den. However, despite the careful narrative techniques satirising the narratology, the narrator failed to remember the principle of checks and balances. He does not pay close attention to the possibly multiple religious practices in Nigeria. He focuses and represents heavily in the text various instances of religious immoralities found only in Christianity, leaving other religions such as Islam and Traditional religion untouched. Does that mean religious immorality can only be found in Christianity? Absolutely No!    Anyways, this is not to undermine the thinking process here, rather, it is to point out the universal truth which states that in the world of literature ‘there is no perfect work anywhere!’. In conclusion, the eventual collapse of Prophet T.C. Jeremiah’s magical powers and miracles depict the fact that “faking the reality” to make magical reality a realism could be deadly because “what goes round comes round”. And the eventual freedom of Justus Omoeko from the devouring jaws of death proves that despite the country’s ‘bruised heartedness, fractured psyche and demented consciences’, Nigeria can still be free someday, if you and I keep hoping for nothing but the very best in our dealings. 