With Easter came a soothing balm for orphans in a Federal Capital Territory (FCT) home. ROSE OKEKE reports On their first outreach mission to a secluded orphanage at Gishiri, Maitama, Abuja, The City Club Abuja (TCCA), a social charity club, were excited by the prospect of helping less-privileged children. As the nation shut down activities in commemoration of the Easter holiday, TCCA spent the first day of the weekend break donating food and grocery packages to the Hope for Survival orphanage located at Gishiri, Abuja. The President of TCCA, Ariyo Maiye, during the outreach, explained that although the club was created as a social support system for its members, the drive behind its philanthropy stems from the need to reduce the reliance on government to solve all the problems of the people by impacting the society through individual capabilities. Maiye said, “We have not solicited any help from the government. This was outreach was funded by individual contributions from within our club. This marks our first outreach activity and we have a few more planned. “We bought groceries and food items for the orphanage. We also identified a case of a baby that needs dialysis for a period of one week to see how the baby responds to it. We have identified more orphanages and IDP camps and are making plans to visit them as well.” TCCA, which is due to celebrate its one-year inception in June 2019, uses the contacts of one Nuhu Kwajafa, Coordinator of the Global Initiative for Peace, Love, and Care (GIPLC), to locate orphanages and other people in need. Kwajafa, whose NGO boasts of raising over $5 million for children in need, also spoke to Abuja Review stating that the groups relying on crowdfunding as a way to complement efforts of the government. He said, “We don’t have sponsors. We use the power of volume, crowd funding from within the NGO and social media.” Cephas Thaddeaus, the Administrator of the beneficiary Hope for Survival orphanage, Gishiri, expressed his profound gratitude at what he termed “an unexpected, amazing visit.” He was full of praises for the items and urged other well-meaning Nigerians to assist the orphanage. He said, “Lots of items were brought for the upkeep of the children. We sincerely did not expect this today. We are quite grateful. “The children were so happy. They came to announce to me that there are visitors everywhere.” He also said that while this wasn’t the first instance of the orphanage receiving donations, it was definitely the most bountiful.