Worried by rising suicide and depression cases in the country, the Suicide Research and Prevention Initiative (SURPIN), set up two years ago by the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), has raised alarm over the issue and called on relevant authorities to put appropriate measures in place to stop it. This was one of the high points of activities to mark the two year’s anniversary of SURPIN, which took place at LUTH, Idi-Araba. Commending SURPIN for “saving so many lives” within the two years of its existence, LUTH’s Chief Medical Director Prof Chris Bode said he was delighted for embracing the idea when it was suggested to him two years ago that suicide was becoming rampant in the country and that the teaching hospital needed to set up a structure for suicide research and prevention. “Today, we are witnessing a very good programme that has saved so many lives within a space of two years. It is cost effective. It is productive and it is being embraced by not only other institutions in our country; even international institutions outside our shores are coming to us to ask us how we did it and how we can assist,” Prof Bode said. Dr. Raphael Ogbolu, a consultant psychiatrist, who is the Coordinator of SURPIN, lamented that the country does not have any structured suicide prevention initiative or strategy despite having high suicide-related cases. He said the initiative has, as at the end of February this year, received through its hotlines up to 150 calls from people who were in crisis or severely depressed. He added that half of these crisis calls were from young adults from 22 states in the country and Ghana. “This should be a worrying concern. With the country’s demographics of mostly a youthful population, it should concern everyone that young Nigerians are ending their own lives. More than half of those crisis calls were from students. We realized that there needs to be a more coordinated effort to address the issue of suicide among the youths, starting from the schools,” he said. Despite a lack of up-to-date records, Nigeria is one of the countries with high suicide and depression cases. According to the World Health Organisation global health observatory data, suicide in Nigeria is at an estimated rate of 9.9 per 100,000, higher than the regional average. But SURPIN, which has been the only institutionalised structure for suicide research and prevention in the country, believes the WHO figure is an underestimation, as many cases go unreported or undocumented because of social stigma associated with depression and mental ill-health in the country. Ogbolu also recommended what should be done to stem the tide of unnecessary deaths among the youth population. According to SURPIN coordinator, suicide can be tamed if efforts are made to reduce risk in high-risk groups. Because the single commonest among suicide candidates is depression, which is a medical condition associated with low levels of serotonin in the brain and can arise from a combination of genetic and acquired factors, conscious efforts should be targeted at such people to prevent them from sliding into suicide option. People who are said to be at risk of depression and suicide include victims of sexual abuse, victims of domestic violence, drug addicts, people experiencing social isolation, those with some mental disorders, prison inmates, those with chronic stigmatising medical conditions such as HIV/AIDS or epilepsy and those belonging to at-risk occupations such as armed forces. “Our goals are to reach these people that are st increased risk, improve their resilience and provide them with hope by linking them up with the relevant sources of help,” he said. Another way to reduce suicides in the country, SURPIN insisted, is to make access less easy to pesticides and other very harmful things that the young ones usually employ to kill themselves. It added that by reducing availability of things people usually use to kill themselves, especially the methods that are very dangerous and more likely to lead to death, suicide cases will subside. “Common methods we have identified in our environment include use of pesticides, hanging and drowning. The most common of these has been the use of pesticides and so SURPIN is striving to create awareness about the dangers of keeping pesticides in large quantities in households, and also campaigning that they should not be readily available and that they should be regulated by relevant authorities,” Ogbolu said. Authorities at various levels of government have also been urged to join hands in the promotion of mental wellbeing of the populace. One way of achieving this is through mental health education and awareness for the citizenry. This also includes de-criminalising suicide attempts by expunging same from the penal code. Said Ogbolu: “SURPIN does this through involvement in public enlightenment activities such as radio and television interviews, newspaper articles, school mental health programmes, and social campaigns. This involves helping people to become more resilient and teaching coping strategies, with the knowledge that if people avoid situations that can put them at risk of developing mental illnesses, then the society is the healthier for it.” SURPIN also urged the media to exercise some professional restraint in the way suicide incidents are reported so as not to trigger unintended consequences by the way suicide cases are reported. The group enjoined the fourth estate of the realm to report suicide in a way that protects, educates and helps those already at risk; not to further increase the tendency for at-risk people to attempt to take their own lives. “If suicide is reported the wrong way, it may encourage certain people who are already at risk to attempt it. This is a globally proven fact. Reporting of suicide can be presented in a way that teaches people that it is not an option, and it provides links to where people can get help. Appropriate reporting also helps address myths and erroneous beliefs about suicide.” SURPIN harped on the paucity of research on suicide and its prevention, lamenting that WHO data states that 85 per cent of suicide occur in low-middle-income countries to which this country belongs. Although this is not peculiar to Nigeria, 73 per cent of developing countries lack reliable or verifiable data on suicide beyond data extrapolated from few studies done.