The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has urged Nigerians to use this period of Easter to intensify their prayers and be assured that the resurrection of Jesus Christ is for justice. Secondus, in an Easter message released on Friday by his media adviser, Ike Abonyi, said that Nigerians should not allow the prevailing hardship in the country and the “unjust” outcome of the 2019 election affect their spirit of love, brotherliness and peaceful co-existence. The PDP chairman noted that the country is clearly under siege from all corners, saying however that the period of Easter provides good opportunity for Nigerians to pray more to God to send succor to alleviate their sufferings. He urged Nigerians to use this year’s Easter festivities to engender the spirit of oneness and also re-dedicate themselves to the virtues of love, patriotism and unity for the desired national development. “We must allow the spirit of this season embedded in love, charity and forgiveness to control our thoughts and actions as we seek God’s face for our country. “Nigeria’s Christians must allow the solemnness of the last 40 days of fasting and prayers to influence their thoughts and actions in relating with one another”, the statement added. According to him, the Lenten period that just ended offered incalculable lessons in love, humility and forgiveness which should guide our way of living irrespective of religion, ethnic and political differences and help in ushering in a new and adorable era without bitterness and hatred. The party chairman admonished Nigerians to use this period to think deeply on the state of the nation with a view to finding a lasting solution to the country’s challenges. Secondus further noted that despite the “impunity”, the “debasing” of critical institutions like the Judiciary and the legislature by the present administration and the brazen show of power by the political leaders, children of the resurrected Christ know that God is on the throne and He will show who He is at His own time. He wished all Nigerians a happy Easter celebration as he prayed for enduring peace in the country.