The Nigeria customs Service Sub-Committee on distribution of relief materials to orphanage and IDPs nationwide, has distributed over 8,834 bags of foreign rice, spaghetti, foreign sugar, mosquito coils, as well as vegetable oils and bales of used clothes to orphanage and IDPs in Kano. The Chairman of the committee, comptroller of Customs, Yakubu Salihu, told reporters in Kano on Saturday during the documentation exercise, said that over  110 orphanage homes including IDPs has benefited from the on-going distribution exercise . According to him, “the compilation of issuing the landing certificate is still in progress as it is now, we have over 110 orphanage homes and IDPs that has been attended to. We have gone round and verify the authenticity of those orphanage homes of which we have seen that really, they do exist. “We have spent three days in Kano working according to the mandate given to us. We have been to other places in northern Nigeria and we have done our outmost best as regards to the distributions of these relief materials to orphanages and IDPs. “We can see the large crowd of people outside reason being that they are not aware of the mandate given to the committee. Our mandate is very clear and I have to categorically tell you that we deal only with orphanage and IDPs. All you see us doing here, is on child development and we have criteria for doing that, what we are dealing with here is documentation requirements which would show the level of transparency and accountability in whatever we are doing, same things goes for the IDPs. “We have procedure and processes as you can see the process is on-going onto the time the landing certificate would be issued for them to go and load and that complete the process which is very critical to this exercise. Salihu explained that “On the part of the beneficiaries, people that just came around didn’t know that certain documentary evidence is required but we tried as much as we can to see that, we scrutinized their documents properly, those that met the requirements, we give them a clean slate and we give them what is required of them. There are so many challenges the committee is facing, we see all manners of people coming out from nowhere such as tailors, hair dressers and farmers’ associations and not what trying to get the goodies of the federal government, but that is basically not the intention of the Government. “In as much as the government wants to alleviate the sufferings of the people, the particular targets are the Orphans and the vulnerable ones”  he said.   