Coma/Comatose: We may have conversed around these two terms somewhere in the life of this column, but we are taking the liberty to take them on here again because some of the most spectacular misusages have to do with these related words, the one a noun, the other an adjective. The usual misusage emanates from the confusion of the adjective form with noun form or vice versa. Consider the following: The economy is in comatose. Here is a case of the adjective comatose being wrongly used instead of the noun coma. Oxford Dictionary of English defines coma as “a prolonged state of deep unconsciousness, caused especially by severe injury or illness”. Used figuratively, coma, the noun from which the adjective comatose is derived, in this sense describes the economy as almost mortally ill. So, the economy can only be in a coma, not in comatose, because the noun form, not the adjective, is required in that position. Using the adjective comatose instead is grammatically awkward and thus meaningless. After all, you cannot safely say that a girl is in beautiful! To be comatose is to be spent or almost out. So, correct usage is: the economy is in a coma; the economy is comatose; or this is a comatose economy.  Just note that coma is a noun to be used as in the first option and that comatose is an adjective to be used either as a predicate adjective as in the second option or as an attributive adjective as in the third option. A predicate adjective comes after the verb in the sentence while an attributive adjective always comes before the noun. Committed to/Commitment to: Devotees of correct syntax tend to sweat on the correct usage of these expressions. Hence, many a time you see them used in the same way, and at other times, you find them used differently. And the reader is left confused about which is the correct usage between constructions like: government is committed to implement the project; government is committed to implementing the project; and government’s commitment to implement the project is obvious. The sweating arises when deciding what follows committed to or commitment to. You would do well to note that when it is committed to, it is always followed by a noun like the gerund implementing in the first construction. The reason is, you are invariably always committed to somebody, to something, to yourself, or to doing something, and all of those are nouns. Hence, correct usage is: Government is committed to implementing the project. But when the phrase is commitment to, what follows could an infinitive verb, as in: Government’s commitment to implement the project is obvious. It can also be followed by the noun implementing. Our writer’s companion explains this as follows: “In defining commitment, Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary . . . has the derivatives commitment to do/to doing something. These sub-entries indicate both implement and implementing can be adopted in this kind of construction. In other words, it is also correct to say: Government’s commitment to implementing the project is obvious.” Common sense/Commonsense: At issue here is the rampant confusion of these two words, with the result that writers distort and misapply them, thereby rendering them meaning less. Here, we refer to situations where writers create their own noun forms of common sense, as in the sentence below where the two words making up the word are incorrectly fused into one: Lagosians voted for commonsense over clannishness. The fusion in the sentence has created a noun form, commonsense, that is alien too the English language. “Pop” Errors in English: Writers Beware advises that: “What to note here is that the correct way to express the noun form of this word is common sense, as it is a two-word noun. When you combine the words as done erroneously in the sentence, you have converted it to an adjective; thus, you are correct to write an expression like this: “a commonsense approach,” where commonsense is used as an adjective.” It lends us another adjective form of the word, namely, commonsensical, as in: “That reasoning is commonsensical.” In sum, correct usage demands that the sentence in question should read as follows: Lagosians voted for common sense over clannishness. Don’t forget the take-away here: common sense is the noun, and commonsense is the adjective! Comprise: Many a writer often couples this verb with the preposition of, and that is the main issue of misusage concerning the word, as in the following: OGA held its quarterly interactive forum of he Gender Task Force comprising of sections’ gender focal points. The writer here is apparently not cognizant that ‘to comprise is to “consist of” or “be made up of” (Oxford Dictionary of English/AmazonKindle), which renders the preposition of redundant after comprising. But it must be noted that the use of comprise in the passive voice has set off considerable confusion, such that phrasings like “the forum is comprised of five members” are “common and are fast becoming part of standard English” (ibid.). Nevertheless, the dictionary stipulates that “erroneous forms, such as the property comprises of bedroom, bathroom, and kitchen, should not be used in Standard English”. This suggests that expressions like “is comprised of,” “will comprise of,” and “is comprising of” remain unacceptable.’ What to do, then? We keep endorsing the standard expression such as follows: OGA held its quarterly interactive forum of Gender Task Force, comprising sections’ gender focal points.