Transcorp Hilton Hotel Plc Abuja has announced the promotion of Mrs. Ebikaboere Seimodei to the position of Director of Operations. She becomes the first Nigerian national to occupy the position of Director of Operations and she will lead the Operations Team of the 670-room hotel to deliver consistent services. According to a statement from the hotel, “until her promotion, Ebi was the hotel’s Operations Manager. Ebi started her hospitality career over 25 years ago when she joined Transcorp Hilton Abuja as a Reservations Sales Agent on the National Youth Service Corps Program. She rose through the ranks and held several positions including Reservations Manager, Front Office Manager, Quality Manager and Operations Manager.  A graduate of Sociology from the University of Jos, Ebi has been on various Hilton leadership programs including the Kaizen Institute of Africa also certified her as a Kaizen Manager.” The hotel also announced the appointment of Janet Dakim as the Director of Group Conference and Events. Janet was most recently the hotel’s Group Conference and Events Manager. Janet joined Transcorp Hilton Abuja over 20 years ago and she has held various positions in Human Resources, Sales and Group, Conference and Events. A graduate of Federal Polytechnic Idah, Janet has been on various leadership programs including Proactive Leadership course and GC&E Managers Induction. Her passion for revenue drive with customer focus earned her the award of MICE Sales Person of Year for Hilton Europe, Middle and Africa (EMEA) in 2013. Under her leadership, the hotel has stayed within the Top 3 GC&E Revenue/Best Practice Team within Hilton Africa & Indian Ocean region. “We are delighted about these appointments as this once again reinforces our commitment to good Corporate Governance and our belief in diversity and inclusion.” said Mrs. Owen Omogiafo, MD/CEO, Transcorp Hotels Plc. “Ebi and Janet are inspiring and energetic leaders who have a deep understanding of the hospitality industry and are known for delivering business results.” Speaking on the announcements, Kevin Brett, General Manager, Transcorp Hilton Abuja said, “these are well-deserved appointments, Ebi and Janet have delivered successes in their previous roles in the hotel and I am confident that they will do even better as they step into these critical roles.” Ebi and Janet have since assumed their new roles. Other Nigerian Directors at the hotel include Kayode Olabode who is the Director of Sales and Omorinsola Sofola who is the Director of Human resources. 