Arrested alleged killer of Anthony Igboka, former Anambra State House of Assembly member, on Monday, confessed that they carried out the act because his gang was banished from the community. The 27-year old suspect, Chigbo Aniegbu, alias Transformer, who disclosed this while being paraded at the state Police headquarters, however said he was not the one that shot the deceased. He said the deceased had chased members of his gang from the town, insisting they would not return until they turned a new life. Aniegbu, who confessed being a member of Vikings cult group, however said he ignorantly, joined the gang in the vehicle from a neighboring town to his community. He said, “I was at Oyeolise when they picked me. They told me to join them for an operation, but was not told that the operation involved the killing of Igboka. That was why I was speechless when they started shooting the man. I don’t have any personal issue with him. After all, two of us are from the same village. “The only mistake I made was entering the vehicle without confirming exactly where they were headed.” Meanwhile, the State Commissioner of Police , Mustapha Dandaura said the governor of the state, Willie Obiano has increased the cash reward of N5m earlier promised to anybody with useful information that could lead to the arrest of the remaining suspects to N15million. Addressing newsmen in Awka, the commissioner said the increment followed the arrest of the kingpin who hails from the same community as the slain Igboka. He said three of the members of the gang were at still large, adding that efforts were being made to track them. The CP gave their names as Chukwunonso alias, Nwasami and Obinna Okafor. “I’m happy to announce that His Excellency has increased the price of anybody who can lead the police to arrest of the remaining three suspects to N5million each. The Commissioner continued, “It would be recalled that on the 16th of April, 2019 at about 8.18pm, the President General Nimo community one Chief Frank Anthony Igboka was shot and murdered by gunmen around Nimo market in Njikoka LGA of Anambra State. “Following the incident, the Command under my watch launched an aggressive manhunt of perpetrators of this dastardly act which led to the arrest of the main kingpin one Chigbo Aniegbu aka Transformer, aged 27 years of Abba, Nimo in connection with the murder of the late President General. “Other gang members are at large and effort is being intensified to apprehend them” Describing the month of April as a blessing to the command following harvests of arrests recorded in the month, Dandaura disclosed that a total of 265 suspects were arrested.