Was Kolade Johnson, the soccer fan who met his fatal end at Onipetesi near Ikeja, Lagos on Sunday, killed by stray bullet or shot dead by the police? This was the poser yesterday as his family alleged that he was shot dead by the policemen who stormed Olu Aboderin Street, Onipetesi, that fateful day to arrest a suspected cultist. The late Johnson’s foster father, Alhaji Remi Lukman, told The Nation at the family’s 1, Beco Street, Onipetesi home that stray bullets could not have penetrated his body twice. The family, he said,  had video evidence to prove that the deceased and his friends were shot at by the policemen. Lukman said: “We have been hearing that it was a stray bullet that hit Kolade, but I must tell you that a stray bullet cannot penetrate a body twice. If the policemen had not directed the gun at them, two bullets would not have hit him. “He was the hope of the family, a gentle boy. As I am talking to you, I have gone beyond this level; I’m just trying to set everything in motion to prove that Kolade was not hit by stray bullets.” Reliving the incident, Lukman said: “He was just there at that spot, catching fun with his friends and watching a football match, which of course, anybody could have done. “A response to a woman screaming ’kidnappers! kidnappers!’ made them (those watching the match) to leave the eatery and come out to know why the woman was shouting.” He said the deceased was quiet and intelligent, adding: “You really needed to have known him. He was a very gentle boy. “The video clip shows that he was walking behind other boys when bullets were fired at them. He wasn’t intrusive at all. “It was just unfortunate that he was a victim. All we are asking for is justice. It is unfortunate that someone like him died at a tender age. He died in his prime,” Lukman added. The late Johnson’s elder sister, Toluwani Lukman, described him as her companion, saying she would miss him for many things. The late Kolades’ niece, Khadija Lukman, said: “He never got angry. He was a good cook.” His mother, Mrs. Esther Odebiyi, kept quiet during the interview. She was apparently too sad to talk.