The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has filed a criminal charge against Bauchi State governor-elect, Senator Bala Mohammed, at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He is charged with accepting gratification in form of a house valued at N550 million on 2599 & 2600 Cadastral Zone, AO4 Asokoro District, Abuja, from Aso Savings & Loans Plc in 2014. EFCC’s prosecuting counsel Mr Wahab Shittu said the alleged gratification was accepted as reward by Mohammed “for performing your official duties”. The offence, EFCC said, contravened Section 18 (b) of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act 2000. It is punishable under Section 18 (d). Among the six-count charge is an allegation that the governor-elect made a false statement to an EFCC investigating officer, Ishaya Dauda, that he acquired the Cadastral Zone property through a mortgage facility from Aso Savings & Loans. Mohammed was also accused of failing to make full disclosure of his property at 54, Mike Akhigbe Street, Jabi, Abuja, in the course of filing his asset declaration form at the EFCC. The commission said the offence is contrary to Section 27 (3) (a) of the EFCC (Establishment) Act 2004 and punishable under Section 27 (3) (c). The prosecution also accused Mohammed of failing to declare a property on Agwan Sarki Kaduna in Kaduna State. EFCC said the governor-elect made a false declaration that a property on CITEC Kwara House 5, AP Street, Mbora, Abuja belongs to him. The commission said the property actually belongs to Abubakar Abdu Mohammed. EFCC said Mohammed, in 2014, “did use your office and position to confer corrupt and undue advantage upon your associates by allocating four numbers of fully detached duplexes and eleven numbers semi-detached duplexes valued at N314million only through the Presidential Tax Force on Sale of Government Houses to them…” The offence contravenes Section 19 of the ICPC Act 2000. A source said Mohammed would be arraigned today in Court 26, FCT High Court, Maitama. The charge is numbered CR/177/17. Mohammed of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) defeated incumbent Governor Mohammed Abubakar of the All Progressives (APC) in the last elections.