Majority power is more powerful than minority power. This logic of power is expected to prevail in the Ninth National Assembly.  With 65 senators-elect, the All Progressives Congress (APC) will clearly be the majority party in the next Senate.  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has 42 and the Young Progressive Party (YPP) has one. The APC will also be the majority party in the next House of Representatives with 223 seats. The PDP has 190 and other parties have 10. So there should be no confusion about which party should get the leadership positions in the upper and lower chambers of the Ninth National Assembly. Specifically, the President and Deputy President of the Senate, as well as the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, should be APC legislators. It is curious that there are those who think this clear situation is not so clear, or not clear enough. For instance, PDP spokesman Kola  Ologbondiyan said in a statement: “The PDP… does not only have a constitutional say in the process of the emergence of the leadership of the Ninth National Assembly, but will, as a matter of constitutional right, field candidates into presiding offices of both chambers, if need be.” Also, a former President of the Senate and PDP member, Senator David Mark, said to journalists at his residence in Otukpo, Benue State: “The election of the President of the Senate also translates to the selection of the chairman of the National Assembly because the person who emerges as the President of the Senate automatically becomes the chairman of the National Assembly. Nobody should interfere in the selection of President of the Senate. The senators should choose amongst themselves who should be their leader not based on number of political parties that won elections into the chamber.” That was Mark’s response to the question whether the Senate President should come from the ruling party, or the party that is the majority party in the Red Chamber. Mark, a retired Nigerian Army Brigadier General, was President of the Senate from 2007 to 2015 when his party was in power and the majority party in the Senate.  Now he thinks numerical strength does not matter, but it did when he was at the helm of the Senate. The outgoing Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu, had created an abnormal situation when Saraki, then an APC member, and Ekweremadu of PDP controversially combined to lead the Senate. Surely, that era of political absurdity is gone, and only absurd politicians would imagine minority party members in the major leadership positions in the Ninth National Assembly. APC’s National Publicity Secretary Lanre Issa-Onilu told reporters in Abuja:  “You have principal officers and all of them are determined by simple majority and because Nigerians have given us more than enough, we have enough to elect all our officers. We don’t need a single vote from PDP. In any case, we don’t envisage any election on that day because we are going to present our members to occupy these positions as the collective position of the party and all our members are experienced politicians who understand what this means.” He added: “When they get to the floor, they are going to read out the names and if the PDP so desires, they can bring a candidate up and follow that candidate with the number they have. It will be an exercise in futility for them to want to share from what Nigerians have taken from them. There are positions for minority party and the APC will not contest those positions because it belongs to them.” It is interesting that the majority party could become the minority party in the exercise to pick the principal officers of the next Senate.  A March 31 report said: “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has launched an audacious move to win to its side 13 All Progressives Congress (APC) Senators-elect as part of a grand design to hijack the leadership of the 9th Senate. But the alleged plot has leaked to the APC which has launched a counter move of its own to avoid a repeat of the 2015 infiltration of its ranks in the National Assembly by the PDP, highly placed party sources said.” The opposition party, which is the minority party, is reportedly targeting APC senators-elect from Borno, Abia, Oyo, Gombe, Bayelsa, Bauchi, Ogun, Kogi, Sokoto and Imo. What manner of APC senators-elect would yield to such absurd overtures that would give majority power to a minority party?  It is noteworthy that such absurdity has happened before in the Senate. With the help of senators from the majority party, APC, Ekweremadu of the minority party, PDP, became Deputy President of the Senate. Saraki, then an APC member, became President of the Senate through anti-party scheming. The result was a queer leadership combination.  Of course, the negative arrangement brought negatives. It remains to seen whether the APC would allow history to repeat itself.  The party must take advantage of its position as the majority party in the next national legislature, and ensure that it benefits maximally from majority power. If the party is supreme, then its members in the National Assembly have no reason to go against the party’s desire and decision. A functional interpretation of party supremacy must be informed by the logic of supremacy. Supremacy is supreme. Certainly, supremacy cannot mean infallibility. So the party can err. It does not guarantee fairness. So the party can be unfair. The essence of party supremacy is its conclusive collective voice. The path to follow is to enforce party supremacy erected on party discipline, party cohesion and party integrity; and that path must be followed wherever it may lead. It is important for the ruling party to have a productive relationship between its members in the executive arm of government and its members in the legislative arm of government. The people deserve good governance. The ruling party cannot afford to have its badge of progressivism torn to shreds by the party members themselves.  But this may happen if the party does not get its act together.