More than 240 Nigerian children die of hunger daily, according to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). One in three Nigerians also lives below the poverty line, with children and women more vulnerable. But an empowerment scheme to push back the scourge of malnutrition and poverty is on course. Tagged Noiler Bird Initiative, its promoters have been distributing dual purpose breed of chickens to small-holder poultry farmers, especially women across the county. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports that with more public-private sector partnerships, the initiative could be the template to banish or, at least, significantly reduce poverty and malnutrition. The walked up to the stage beaming with smiles and exuding as much confidence as her new-found financial freedom could allow. The occasion was the media campaign launch of Noiler Bird Initiative in Lagos, where Mrs. Olabisi Adepoju, a retiree from Osun State, Southwest Nigeria, gleefully annlounced that her emergence as one of the beneficiaries of the empowerment initiative marked a dramatic turnaround in her life and business. The retiree, who could barely hold her excitement, said, for instance, that she makes between 20 and 25 per cent profit from poultry farming since she embraced the programme, which distributes dual purpose chickens with very low maintenance to women in rural areas. “As a retiree, Noiler chicken farming pays me more than putting my money in investment houses. I make more in five weeks than I made while still working,” she said The Noiler Bird Initiative is a private sector-led empowerment programme aimed at taming and possibly, eradicating poverty and malnutrition among rural dwellers, especially women and youths in Nigeria. The scheme is being promoted by Amo Farm Sieberer Hatchery (AFSH) Limited, an agro-allied company based in Awe, Oyo State. Under the initiative, dual purpose breed of chickens developed for small-holder poultry farmers are distributed to rural dwellers especially women and youths. This was aimed at addressing their challenge of food insecurity and financial dependence. The Noiler bird has all the attributes of a native chicken, albeit with additional benefits of faster growth, less fat, tasty meat and more eggs. They also thrive on low inputs and can adapt to any environment, while also meeting the gap of nutritional security of Nigeria and other developing countries. The Group Managing Director (GMD), AFSH, Dr. Ayoola Oduntan, was emphatic that the programme was the solution to poverty and malnutrition currently ravaging Nigeria and hurting her chances of meeting the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 2030 Development Agenda. The SDGs are a collection of 17 global goals set by the UN General Assembly in 2015 for the year 2030. Among the 17 SDGs, ending extreme poverty is goal number one; achieving zero hunger is number two. Oduntan said the Noiler bird, which his company developed through years of research from 2003 to 2014, would held address the challenge of poverty, malnutrition, high maternal and child mortality faced essentially by women in the rural areas. According to him, the company’s research started when it began looking into the production of a dual purpose bird with very low maintenance, which can sustain the people and tackle the challenges they faced. “The initiative was developed for the grass root level in Nigeria and Africa at large. The bird is for backyard poultry production and they are developed to provide readily available source of egg and meat to tame malnutrition for households across the length and breadth of Nigeria and Africa,” he said. The Amo Farm GMD explained that the birds are affordable, enduring, and easy to handle. “They (Noiler birds) produce eggs four times more than their native counterparts. While the male matures to table weight of between 2.5kg 14 weeks, the native bird will take 10 months to get 1.5kg body weight,” Oduntan added. He reiterated that the objectives of the Noiler Bird Initiative are to curb hunger, give back impactfully and practically to the society at large; reduce maternal mortality; create additional income opportunity for women and youth in the rural areas, contribute to global food security, and encourage gender equality. The Nation learnt that as at March 2019, Amo Farm, in partnership with some local and international Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and some State Governments, has distributed over 12 million birds across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. The company also targets to distribute about 10 million Noiler birds this year. Adepoju, who is one of the lucky beneficiaries, admitted that the Noiler birds meant financial freedom for her and other rural women across the country. “It’s a very good deal,” she said, adding that apart from being a form of nutrition to rural women, many of them have become successful poultry farmers. Similarly, Mrs. Comfort Shalangwa, another beneficiary from Taraba State, has never looked back since the programme came on stream. She said she has been selling Noiler chicks to Almajiri boys in Taraba State order to empower them, even as internally displaced women in Borno state are also being trained on poultry farming in a bid to restart business activities. But beyond empowering women and youths, Oduntan, a graduate of Veterinary Medicine, said the gesture will help ensure that the estimated 90, 000 Nigerian children or more, whom the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) said could die of severe malnutrition, are safe and the quality of life in the rural areas in Nigeria, especially women, was improved by enhancing their income opportunities while providing quality source of proteins for them. Citing UNICEF statistics, which said more than 240 Nigerian children die of hunger each day, the GMD said: “It is the duty of all of us to ensure the figure is drastically reduced. We can’t continue to approach the international community cap in hand, begging for alms when we have all it takes to curb hunger and poverty in a nation described as the giant of the continent.” The Chief Operating Officer (COO), AFSH, Dr. Anand Burra, expressed optimism that the initiative would help eradicate poverty and malnutrition in Nigeria, especially in the rural areas where chicken and egg are still considered luxury foods. Indeed, majority of poor households in Nigeria cannot afford to buy chicken and eggs. According to experts, estimate of per capita egg consumption in the country is just60 eggs/person/year, while poultry meat consumption is about 2.3 kg/person/year. This is meager compared with the recommended daily protein intake requirement per person, which is put at 20grm/person/day.  Push for more partnerships to stem poverty, malnutrition Although AFSH has so far reached 12 million women across the country with its dual purpose Noiler birds, while targeting to empower 10 million others this year, the intervention is still considered a drop in the ocean. The consensus of experts is that for Nigeria to close the poverty gap and halt malnutrition, more public-private sector partnerships are required. This must be why Oduntan passionately called on corporate organisations and individuals to join hands and end hunger and poverty, which, according to him, have eaten deep into the fabrics of Nigeria. He warned that the scourge may consume the nation if not addressed head on. Noting that the success of the initiative so far was anchored in his company’s resilience to make huge impact with its goals, he said “The overall achievement of these goals will be dependent on collaboration, partnerships with institutions with the same goals, armed with the Noiler as an effective tool to surpass these goals.” He added that “to reach more people, we will need more institutions to join the Noiler Movement; we already staffed and equipped representatives who train and assist the women and recipients within 36 states in Nigeria and so we are equipped to produce results.” It is easy to see why the initiative is key to the fight against poverty and malnutrition, and why Oduntan believes that all hands must be on deck to tame the scourge. For one, the consensus of development experts is that Nigeria’s rankings on global poverty and malnutrition are scary and unenviable. For instance, one in three Nigerians lives below the poverty line, according to UNICEF. American research group Brookings Institution brought the reality nearer home when it said that with over 87 million people living in poverty, Nigeria has overtaken India as world’s poverty capital. The non-profit public policy organisation based in Washington, DC said Nigeria, as at the end of May 2018, had about 87 million people living in extreme poverty, compared with India’s 73 million. As if that was not unsettling enough for Africa’s largest and most populous economy, the report added that six Nigerians become poor every minute. This translates to 8, 640 Nigerians becoming poor every day. This, no doubt, explains why hunger and malnutrition have become endemic in Nigeria, with children and women said to be more vulnerable to these two greatest enemies of humanity. UNICEF’s Chief of Communications in Nigeria, Mr. Doune Porter, said 13 million Nigerians suffered from acute hunger in 2018 and that more than half of the population suffers hidden hunger, otherwise called malnutrition. The Fund also said malnutrition kills more people than some deadly diseases, with 40 per cent of infant deaths caused by malnutrition and hunger. It also said with newborn mortality rate of 29 deaths per 1, 000 births, Nigeria ranks 11th position on newborn deaths globally. Oduntan also said because of acute malnutrition, Nigeria’s burden of stunted growth among children is the second highest in the world. With 16.5 million affected, her burden of severe malnutrition is high, with an estimated 2.6 million children said to be malnourished. While these figures are no doubt, unacceptable for Africa’s largest and most populous nation desirous of joining the rest of the global community in meeting the SDGs, the consensus is that the situation has made the need for more collaborations and partnerships locally and globally more compelling. 