Residents of 10 communities located along Saint Saviour road in Benin City, Edo state have warned the firm constructing the road, NSIK Engineering not to cause flood to their houses. The residents said they were raising the alarm of the sub-standard road project being executed by the firm and lack of proper drainage to channel flood water to the Ikpoba River. Governor Obaseki had in October last year awarded the contract for the construction of the 15km St Saviour road project at a cost of N3. 55bn and the road is expected to be completed in 30 months. The bad condition of the St Saviour road destroyed economic activities of the various communities as there are little or no vehicular movement on the road especially during the rainy season. Those who spoke said they were surprised that the firm did not make provision for where the flood water would be discharged to. Speaking to newsmen in Bénin City, Pa Edward Osayi, said the drainage being constructed was too narrow to carry the huge volume of water. He said they were crying out because their house would be affected if the state certify the job as completed. General Manager of the firm, Kingsley Ediafioghor, said the construction was not of low standard but according to job specification given to them. Kingsley said a layman would not understand what they are currently doing on the road and added that the drainage size is what is in the design. He said the job was being delayed because of the discharge point that was not provided in the design by the consultant. His words, “The drainage size is what is in the design. It is what they asked us to do. It was even lesser than that. After negotiations and argument, we have to increase it. We wanted to widen it but they said they want to cut cost and it is what they can afford. It can take the volume of water. “If they respond to us fast and give us what we need, we will deliver on time. The discharge point was not in our bill and we cannot do what we were not paid for. “We are contractors. We have consultant and client (EDSOGPADEC). We made a proposal to the consultant on the need to provide a discharge point. We told them they designed the road without making provision for discharge point. They presented the proposal to the client, we are waiting for them. “If they told us to go ahead we will start it. We are waiting for their authorisation. The constraints on the road is discharge point. The work is moving slowly. If we have a discharge point, that is where we will start from. We can’t wait for them anymore because the communities cannot wait any longer. They want to see the road constructed. We need to do something for the people to see.” Chairman of the Edo State Oil and Gas Producing Areas Development Commission (EDSOGPADEC), Pastor Osifo Kennedy, said the people should be happy with Governor Obaseki for constructing the road. He said engineers were already working to resolve the issue and debunked allegations by the firm that non-provision of access point was causing delay in the project. 