The Oyo State House of Assembly on Tuesday charged officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) to adopt more tactical and civil approaches in enforcing arrest of erring drivers in their operations. The charge came following a recent auto crash involving some officials of the Corps and a commercial cab driver which resulted in the death and injury of about five persons in Moniya, Ibadan area of the Oyo state capital city. The lawmakers also called on the hierarchy of the Road Safety to investigate the incident and prosecute offenders, including their officials involved in the hot chase. The plenary, presided over by Speaker Olagunju Ojo, reminded the officials of the Corps to “strictly abide by its code of operations which abhorred chasing drivers to death, bearing in mind the need to respect human lives.” During an ensuring deliberation which followed a motion brought before the House by the Deputy Speaker, Mr. Abdulwasi Musah and the Majority Leader, Mr. Kehinde Subair, the lawmakers noted that FRSC rather than chase erring drivers, could simply take note of such number-plates and subsequently arrest drivers of such cars later. The motion had described as “unwarranted overzealousness” the hot pursuit of the commercial car that refused to stop at a checkpoint manned by FRSC officials around Ojoo which left at least one person dead and three others injured. Furthermore, the motion urged the FRSC to be more tactful in its operations of minimizing accidents, ensuring that safety measures are observed by road users, including getting their particulars. In their separate contributions, Mr. Fatai Adesina and Mr. Oyaleke Oyatokun bemoaned that FRSC officials rather than stick to their statutory duties were known for undue harassment and extortion of drivers. Mr. Gbenga Oyekola said the FRSC officials should be keener on ensuring that drivers have the right vehicle particulars. Wrapping up the deliberations, the Speaker urged the FRSC to remain diligent in its duties and not dent their image, while also urging the Nigeria Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and other drivers’ unions to prioritise training of their members on the need for them to be up to date with their vehicle particulars and adhere to rules of road usage and traffic signs.