 Former Super Eagles Coach Sunday Oliseh may have been listed among a whopping 82 coaches in running for Panthers of Gabon job. The Gabon Football Federation (Fegafoot) Wednesday announced that it has received a total of 82 applications for the vacant head coaching position. According to BBC Sport, the federation is yet to release names of the candidates who submitted applications before the 22 April deadline, but they have announced from which region the applicants reside.  According to Fegafoot, 14 of the coaches who have applied are Africans including four Gabonese nationals, which implies that 10 coaches applied from other African countries, 62 Europeans, five South Americans and one American are in contention for the position. Gabon sacked Daniel Cousin following the country’s failure to qualify for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. The Panthers finished third in qualifying Group C behind Mali and Burundi thus handing debutants Burundi the opportunity to taste action at the Nations Cup where they will face Nigeria, Guinea and fellow debutants Madagascar. Unconfirmed report around Fegafoot office in Libreville suggests that former Super Eagles coach Sunday Oliseh is among the other ten African coaches in the list.  Oliseh left the Eagles job in 2016 shortly after the Championship of African Nations Cup (CHAN) in Rwanda. He had controversial exit after having a running battle with his employers NFF, accusing some elements in the Glass House of sabotaging his effort. The former international shortly after leaving Eagles job handled Netherlands club side Fortuna Sittard. He parted ways with the club in February 2018 with the club claiming he was sacked for high handedness while former Juventus and Borussia Dortmund ace claimed he was fired for refusing to participate in illegal activities.  Oliseh’s experience both as a player and coach coupled with his fluency in French language is being cited as some of the qualities that may have endeared him to those rooting for him to grab the Panthers job. Interestingly Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr who took over after the departure of Oliseh, coached the Gabon national team between 2010 and 2012.