LAWMAKERS at the Lagos State House of Assembly yesterday at the plenary expressed happiness over the results of the 2019 general elections. They hailed the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, party stakeholders and constituents for their re-election. The House, which resumed yesterday after about two months recess, attributed their reelection to the 9th assembly to God, party leaders, the Speaker and their constituents. The lawmakers, who won reelection into the assembly, hailed the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, for intervening in their matters and for ensuring that they were victorious in the elections. In his contribution, Bisi Yusuff, representing Alimosho Constituency I, lauded former Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola, residents, party stakeholders and his family for standing by him to ensure his third term. Abiodun Tobun, representing Epe Constituency I, who also commended the people of Epe for supporting his third term, promised to serve the people more. In his contributions, Jude Idimogu from Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 2, also hailed Asiwaju Tinubu, Obasa and other APC leaders in his constituency for giving him the opportunity to serve for second term. Other lawmakers, who spoke during plenary include: Yinka Ogundimu (Agege I), Olusola Sokunle (Oshodi-Isolo I) and Setonji David (Badagry II) Others  were Nurudeen Solaja-Saka (Ikorodu II), Moshood Oshun (Lagos Mainland II), Noheem Adams (Eti-Osa I), Gbolahan Yishawu (Eti-Osa II), Ibrahim Layode (Badagry I), Fatai Mojeed (Ibeju-Lekki I) among others. Others such as Adefunmilayo Tejuosho (Mushin I) and Dipo Olorunrinu (Amuwo-Odofin I), who would not be returning to the House for Ninth assembly, also commended the people for the opportunity to serve. Olorunrinu, the only member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the House specifically stated that his heart was with the APC despite being in the PDP. Obasa lauded his colleagues for their support and loyalty and assured that Lagos had the capacity to soar higher than where it was presently operating. The Speaker urged the lawmakers to reciprocate the love and support received from the people during the elections and ensure that they do more for the people in the Ninth Assembly. Obasa said: “I want to thank all the members for praising me. You stood by us. So, we too should stand by you. “As we are thanking God, we cannot give thanks with ordinary mouth. Let us appreciate the people with our works. “Let us serve the people effectively so that they could see that we are working. “Let us ensure that we push Lagos State to be like a country. A state like California and Atlanta in the United States of America could stand on their own based on what they have been doing.” Obasa said the House could do a lot by working with the incoming governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The Speaker urged chairmen of the standing committees in the House to conclude their legislative duties before the end of the Eighth Assembly. He thanked the outgoing Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his developmental projects.