Indication emerged yesterday that the rift between the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji and the promoted Obas in Ibadanland constituting the Olubadan-in-Council may have further worsened. The aggrieved Ibadan Obas accused the Olubadan of denigrating the Olubadan institution by what they described as “illegal practices and apparent lack of regards for the council”. The Olubadan-in-Council, speaking through the Otun Olubadan, Oba Lekan Balogun, after a meeting held at Mapo Hall, Ibadan yesterday, said the actions of the paramount ruler called for urgent caution to forestall crisis. Oba Balogun, who lamented the crisis within the traditional council since the promotion of the new Obas, said it was sad that the Olubadan is destroying the system that brought him to the throne as a king. He said rather than recognise the position of the Olubadan-in-Council, Oba Adetunji conferred the duties of the entire council on one of his wives, who rules by proxy. Oba Balogun said: “We want to draw the attention of the people of Ibadan to some irregularities and illegalities embarked upon by the Olubadan. We are members of the Olubadan-in-Council, but we are being sidelined by the Olubadan. “Against tradition, Oba Saliu is running a one-man show, disregarding the Council. He appoints Mogajis (family heads) and Baales (village heads) without making any recourse to the council. Most of the things that he does are illegal. “For instance, the Olori is not a member of the Olubadan-in-Council but in his own case, the Olori unilaterally takes decisions on his behalf. “If Olubadan thinks we do not matter, we also can show that he doesn’t matter without us. He should not forget that when he was to be made the Olubadan, he rose through the council. We (the Olubadan-in-Council) made Olubadan out of him, he did not make us what we are, but we made him the Olubadan. “Kabiyesi, Oba Adetunji has turned the institution of Olubadan into personal affairs, which can be run at his wife’s whims and caprices, but which amounts to illegality. Contrary to their belief at the Popoyemoja Palace that Olubadan is an authority unto himself, we are telling the whole world that Olubadan only exists with his council. “The danger of what they are doing in the palace has been manifesting in the ridiculous action of appointing two or more Mogajis from the same compound, honouring people with Mogaji title based on friendship as well as ‘cash and carry’ award of Baales to undeserving people.” Contributing to the Obas’ submission, Oba Abiodun Kola-Daisi and Oba Hamidu Ajibade said there had been efforts by both individuals and organisations to ensure that peace reigns in the Olubadan-in-Council, but lamented that all such efforts had been scuttled by the wife of Kabiyesi (Olori Rasheedat), who insisted that her husband would not sit with his members of council. The Obas warned the newly installed Mogajis and Baales in Ibadan not to see their appointment as legal, saying that “their installations should be backed by the council before being recognized”. The aggrieved Obas were installed as crown-wearing Obas by the Subsidiary Legislation of Recognised Chieftaincies (Miscellaneous Provision) order on Page 389 Cap 28 section 1, 2, and 3 of the Chiefs Law of Oyo State. With their installation as traditional Obas on August 28, 2017, the members of the Olubadan-in-Council are expected to perform dual roles as lesser Obas and as well perform their roles as the highest advisory body to the Olubadan. Among the other Obas in attendance were Oba Eddy Oyewole, Oba Tajudeen Ajibola and Oba Gbadamosi Adebimpe.