Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has sworn in 14 commissioners and five advisers, with a warning that they may be sacked, if found displaying ineptitude and engaging in corrupt practices. Fayemi said the present administration penchant for transparency and accountability would not be compromised. The swearing in came after the names of the commissioners-designate were approved by the state’s House of Assembly. The governor said what the state needed at this time when it is financially-challenged is committed and visionary people, who are ready to sacrifice to make Ekiti great. The governor stated that the task to rebuilding Ekiti that would be of gains to all and sundry should be paramount to the appointees and not personal aggrandisement. He advised them to be prudent in the management of limited resources, considering lean resources available. Fayemi added that the inauguration signified the beginning and operation of a full-fledged state executive council since he assumed office in 2018. He said his government would be receptive to constructive criticism from members and that no one would be victimised for exercising such rights. “You all knew the state of our state before I was inaugurated and you could attest to the fact that we have raised the bar and change the landscape for better now within these few months.” The commissioners are: Dr. Adio Afolayan  (Local Government and Chieftaincy  Affairs), Dr. (Mrs.) Moji Yaya Kolade(Health and Human Services), Chief (Mrs.) Moji Fafure (Women Affairs), Mr. Emmanuel Foluso Daramola (Education, Science and Technology), Mr. Folorunso Olabode (Agriculture and Rural Development), Bamidele Faparusi (Infrastructure and Public Utilities) and Mr. Gbenga Agbeyo (Environment). Others include are Mr. Olusoga Davies (Trade and Investment), Mr. Sola Adebayo   (Works and Transport),  Mr. Michael Awopetu (Youths and Sports), Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua (Information and Orientation), Mr. Femi Ajayi (Budget and Planning), Alhaji Ayodele Jinadu (Regions Development and Special Duties) and Mr. Febisola Adewale (Lands and Housing). Also sworn-in as special advisers were: V.O Kolade (Special Adviser, Social Investments, Alhaji Ademola Bello(Special Adviser,  Inter – Party Relations and Allied Matters), Abiola Olowokere(Special  Adviser,  Legislative  Affairs), Dr. Sikiru Eniola(Special Adviser, Tertiary Education) and Dr. (Mrs.) Kofoworola Aderiye mni,(Technical Adviser , Education) Responding on behalf of the commissioners, Dr. Yaya-Kolade promised that they would justify the confidence reposed in them by performing their statutory duties without compromising the interest of the people. Fayemi on Tuesday kicked off 251 kilometres pipeline distribution project across the state estimated at N3,354,616,553.50. He said he started the initiative during his first term in office with intention to ensure every parts of Ekiti have access to uninterrupted water supply. The governor restated that his administration determination for all the strata of the people to enjoy infrastructure that can make their lives better remained resolute. He said the project will be jointly financed by the state government and the World Bank under the third national urban water sector reform project. Fayemi who spoke in Ado Ekiti during the official kick off of the 251 kilometres pipeline distribution project, said the project was part of the ways the people could reap the services attached to democracy.