Rugby Africa has notified Unions on the decision of its executive to cancel this year’s Silver Cup billed to hold at the Lagos Polo Club, Ikoyi in Lagos, Nigeria due to financial constraints. Nigeria was scheduled to play host to Ghana, Madagascar and Botswana in the Silver Cup Pool A from 6th-17th June, while Cote d’Ivoire was billed to host Senegal, Mauritius and Rwanda in Pool B from 15 – 23 June, with the winner of each pool meeting in a final match to determine the Silver Cup champions In a letter dated 10th April, 2019, signed by Rugby Africa President, Khaled Babbou and addressed to the Unions participating in the Rugby Africa Silver Cup and Gold Cup, Rugby Africa said the cancellation became imminent following Kwese Sports’ premature termination of sponsorship contract leaving the rugby body without adequate funding for the year 2019. Kwese Sports are Rugby Africa’s leading partner. Rugby Africa will advise on alternative format if feasible. “As you have been notified several times since last year after the bidding process – and this was confirmed during the General Assembly – the contract between Rugby Africa and Kwese Sports was prematurely terminated for no fault of ours. Sadly this leaves Rugby Africa with a gap in its 2019 budget which is currently not being compensated by other resources. “As presented in the 2018 financial statements, Rugby Africa also has a cash-flow deficit at the end of 2018 due to late payments from Kwese Sports regarding the 2018 licence fees. This is an added financial risk to monitor. “For these reasons, we regret to inform you that the 2019 Silver Cup and the 2019 Gold Cup tournaments are cancelled. Rugby Africa’s Exco is currently working in conjuction with World Rugby to suggest other formats of fifteen-a-side competitions which will be financially viable in 2019 and won’t jeopardize the future of Rugby Africa’s competitions. “At the same time, we are working on a new Rugby World Cup Qualifier model which needs to be sustainable, inclusive and attractive, Unions will be consulted in this process with an aim to release the final fixtures for 2020 in October 2019. “We understand that this decision may impact your own programme and will be a disappointment for your players. Rugby Africa’s Exco in collaboration with Steph Nel – Rugby Service Manager Africa for World Rugby – have considered many different approaches and although it was hard call to make, we felt that this was the only viable options. We do look forward to working with you on an exciting project for 2020. “We will come back to you shortly about possible other options for men’s fifteen-a-side competition in 2019 as well as the final dates and venue for the Olympic Qualifiers,” the letter read.