Musiliudeen Olaide Akinremi is the House of Representatives member-elect for Ibadan North Constituency. In this interview with reporters in Lagos, the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain speaks on his agenda for his constituency. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE was there. How did you feel when you received the news of your victory at the poll? It was like a dream come true, because when people told me there was a specific way they do it, I told them that if it was rigging, I was not interested. I said if I lose that means God doesn’t want me to win. I said to myself that if I could abandon my work overseas to come here, I must show people the right way to do politics, not the do-or-die that our people are used to. I put in my best and I thank God for rewarding my efforts so far with this sweet victory. What specifically were told about winning elections in this clime? They told me that people cook on the day of election and share money, but I declined because I have told my people the truth during the campaigns and I believe they are reasonable people. They already knew who they wanted to vote for, even if they are offered N10 million to do otherwise. I told them to vote so as to be able to send their children to school; I told them to vote so that they can be employed. I want to also appreciate my neighbours. They really did well, despite the fact that some persons were trying to buy their votes with hard currencies. I was able to win my opponents with a wide margin at my polling unit. I want to appreciate the chairman of the estate, Mr. Yele Matthew, for the great job he did. As the only person elected on the platform of the APC from the Ibadan axis, how do you intend to cope? It is God who caters for people. The same God that gave me the ticket at the APC primary, the same God that made me contest and people voted for me because of my good will, that same God will also help me to face the task. The reason why I’m going there is to make things easier for my people in Ibadan North Federal Constituency. The God who sees my heart will make things easier for me. What are the things you plan to do at the National Assembly? My greatest concern is our tertiary institution graduates who are yet to be employed. There should be a law that supports giving them incentives every month, something like welfare fees that they give in some foreign countries. We are also blessed in Nigeria, if not that some people are embezzling the money. In the last four years, the Buhari administration has retrieved most of the money carted away by looters. This is the money Buhari’s government will use to achieve certain things in the second tenure, so as to make people happy. So, I will be able to introduce the bill that unemployed graduates should be getting incentives. This will give them the opportunity to take care of themselves until they are employed. With this, only few of them will engage in atrocities. This is the law I want to introduce. I have also talked about canvassing for the creation of Ibadan state. Ibadan is so big, it is bigger than a number of states. The allocation coming will now be double: The one for Oyo State and that of Ibadan state. Government will now have the opportunity to initiate various developmental programmes. When did you join politics and what informed your decision? I was inspired by what I observed among politicians. I believe that the politician is supposed to be a servant of the people. But, from what I saw, the reverse is the case. So, that was what inspired me. I became interested in politics when I was overseas, in Canada, the US and particularly when I worked in Liberia and visited Nigeria regularly. That was about nine to 10 years ago. So, about nine years ago, I started gathering people, I started empowering people; got a place for them, especially where they could learn hair dressing and shoe making. When they graduate, their bosses would call me to pay some money. I have been doing that for about eight years now. I appreciate all. Very many of them today have means of livelihood to raise their families and are contributing to the economy in a meaningful way. Those who elected me in, I assure you that I won’t fail you. How many people have you empowered? Before the election, that was about four weeks ago, the number of beneficiaries was 3,720. Thereafter, I decided that if I am holding a political office, I would be able to expand the empowerment programme. Again, I requested for people who have the intention of pursuing further studies or those who had dropped out because of financial limitations. They gave me a list of people; majority of them were total strangers. Once they give me their names, I would enlist them and pay their tuition. But one thing I do is that I don’t give the beneficiaries cash. I only ensure that the money is paid directly to the institution, so that the money will not be misappropriated. At the moment, we have 237 students from primary 3 to SSS 3 benefiting from our scholarship. Also, we have some people we support in tertiary institutions. The one we’ve established in Yemetu now inspires me, and I thought that if I become a public office holder, we will be able to expand it. They said there is something called constituency allowance which can go a long way in contributing to what I’ve been doing from my pocket. It will also bring about continuity, because I have been asking myself how I would continue what I’ve been doing for eight years now. That was why I entered politics and since I’ve started participating in politics, we’re still doing what we’ve been doing before. It was in 2017 that I decided to vie for the House of Representatives.