Heads of various security agencies in Abia State have vowed to raid all the identified criminal hideouts in Aba, the commercial nerve of the state and other parts of the state. This was disclosed by the Abia State Commissioner of Police, CP Ene Okon at the Aba Area Command while flagging off Operation Puff Addar in compliance in Aba with the order of the Ag. Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu to tackle cases of cultism, kidnapping, armed robbery and other violent crimes in the state and the country at large. According to Okon, the launching of the Operation Puff Addar in Aba was deliberate as the place of the commercial city to the economic development of the state and the country was a whole cannot be overemphasized and as such demand that efforts should be put in place to ensure that there was security of lives and property in order to promote business and economic activities in the state. The Abia Police chief while calling on its personnel to be professional, eschew corruption, violence and intimidation of members of the public, also asked them to rely more on intelligence gathering while performing their duties. Also stating that the operation would hinge on international best practices and in compliance with the rule of engagement, Okon disclosed that there will be intensive deployment of foot and vehicular patrol within the period the operation would last. “Today, Abia State Command is launching its own operation Puff Addar in the state to curb armed robbery, kidnapping, cultism and other violent crimes within the state,” Okon said. The Abia CP went on to link the upsurge of criminal activities in the state to some hoodlums who may have assisted some politicians in the state to carry out some duties during the election who now have nothing to do except bringing terror to the society. He said: “This is a veritable way of telling the members of the public that the increase in crime rate in Abia, is not tolerated by us as such, something have to be done and that’s why we have to key in to the vision of the IGP by flagging off this operation. “This is not a mere ceremony. It’s an operation that will be carried out throughout Abia State. We have deliberately decided to pick Aba as the venue for the launching because of the peculiar nature of Aba and increase in crime rate. “You’ll agree with me that, the past three weeks and so, people have being very apprehensive due to incessant kidnapping and armed robbery which is not giving us very good image. “Flagging off of this operation today, is aimed towards eradicating the aforementioned crimes. We have all the strategies put in place to curb them all.” He revealed that Operation Puff Addar in Abia State will be anchored by Area Commanders and tactical Commanders who will be in charge of carrying out an already drawn operational order which will last for a very long time. “Personnel of this operation will carry arms and riot equipment. It is going to an intensive vehicular and foot patrol operation. “Members of the public may feel that we are going to inconvenient them, but we want you to understand that the inconveniences will be little and it’s for your own interest. “In this wise, we are going to carry out effective raid on every nooks and crannies of this state where we suspect criminals have turned to their hideouts.” The Abia CP however, urged members of the public to give useful information that will help us to get rid of these criminals. “We deserve a crime free society, a serene society and one that is habitable for investment. Aba is the commercial hub of the South East and other South South State and should not be place for criminals to dwell,” he said. In his speech, the Transitional Committee (TC) chairman of Aba North Local Government Area, Barr. Charles Esonu who spoke on behalf of his Aba South counterpart, Chief NCNC Okoli that was unavoidably absent promised to support the police and other security agencies in the state to realize the aim of the exercise in Aba and the state at large. Esonu who stated that crime isn’t respecter of any man warned those who are not ready to comport themselves and be law-abiding citizens to consider relocating from the state as the government and security agencies would not fold its arms to watch anybody or group of persons cause breach of peace in Aba North and South and any other parts of the state. The Aba North TC chairman who lamented the spate of cultism in the commercial town also warned parents to caution their children against being lured into or being used to cause trouble in the state. Meanwhile, HRH Eze Monday Ugbo, the traditional ruler of Aba-Ukwu Autonomous Community who spoke on behalf of the traditional rulers urged the police to intensify fight against cultism suggesting that it is small cultists that grow to become big armed robbers. “In some areas in Aba, nobody is safe. I urged the CP to stop the cultists before they grow up and become serious armed robbers. They go to people’s house to collect money and beat people up without any control. “I am not safe myself, but I have to speak out. I beg you to beam the torchlight of Operation Puff Addar to cultists in Aba,” the king pleaded. In his remarks, the Aba Area Commander, Peter Okpara urged members of the public to provide the police and other security agencies in the state information about the activities of hoodlums in their neighbourhood, stressing that his office is always open for anyone that would want to come to his office to give out useful information about criminals in their area. Highlight of the event that attracted heads and representatives of heads of other security agencies in attendance was the flagging off exercise of the security operation by the Abia State Commissioner of Police. 