A trace element necessary for a healthy immune system, zinc helps to stimulate the activity of about 100 enzymes in human body. A lack of zinc can make a person more susceptible to diseases and illnesses, writes VINCENT IKUOMOLA For Aminatu Abubakar, a grandmother, it would have been a double jeopardy if she had lost her grandchild to diarrhea. Her daughter died when the baby was just five months, leaving the child as a source of consolation to her. Another tragedy also struck when the child became sick as a result of zinc deficiency. Abubakar said: “He was having diarrhea and I tried using traditional medicine. But unfortunately, it did not work. I then decided to try the hospital. When I took him to the hospital where Plan International is implementing the project, many people thought he would not survive because his body was very weak. The nurse was angry with me for not coming to the hospital early, and that the child was already in a terrible condition.” But the boy survived. He was placed on zinc supplement, as directed by the physician, and the diarrhea stopped almost immediately. “When I continue giving the child the supplement, I discovered that his body began to change. I then took him back to the hospital and showed the nurse the level of improvement,” she said. Abubakar applauded Plan International for the intervention, and advised women to always take their children to hospital whenever they notice any abnormality. Beyond saving a dying child, the implementation of iron and folic acid for pregnant women and zinc scale-up project has helped in the reduction of child mortality in the northern parts of the country. Currently, the country is running a pilot scheme, which is being implemented by Plan International, in five northern states of Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara, Jigawa and Katsina. The project, funded by Micronutrient Initiative, is aimed at reducing maternal and child mortality through the improvement of zinc intake. Zinc is said to be responsible for many functions in the human body, and it helps stimulate the activity of at least 100 various enzymes. Only a small intake of zinc is necessary to reap the benefits. The element is naturally found in many foods, but it is also available as a dietary supplement. Zinc is an important aspect of nutrition, and its intake deficiency can occur if there is not a high enough consumption from diet or supplementation. Zinc is known to play a critical role in biological processes, including cell growth, differentiation and metabolism and deficiency in this micronutrient restricts childhood growth and decreases resistance to infections, which contribute significantly to morbidity and mortality in young children. Although severe zinc deficiency is rare in humans, mild to moderate deficiency may be common, especially in populations with low consumption of zinc-rich animal-source foods and high intakes of foods rich in phytates, which inhibit zinc absorption. Doctors said mild to moderate deficiency may be difficult to diagnose, as signs and symptoms such as increased susceptibility to infections and growth retardation are shared with other nutrient deficiencies and childhood illnesses. Deficiency in children can lead to growth impediments and increased risk of infection. It is said to be very important during pregnancy and lactation, which means women need extra zinc, experts said. A recent global report estimates had indicated that over a quarter of children under 5 years of age are stunted, and consequently are at an increased risk of dying and other adverse consequences throughout life. Zinc deficiency can severely impair immune system function. According to a study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, “zinc-deficient persons experience increased susceptibility to a variety of pathogens.” Normally, zinc deficiency is due to insufficient dietary intake. However, it may also be due to mal-absorption and chronic illnesses such as diabetes, malignancy (cancer), liver disease, and sickle cell disease. Signs of zinc deficiency include loss of appetite, anemia, slow wound healing, skin conditions such as acne or eczema, abnormal taste and smell, depressed growth, altered cognition, depression (more research needed), diarrhea and hair loss. Zinc deficiency during pregnancy may increase the chances of a difficult or prolonged birth. The benefits of zinc are so numerous. Medical professionals said it is vital for a healthy immune system, correctly synthesising DNA, promoting healthy growth during childhood, and healing wounds. It regulates immune function and, according to the European Journal of Immunology, the human body needs zinc to activate T lymphocytes (T cells), which help the body in controlling and regulating immune responses attacking infected or cancerous cells. Zinc is also good for treating diarrhea. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), diarrhea kills an astonishing 1.6 million children under five yearly. Zinc pills may help reduce diarrhea. Zinc is also believed to have effects on learning and memory. According to a research conducted at the University of Toronto, zinc has a crucial role in regulating how neurons communicate with one another, affecting how memories are formed and how we learn. Zinc is also said to be good in the treatment of common cold. In a study published in the Open Respiratory Medicine Journal, zinc lozenges were found to shorten the duration of common cold episodes by up to 40 per cent. In addition, a Cochrane review concluded that taking “zinc (lozenges or syrup) is beneficial in reducing the duration and severity of the common cold in healthy people, when taken within 24 hours of onset of symptoms.” In wound healing, zinc plays a role in maintaining skin integrity and structure. Patients experiencing chronic wounds or ulcers often have deficient zinc metabolism and lower serum zinc levels. Zinc is often used in skin creams for treating diaper rash or other skin irritations. A Swedish study that analysed zinc in wound healing concluded: “Topical zinc may stimulate leg ulcer healing by enhancing re-epithelialisation, decreasing inflammation and bacterial growth. When zinc is applied on wounds, it not only corrects a local zinc deficit but also acts pharmacologically.” However, research has not consistently shown that use of zinc sulfate in patients with chronic wounds or ulcers is effective at improving healing rate. Zinc prevents cellular damage in the retina, which helps in delaying the progression of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and vision loss, according to a study published in the Archives of Ophthalmology. Several studies and trials have linked poor zinc status with low sperm quality. For example, one study in the Netherlands found that subjects had a higher sperm count after zinc sulfate and folic acid supplementation. In another study, researchers concluded that poor zinc intake may be a risk factor for low quality of sperm and male infertility. The best sources of zinc are beans, animal meats, nuts, fish and other seafood, whole grain cereals, and dairy products. Zinc is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Vegetarians may require up to 50 per cent more than the recommended intake of zinc because of low bioavailability of zinc from plant-based foods. Adequate zinc intake is especially important for children because even mild zinc deficiency can impede growth, increase risk of infection, and increase risk of diarrhea and respiratory disease. The recommended intake for children that are one to eight years old ranges from three to five milligrams, increasing as the child gets older. Males that are nine to 13 years require eight milligrams of zinc per day. After 14 years, the requirement increases to the 11 milligrams per day that is required for all adult males. For females over the age of eight, the requirement stays stable at eight milligrams per day, except for ages 14-18, where the recommendation increases to nine milligrams daily. Pregnant and lactating women have an increased need for zinc at 11-13 milligrams per day, depending on age. Zinc supplements are also available in the form of capsules and tablets. However, the tolerable upper limit for zinc is 40 milligrams for males and females over 18. It also said that isolating certain nutrients in supplement form will not provide the same health benefits as consuming the nutrient from a whole food. Therefore, efforts should be geared towards obtaining daily zinc consumption. However, there is also a note of warning that excessive zinc intake can be harmful. Adverse effects of severely high zinc intake may include nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, stomach pains, headaches and diarrhea. Excess zinc may suppress copper absorption, according to a study published in Biological Trace Element Research.