Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has won 13 out of the 15 Local Government Area (LGA) already collated by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). At the resumed collation on Tuesday, the State returning officer, Prof. Teddy Adias, said 17 LGAs would be collated. They are: Port Harcourt city LGA, Ikwerre, Emoahua, Ahaoda-East, Ogba/Egbema/ Ndoni, Etche, Omuma, Okrika, Akuku-Toru, Tai, Eleme, Oyibo, Andoni, Bonny and Opobo/Nkoro. While the PDP candidate (Wike) won in 13 of the LGAs, his closest contender and candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), Biokpamabo Awara won in Oyibo and his Akuku-Toru LGAs. Reacting to the development the representative of Awara at the exercise, Nenye Kocha expressed disappointment with the figures announced, alleging fowl play. “Actually we appear to be in the dark as it were, as to what has happened. It is said INEC had 17 LGAs. “They know what were in these LGAs even though we had the assumption that we were leading, we were winning but we have come here now to see what is happening and it appears to be a departure from what we had in mind. “In terms of transparency, the process here today was transparent, but in terms of the figures we are seeing it was not our expectation. “We are going to review the issues, we are going to look at the whole gamut of things that has happened within the period the process was said to be suspended.” PDP agent at the exercise, Hon. Austin Opara, expressed satisfaction with the outcome and apologised to the residents of the state for the difficulty the elections has caused them. “PDP is coasting clearly. We believe that this is going to be a new Rivers state. “The state cannot continue to be in the news for the wrong reason, we believe that at the end of this, this will be a new beginning for the state.” Prof. Adias, while adjourning the sitting, said the two outstanding results would be collated on Wednesday after which decisions will be taken on the other six LGAs whose results are yet to be received by INEC. He, however, did not reveal the list of the said LGAs, but assured stakeholders collation was ongoing at various levels in the LGAs.