From conception to delivery, it was a seamless process. This was because the idea that gave birth to Androcare Fertility Centre (AFC) was properly distilled in clarity of purpose. Unlike the usual practice of concentrating fertility treatment hospitals in highbrow areas to cater primarily for the moneyed elites, Androcare decided to pitch its tent with the masses by building an ultra-modern fertility treatment hospital in Akowonjo, a Lagos suburb. A risky venture, especially given the massive investment involved, but Dr. Adeleke Daramola, Androcare medical director, said it was a conscious decision to take fertility treatment to the doorstep of everybody; instead of concentrating all the energy, expertise and resources on the affluent alone. The decision was taken six years ago, and it seems to have paid off with success stories of people who have bought into Androcare’s goals to “help individuals, couples succeed in their attempt to have a child.” What this means, he added, is that affordability without compromising quality is a component of service package on offer at the hospital. “Androcare is a centre for those on the streets not only for the rich. By this, what we mean is that we do not want IVF to be only for the rich. Everybody should have access. We know IVF is an expensive process and unaffordable for many as a result. That is one of the reasons we are here. We want to help many people to find a way to enable them achieve results they desire. “We are bringing fertility to the streets because there are infertile couples that wait for years for a miracle to have a baby because they cannot afford to pay for IVF. We do not want it to be like that. It would be nice for those without the money to pay for IVF to be parents also. We make the cost of IVF not to be scary for people. We are trying to offer something that is cheap, but also of quality standard. We have the ideal standard embryonic laboratory; this also determines the success of the treatment as a whole. We don’t try to scare people away to achieve conception,” Daramola said. While clarifying that it is not everybody that experiences difficulty in getting pregnant that requires IVF procedure to have a baby, Dr. Charles Oluwabukunmi Kolade, Androcare gynaecologist/chief operating officer, advised that it makes sense for all couples who have struggled to get pregnant for upward of one year to subject themselves to investigations without any further delay, preferably both wife and husband. And for couples who are 35 or older, he urged that they should not wait for up to a year before carrying out clinical investigations, adding they should seek help after trying to get pregnant for six months without success. He stressed that the same advice goes for people who experience irregular menstrual cycles, who have a high history of pelvic infections, who have a history of tubal pregnancy, or those who have experienced two or more miscarriages. On the emotional but common issue of unexplained infertility, which is a condition whereby fertility-challenged couples are told that there is no explanation for their inability to conceive, Daramola said anyone with such diagnosis should not see it as a death sentence. There is always hope, he said. With the advent of Sperm Chromatin Assay Structure (SCSA), he said it is possible to find out the DNA make-up of sperm cells, which is a procedure that digs deeper into the roots of the problem. “This procedure helps many couples to know the next step to take, whether to go straight for IVF treatment or for Intra-cytoplasmic Sperm Injection, ICSI, which is an advanced treatment for low sperm count and other problems with sperms produced by the man himself or donor sperm. This procedure has opened doors and made couples smile.” He said most causes of infertility could be prevented if people are armed with information on the right things to do and not to do; stressing that prevention is always better and cheaper than cure. Apart from low sperm count in men which is said to be caused by varicoceles (an enlargement of the veins within the loose bag of skin that holds testicles or scrotum), he also listed blocked fallopian tubes in women as the most common causes of inability to get pregnant for many Nigerian couples. Unfortunately for men, low sperm count is a problem that increasingly gets worse every year, with actual cause still largely unknown. “Men have enlarged veins in their scrotum which starts from childhood, and if not early detected and corrected, could lead to zero sperm count in the future,” he warned. According to Kolade, testicular mumps affect a man’s fertility from childhood, stressing that this is why mothers should be observant and check their male child’s testicles regularly because if the testes are not in their normal position by the time a boy is four years , he may be infertile for life. “The problem must be fixed before he attains four, not even at five or six. This and other abnormalities happen over a period of time, but can be corrected when detected early.” As for blocked fallopian tubes arising from pelvic infections that are not properly treated, he urged young ladies to take care of such things before they snowball into bigger problems in the future. He urges vaginal swab or microscopic culture for any woman experiencing vaginal discharge that is white or yellow, with or without odour, which may be accompanied with pelvic pain in the left lower side of the abdomen. “These are signs of infections and it is important for ladies to properly get treated when they see such signs,” he said. Besides IVF, AFC also renders services that make dreams come true for many couples through artificial insemination (IUI), sperm banking, gender selection, sperm genetics, advanced andrology screenings, karyotyping, fertility laboratory services, sperm donor programme, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), sperm preparation, pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD), and intracytoplasmic morphologically selected sperm injection (IMSI). Another unique feature of Androcare that sets it apart from other fertility care homes in the country is that it runs a fertility academy in its premises. According to the owners, having a fertility academy in the hospital will enable doctors that want to specialise or have training in fertility medicine to do so in the country, instead of going abroad. “Normally doctors interested in this specialist field in Nigeria travel abroad, as there are no such facilities in Nigeria. We are one of the pioneers of training for healthcare providers interested in fertility medicine. We have things in place for them to be trained.” Another reason for establishing the academy, Daramola explained, is because the number of couples battling with infertility is high, while there are not enough fertility doctors to help restore smiles on their faces. “Averagely, 10 per cent of Nigerian couples have issues with fertility and we lack enough doctors to cater for the problem. So, we are helping to train doctors as that would make the work easier and enable everyone to have access to fertility treatment,” he said.