A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers state, Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, has urged Governor Nyesom Wike not to link the Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi with the crisis witnessed in the state during the last elections. Eze made the admonition Monday in an online statement. Wike, a chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), shortly after last week’s Supreme Court’s judgements involving cases filed by members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in a state broadcast, pleaded with Amaechi, his predecessor, who is the leader of APC in Rivers state and the Southsouth zone, and other chieftains of the party (APC) to join him to move the state forward, promising that political court cases against APC members would be discontinued. Eze, however, said: “Wike’s state broadcast, among other deficiencies, failed to address the critical issues bedeviling the State, especially insecurity and loss of value for human lives. The starting point for Rivers governor ought to have been an unreserved apology to Rivers people, because he (Wike) engineered the insecurity, which has destroyed many communities in Rivers State. “Contrary to the erroneous impression contained in Wike’s state broadcast, Amaechi has no case that Wike’s Attorney-General has to withdraw or recommend to be discontinued, as it is hypocritical to sit on a seat of the governor unjustly and look for who to hold peace parley with. “Neither the Transportation Minister nor the APC is the cause of the current bad governance in Rivers State. Wike, through his lack of vision and ineptitude, has turned the once economically bubbling, secure and peaceful state into a hotbed of cultism, killings, kidnapping and an unsafe haven. Persons who are responsible for the criminal activities are those Rivers governor and his PDP are backing and protecting.” The APC chieftain also stated rather than wasting time on empty broadcast, Wike should be preparing his defence at the election petitions tribunal, declaring that the manipulated and massively-rigged elections would not stand. He said: “It is sad that instead of Wike to address challenging issues confronting the people of Rivers State, he is dwelling so much on the crisis he ignited in Rivers APC, to his benefit. “While Wike was reading his state broadcast, medical doctors were protesting non-payment of their seven-month salaries. Pensioners and civil servants are at a loss on who to present their plight of non-payment of their pensions and salaries for many months to.” Eze also stated that pursuance of peace without social justice, mapping of strategies on the creation of jobs for the teeming qualified youths and elimination of hunger, amelioration of the plights of the civil servants, pensioners and most importantly strategies on restoration of security in Rivers state, would not bring about the much-desired results. 