• Telcos allege threat to national security The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) yesterday threatened to pull down over 7,000 telecoms masts and towers across the country over Aviation Height Clearance (AHC). Its spokesman, Sam Adurogboye, told reporters, that the NCAA has given the operators a 30-day ultimatum to get the clearance for their masts. He said the aviation industry regulator  was compelled to recourse to this line of action because the telcos failed to obtain the statutory AHC without which the masts and towers constitute danger to safety of air navigation. Adurogboye said under the Civil Aviation Act, 2006, Section 30(3)(1), the NCAA is empowered to prohibit and regulate the installation of any structure which by virtue of its height or position is considered to endanger the safety of air navigation. He said: ”Furthermore, the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs) Part 12.1.7.1.3.1 stipulates that No person or organisation shall put up a structure (permanent or temporary) within the navigable airspace of Nigeria unless such a person or organisation is a holder of Aviation Height Clearance Certificate granted under this Regulation.” Consequent upon this provision, the Regulatory Authority requires an Aviation Height Clearance (AHC) approval for every tower installation irrespective of the height and location.” Contrary to the regulations, he said promoters of  telecoms and other defaulters have failed to obtain the mandatory AHC which is a violation of safety regulations. He said several letters and entreaties sent to the telcos were not responded to despite that they were received by the relevant executives and duly acknowledged. He said: ”In addition, Letters of Investigation (LoI) were written and delivered to them with no response recorded till date.” He said in a meeting with the Director-General, early this year, the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) members were advised by the DG to ensure they obtain AHC. Reacting to this threat, ALTON warned that the NCAA will be putting national security under threat should it go ahead with its threat. It accused the agency of acting against the spirit of the understanding reached at the meeting. Its Chairman, Gbenga Adebayo, in a telephone conversation, said the meeting became controversial as it did not agree on the demand for yearly renewal of AHC because the height does not increase. He said an agreement was however reached that an industry working group be set up comprising the telcos and infrastructure providers, adding that while ALTON’s members list was submitted to NCAA, the aviation regulator never did. Adebayo wondered if the NCAA has also been given revenue target by the Federal Government to meet, arguing that its action was not driven by safety but by desire to boost revenue generation. Adurogboye said at the meeting, representatives  of the companies were present and were asked questions concerning their  refusal to obtain Aviation Height Clearance Certificate. He said: “In response, the delegates demanded to be furnished with the location of the masts. A booklet containing the coordinates and location of the masts has since been made available to the organisation. “As a result of the meeting, other telecoms providers have implicitly demonstrated considerably compliance by duly obtaining the requisite height clearance from the Authority except for these few defaulters.” 