THE Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Defence, who also chairs the Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON), Mrs. Naratu Batagarawa, has said the local content policy will always be first when DICON signs a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with its foreign partners. The Chairman spoke while addressing the board’s 102nd meeting at DICON Headquarters in Kaduna. She said besides assembling finished products, the corporation should emphasise local content and discourage pseudo economic growth because the nation needed a solid productive base to collaborate with defence-related industries. Mrs. Batagarawa hailed the Director General, Maj Gen Bamidele Ogunkale’s efforts in repositioning DICON, adding that the ministry was keen on DICON’s production activities. She added that local production should be encouraged, stressing what we produce locally must not be part of the MoU with foreign defence-related industries. “Our focus to establish Military Industrial Complex (MIC) aimed at taking care of all ordnance requirements of the Nigerian armed forces in accordance with President Muhammed Buhari’s directive is sacrosanct. This cannot be done without placing special emphasis on indigenous technology, she said.” The chairman also stressed no foreign or local defence-related industries could penetrate the Nigerian market without passing through DICON, noting that the market ought to be DICON’s unique selling proposition cum bargaining power. Speaking on some projects with direct impact on production, the chairman hailed the world-class laboratory upgraded at DICON R&D Centre; the 50-bedroom hostel for the proposed DICON Institute of Technology; and the DG Guest House, saying these projects would turn the fortunes of DICON around. Maj Gen Ogunkale, in his report on the corporation’s progress, said DICON went into full production of 7.62 x 39mm ammunition last year and supplied the Army about five million rounds. He said the corporation supplied Nigeria Immigration Service ballistic vests and other ordnance requirements, noting that his leadership also focused on welfare, by building houses for workers, while renovating old accommodation. Maj Gen Ogunkale said the 50-bedroom accommodation for the DICON Institute of Technology was aimed at meeting one of the conditions for accreditation by the Nigeria Board of Technical Education (NBTE). He listed testing laboratories at DICON Research and Development Centre as one of the achievements under his leadership, saying the DG Guest House was remodelled to international standard to boost its image before foreign and local partners as well as generating revenue. “The welfare of DICON staff is directly proportional to their industrial output, hence I have placed keen interest on staff welfare, which has been deliberately structured in my pledge enunciated as soon as I assumed office and I have been guided by it.”