Labour and Employment Minister, Dr Chris Ngige, yesterday said the appointment of Chief Frank Kokori as chairman of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) never got presidential approval. The minister dismissed the claims by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), saying Kokori lacks the requisite experience to lead the fund. A statement in Abuja, by the Special Assistant to the minister, Nwachukeu Obidiwe, faulted NLC’s claims. Obidiwe claimed that the appointment of Chief Kokori as Chairman of the NSITF board was never transmitted to the President for approval, as required by the act establishing the fund, which empowers the minister to transmit the name to the President for approval. According to him, the name of the replacement for Kokori as chairman of the board followed due process and got the presidential approval. He said: “You know what has happened in that place in the recent past. “The NSITF needed somebody with the required knowledge and experience and the new chairman is very qualified, as a chartered accountant and an Insurance expert, who has what it takes to reposition the place. On the other hand, Kokori does not have what it takes to manage the place. “The minister also did not receive any vehicle from NSITF. The only vehicle they advanced to the ministry is attached to the Minister of State and that vehicle was only to ease means of transport. It still belong to the fund.” Obidiwe told The Nation that the minister set up an inter-ministerial committee comprising of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, among others. He said the committee spent about three months to carry out its assignment and visited several offices of the fund. Obidiwe said: “If they spent N18 million in the process of trying to recover over N2 billion, I don’t think that is too much.” The statement accused the NLC of frustrating government representative from taking their rightful place on the board of Trustfund Pension in which he said the government equity had risen from 40 to 42 per cent and held in trust by the NSITF, whose managing director seats on the board. The minister’s aide alleged that the NLC was trying to hijack Trustfund pension, hence its opposition.