Abia State government has announced its readiness to offset the medical bill of a female victim that survived attempt by a Fulani herdsman to sniff out life from her at Ogbor ancient Kingdom in Aba North Local Government Area of the state. This was disclosed by the wife of the State Governor Deaconess Nkechi Ikpeazu when she paid unscheduled visit to the victim, Esther Ibem-Nmecha at the Aba General Hospital where she has in the past two weeks been receiving medical attention. Ibem-Nmecha, a single mother was fortnight ago attacked by a Fulani herdsman identified as Garuba Salisu at No. 1 Peppels road behind the popular Enyimba Hotel on Aba-Ikot Ekpene expressway after she had asked him to remove his cows from her business premises. Abia First Lady who was said to have visited the hospital on her return from visit overseas directed the management of the hospital to ensure that they gave Esther the best treatment and medical services that would enhance her recovery speed. Deaconess Ikpeazu who was touched with the condition of the victim who was in pains throughout the stay of the First Lady assured that the state government would ensure that the matter wasn’t swept under the carpet. “I just came back and heard about what happened and I decided to come by myself. The governor has said that the government will settle every medical bill. “I’m therefore pleading with the hospital management to do whatever you can do and be assured that government will take care of everything. “I know that the man who did this is already in the custody and the government is not keeping silent. Something must be done to see that we don’t have this kind of thing again,” she said. Speaking to journalists, the Chief Executive, Hospital Management Board of Abia State, Dr. Ngozi Nduka said that efforts are on ground to pull specialists to see how the victim can still make use of her severed left hand. “We have prosthesis. We are going to invite plastic surgeons to see what they can do. The fingers are already off. We are not going to fix them back because they didn’t come with her. “She came here without those fingers. If the Plastic surgeons wants to have her fingers fixed with prosthesis (artificial fingers) then she can still use those fingers. “Thank God it’s on her left fingers except if she is left handed. So, I believe that with the plastic surgeons coming in, there could be some forms of rehabilitation to ensure that her finger is still usable.” Nduka who said she cannot estimate the exact amount the surgery may cost, went further to say that it will cost a lot. She appreciated the Abia first lady for her visit and assurance that the government will foot every medical bill involved. Also speaking, the Transitional Committee Chairman of Aba North Local Government Area, Barr. Charles Esonu assured that he would make sure that the attacker, Garuba Salisu who is already remanded in prison would face full trial. Esonu further disclosed that he has started interacting with the Hausa-Fulani community in the local government to ensure that there won’t be any recurrence. According to him, he would also reach out to the members of the State House of Assembly to see how the anti-grazing law in the state would be further strengthened. 