It was a joyful mood to teachers, pupil and parents of St Peter’s Church Primary School, Iyesi Ota in Ogun State penultimate weekend when the District 404B1 Governor of International Association of Lions Clubs, Olalekan Babalola inaugurated the construction of block of four classrooms donated by Ota Doyen Lions Club under the District to the school. The non-governmental organisation also inaugurated a standard borehole water system, with reservoir tanks donated by Ota Esteem to Local Government Primary School 1, Otun Ota, while Ota County as well donated the sum of N200, 000 to supplement the feeding and school fees of physically challenged pupils of Yewa College, Ilaro in Yewa Local Government Area. The event marked the District Governor’s visitation to Region eight and nine in accordance with the laid down principle of Lions Club International and to inaugurate the project of each club under the District during his tenure as the Governor. Speaking at the event, Lion Babalola said the reason for the intervention was to improve the standard of education at the grassroots, adding that the gesture would improve the standard of education in the area. He said Lions Club was established to render humanitarian services to the less-privileged in the society, adding that the gesture covers areas of health, education, feeding, empowerment and environment, among others. Babalola said apart from the projects that were inaugurated, the District had paid for cataract surgery for more than 15,000 people who have poor eye sight, rendered treatment for over 10,000 diabetes patients, feeding over 10,000 people, among other gestures. He said 80 per cent of the disease killing people in the society are curable. Babalola appealed to government, organisations and individuals to join the course of rendering supports to the less-privileged to eradicate poverty and criminality in the society. Responding on behalf of the teachers, pupils and parents, the head teacher of Local Government Primary School 1, Otun Ota Mrs B. M. Ariyibi commended the groups for the projects, especially the potable water which will help in the improvement of the pupils’ and teachers’ hygiene. She said water is very essential in the life of man, animals and plants, adding that without water there would be no life. She promised that the projects will be used judiciously. The Onikotun of Otun Ota, Oba Hakeem Odunaro who represented Olota of Ota, Oba Abdulkabir Adeyemi Obalanlege, praised the group for rescuing the less-privileged persons.