Police detectives from Ondo state Police command are on the trail of suspected ritualists who killed 60- year- old woman with hunchback, Mrs. Rukayat Abodunde. Sources said Abodunde was seized by gunmen who invaded her home in Ayetoro Street in Ondo town. It was learnt that police were also hunting for the son of the abducted woman said to have colluded with the ritualists for the crime. The fish seller was reportedly kidnapped by two gunmen who pretended to have come to buy fish from her around 10pm of the fateful day. Sources said the two men started shooting sporadically into the air to scare away people and dragged the landlady, Abodunde into a waiting vehicle The incident was said to have been reported at the police station in Ondo, consequent upon which detectives started investigating the incident. It was gathered the suspected kidnappers reappeared few days after the abduction of the woman to demand refund of N7m from his son. The kidnappers were said to have discovered that the hunch was not natural but caused by domestic accident, seeking refund of the N7m from the deceased son. Sources hinted that the ritualists who discovered that the hunchback was not useful to them after killing the woman, threatened to kill the young man if he failed to refund the money. The boy, who has since run away, however insisted the ritualists must also return his mother alive before the money could be refunded. It was learnt the young man had used part of the money to buy clothes for the late mother and also renovate the house. Police spokesman, Femi Joseph, a Superintendent of Police (SP), confirmed the incident. He added the two suspected kidnappers invaded the home of the victim and whisked her away. According to him, the incident was reported at the police station by one Omotola Oseyemi and detectives swung into action to ensure the release of the abducted woman. Joseph said they interrogated the people in the area but members of the family were not showing enough interest in the disappearance of the woman. The police spokesman said the case was still being investigated to unravel those behind the dastardly act.