The Nigerian Books of Record Research Institute, Abuja, has honoured the creator of Ikemidcell P.bll Sport, Jomoh Ikem Igbinosu and inducted him into the Nigeria Books of Record. Nigerian Book of Records is the official Books of Record of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, conceived by the Institute to drive attitudinal re-orientation, ‘Change Begins With Me Campaign’ of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Abuja. Ikmidcell P.bll Sport includes Indoor play and Pitch Play, which involves a combination of sports such as wrestling, judo, handball and huddles, where two teams made up of six players and two reserves try to outscore each other by shooting with a ball. A round object, mostly tyre, hanged at a corner, is used as a goal post. Speaking during the induction ceremony at just before the final of the 2019 Ikmidcell P.bll Professional World Championship held in Mile 12, Lagos on Saturday, the DG of the Institute, Dr. David David said Igbinosu earned the honour on merit. “The man deserved to be inducted into the Nigeria Book of Record because this is the first time we are seeing a Nigerian coming out with a sport that has potential to employ the youth in the country, have a potential to lift our country to the next level. “The game is already played in Germany and encouraged there, so why won’t we encourage it in Nigeria. The invention put him in the Inventors Category alongside great Nigeria-American Professor, Phillip Emeeagwali, the man who used 65,000 processors to invent the world’s fastest computer which performs computations at 3.1 billion calculation per seconds; Jelan Aliu,  a Detroit-based car design veteran from General Motors, who’s best known as the designer of its Chevy Volt in 2017; Alexander Amosu, the inventor of world most expensive suit and Godwin Amao, who’s invention of Tupocracy took the world by surprise. “Igbinosu came into Nigeria and entered the Nigeria Book of Records, so he deserves a standing ovation and not only that, he deserved to be encouraged, promoted and the game itself is a great innovation,” he said. While appreciating the honour bestowed on him, Ikem Igbinosu called for govenrmrnt support in taking the sport to the next level. The Nigeria-born martial artist said he opted to return to the country from his base in Germany to introduce the sport to youths. “The game is growing fast in Germany with lots of people interested in participating in it. We have also gotten some invitations from Dubai for an exhibition but I opted to come back home to introduce it to young Nigerians. “We have been trying our best and as you can see now lots of Nigerians taking part. Now we have four different private teams. “We are making plans to partner the ministry of sports and education in order to introduce the game to schools across the country. So far so good, we are moving well but still need the support of the federal government,” he said. Meanwhile, team Nigeria defeated Ghana 8-6 in the final to emerge champions of the Ikmidcell P.bll Professional World Championship held in Mile 12, Lagos on Saturday. The Indoor play edition of the Ikemidcell P.bll World championship however saw Nigeria female team lost 2-1 to their counterpart from Ghana. Team Nigeria forward, John franklin commended the organizers for their efforts in ensuring that the game grows in the country. “P.bll has a great future in Nigeria. We can see from the outcome of this game the P.bll has come to stay here. It is going to be one of the best games in the world,” he said. Ikmidcell P.bll Sport made its debut in the Nigeria with an exhibition match at the Police College in Ikeja last year, was followed by an international friendly between Nigeria and Gernany in Ikorodu, Lagos.