The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) is developing initiatives to increase job creation to address illegal migration in the sub-region. This formed part of discussions at the opening session of the just concluded meeting of a Joint Committee of ECOWAS in Conakry, Guinea. The meeting urged the ECOWAS Commission to organise campaigns to sensitise youths on the economic goals of the region and understand the role to play. The theme for the delocalised meeting is: “Job Creation in the ECOWAS region through entrepreneurship and the development of SMEs”. Members of parliament also said it was pertinent for member states to intensify efforts to ensure that projects in the region were geared towards sustainable regional integration. According to ECOWAS, a number of irregular migrants from Africa to Europe via different migratory routes had been recorded since the peak of migration in 2014, with more deaths in the Mediterranean Sea. ECOWAS Parliament Speaker, Moustapha Cisse Lo, urged members of the committees to ensure that they come up with recommendations aimed at boosting job creation. He said this would be done through promoting the development of small and medium enterprises. The speaker also said the meeting would renew the parliament’s commitment to develop strategies for economic integration, adding that the consideration and adoption of the draft report and the committees’ recommendations would be done at ECOWAS parliament plenary session  to be held in Nigeria in May. An ECOWAS representative, Mrs. Liliane Alapini said issues of unemployment are at the heart of the region’s integration pursuit. Alapini said the non-implementation of policies on job creation and unemployment was also responsible for the rate of illegal migration in West Africa. She urged the committees present to strengthen policies on small and medium enterprises in the region. The Guinean Minister of Industry and Small and Medium Enterprises, Mr Tibou Camara, said  unemployment is “a time bomb” that must be tackled to ensure economic growth and development in the region. The United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) Country Representative, Mr Ansoumane Berete said industrialisation was paramount to poverty eradication in the ECOWAS region. He assured of UNIDO’s continued support to skills development of young entrepreneurs through proper training. Another representative of the parliament, Mr Alpha Fischer said the meeting would also develop modalities to facilitate youths’ vocational training in the region. “This meeting will advocate and promote skills acquisition of youths to enable them stay in their countries rather than venture into illegal migration. “This meeting will deal with job creation and training of our youth so that they can overcome the temptation of being trapped in the Mediterranean Sea,” he said. According to Fischer, the meeting would equip members of parliament to play a major role in job creation and also commend UNIDO for its contribution to development in the region. Risk Analysis for 2018 concluded that the sea, especially along the Mediterranean routes, would remain the most active path for illegal crossing of the European Union (EU) external borders, but also one of the most dangerous for migrants. This, according to Relief Web, a leading humanitarian information source on global crises and disasters and a specialised digital service of the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs. In addition, according to statistics from Missing Migrants Project of the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), 98 deaths of migrants in Africa have been recorded since the beginning of 2019. This is compared to 107 deaths recorded in 2018 under the period in review. 