The Nigeria’s Governors Forum (NGF) Secretariat is organizing a day Induction Program for newly-elected and returning Governors. The programme according to a statement issued by the NGF Secretariat will commence from Monday 29th April to 1st May, 2019. Also, a day summit has been scheduled for the wives of the governors as well so as to develop and utilize their platforms to address critical issues affecting their State. The induction for the incoming and returning governors according to a statement from the NGF Secretariat “is aimed at supporting incoming governors to develop key governance and management skills that will enable them transition from campaigning to managing the processes of governance.” Other objectives of the induction include Preparing Governors to make the most of their transition from campaigning to governing and building bridges for effective leadership. “Exposing Governors to relevant contemporary national priorities in critical sectors of the economy and driving consensus on opportunities to achieve desired outcomes. “This is aimed at generating conversation among the newly elected Governors, respected national and international leaders, heads of national institutions and development partners, among others.” Expected at the occasion are critical stakeholders, including current and past governors of Nigeria and the United States, to provide the opportunity for Nigerian governors to, not only network with national and global leaders, but also to gather useful information that will help them transition into their new roles as chief executives of States. It is also expected that all the Governors will, at the end of their induction, have their knowledge and skills honed on the nuances of governance to better equip them to hit the ground running. All Governors would have established relationships with national and global leaders and have a better understanding of the tools and opportunities available to achieve their vision and their priorities. The NGF said it “finds it imperative to highlight the task before Governors and support them to create a workable framework that will aid them to achieve a smooth transition into their new administrations.” A similar induction took place in 2011. A new addition to the program is the Governors’ Spouses’ Summit which is designed to be an introduction to public life for the spouses of newly elected and existing Governors. It is expected that this event would bring about an avenue to discuss how the activities of the Governors’ spouses can best compliment the roles of the Governors in promoting good   governance   at   the   sub-national level. This summit is also envisaged to harness and promote best practices in the execution of pet projects. The one-day summit is designed to build the capacity of the   Governors’   spouses to develop and utilize their platforms to address critical issues affecting their State, with specific focus on social intervention issues.