House summons President over crime wave President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday ordered security agencies to deal ruthlessly with bandits, kidnappers and other  criminals. It was at an extra-ordinary meeting at the State House, Abuja, where security strategies were reviewed. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin briefed State House reporters at the end of the meeting that lasted for about two hours. According to him, the President said that no stone should be left unturned towards securing every part of the country. The CDS said:  ”The security meeting we just had with Mr. President today (yesterday) is to review the strategy that we are adopting in confronting security issues in Zamfara State, especially, and other places nationwide. And this review strategy is to address all the issues, including kidnapping, banditry and other associated issues confronting the nation. And we are coming out with a revised strategy to handle those challenges.” Asked if there was any order from the President, he said: “Yeah, the marching order is for us to deal with this issue immediately and ruthlessly and ensure that all those bandits are immediately dealt with and all those issues bordering on our security are properly addressed.” Acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, who was at the meeting, said the frequent kidnapping on the Abuja-Kaduna Road had been tackled, adding that the route has become safe for motorists. IG Adamu said: “I want to assure Nigerians that Kaduna-Abuja roads are now safe. We have cleared the roads, we have arrested a lot of kidnappers and in confrontation with some of them; some were fatally injured. “So the road is cleared. Our patrol teams, the combined security services that are patrolling the road are constantly there – 24 hours.” Apart from CDS Gen. Olonisakin and IG Adamu, other Service Chiefs at the meeting are; Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Yusuf Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff (CNS) Ibok-Ete Ibas and Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar; National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj-Gen. Babagana Monguno; National Intelligence Agency (NIA) Director-General Ahmed Rufai Abubakar, Department of State Services (DSS) Director-General Yusuf Bichi;  Interior Minister Lt.-Gen. Abdulrahman Danbazzau and Defence Minister Brig.-Gen. Mansur Dan-Ali.