The economy’s negative Gross Domestic Product (GDP) performance this year, forced partly by the just-concluded electioneering activities, can be reversed if robust policy initiatives are taken by the in-coming administration’s Economic Management Team. The Managing Director, Cowry Asset Management Limited, an investment banking firm, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, said the economy will suffer a decline in productive activities this year, unless government quickly settles down to business and appoint competent hands to manage the economy. Speaking with The Nation, he said a slower GDP growth rate was expected in the first half of the year because of 2019 electioneering activities. “We saw loss of economic activities for almost six days within two weeks. “In the month of March, the gubernatorial and State House of Assembly elections also affected economic activities, so you realise that the first three months of this year were greatly dominated by political engagements. “Clearly, there were loss of productive hours and loss of productivity in the first half; the second half also will be dominated by political activities; we have seen candidates who lost elections going to courts,” he said. The expert added that many sitting governors will be distracted by court activities, as well as the process of dissolving the executive cabinet at the state and federal levels. The process of lobbying, appointing the executive council at the state and federal levels will also dominate the second quarter of the year. The expert in investment banking identified the manufacturing and the trade sectors as the most affected by political activities. He noted, for instance, that manufacturers shut down production to allow people to go home and vote. Chukwu, who also said lots of traders held back on import of goods, waiting to know the direction of the economy, noted that the trend negatively impacted the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) performance this year. “We need to quickly fast track our electoral process to be in tune with the level of development around us,” he stated