Nigerian US-based singing duo, Eghosa Rodney Agbonayinma, aka ‘Row’ and Osazuwa Michael Agbonayinma, aka ‘Zuwa’ of the group known as ROZE are back in the country for the video shoot of their new single ‘Patience’ which willfor,  the first time, be performed at the AY Live show coming up at the Eko Hotel and Suites on Sunday, April 21, 2019. Recall that the brothers stormed Nigeria in January of 2018 with a banging, feel good and lyrically rich love single ‘A Whole Night ‘. After shaking the African continent with ‘A Whole Night’ in 2018 they started 2019 with the release of another single ‘Stranded’ in February, to be followed by another one on the AY Live show. ”We are back in the country to perform at the AY Live show coming up on Sunday, April 21st at the Eko Hotel and Suites. We are really excited about that. We will be performing our new track titled ‘Patience’, produced by Gospelondabeat and we will be working on the video for the track as well.,’ they said. ROZE, who have never stuck to any particular genre of music because they believe it would limit their horizon, explain what their new single ‘Patience’ is all about. ‘ Patience is a dance hall fused with melodic rhythm. The single was made in less than 6 hours after the beat to the track was shown to ROZE by GospelOnDeBeat. Several beats were show to ROZE by Gospel. But when he got on the beat used in the track ‘Patience’, it caught the attention of ROZE.  ROZE recorded their vocals and the rest of the magic was done by gospel,’ they opined. Speaking further, they also explained why they are shelving production of the single they released in February ‘Stranded’ for ‘Patience’. ‘The video for Patience is well due and we say that a video for ‘Stranded’ may or may not be done. However, anything is possible. The video for ‘Patience’ will be done in a couple of days in Lagos, Nigeria. The idea of Patience was really random. We did not plan to record the track. However, hearing the beat, we came up with lyrics on the spot for the track. The message in ‘Patience’ is just asking others to take time when it comes to a relationship. Do not rush to do things without thinking it through,’ they ROZE first appeared in 2014 while working on a test project, titled ‘Time to Party,’ which was never released. However, they later reappeared in 2016, being introduced to producer, Mekoyo, who has produced for artist such as Style Plus. Their discograhy includes songs like Too Much, All These Things, The Whole Night, Good things, Impressions, Stranded and Patience.