Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, yesterday said God’s kindness made it possible for him to break the second term jinx and record many unprecedented feats, saying he had no reason to regret over his senatorial election loss. The governor said this while addressing guests at a thanksgiving service to mark the 60th birthday of his wife, Mrs Florence Ajimobi, held at the Government House, Ibadan. On hand to rejoice with the state’s first family were the Wife of the Vice President, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo; Wife of Ekiti State governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi; her Imo State counterpart, Mrs Nkechi Okorocha; wife of Ogun State Governor-elect, Mrs Bamidele Abiodun; and wife of the immediate past governor of Osun State, Mrs Sherifat Aregbesola, among other dignitaries. Having ruled for eight uninterrupted years, which marked the first in the history of the state, the governor said that God had been merciful and kind to him to use him to rewrite the history of the state for good. Ajimobi said that he, therefore, had no reason to regret or worry over his failed senatorial bid and his unsuccessful attempt to hand over to a successor from his party, the All Progressives Congress. He said: “God has been kind to me for making it possible for me to break the second term jinx, and in the last eight years, it is on record that we recorded so many unprecedented feats for which posterity and history makers will be kind to us. “If you consider the key performance index, we have done well. It is true that I would have loved to go to the Senate. It is also true that I would have loved to hand over to a successor from my party. But God said no, and who are we to query Him? For what He has done for us, we have many reasons to thank Him. “As individuals, if we can think deeply on a daily basis, we will know that God has been kind to us. I’m the 27th governor of this state and unarguably the longest serving in the history of Oyo State. “So, I want people to be happy for us because God has used us to do many things in this state. I therefore want to say to our supporters again that there is no cause for regrets. They should stop ruing or brooding over our questionable loss in the last election.” Extolling the virtues of his wife of 39 years, the governor described her as an embodiment of Godliness and epitome of pure love. Ajimobi added that her wife’s generosity, philanthropic gestures and warmth had endeared her to people from every stratum of the society who daily describe her in glowing terms and honorifics. Recalling the story of how they met at a Lagos bank 40 years ago, the governor said it was love at first sight and that he had the inkling that she would be his wife on their first date. Ajimobi said: “The love I have for my wife is because she is an epitome of pure love; she’s always giving without expecting anything in return; she’s very loving, accommodating, caring, generous, and she has the rare gift of keeping old and new friends, including school mates of over 40 years. “Flori, you are an embodiment of Godliness; you are the snow in my winter; you are the USP (unique Selling Point) of my brand; you are my masterpiece of nature. Ever since we met, you have been making high deposit of love, care and Godliness in my life’s bank account; you have been making huge deposit in my emotional bank account. I love you today, and I will always love you.”