HJ CLAIROOWEN medical centre’s Head Nurse, Bayo Badmus, who was referred to Dr. Dayo by a pediatrician with Igando General Hospital identified as Dr. Joy gave late 15-month-old Taye Adetunji three 20 doses of analgesic injections, a panel heard on Monday. Badmus, it was gathered, told the Hospital Services Commission (HSC) investigating allegations of professional misconduct and negligence against the doctor that he acted on her instruction. The child’s parents, as well as the doctor in the heat of the controversy, were brought before the panel, which sat on Lagos Island for each to state their case. It was gathered that Dr. Joy had initially denied knowing the injections Badmus administered on the toddler. But when the latter was called on hands-free telephone, he maintained that all actions he took were based on the doctor’s instruction. Badmus, our correspondent gathered, told the panel that Dr. Joy, the owner of the unregistered private clinic, gave him instructions to administer 20 doses of analgesics three times on the kid, adding he also gave her another injection on her instruction. Dr. Joy, who had told the child’s mother, Taiwo, that her baby needed blood and oxygen but there was no space to admit her at the General Hospital Igando where she was taken to, denied referring the patient to her clinic. But she changed her position when the note she scribbled on a discarded duplicate teller was availed the panel. Giving details of what transpired at the panel, a source said: “When the meeting started the mother of the victim explained what happened and Dr. Joy was asked to react. She started by denying that she didn’t refer the woman anywhere. “The panel was told the family has evidence and the board requested for the evidence. “She was asked if that was her handwriting and she said yes. Then, she was warned about telling lies. “She then admitted that she referred them to her clinic and they asked her the relationship between her and Dayo Badmus she said she employed him to work for her “They asked her series of questions about what happened that day she explained and the board told her that from the beginning to the death of the child all what she did was wrong. “They asked her that if the case was an emergency as she stated, was she trying to her an auxiliary nurse was a better person to handle it than herself, a doctor? “She could not answer. She was asked many questions but she could not answer them. “Initially, she claimed she did not know the injections Dayo Badmus administered on the baby. “Badmus was called immediately and the phone put on speaker. Badmus said to everyone’s hearing that he carried out Dr Joy’s instructions from beginning to end. “After Badmus told them the drug he administered, they interpreted the drug as 20 doses that he gave three times. “The board was very angry with her and assured the family that justice will be served. “They assured the mother that they will do everything within their power to ensure such a thing does not happen again,” said the source. The Nation gathered that the nurses on duty at Igando General Hospital that Sunday were also invited and they confirmed they had seen the woman and her child. The nurses, it was gathered, told the panel they had asked the doctor where the woman went to and Dr. Joy told them she (Taiwo) said she would not stay there anymore. Meanwhile, the Public Advice Centre (PAC) and the Child Protection Network (CPN) have written petitions to relevant agencies, demanding justice. Contacted for update on the issue, Health Commissioner Dr. Jide Idris told our correspondent he was expecting the report of the panel on Tuesday. “The panel sat at the HSC board. I gave them till Tuesday to submit their recommendation to me,” he said.