The Chief of Army Staff, (COAS) Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai has inaugurated a secured information platform for the Nigerian Army. Inaugurating the platform in Abuja Monday, the COAS said the platform would greatly enhance the performance of the army in all its commands and units. He said the platform would take off with 350 users, noting that provision would be made for expansion subsequently. Buratai said: “It gives me great pleasure to welcome you all to this occasion of the launching of the Nigerian Army Secured Information Platform (NASIP).”The Platform is a secure web-based information sharing and collaboration solution that was recently acquired by the NA. “This is in line with my vision of having a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional roles. In this case, this launching is to afford the NA an efficient and robust platform for paperless interactions that would ensure secure and speedy communication of correspondence between the various departments, formations and units in the NA while minimizing the use of paper to the barest minimum. “As seen from the demonstration of its features, the platform is an upgrade from the NAWANI system. “It has its server residing in NACWC with a storage capacity of 500 terabytes and backup storage of 112 terabytes. The platform is currently capable of accommodating about 350 users for the initial roll out, with additional provisions for expansion to accommodate more users in the future. “The major requirement that was considered before the acquisition of this platform was security and speed amongst others. Consequently, this platform is able to provide secure emailing with end-to-end encryption functions within customised web domain and revolutionary integration with text, voice and video chat and conferencing. “Additionally, it also enables sharing of calendars and allotment of tasks for error proof planning and task delegation. The system is custom built to provide real-time collaboration between departments, formations and units. “The solution has an integrated Document Management System (DMS) which ensures that users files are available at any time on all devices. “The user friendly Document Management System also features easy documents sharing and fast in-browser document editing incorporated within the comfort of dedicated software application for desktop and mobile options. It also features offline work or compatibility within all applications. “Furthermore, in addition to its core functions, it also features NA policy/procedures and news room modules designed to keep users abreast with NA policies and news as soon as they are published. More so, all NA social media accounts can be accessed through the platform.”