The Nigerian Air Force on Sunday said four bandits have been killed during air strikes in Kagara Forest in Zamfara state when the bandits fired at its Mi-35 helicopter gunship during an operation. According to the spokesman of the Air Force, Air Commodore, Ibikunle Daramola, the air strikes were targeted at logistic base of the bandits inside the forest. Daramola explained in a statement that the operations were carried out after intelligence report had established the presence of the bandits and their operational equipment in the area. He said: “In continuation of its sustained intensive air operations against armed bandits’ hideouts in Zamfara State and its environs, the Air Task Force (ATF) for Operation DIRAN MIKIYA has destroyed some logistics stores belonging to the bandits at a location within Kagara forest. “The operation was executed on Sunday, 13 April 2019, following credible intelligence reports indicating that some of the armed bandits who had fled their camps as a result of NAF’s earlier air strikes had relocated some logistics items, including fuel, motorcycles and local arms making equipment, to another location within Kagara Forest. ” Accordingly, the ATF dispatched an Mi-35 helicopter gunship, supported by an Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) platform, to attack the target. The target area initially appeared uninhabited. “However, as the helicopter approached, some of the bandits were seen emerging from under the shrubbery and running away from the area. “The helicopter engaged the target recording successful hits on the logistics facility, which was engulfed in flames with thick black smoke seen. “Some armed bandits, who fired at the aircraft, were taken out by the helicopter. “Reports from independent sources, including local informants and village leaders around the general area, later confirmed that the logistics base was totally destroyed and 4 armed bandits killed as a result of the attack. “The NAF, working in consonance with surface forces and other security agencies, will sustain its operations to flush the bandits out of the Northwest of the country.”   