New Rector of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta Mr Samson Odedina has pledged financial assistance to visually-impaired students. Odedina said this in a chat with CampusLife after he was given an award by the Students Union (SU) of the institution. The SU had earlier renovated the bus shed of the polytechnic and christened it ‘Samson Adeola Odedina Bus Shed’, in honour of Odedina who was appointed in January by the Ogun State government. Odedina was honoured by the students for his effort in resolving the crisis that had prevented them from writing the second semester examination, which began on Monday. At the inuaguration of the facility, some visually-impaired students had approached the Rector to seek financial and moral support. The leader of the group, Tobi Itomi, an HND student of Mass Communication, said they had potentials to unleash given a more conducive environment. Itomi, who was runner-up at the public speaking competition of his department, said his good academic performance is a testimony of his commitment to his studies. He said: “People with disabilities are often discriminated against in the society and even in the family,we are considered last in everything. Itomi continued: “In spite of my condition, I am the most read member of my family. I was the first runner-up at the last public speaking competition. This is to tell you sir, that I have passion for learning. “I am pleading with the management to render more assistance to us, especially in the payment of tuition. Some of us are sponsoring ourselves. Our family members do not expect anything positive from us, hence, they abandoned us’’. Odedina, who later spoke to CAMPUSLIFE in his office, said he would ensure that the request of the visually-impaired students is fulfilled. He said if SU could pay the fees of some less privileged students, he would do more for students with special aids. Odedina said: “I don’t need to be begged. Since I came on board, we have done greater things that we don’t want to make public in terms of welfare and support for special people. “As far as I am concerned, it (their request) is a done deal for them. I want to know if there are other groups like that so that they can get the support of the management and the Students Union.”