The Ondo state chapter of the All Progressives Congress(APC) on Thursday denied the allegation by former Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Alhaji Ali Olanusi that President Muhammadu Buhari lost in Ondo state due to the anti-party activities of the leadership of the ruling party. Olanusi at a forum of the Concerned APC leaders in Akure, the state capital on Tuesday accused Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of compromising the election because of the NWC’s decision to endorse the three incumbent Senators as automatic candidates, which prompted his alleged sponsoring of opposition Action Alliance(AA) candidates. A statement by APC’s Director of Media and Publicity, Steve Otaloro said the former deputy governor has never been on the same page with the party leadership in the state, stressing that he is not competent to comment on the affairs of the party in the state. Besides, the party faulted the claim that the governor allegedly diverted the fund disbursed to Ondo state by the national leadership of the party for the 2019 general election and financed AA candidates in the state. It said” With these statements, Olanusi’s group had brought to fore their secret apathy against Akeredolu who refused to do their biddings. We should be reminded that Olanusi claimed huge amount from the present APC-led government in Ondo State to offset his accumulated salary arrears over his removal from office by the previous administration. “He refused to acknowledge the governor’s quick response to his plight, rather, he countered the effort with contempt. When he demanded for more money and was denied, he became dissatisfied and turned himself into a critic of the APC’s government,he claimed to be its Board of Trustees (BoT) member at the national level. ” We have it on record that he is planning ahead of the 2020 to present an unpopular governorship candidate for election in the state,but he doesn’t have to heat up the polity over such clandestine moves that will die on arrival” The statement emphasised that the party leadership in the state would not succumb to the group’s cheap blackmail and lies flying around. It said “We are advising Olanusi and his group to desist from constituting themselves as enemies of the party they claimed to belong.The former deputy governor particularly should behave as a true statesman and member, APC’s Trustee.