If you intend to sit for the UTME 2019 examination, you should be aware of the ongoing registration slip reprinting. Although you must have gone through the rigours of printing the slip at the point of registration, it is sacrosanct to reprint before the closing date. This is because the initial slip given to the candidates does not include the examination centre, time, date and seat number. Moreover, no candidate would be let into any CBT centre without the slip containing the necessary information mentioned above. Follow the procedures to successfully reprint the 2019 JAMB examination slip: Method 1: Reprint using E-mail address 1.       Login to your email address 2.       In your inbox, a message would appear from JAMB. If otherwise, make sure to check your spam folder for the message. 3.       Download and open the message which contains an attachment which is the JAMB slip 4.       Print out the file (PDF Format) using the Ctrl + P buttons Method 2: Reprint from JAMB website 1.       Go to JAMB website @ jamb.org.ng/PrintExamSlip/PrintExaminationSlip. 2.       Log on to your profile after providing the necessary details (e-mail address and password). 3.       Put in your registration number in the provided space and click reprint. 4.       The information on your examination centre, time and seat number would be displayed on the slip. 5.       Click on Print or press Ctrl + P button on the keyboard to print out. Method 3:  Reprint from JAMB Profile dashboard 1.       Go to JAMB website 2.       Click on e-facility Account /Log in 3.       Input your e-mail address and password in the provided space 4.       Click on ‘Login’ to view your JAMB profile dashboard 5.       Click on bold green text “Reprint your examination slip” on the top right hand corner of the screen 6.       Fill in your registration number and click ‘Reprint’ 7.       Proceed to print out the document by clicking on the Ctrl + P buttons on the keyboard Note the followings: ·       The examination slips are sent out in batches spanning across 5-7 days ·       You are advised to print 2 Copies of the Exam Slip because you would be required to submit 1 of them at the Exam Centre. You will then keep the other copy for reference. ·         You are not advised to use Opera Mini. Instead, use Chrome browser ·       Your JAMB slip can ONLY be reprinted from the methods listed above ·       The Jamb 2019 Examination will begin on the 11th of April, 2019 