James Milner will break the habit of a lifetime and become a Manchester United fan for once Liverpool are on course to amass 97 points, a figure that remarkably may not be enough to end their 29-year wait to become champions. But Milner does not believe a City victory in the Manchester derby will make the outcome of this duel a foregone conclusion. ‘It’ll be the first time in my life!’ Milner said with a grimace when asked if he was comfortable wanting United to win. ‘I don’t watch (games like these), to be honest. It’s a bit of a waste of energy, isn’t it, willing the ball into the goal and things like that. I can’t do anything about it. ‘Maybe I’ll put my phone away for a couple of hours and check it after. Maybe I’ll go and grab some food or whatever. “There are three games left. United will be a challenge for City, but it’s the old cliché – any game is tough in the Premier League no matter who you play. ‘To try and win a league title is not easy, whoever you play. Trust me, I know. Remember QPR (against Man City in 2012)? “To beat anyone is tough when it is all on the line. We’ve still got some tough games ourselves – and we have to win those and keep the pressure up.’ Liverpool have won eight consecutive games in all competitions since a 0-0 draw with Everton on March 3. But whatever Milner and his team-mates achieve before the end of the campaign, he believes the indications for the coming years are hugely encouraging. ‘For a long time we have had our head round the fact that we just need to win all of our games,’ said Milner. ‘If we do that and it’s not good enough, you have to hold your hands up and say “well done City”. All we can do is keep asking them questions and keep winning our games. ‘We know they’re a top team and they’ve done it before. It’s about encouragement at how we have improved. “Of course it’s frustrating that we could have one defeat and it might still not be enough but all we can do is win the rest of our games and keep putting them under pressure.’ Dailymail 