OONI of Ife Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi and Chief of Staff to Ekiti State Governor Mr. Biodun Omoleye have said the Southwest region will not play a second fiddle again in the country’s politics. They said in view of the unquantifiable contribution of the region in the country’s growth, it has no reason to allow itself to be schemed out of the country’s political configuration. The Ooni and Omoyele added that the zone stands the chance of regaining its frontline position, if it embraces unity and value reorientation. Oba Ogunwusi spoke at his palace in Ile- Ife, Osun State  yesterday when Omoleye  delivered  a lecture entitled:  “Enculturation of the Yoruba culture among youth: Implications on social reengineering  and good governance”, at a cultural programme organised by Yoruba Youth Council(YYC). Oba Ogunwusi said: “Yoruba has always been known for being a pacesetter since pre-independence days. So, we cannot take backseat; and to achieve this, we must be united and our youths must promote our cultural, economic and political values.” In Omoyele’s paper, the call for constitutional empowerment for the traditional rulers resonated. The Chief of Staff insisted that such policy would help in stabilising the country. Omoleye said the traditional rulers must be empowered to legally handle issues bothering on communal clashes, child abuse and local disputes that are causing distractions to government to decongest the conventional courts and reduce prison inmates. He reiterated the desperate need for the Yoruba youths to rise up and defend the Southwest region in Nigeria’s politics, saying the zone won’t submit to the idea of playing second fiddle again for it to remain relevant and be vibrant. The programme held at the palace of the Ooni of Ife also featured award presentation and honour for the prominent Yoruba traditional ruler. Omoleye, in his paper, said the emasculation of the traditional institutions by governments contributed to the high-level of instability of the country. “The traditional rulers should be empowered to handle cases relating to cultural differences, ranging from child abuse, matrimonial, communal differences and disputes. “This will decongest the conventional courts and reduce prison inmates. This will also stabilise the society rather than the punitive English legal system that we are currently practicing.” On politics, Omoleye added that the Yoruba youths must begin to pose as true ambassadors by joining the vanguard that would fight for the race to regain its rightful pride of place as people with integrity and rich cultural and political values. Omoleye added that Yoruba race could not afford to be relegated, having taken the lead since the 50s under the leadership of the former premier of the Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo. “The first democratically elected government under the late Obafemi Awolowo ran the best civil service in Africa and established institutions that were the best in the continent. “The first television station in Ibadan was a product of Yoruba vision, the Liberty Stadium and of course, the University College Hospital, Ibadan was at a time the best medical centre in the entire Commonwealth. “With the personality like Oba Ogunwusi on the throne, hope has not been totally lost. This is a great time for reformation and restoration of Yoruba values and culture and our imperial Majesty is well-positioned to champion this course,” he said. 