A coalition of Ondo state All Progressives Congress (APC) Youth and Women in politics have expressed concern over alleged act of indiscipline within the party in the state. The coalition had petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari and the National leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on their findings about the affairs of the party in the state. The petition was signed by the coalition’s chairman, Ogunleye Odunayo and secretary, Mrs Yakubu Oluremi who strongly believed that the National leadership of the party must be aware of how Ondo APC leaders allegedly mobilized attack and used state ,local government machinery and the party’s resources to support their political allies who contested under the platform of Action Alliance (AA). According to the petition “It will interest you to know that agents of Ondo State Government masterminded the petition against the emergence of the only APC Senate elect in Ondo State at the election tribunal for the state. “A petition had been filed before the tribunal for the Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) against the Independent National Electoral Commission and Senator Ajayi Boroffice, the only APC senator elect from Ondo State by the agents of the state government and the ruling party under Mr Ade Adetimehin “It was a rude shock for us to hear that one of the lawyers used by them is the biological son of the AA candidate, Tunji Abayomi, who was sponsored by the state government”. The coalition therefore appealed to President Buhari and Asiwaju Tinubu to use their good offices and to dissolve the present state executives of Ondo State APC,stressing that over 85 percent of party members had been sidelined from the party for working against AA candidates. The APC leaders according to the Coalition openly campaigned for AA candidates and directed members not to vote for APC candidates. It noted that the sample of AA ballot papers were freely distributed to APC members to educate them on how to vote for AA candidates which eventually led to the failure of President Buhari in Ondo State. The statement further alleged that in the eve of the Presidential and National Assembly elections, the APC mobilization funds given to the party was released to AA party leaders and candidates on the order from above. It said “We from 48 APC youth and women groups met in Akure, the state capital to protest the anti-party activities of the APC leaders in Ondo state and jointly agreed to write you about the danger in keeping the present party executives in the state under Adetimehin.