An official of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Innocent Osemi, on Monday night allegedly killed his colleague, identified as Senior Inspector Mamman Wuyah. He injured another. The incident allegedly occurred at the Lagos Deepshore, Offshore Logistics (LADOL) in Apapa, Lagos. The Nation learnt that a bullet had discharged accidentally from the gun of Osemi, said to be from Kogi command, but on beat assignment at LADOL, killing the senior inspector and leaving another person injured. Although it was initially alleged that the duo had a disagreement over money, sources at the NSCDC dismissed the allegation. According to them, LADOL usually took care of officials posted to secure their facilities, hence, it was very unlikely the issue was about money. “What we heard was that it was accidental discharge. It had nothing to do with money. Officers who are posted to LADOL are deployed from commands. In this case, the officer who died was from Kaduna command, while the other one was from Kogi. “LADOL pays their allowances directly to their accounts, provides them good accommodation, so, they do not even have need to touch their salaries. This is why I can tell you it wasn’t about money,” said a source. A statement by the corps’ spokesman, Emmanuel Okeh, said the suspect had been detained and stripped of his firearm. Conveying the message of the Commandant-General, Abdullahi Mohammadu, to the bereaved family, Okeh said a committee had been set up to look into the incident. He said the injured person was responding to treatment. Okeh said: “The Commandant-General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Abdullahi Gana Mohammadu, has expressed regrets over the ugly incident that occurred at one of the beats, where personnel of the corps were deployed to protect the infrastructure of LADOL. “The ugly incident occurred as a result of an accidental discharge by a personnel of the corps, which led to casualties involving two officials of the corps. The injured one is receiving treatment in hospital. The commandant-general received the information with a heavy heart and in view of that he commiserates with the family of the deceased and the injured. “Expressing shock at the incident despite warnings by the management against such act of negligence and carelessness, he assured the public that punitive action shall be taken against the official involved in this act, to avert a recurrence. “He stressed that investigation into the remote causes of the incident is on, as a committee has been set up to look into the matter. The official involved has been stripped of his firearm and is being detained, pending the outcome of the report of the committee. Justice will be done.” 