Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) have asked the Ministry of Education, Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) and tertiary institutions to publish information regarding disbursements to tertiary institutions—universities, polytechnics and colleges of education in the country. According to Austin Chinonye, CEO of Basic Right Watch, one of the organisations making the call, TETFund should “publish the funds that it is allocating to tertiary institutions and let the tertiary institutions be open so that the public can know what they are getting and what they (tertiary institutions) use the funds to do.” This call has come at the right time, given the fact that in 2017, the Executive Secretary of TETFund, Dr. Abdullahi Bichi Baffa, called for credibility and professionalism in the conduct of audit of TETFund and beneficiary institutions across the country. Even though it is not clear if the CSOs have observed any violation or negligence in adherence to stipulated regulations guiding operations of the agency and tertiary institutions, periodic reminders about importance of transparency on the part of agencies managing public funds is necessary. It is also necessary for the Federal Ministry of Education to find out if the agencies were really defaulting and, if so, why sanctions for lapses were not imposed. Like the laws governing all public agencies, the one guiding TETFund, an agency set up to “provide focused and transformative intervention in public tertiary institutions in Nigeria through funding and effective project management” also expects the agency to “ensure accountability and transparency in all its undertakings.” Therefore, the demand by the CSOs that TETFund as a disbursing agency, and tertiary institutions that benefit from funds managed by it publish financial records of all transactions between them is perfectly within the remit of such civil society organisations to protect and promote public interest. We commend the alertness of organisations calling for openness and transparency on the part of an agency charged to manage revenue from taxes collected from companies toward “focused and transformative intervention in public tertiary institutions… through funding and effective project management of physical infrastructure for teaching and learning, instructional material and equipment, research and publication and academic staff training and development. There is no gainsaying that, given the pivotal role of higher education in the provision of knowledge required for national growth and development, the demands for transparency in the use of funds at the disposal of TETFund are made on behalf of all stakeholders in the education sector. Just as the advice of TETFund’s Executive Secretary in 2017: “I want us to conduct audit of the agency very creditably and professionally… Once you deviate from this, it will be business as usual. Believe me, the report of this exercise will also serve as a deterrent from misuse of funds as well as help the beneficiaries in their accounting.” We, therefore, lend our voice to the call that agencies in the education sector, including TETFund, Universal Basic Education Commission, and all educational institutions—primary, secondary, and tertiary that manage or use public funds live up to their responsibility to be accountable to the public, by publishing at regular intervals financial records of their transactions, about which citizens have the right to know.