THE National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) wants greater cooperation and partnership with the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), to enhance its fight against unclassified films and video works. Executive Director of NFVCB, Mr. Adedayo Thomas, said this when he led his management team on a visit to AIG David Folawiyo of the  Department of Training and Development (DTD) at the Force Headquarters in Abuja. According to Thomas, the visit was to congratulate Folawiyo on his recent elevation, noting that he “has been very supportive to the board in its enforcement operations, since his days as Police Commissioner.” He lauded the Nigeria Police for its crucial role over the years, in supporting the operations of the NFVCB, a key regulator of the film industry across Nigeria. He however added that the increasing growth of the Nigerian motion picture industry has also made the enforcement and compliance operations of the board more tasking, which made collaboration with relevant stakeholders imperative. “The Nigeria Police has been part of the reasons why the NFVCB is standing tall in regulating our film industry, and we are quite appreciative of this and have not taken it for granted. “Our enforcement raids across the country, including tough places like Alaba International Market, Lagos, have been made successful with the help of the police. “While appreciating your support, we would also like to request your support in providing training for our officers as Special Constabularies in other to boost our enforcement drive. “We need to regulate what goes out for public consumption, as we have been fighting against the distribution of films and video works not licensed and classified for distribution in Nigeria,” he said. Responding, Folawiyo who assured that the board’s request would be considered, said: “Once you formally request, we shall be very willing to get your officers trained, and to also give you slots to make your officers available for the Avance Detective Course.” The Executive Director and his team also visited and felicitated with Taiwo Lakanu, DIG in charge of Supplies and Logistics, who also assured the board of a cordial working relationship.