Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) has described as false the claims by LADOL and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) that the shooting of a Korean employee at LADOL free zone by an operative of NSCDC was in error. Speaking with reporters in Lagos on the shooting which claimed the lives of the Korean and an operative of NSCDC, its Managing Director, Mr. Jejin Jeon said the LADOL guard fired deliberately at his NSCDC colleague, killing him with three shots at the scene, before moving away to a different location where he also deliberately shot the Korean employee that had been working in a crawler crane within the SHI-MCI yard. Jeon who also showed reporters video evidence of the incident to back his claim, said the statement by the Commandant General of NSCDC Mohammed Abdullahi Gana, that the NSCDC guard opened fire “in error” was false, insisting that the shooting was a deliberate and unprovoked attack. He recalled that after the killings, the gunman then made his way to the front gate of the SHI-MCI yard where he threatened SHI-MCI’s unarmed guards and demanded to pass the gate, arguing that the shootings could not have been accidental. He also faulted the press statement issued by LADOL where it claimed that the Korean employee was in a “stable condition,” when the employee had already died. According to him, the Korean employee was never in a stable condition as his injuries were life-threatening, adding that he was in a critical condition from the moment he was shot until the moment he died. Jeon said LADOL’s statement issued after the SHI-MCI employee had already tragically died was a deliberate attempt by it to downplay the seriousness of the matter. He also said contrary to claim that LADOL was providing every support it could to those impacted and their families, it provided no support to the Korean employee, his family or SHI-MCI since the sad incident. “They made no communication to the employee or his family whatsoever, either privately or publicly, and have offered no other support as of now. To this date, there is no public apology to the Korean expatriate that lost his life,” he said. Jeon said LADOL falsely stated that the incident was, ‘contained entirely within the fabrication and integration shipyard’ while the gunman threatened the SHI-MCI security guards at gun-point to pass the gate.