To rest the controversies being generated by contradicting interpretations being peddled on ruling given on Tuesday by the Federal High Court in Warri in a suit filed by Olorogun O’tega Emerhor. The court, presided over by Justice Emeka Nwite, had struck out the suit, which sought to disqualify Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Delta Central Senatorial election, on grounds of fair hearing. Justice Nwite had held that that the persons whom his decision would directly impact, being Senator Omo-Agege and Rev. Francis Waive, were not joined in the action. By his decision, the Judge upheld the position of the plaintiffs, who had earlier sought to withdraw the case, based on the Federal High Court, Asaba’s earlier judgment, which had granted all reliefs that were being sought in the Warri case. However, various interests had read different meaning suiting their purposes to the ruling on Tuesday evening, with some claiming that the ruling had affirmed the candidacy of Senator Omo-Agege and therefore he was the winner in the matter. Interpreting the ruling as offered by the judge, counsel to Olorogun, George Igbokwe (SAN), who spoke during a telephone chat in Warri, said the judge’s decision simply meant that the earlier judgment by the Federal High Court in Asaba, which decided the matter of the authenticity of the executive councils of the party in the state, had overtaken the need for the reliefs being sought in Warri. “The Federal High Court Warri stated clearly that the issue of nomination of who is APC’s candidate for Delta Central Senatorial District has been decided by his learned brother in Asaba. He said in as much as we are claiming the same thing here and did not join Ovie Omo-Agege, the suit here was struck out. That just all he said. “The implication is that the judgment of Federal High Court Asaba, stands, which says that Omo-Agege and his people from their own faction, are no longer the candidates of the APC. That’s the simple interpretation, any other persons giving you any other interpretation is trying to suit his purpose. I was in court, I heard the whole rulings, all the rulings went against them”, he said.