Former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Attahiru Jega, on Wednesday in Kano, identified faulty leadership recruitment process, as a major factor that has retarded Nigeria’s progress for quite some time now. According to him, if the trend is allowed to persist, Nigerians will continue to live under the mercy of the so-called elite, whose major goal is to promote ethnic chauvinism, religious bigotry and parochial interests. This was the assertion  of Professor Attahiru Jega, who was the Chairman of the 15th Annual Conference of Fulbright Alumni Association (FAAN) held at Dangote Business School, Bayero University, Kano, from 16th to 18th April, 2019, with the theme: Economic Growth, Development and Security in Nigeria.” Professor Attahiru Jega, described the theme was apt, considering the systematic challenges of economic growth, security and development encountered by Nigeria. According to Jega, the theme would provide a veritable platform for generating ideas that would address these challenges. However, Jega expressed dismay, stressing that no matter how bright ideas and solutions are generated, they can only be addressed, if the country addresses the prevailing endemic leadership and governance crises. He contended that the recruitment process of leadership in Nigeria has been handed over to those, who do not have the love and interest of the Country at the expense of the masses. How can we have a purposeful leadership that will drive the necessary changes in Nigeria? , he queried. Jega, therefore, submitted that scholars, traditional rulers, civil society organizations and other key stakeholders have daunting challenges of addressing this menace, so that Nigerians would view election, as a glimmer of hope and weapon that they can use to change the bad leadership and governance in the country. In a keynote address, the Vice Chancellor of Kogi State University, Anyingba, Professor M.S Abdulkadir, said developing economies, like Nigeria can achieve economic growth, development and even stability, only in a socio-political and economic setting, devoid of violence, insecurity, terrorism, ethnic cleansing and so on. Represented by the Director of BUK Press, Professor Habu Mohammed, the VC, advocated that soldiers and policemen fighting guerrilla wars against the insurgents should be properly trained, as well as provided, with modern and sophisticated weapons. The United States Ambassador to Nigeria, William Stuart Syminton, who was represented by the Cultural Affairs Officer of the United States Embassy in Abuja, Mr. Sterling Tilley, said Nigeria and the United States had an age-long relationship adding that through Fulbright scholars, the United States understood popular culture and languages of Nigeria. Also Speaking, the FAAN President, Professor Adogba Okpaga, said the Fulbright programme is the most profound cultural and exchange programme ever instituted by the American government. He said the Fulbright programme, as at today had almost 300,000 people from over 140 countries in the world, with participants from both United States and other countries in the world. He explained that Fulbright Alumni Association held its first conference at the University of Ibadan in August 2000; and since then, it has been holding annual conferences. Earlier in his address, the Vice Chancellor, Professor Muhammad Yahuza Bello, welcomed the participants to Bayero University, Kano, adding that it was his fervent hope that the assembled Scholars, would rub minds and come up with strategic thinking to find solution to these intriguing questions. ”As a nation, what are the mistakes we have made? What are the opportunities we have lost? And what is that thing which we did not do well he queried?