It was reward galore for distributors of products by Chemstar Paints Industry Nigeria Limited, manufacturer of Finecoat and Shield paints, when the company feted them during its 2019 Customers Forum held in Lagos, recently. The Group Managing Director, Chemstar Paints Industry Nigeria Limited, Mr Aderemi Awode, said the firm was aware of how hard it was to sell paint and was determined to keep up its 23-year old tradition of saying ‘thank you’ to those who made its products reach the nook and cranny of the country. “We have this every year and this year makes it the 23rd year that we are having this.  It is not easy selling paint. Paint is not something that we consume so we realise that our customers put in extra efforts to ensure that they push our products to the end users.  So, we felt it would be nice to have a forum to appreciate and celebrate our customers,” he said. To this end, all distributors of the various categories of products sold by the firm – including the home décor wallpapers as well as chemicals sold by its subsidiary firm, CPIN, and the paints, smiled home with various home appliances – which increased according to their level of sales. The best performers went home with brand new cars. Three best customers/distributors in the Finecoat and Shield paints category were presented with Honda Pilot SUV and a 4×4 Runner Toyota SUV; and under CPIN, five distributors/customers went home with two Toyota Camry cars, two Honda Pilot SUV and a 4×4 Runner Toyota SUV. The winners of the cars included: the Most Outstanding Distributor, Mr James Chinedu Egwu of CJ Jammy King Nigeria Limited, Abuja; the first runner up, Mr. Chidi Ejiofor; and the second runner up, Mr Chima. Many others got a whole lot of electronics enough for each to set up a home or open their own stores if they wished. Some got 45’ LCD television sets along with two-door refridgerators, 2.5KVA generators, home theatre systems, microwave ovens, four burner gas cookers, and standing fans. Lower categories of winners got fewer electronics.  Nevertheless, the least gift consisted of a pressing iron, electric cooker and sandwich maker. Next year, when the firm clocks 25, Awode said the best performing customers would be travelling out of the country on holidays to such destinations like London, Paris, Singapore and Malaysia. “We are already in talks with our foreign partners.  You will not need to spend money on tickets and accommodation.  Five people will travel on holidays.  But the work starts today,” he said. Despite the bleak economic outlook, Awode said the firm had been able to maintain profit without increasing the prices of its pain products by sourcing more of its raw materials locally – with local content increasing to 50 per cent from 30 in the last two years. He attributed the success to the firm’s vibrant Research and Development unit. Awode praised the government’s efforts to improve infrastructure and check corruption, urging it to do more in this regard. 