Crystal Palace have picked up a 3-2 victory at the Emirates Stadium in Sunday’s Premier League clash to end Arsenal’s winning home run and dent their London rivals’ top-four hopes. The Gunners were seeking a club-record-equalling 11th home top-flight victory in a row, but Unai Emery’s decision to make mass changes to his starting lineup backfired. Mesut Ozil temporarily had Arsenal on level terms either side of goals from Christian Benteke and Wilfried Zaha, with both of those Palace goals being preventable. Yet more sloppy defending gifted James McArthur a third goal for the Eagles, which would prove to be the winner as Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang pulled one back late on for Arsenal, who missed out on the chance to move into third place. Emery promised to make changes on the back of Thursday’s victory at Napoli, which sealed Arsenal’s place in the last four of the Europa League, and so it proved as just four players survived from that match. One of the new faces to come in was Konstantinos Mavropanos, who gave away a needless free kick for the game’s opening goal 17 minutes in. The right-sided delivery from Luka Milivojevic was headed past Bernd Leno by a completely unmarked Benteke, ending his year-long goal drought from open play on his 200th Premier League appearance. Arsenal’s best chance up until that point fell to Ozil inside the opening minute, but the German midfielder could not find a way past Vicente Guaita from a good position. Mohamed Elneny and Martin Kelly also squandered promising opportunities in the opening quarter of the match, both firing volleys over the crossbar once picked out in the box. The Gunners soon took control of the match and racked up a couple more openings, with Shkodran Mustafi failing to convert a flick-on at the back post and Alexandre Lacazette dragging wide after losing his balance. Arsenal also had a penalty shout rejected when Sead Kolasinac’s cross hit Aaron Wan-Bissaka on the arm, though they were perhaps fortunate not to be further behind at half time as Cheikhou Kouyate was twice denied from the angle by a double Leno save.