Despite his current travails, Senator Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom Northwest senatorial district) says he has no regrets whatsoever over his recent political decisions. He specifically said he has no regrets leaving the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Party (APC) and his choice of Governor Udom Emmanuel as his successor in 2015. According to him, he took the decisions in the best interest of Akwa Ibom state and Nigeria as a whole and would make the same decisions all over again if need be. Akpabio, who spoke to our correspondent at his Ukana country home in Essien Udim local government area over the weekend, said he does not nurse any bitterness against those have betrayed him politically. ”I have no regret choosing Udom Emmanuel as my successor. Like I always say, in 2015 I wasn’t looking for a governor for Godswill Akpabio. I was looking for a governor for Akwa Ibom people. ”If Akwa Ibom people are happy with him (Udom Emmanuel), why not? And you know you have to bring out somebody that is presentable. And if you are going for a football match, you must select good players. So for me I don’t have any regret over Udom Emmanuel and I pray he does well for the state. ”He has the opportunity of doing well for the benefit of Akwa Ibom state so I have no regret. And I also do not have any regret joining the APC, not a single regret. If I was to take a decision today, I will still go to the APC”, he said. Akpabio maintained that he has no grudge or bitterness against those who have betrayed him politically, saying they were swayed by money rather than loyalty. His words, ”People don’t understand that life is full of ups and downs. Life is not a straight line. If it is a straight line, it means you are dead. Even if you have a temporary setback, that shouldn’t make you exude bitterness or hate anybody” He debunked the rumour that he was planning to return back to the PDP, insisting that he is very comfortable in the APC. ”I can’t go back to the PDP. Why are you people listening to rumour? Why will I go back to the PDP when I am already getting entrenched in the APC? I am excited that the President won the election all over the country,” Akpabio said.