Old students of Christ’s  School Ado-Ekiti Higher School Certificate (HSC) 1978-80 and 1979 -81 sets have said they are committed to restoring the glory of their alma mater. Speaking in Ikeja, Lagos during the maiden edition of the alumni’s 40th celebration of the members who met for the first time since their graduation four decades ago, the convener Seye Adetunmbi, said their meeting would help the members to reunite and be of assistance to one another in various human endeavours, adding that it would also enable them to extend support to their alma mater in any area they can be of assistance to it. He said: “Now that those of us alive have reunited with ourselves, we can put heads together on how we can complement one another’s efforts in our various human endeavours and extend support to our alma mater in any area we can be of assistance to the school. “For instance, the National President of the alumni, Dr U. J. Itsueli has urged us to put on our thinking cap on how to successfully actualise the plans of Ekiti State government to handover the school back to Anglican Mission which is the founding owners of the school. “We intend to help the school by looking at the issues realistically and proffering various workable alternatives towards achieving the desired restoration of the standard that created the heritage that every product of the school flaunts till today.” He said seeing one another after 40 years is gratifying. “It also provides an avenue for us to be of help to one another when and where necessary and to complement the efforts of the national alumni association for the benefit of Christ’s School, Ado-Ekiti. “The association is a platform for old students of the school to come together and participate in other global alumni activities of their alma mater. I first convened an interactive platform in 2005 on the internet using this portal christschoolhsc7881@yahoogroups.com for members to interact. On June 1, 2017, I created a WhatsApp group for members of the two HSC sets to meet and compare notes. “After almost two years that we have been chatting through WhatsApp, members stressed the need for us to see ourselves physically and here we are for the maiden edition of our reunion,” he said. Chief Administrator, Nigerian Media Merit Award (NMMA), Yemi Akeju, described the reunion as great. “This is a great reunion for those who were together 40 years ago in the school. They all benefited from the virtues of life which the school gave to them. It is a good thing for them to come together to talk about what they can do for the school, “he said. Akeju, an old student of the school, 1968-1972 set, noted that Christ’s School is one of the few outstanding schools in Africa. “We have all benefited from the school; it is our responsibility to go back there and do something for the school for the betterment of the students and to sustain the quality of education we received from the school,” he said. Another old student, Olusola Afonja, then Chapel Prefect, said life back then was an exciting one. He said the reunion was for the old students to get together with joy and happiness and to give glory to God that they could still come together after years of leaving school. “We aim to get the school back from government. One of the agenda at this meeting was for the different sets to strategise on how they can get the school back from government and restore its glory. Before government took over Christ’s School, it was the best school in Ekiti. The school used to be one of the best in old western states,” he said. Chief Mrs Bimbo Odegbami, also an old student, described the gathering as interesting, noting that many of them have not seen one another in the past 40 years after they left school. “Many of us saw last as kids but we are all grown now as grand fathers and mothers. Many of you have changed and we can now relate again as friends. Nothing nowadays can be like school days. School days were fun for us because there was nothing to think or worry about except for ourselves,” she said. A contractor and old student of the school, Mrs. Iyabo Garba, said meeting the old faces is a thing of joy. “We thank God that we are alive and we are here together today. Our gathering is to be of benefit to one another and to contribute to the development of the school that made us to be what we are today,” she said. Garba described life back then as pleasant, noting that the school made her to be more serious about life and to become successful.