An officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) guarding the Lagos Deep Offshore Logistics (LADOL) Free Zone, Mr. Innocent Oshemi, has shot and killed another NSCDC personnel. He also wounded a Korean staff working at the fabrication and integration yard of the Samsung Heavy Industries (SHI) located in the free zone. The armed security guard went on a rampage around the SHI-MCI yard on Monday, killing his colleague during an argument and shooting a Korean SHI-MCI employee operating a crane within the yard at the time According to eyewitness report, the severally wounded Korean was not involved in the original argument between the gunman and his colleague. After killing his colleague at about 1.53 pm, the NSCDC officer made his way towards the exit of the SHI-MCI yard but was confronted by guards and other Korean SHI-MCI employees, who prevented from leaving the yard. Their bravery prevented the gunman from inflicting further harm on other employees within the free-zone. The gunman was taken into custody by Apapa police. The gunman, who was supplied to LADOL Free Zone by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, was tasked with the responsibility of defending the Samsung yard from any external attack. The Korean employee, who was taken to hospital, underwent several hours of surgery, having suffered serious and life-changing injuries. Some workers at the free zone, who witnessed the incident, blamed it on poor management of LADOL as the Free Zone operator. “LADOL armed guards are supposed to be properly trained to protect Nigerian and foreign workers. ‘’SHI-MCI had previously argued against having armed guards at the yard as it posed unnecessary risk to employees due to insufficient training of guards,” said a female employee who asked not to be named. “It is vital that those responsible for such a serious failing that has resulted in death and serious injury are held to account. “This was a violent act in a free zone, which is supposed to be a safe zone for foreign nationals, investors and Nigerian workers conducting their daily business. “Zone operators like LADOL should have measures in place to ensure the safety and security of all their subleases at the zone and if those measures fail there should be contingencies,” another eyewitness said. In a statement on Tuesday, Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria confirmed one of its Korean employees has been critically injured after being shot by a guard, adding that it has arranged expert medical care for this employee. “We give thanks to the quick-thinking and bravery of its employees who apprehended the security operative. “Samsung will conduct a full investigation and demands answers from LADOL as to how this employee was screened, and what protection they can offer to workers within the LADOL Free Zone who are now extremely concerned for their safety and welfare. “Samsung is working with the International SOS service and the Korean embassy in Nigeria to ensure that proper medical care is provided to its employee and that his family has all the support they need. ‘’We have already started our own investigation into what happened. We will be encouraging the Nigerian authorities and the Korean embassy to commence a full and thorough investigation into this terrible incident,” the statement added. Meanwhile, SHI-MCI excused all its employees for work from yesterday and until further notice. “SHI-MCI plans to issue a claim of damages and will request compensation on behalf of the victim as well as commercial loss,” the company added. Reacting in a statement, the Head of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Abdullahi Gana, explained a Civil Defence officer opened fire ‘in error’ at the logistics base, ”leaving multiple casualties”. He later clarified that the officer, who was not immediately identified, shot and killed one of his colleagues at the base. “Also a Korean man who was present sustained gunshot wounds and is currently hospitalised.” Gana who sympathised with the victims, promised the incident would be investigated and legally handled.