The Senate on Thursday heard that over 3,000 Nigerians are currently held captivity by dare-devil kidnappers in parts of the northern states. The startling revelation forced the upper chamber to summon the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to appear before it next week. Adamu is required to brief the Senate on the increasing spate of kidnapping and banditry in parts of the country and measures by the police to stem the tide. The invitation of the IGP followed the adoption a prayer by Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, on the need for Adamu to brief the Senate on the increasing spate of kidnapping in the country. The lawmakers believed that the IGP was in a position to throw light on general insecurity in Nigeria. Ekweremadu was contributing to a motion on “Senseless killing of a Briton and the abduction of three others in a Holiday Resort in Kaduna State by armed bandits” sponsored by Senator Shehu Sani and 108 others. He added that kidnapping of foreigners is increasing the cost of construction in the country. Foreign construction firms, he said, build in funds for payment of ransoms into the cost when bidding for contracts. Senator Kabiru Marafa in his contribution to the motion noted that businesses and other sources of livelihood, including farming have completely collapsed in most northern states. The Zamfara Central senator feared that unless immediate measures were taken to battle suffocating banditry there might be no Zamfara State in the next few years. Marafa insisted that government should, as a matter of urgency, engage the youths who were chiefly involved in banditry and other acts of criminality. He said: “There might be no Zamfara State in the next two years if something is not done about the insecurity in the state. I saw a video from my state where children of about 11 years are wielding AK47. This is the reality on ground in my state. “In Zamfara State, there are over 3,000 kidnapped victims in the dens of bandits. Banditry is not reducing. It has become a business. There is technically no business in the north, except kidnapping. “People have abandoned their farms in the north. There are no more peasant farmers in the north. They are being kidnapped by these bandits. “I disagree with my colleague from Katsina. All businesses in the north are dead. The government must employ people or they will join these bandits. The reason behind this problem is corruption. “We cannot employ enough security personnel to man every community in this country. Where are we going to? With due respect to my colleagues, with the kind of irresponsible leadership we have seen in states, we cannot solve this problem.” Senator Sani (Kaduna central) in his lead debate lamented that the north has become Nigeria’s killing fields, where bandits and other criminal elements carry on with reckless abandon. For him, it is regrettable that despite repeated attacks by bandits, no one has been brought to book by the government. The situation, he said, has emboldened bandits and criminal elements to conduct their heinous crimes audaciously. Sani said: “In recent times, the attacks on individuals, houses and villages have become one too many and there is no single person that has been brought to book as a result of  the wanton killings.  So much talked about efforts at combating the banditry and crime is not yielding results. “We are worried about the fact that perpetrators of these heinous activities tend to be gaining more courage to carry out their dastardly acts without fear of confrontation due to their acclaimed superior fire power. “The unfortunate event of 19th April, 2019 where armed gun men raided a resort called Kajuru Resort in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna State, a Briton, Ms. Faye Mooney and a Nigerian, Mr. Mathew Oguche were killed and three others abducted has put more fears into Nigerians. “Ms. Faye Mooney was a humanitarian worker with an NGO, Mercy Corp, who had worked in war torn countries like Iraq and Kosovo helping the needy, the vulnerable and internally displaced persons. “Recall that earlier in the year, President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered senior security chiefs to curb kidnapping in the region when four western tourists, two Americans and two Canadians were abducted in Kaduna in an ambush in January that left two of their police escorts dead.” Sani continued: “Banditry has reached a tragic level in Zamfara, Kaduna and Niger States. It is not overstatement to say that the country is at war. Kidnapping has reach such a tragic level that people are losing hope about the ability of government to protect them. “It is unfortunate that this has continued despite all sorts of operations launched by security operatives. It has reached such a level that highly placed persons have abandoned the roads for the train. We have all seen how the seed of destruction has moved beyond Zamfara State to other parts of the north. “We can no longer afford to fight 21st century crime with 20th century system. The idea of keeping police men to open booths at check points can no longer suffice in the north. “The problem used to be for only poor people. Now it has moved to the upper class of people. If this trend continues a time will come when all people in the north will move to Abuja because Abuja is where the paradise is. As time goes on there will be no heaven in Abuja. “We must begin to tell truth to power. Zamfara has become a cancer spreading to other parts of Nigeria. The blame should be on every person who has the opportunity to speak truth to power and refuses to do so.” Senate President, Bukola Saraki, noted that the country must find permanent solution to insecurity in the country. Saraki said: “When we talk about the way forward, we must be true to ourselves. In discussing this issue, we must be frontal. We need to tell ourselves where this started from. We must not see it from the eyes of political parties or anything sentimental. “There was a time when we couldn’t even talk to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) for over a year. He refused to honour our invitation. We need to be serious whether we want to find a solution or just play to the gallery. “I am aware that people have now deserted Kaduna expressway because of insecurity. In the past, kidnapping was done in the city. Today, it is different. Nowhere is safe anymore. We need to tell ourselves the truth and find a way out of this mess. We must find a solution.” The curious aspect of the motion was the listing of imprisoned Senator Joshua Dariye as one of the 108 senators that sponsored the motion. Dariye who “represented Plateau Central Senatorial District” is currently serving a 14 year jail term following his conviction by a Federal High Court. He was convicted for alleged money laundering. The listing of Dariye as one of the sponsored of the motion on senseless killings in Kaduna State, may have given credence that he is still enjoying his salary and allowances as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Sani jokingly told reporters that the name of Dariye was not on the Order Paper he used on the floor of Senate for the motion. The Senators who observed a minute silence in honour of the departed souls urged security authorities to intensify the search for the perpetrators so as to bring them to book. It urged the government to set up inter-agency task force to tackle cases of banditry and kidnapping in Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and Niger States. The Senate also urged security agencies to give special security cover to foreign workers and tourists as well as to immediately deploy the use of drones and interceptors in tracking kidnappers. It urged community leaders, traditional leaders and all stakeholders to co-operate with security agencies. It urged telecommunication firms to provide agencies with information in areas where there are kidnappings. It agreed to send a delegation to the British embassy and condole the British Government.