Ghana is renowned for producing some of Africa’s finest boxers of all time. However, what boxing fans outside the former Gold Coast don’t know is that most of these famous boxers emerged from an impoverished fishing community – Bukom – which lies in the heart of the country’s capital city, Accra. OLALEKAN OKUSAN, who was in Accra recently, took a trip to Bukom to find out why the area has consistently churned out the best of boxers in Ghana. Walking through the streets of Bukom can be very exciting as the fishing community is always buzzing. It is a suburb in the capital city of Accra, which is the heart of Ghana. But apart from being a fishing community, Bukom is known for producing the best boxers for the country, many of whom have won international acclaim. Besides fishing-related goings-on, Bukom is also a hive of sporting activities as the youth scattered across the community get involved in one sports or the other. What you can’t miss in Bukom are its make-shift boxing gyms dotting the community with boxers as young as seven honing their skills with various boxing clubs. Bukom is popular for consistently producing some of the greatest boxers in the Africa. But then most of the suburb’s boxing gyms are not standard equipment. Essentially, they are little shacks serving the small neighbourhood as boxing gyms. Many young people in the community spend their days training in these makeshift boxing gyms in their bid to make it big in boxing. Bukom is made up of the Ga people who had a traditional combat sport called Asafo atwele before colonization brought them in contact with boxing. Since then, boxing has been a way of life for them. Bukom is considered as one of the poorest areas in Ghana. The catalyst driving young people’s interest in boxing across the impoverished community therefore is the hope of escaping poverty by making it big in the sport. Despite its material lack, Bukom is credited with putting Ghana on the world map through famous boxers like David Kotei, Ike Quartey, Emmanuel Clottey and Joshua Clottey, among others. Azumah ‘Zoom Zoom’ Nelson, who is considered one of Africa’s greats in boxing because he won three world titles, also grew up in Bukom. It is a common sight to see young residents of Bukom sparring with themselves on the street, throwing jabs as they jog or slugging it out in the ring, testing their boxing skills against each other. One of the colourful local stars in Bukom is Braimah Issah Kamoko who is known as Bukom Banku. He has a rock star following in the community due to his efforts in unearthing young boxers. His last fight against another local hero, Bastie Samir, attracted a record crowd to the Bukom Boxing Arena. Bukom Banku is fond of sparing with four boxers at once but he suffered his first defeat in his 29-fight career against Samir. “After my last fight, I had not fought because I had an eye injury which the doctor told me to rest for five years. I hope to return to ring with the hope of hanging my glove when I am 41 because I am 39 now. I have not yet quit but I am also helping to discover young boxers in the area,” he said. Bukom Banku added: “If you go to most of the gyms, they may not have the quality facilities, but one thing for sure is that when you come to Bukom, it is always about fighting. We might respect people but we don’t fear them. We are not scared of nothing because, at the end of the day, we know it is all about fighting for survival as we believe that through boxing we can better our lives.” The tall and hefty boxer has a larger-than-life image in the community and whenever he goes on the streets, he is always cheered by the people. The prowess of the Bukom boxers has something to do too with the community’s fishing occupation. Bukom Banku explained: “Boxing for us in Bukom is our life because as fishermen, we build our muscle with the kind of work we do and this gives us the inner strength to be able to box. “Most of us don’t go to school and we love fishing and boxing is what we do apart from fishing. We put our mind into boxing because of the exploits of Azumah Nelson. “Everybody in this area involves in boxing as our physical attributes cut us out for boxing. From DK Poison exploits boxing became popular generally. Personally, I was attracted to boxing by Muhammed Ali. I started boxing at nine.” Bukom Banku also said most young people in Bukom believe that boxing was their fastest ticket out of poverty: “Most of us believe that with the kind of money boxing generates, we can make it big out of it and that is why the interest in boxing continues to grow in Bukom.” Speaking on the area’s fame for boxing, Ghana’s national boxing coach, Ofori Asare, said: “In the olden days, a traditional combat sport known as Asafo atwele was very common among the Ga people in Bukom. They were fond of engaging in this and that was what ignited their interest in boxing. “Boxing is very common in Bukom because people in the community see boxing in real life. Unlike other areas in Ghana where young people only watch boxing on television, in Bukom most young people see boxing live and they develop interest in the sport. “Virtually everybody in Bukom knows something about boxing and that is why even boxers from other regions in Ghana prefer to go to Bukom to train because they will get the opportunity to spar with other boxers. “So boxing permeates every nooks and cranny of Bukom. Whenever we organize national boxing tournaments, majority of the boxers come from Bukom,” the Amateur International Boxing Association (AIBA) instructor said. He added: “It is a common sight to see young people using boxing gloves in Bukom because they are used to it and it is what they have grown up to know. The exploits of top boxers like Azumah Nelson, Ike Quartey, Emmanuel Clottey and a host of others have also ignited more interest in the sport. I think boxing in Bukom has become a tradition for the people.” Secretary General, Ghana Boxing Authority, Patrick Johnson, confirmed that some of the top boxers who made Ghana proud came from Bukom. This, he added, has made the sport a common feature in the lives of Bukom residents. Johnson said: “Ga people who make up Bukom community like boxing and it has become their way of life. Their vocation, which is fishing, has prepared them for the sport. They are very energetic people who are very strong in nature and this most times makes them to challenge themselves to fights and they do this through boxing. “Unconsciously, through fishing they build their muscle through their work and this gives them the needed energy to engage in boxing. They are naturally gifted for boxing and this has been a long time tradition for the Bukom people.” Johnson also disclosed that the popularity of boxing in Bukom prompted the government to build the ultra-modern Bukom Boxing Arena, which now hosts most of the major boxing tournaments in Ghana. “The building of the Bukom Boxing Arena by the government two years ago was necessitated through the popularity of boxing in Bukom. The Arena seats 3,000 people but with additional 1,000 improvised seat during a major tournament,” he said. Visiting the Sonia Boxing Academy, two pupils – Proper Lucas and Francis Mensah – were seen taking off their school uniforms to train under the chief coach of the club. They train from Monday through Friday after school hours. Lucas, a seven-year-old pupil of St Mary Primary School Bukom, said: “I love boxing because a lot of people engage in it in Bukom and I also want to become a world champion and make money from it for my family. My parents also encourage me to go to training and I have been training for one year. I know that I can make it in the sport,” the youngster said. For Mensah, a 10-year-old pupil of Bishop Mixed School in Bukom, boxing is life. “I love boxing because it is a way of life in Bukom. Everybody in the community loves boxing and I want to be a good fighter like Azumah Nelson. I come to training every day in the week and my parents have been very supportive. I want to make a living out of boxing,” Mensah said.  Notable Ghanaian boxers of Bukom origin  ROY ANKRAH Roy “The Black Flash” Ankrah was a Ghanaian boxer in the 1940s, ’50s and ’60s who won the Gold Coast flyweight title, Gold Coast bantamweight title, Gold Coast featherweight title, Gold Coast lightweight title, Gold Coast welterweight title, and British Empire super featherweight title. Ankrah turned professional in the Gold Coast in 1941 recording 110 undefeated wins. He then made his début in Great Britain in 1950 on the recommendation of Freddie Mills. He recorded 10 further wins before losing to Jimmy Murray on a foul. He later helped to train Ghanaian contingents to the Olympic Games and Commonwealth Games.  DAVID KOTEI ‘DK POISON’ David Kotei was popularly called “D.K. Poison was a world featherweight boxing champion between 1975 and 1976 and was also the first Ghanaian to win a world title. DK Poison started his amateur career in Accra and he is one of many boxers spawned by Bukom. He turned professional under trainer Attuquaye Clottey and his first professional bout was on February 5 1966 in Accra when he outpointed his opponent over six rounds. He became the national featherweight champion that year. In 1972, he fought as much as seven times in Australia, winning five and losing two. He won the African featherweight title on February 2, 1974 when he knocked out Tahar Ben Hassen in the first round of a scheduled 15 round fight in Tunis, Tunisia. Later on December 7, 1974, he also won the Commonwealth featherweight title with a technical knockout over Evans Armstrong, a British boxer in round 10 of a scheduled 15 rounds bout. This victory gave him an opportunity to go for the World Boxing Council version of the world title. On September 20, 1975, in The Forum, Inglewood, California, United States, he beat Rubén Olivares by split point decision after 15 rounds to become the first Ghanaian world boxing champion. He relinquished the African and Commonwealth titles following this victory.  AZUMAH NELSON He is widely considered as the greatest African boxer of all time. He remains the 17th greatest pound for pound boxer of all time in Boxer’s ranking; he held the WBC featherweight title once and the WBC super featherweight title twice. Nelson had a stellar amateur career, competing at the 1978 All-Africa Games and 1978 Commonwealth Games where he won gold medals in the Featherweight class, and compiling an Amateur Record of 50–2.  JOSHUA CLOTTEY Joshua Clottey competed from 1995 to 2019, and held the IBF welterweight title from 2008 to 2009. He is renowned for his defensive prowess in the ring and this was displayed in a 2010 loss to Manny Pacquiao. He never lost a bout via knockout.  BRAIMAH KAMOKO (BUKOM BANKU) The local hero rose to prominence by winning a bronze medal in the heavyweight division at the 1999 All African Games. He won the WBO Africa Light Heavyweight title in 2011 and the WBO Africa Cruiserweight title in 2012. His 28-fight unbeaten record came to an end in 2017 when he was knocked out by fellow Bukom boy Bastie Samir