ABOUT 3,850 domestic violence cases were reported in Lagos State between 2016 and last year, Domestic Violence & Sexual Response Team (DSVRT) Coordinator Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi has said. She said more residents were aware of the scourge and were speaking out against it and seeking help. She spoke on Sunday at a three-day Nigerian Association of Adventist Lawyers (NAAL) 2019 National Convention with the theme:  “Adventist lawyers, impact for influence”. Delivering a lecture titled: ‘’Domestic violence: causes, management and solutions,’’ Vivour-Adeniyi said the abuse could be psychological, physical, sexual, emotional, verbal or economic/deprivation. “A recent victimisation survey shows that one in four women will be raped, abused and beaten in their life time. In some cases such violence result in the death of the victims or in most cases leaves the victims traumatised. “In Lagos State, we have continued to see a steady increase in reporting of domestic violence. In 2016, 450 cases were reported. In 2017, 1,044 cases were reported, while in 2018, 2,356 cases were reported. On average, we now handle 150 new cases monthly,” she said. Vivour-Adeniyi dismissed myths about domestic violence, including the idea that men involved are violent because they cannot control their anger and frustration or that alcohol, drug abuse, stress and mental illness cause domestic violence. She said: “Alcohol use, drug use and stress do not cause domestic violence; they may go along with domestic violence, but they do not cause the violence. Abusers often say they use these excuses for their violence. “Although alcohol and drugs are often associated with domestic violence, they do not cause the violence. Many men who beat their wives do not drink. Men who drink and beat their wives usually do not beat random people on the street, their parents or their bosses. They direct their violence only at their wives.” Some of the discussants at the event –  Justice Adefunmilola Adekemi Demi-Ajayi of the Federal High Court; NAAL President Justice L.T.C. Eruba of the Abia State Judiciary; Prof Adejoke Oyewunmi and Dr. Paul Ananaba (SAN) – urged people, especially lawyers, to  help victims of domestic violence.