Latter Rain Assembly Serving Overseer Tunde Bakare has a prayer request – it is for President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint the best, brightest and fittest into his administration as he takes oath on May 29 for his second term in office. Pastor Bakare, who was Buhari’s running mate in the 2011 presidential election on the platform of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), said Nigeria has enough assets for the development of the nation. The fiery cleric, who spoke in a chat on the Channels Television, warned of the consequences of not tackling rising insecurity and unemployment in the land. He also commented on the proliferation of private varsities Bakare expressed the hope that with the right men on the drivers’ seats at the various ministries, departments and agencies, the problems would become surmountable. He said: “It is in our corporate interest to ensure that there is a future for our young people and for the children, to ensure good healthcare delivery, to ensure transportation system that is flawless; there is so much assets in this country. “I pray that President Buhari will do his best in the second term to appoint the best, the brightest and the fittest, so that you will see Nigeria turn around as we maximise the potentials of the nation.” Bakare said that jobs should be created for the teeming youths to steer them away from crime, noting that the country is facing a scourge of insecurity as a result of unemployment. “We are being invaded from outside and from within, what do you think will happen to millions of jobless youths who have no way of providing for themselves? Crime would be the next option. “So, we need to create jobs, and more job, and more jobs, we have neglected the greatest asset of any nation — human capital. Our education sector has gone down the drain; we need to revive all that. “I heard they are giving 300 licences for universities; I am just amazed, they are glorified secondary schools. Let us solidify the ones we have; it is ok to start university, it is ok to have private universities but let us maintain standards.” Bakare pointed out the dangers of prosperity in the midst of poverty, warning that the uneducated youths of today will become a threat to the nation’s development. He said: “Your being insecure can become a threat to my security. I don’t want to be a rich man in a secured island of prosperity in the midst of quicksand of poverty, because those children we do not train, and we do not equip will rise to fight. “Almajiris will rise to fight, area boys will rise to fight; once the Almajiris in the North and the area boys in the South join hands together, we are not safe.”