MRS Theresa Indongesit of Zenith Bank is still thanking God for sparing her life and the lives of her three children from a horrible car accident occasioned by burst tyres as they travelled two weeks ago from Lagos to Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. According to the banker, who is still shaken by the accident, she was strapped in the passengers’ seat in front while her three children were strapped to their seats at the back. The car was being driven by her driver who incidentally is a professional driver. “As we approached Ore, Ondo State, with the vehicle on top speed, one of the front and back tyres went burst and the vehicle just started somersaulting. It was like a scene from a movie. I just started screaming ‘Jesus! Jesus!’ while my kids were shouting ‘mummy! mummy!’ After what seemed like eternity the car rested on its back with what remained of the tyres facing upwards.” The lady, who had tears of relief running down her face as she recounted her ordeal, said that good Samaritans rushed to them and brought the five of them out. “Not one of us sustained any injury. “What I cannot understand is how two of my tyres went burst. These are brand new tyres I bought early last month. I paid N28,000 for each of the tyres at the popular Ladipo market in Mushin, Lagos. In fact, I had to change my tyres because of this trip, but see what I still went through,” lamented the mother of three. This is not the first time brand new tyres under pressure went burst. In fact the story of the former Minister of State for Labour and Productivity, James Ocholi, who died with his family in a vehicle accident which was as a result of tyre burst is still fresh in our minds. We had published a story of a man who after fitting his vehicle with new tyres proceeded to Jos from Lagos. According to Alhaji Yahaya, three of the new tyres went burst on that single trip to Jos. “They just went burst one after the other. By the time I got to Jos, I had lost three brand new tyres. It was a nightmare. It’s an experience I can never forget. Though my vehicle did not somersault, I was put under a great emotional and financial strain on my way to Jos.” The stories are endless. When accidents of this nature happen, most people conclude it must have been as a result of tokunbo or second tyres which most times are weak. However, many things can cause tyre blowout. Overloading a vehicle, a massive cut in tyres that causes rapid air loss, can cause tyre to burst. Inflating too much pressure into our tyres, above the recommended gauge and even under inflation can cause tyre burst. However, most brand new tyres that burst is due to the fact that they have already been damaged through handling even before the dealer imports them into the country. In 2004, the federal government increased tariffs on all tyre imports to 40 per cent from the previous rate of 10 per cent to ensure the rapid revival of the country’s tyre industry. However, with that increase, private tyre importers are doing everything imaginable to undercut the government and in so doing damage and compromise the condition of these tyres. In a bid to pay lesser duty and maximise profits, some tyre importers get quantities meant for four containers stuffed into one. Profits are made by twisting or squeezing three to four tyres into one. The tyres are often times in this squeezed or compressed state for months and are only brought out and stretched to their normal positions after they are delivered to the markets or shops where they are to be retailed. The most visibly affected and dangerous part is the tyre bead which contains a round metal wire. The bead of the tyre is supposed to have an airtight seal between the tyre and the rim. Where this fails, air will escape from the tyre and this could lead to explosion leading to possible loss of control and accidents. Tyre burst or blowout actually occurs when something allows air to escape from the tyre, hence preventing the tyre from supporting the weight of the vehicle. Importers will pay for one container but have three to four containers volume of tyres to sell and make more profits while endangering lives. This is also one means through which government revenue leaks out. Regrettably, the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) said between 2011 and 2015, no fewer than 5,288 road crashes across the federation resulted from either worn-out or sub-standard tyres. While the National Bureau of Statistics [NBS] disclosed that within the fourth quarter of 2017 and first quarter of 2018[6 months], the nation recorded 2,598 deaths road accidents. Out of this figure, stated the NBS, tyre burst accounted for 8.26 per cent. FRSC Corps Marshall, Boboye Oyeyemi, speaking at a stakeholders’ forum in Abuja appealed to the government to ensure the reduction of tariff placed on imported tyres into the country. SON has also intensified efforts in recent times to raid markets of substandard tyres. The Standard Organisation of Nigeria, SON, recently destroyed substandard tyres worth over N50 million in Enugu. It said that the aim was to save lives of Nigerians and discourage importers from further engaging in acts capable of endangering lives of vehicle owners who might use such tyres on their vehicles. SON’s Director General, Osita Aboloma, who was represented by the SON’s Director, Inspectorate and Compliance Directorate, in the Enugu Zonal office, Engr. Obiora Manata, during the exercise performed at the Emene, Enugu premises of the organisation, said that SON would not tolerate a situation in which Nigerian importers jeopardise the safety and lives of citizens by importing substandard tyres into the country and circulating same in the markets where the unsuspecting vehicle owners would buy and risk their lives and those of other road users. He said that the SON, working in collaboration with the Nigeria Customs Service, Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC) and other relevant security agencies, would always make sure that importers are discouraged from bringing into the country substandard materials of any type, stressing that Nigeria should not be a dumping ground for substandard products. Aboloma said: “The tyres are substandard, meaning that you are not supposed to use them on your vehicles. It is dangerous to use any of these tyres on any vehicle, and that’s why we have brought them out today to destroy them. “Ordinarily, the tyres, as manufactured, were not substandard; but because of the act of what we call stuffing and un-stuffing. “Stuffing is a process in which a tyre is squeezed with mechanical force and rammed inside a slightly bigger tyre; and then another one is forced into the other tyre and it continues like that until you now have about four or five tyres in one. Stuffing affects the tyres in a negative manner and makes them substandard.”