Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN) Director-General, Dr Dikko Umaru Radda, has expressed worries over the level of youth and women unemployment, urging the authorities to tackle the situation before it becomes a crisis. Dikko, who spoke in Kaduna, at the inauguration of sensitisation programme on Young Business Owners in Nigeria (Y-BON) in the Northwest Zone, warned that if the situation was not properly tackled through deliberate measures with sufficient job creation, civil, social and political upheaval might ensue. The SMEDAN boss said available data showed that only one out of every 100 graduates get employed by both the public and the private sectors after graduation. He noted the global population of young people between the ages of 15 and 24 was rapidly increasing with vast majority of that group living in emerging economies such as Nigeria. Radda, therefore, said there was the need to properly manage the group to yield positive demographic dividends rather than become a security burden. “This is the surest way to diversify the economy and employ the huge youth population,” he said. He identified skill shortages caused by dearth of skilled personnel and entrepreneurial competence as some of the factors responsible for unemployment in Nigeria. “There is no doubt that unemployment situation in Nigeria has reached a crisis level,” Radda said, noting that it was in a bid to address this challenge that SMEDAN initiated the Y-BON programme. He explained that the programme was aimed at providing a platform where existing entrepreneurs either as stand-alone or cooperative societies will be competitively selected for further support packages to reduce some of the fundamental challenges that usual confront Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises (MSMEs.) “Essentially, the target beneficiaries are young people between the ages of 20 to 45. The focus on this target is because of the need to create new opportunities for employment and enterprises growth, which are usually not easily realisable in start-ups,” he said. The DG noted that through a similar programme in 2018, SMEDAN supported 460 business owners with workspace in Anambra, Kebbi, Kogi, Cross River and Osun State.