It can be claimed, without much fear of contradiction, that human beings are by nature, corrupt and/or selfish, although they still have to live together as groups understandably because no single person is completely self-sufficient.  This behavioural trait is of critical importance to all human societies even as they chart the pathways of survival and economic progress through time and space. The above scenario also necessarily paves the way for stresses/tensions and occasionally, conflicts arising in most cases from hegemonic control of scarce resources. Consequently, scripted and unscripted rules, regulations and/or laws are developed in order to mitigate these crises/conflicts. These problems and challenges have no cultural, ethnic, racial or religious boundaries. They are often trans-generational and trans-oceanic in scope. However, their severity varies from one society to another.  In this connection, charismatic leadership and active followership are of the essence. It is on record that several assassinations happened/happen in the US despite its socio-economic and cultural sophistication. Thus, for example, in 1847, the governor of New Mexico Territory called Charles Bent was murdered in his residence. Similarly, John F. Kennedy- the then president of the US was killed in 1963. Arkansas Democratic Party’s chairman was killed in 2008 inside his party’s secretariat. But the level is much lower than in Nigeria where assassins were/are never arrested, let alone prosecuted and punished in accordance with the rule of law. In fact, demons are let loose leading to the spread of godlessness over the land! In the developed parts of the global village, institutions are allowed to work and nobody is above the law contrary to what exists in Nigeria. This primordial attitude of our political leaders since independence has been encouraging unbridled crimes and criminality. The Nigerian post-coloniality (especially in recent times) is defined by savage killings which threaten the corporate existence of the country. The devilry of an average Nigerian politician shows that he does not believe in the concept of service to humanity. This attitude turns the stomach of anybody even with the faintest idea of good conscience. It is most disturbing that Nigeria- the current world’s capital of   poverty – allows its parliamentarians to be the highest paid legislators on our planet. It is the height of economic exploitation and slavery for a senator to be earning over N22 million monthly while a national youth service corps member is paid less than N20,000. This scenario exposes the injustices of the Nigerian jungle system made possible by the docility or timidity of its followership. Politics is the juiciest engagement in Nigeria. The level of shamelessness during the First Republic was too low to be compared with what obtains today. Meanwhile, the followers are mere prayer warriors with the false hopes that Providence would re-locate to Nigeria to help us wrestle bad governance to the ground. This is a deceit! Senseless destruction of Nigerians can be understood against the background of Boko Haram insurgencies; assassinations; herders’/farmers’ conflicts; ritual killings; Shiite Uprising; Zaria massacre and kidnapping for ransom which occasionally leads to killing of innocent people. Up to now, the central government has not succeeded in crafting workable strategies aimed at beating the menace. Today’s Nigeria has gained a certain notoriety as a country where human lives and those of chickens are on a par. Thus, for example, over 1000 Nigerians mostly Christians were killed in July 2009 by Boko Haram insurgents in northern Nigeria. The killings have not stopped since then. But when would this orgy of killing and destruction end?  In December 2015, the Nigerian Army had a deadly confrontation with members of the Shiite group during the latter’s religious procession in Zaria. A conservative estimate of 1000 people lost their lives. This is in addition to the destruction of lives of some members of IPOB (otherwise called the Biafran protesters) between 2015 and 2016. About 80 Nigerians were mowed down. Numerous Christians lost their lives in Kaduna in May 2000 as a result of the introduction of Sharia Law. The Odi massacre in Bayelsa in November 1999 by the Nigerian Army led to the death of about 2500 citizens. Many politicians like Bola Ige, Tunde Omojola, Kehinde Fasuba, Ayo Daramola, Dipo Dina and Okon Uwah were assassinated between 2001 and 2015. Okon Uwah who decamped from PDP to APC made the supreme sacrifice in 2015. Ritualists are smiling to their banks as selling of human parts as beef is now a lucrative coping strategy/business. Who would get us out of the woods? Unemployment and dire material poverty coupled with spiritual deficiency are reducing many Nigerians to sub-humans. They have become cowardly souls fit only for the hottest part of hell. Killings in Zamfara, Benue, Plateau, Taraba , Kogi and Kaduna states reached an unimaginable level between 2015 and 2018. Indeed, the Zamfara case up to now is a near-complete genocide. Even the southern part of Nigeria is not completely spared of this beastliness or savagery of monumental proportions. The government can never succeed with a piecemeal approach. The whole world is heaping scorn on Nigeria because our leaders have clearly shown that they lack the capacity to manage the country’s internal dynamics and challenges. The Nigerian government is an unthinking, happy debtor and beggar. In April 2018, the American President- Mr. Donald Trump said as follows: “We are deeply concerned by religious violence in Nigeria including burning of churches and the killing and persecution of Christians.” According to some Civil Society Groups ( over 70 in number), the recent elections in Nigeria led to the mowing down or maiming of about 100 people including a few INEC officials. It is most disturbing that the political leaders still pride themselves on barbarities in the 21st century.  This Machiavellian mindset continues to rob Nigeria of its economic opportunities and social stability.  Thus, for example, tourism industry has almost totally collapsed at the domestic and international levels. Tourism is not a suicide mission! Many farmers have been displaced from their villages as a result of incessant herders’/farmers’ conflicts and other forms of banditry.  Consequently, Nigeria has just taken another title- one of the eight hungriest countries in the world. It is an insult to our collective intelligence whenever the presidency denies this new status (arising from the United Nations’ research findings), instead of reflecting deeply on the state of the nation. As far as the Nigerian leadership culture is concerned (especially in relatively recent times), only sycophants/cronies are correct. Therefore, Mr. President needs to begin to re-engineer the country through comprehensive strategies in order to take the pulse of the nation. This would enable him to avoid a bumpy flight during his second trip. Our current shameful narrative of savage attacks/ bloodletting, extreme hunger, despondency and religious/ethnic tensions is an irritation to humanity and Providence. This can be reversed in the face of sophisticated leadership embedded in proactive-ness, openness, empathy and unalloyed patriotism. 