Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai has said that his government has attracted both local and international investments of over $500 million into the state in the last three and half years. Governor Nasir El-Rufai stated this in Kaduna on Wednesday at the opening of the 4th edition of the Kaduna Economic and Investment Summit (KadInvest). Governor Nasir El Rufai said some of the investments have already became reality and hundreds of thousands of youth are benefiting from them. He added that the feat was possible because his government has been able to make the state an investors destination. El Rufai disclosed that some of the policies put in place to make the state investors haven is creating conducive atmosphere for business to prosper. He added that his Government has put in place a 35 years infrastructural plan to transform the state. This according to him is backed up by the industrialization plan of the state. He cited companies like Olam Factory, Zaria Feed Mills and the partnership with Dangote conglomerate to revive the comatose Peugeot factory in Kaduna as outcomes of the investment friendly environment. Speaking on why Investors should invest in Kaduna, Governor El Rufai said the state is blessed with experienced and educated work force, because it has the highest number of tertiary institutions in the North. According to the Governor, “KadInvest has become a critical vehicle for driving investments in Kaduna and providing the condusive environment for the private sector to thrive. “Through this platform, in the last three and the half years, we have attracted over $500 million in local and foreign investments in this state,” he stated. “We also have abundant natural resources, large labour force that will provide the required work force. Our state is also investors friendly and a gateway to other Northern States. The governor noted that this year’s KadInvest is the fourth of its kind, revealed that “the investments have generated over 100, 000 jobs.” Governor El-Rufai however stated that the government is faced with the challenge of creating better opportunities to match its population, hence the investment drive. “The biggest challenge we face as a government and as a state is job creation. We, therefore, have to come up with numerous policies and reforms that will make Kaduna the first choice of investors in Nigeria. “We know we are competing with 35 other states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). We also know we are competing for investable funds around the world. So we have to be better than the best to be able to attract more investments.” He added. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari in his message sent to the Summit, commended the state government’s investment drive, hoping that, fruitful Public Private Partnerships and beneficial collaborations that would usher in economic prosperity for the people of Kaduna State and Nigeria would be the outcome of the summit. “It is my utmost pleasure to once again extend the sincere goodwill and unflinching support of the Federal Government of Nigeria to the Government and people of Kaduna State, on the occasion of the fourth edition of the Kaduna “In the past four years, I have closely followed the determined efforts of Kaduna State given the intense global competition for investment funds. “The Federal Government shall accord priority to the implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan across the sub-national level, along with private sectors to help create sustainable jobs and prosperity for our people. “In line with our efforts to diversify the economy away from undue reliance on Oil and Gas, as you focus on the theme of Kadinvest 4.0- Expanding Investment Frontiers, it is my hope that the Summit will result in additional fruitful Public Private Partnerships and beneficial collaborations that would usher in economic prosperity for the people of Kaduna State and Nigeria at large.” President Buhari said.