Facilities at the 41-year-old Osun State College of Education, Ilesa, are in a sorry state. But management says it is nothing to worry about, urging students and the public to give it time to make amends. APAGUNPOTE OLAYIMIKA reports: Facilities  at the Osun State of College of Education, Ilesa, are in a deplorable state. Aside some projects sponsored by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND), and the only public toilet renovated by the Students’ Union but now in a-not-too-pleasant state, there is little or no facility worthy of note in the 41-year-old institution. The ruins of an abandoned college hall can be seen a few metres away. At present, there is no functional public toilet in the school. Though there are clusters of toilets attached to staff offices, and others attached to TETFUND buildings, students have to help themselves in nearby bushes anytime they are pressed. CAMPUSLIFE reporter, who visited the school, saw two deserted public toilets. One is located close to the School of Languages, a stone throw to the Central Mosque.  The other is by the School of Education, very close to the entrance of the main campus. Apparently, the toilets have suffered neglect, with fresh and caked human faeces and toilet papers scrambling for space within their surroundings. There are only four boreholes channelled to offices of administrative buildings and that of senior members of the staff alone. No halls of residence for students and no guarantee of lives and property, CAMPUSLIFE gathered. Yet students are forced to learn under this despicable situation characterised by creaky, dangerous and run-down facilities. Aside some areas obviously overgrown with bush, there are tell-tale signs of collapse in some structures. Walls are crying for a new coat of paints. “Thanks to TETFUND, this school would have completely vanished due to a dearth of facilities,” said a rather sad Samuel Awowolu, an alumnus of the institution. Osun State College of Education, Ilesa, was established in 1978. Its mandate, like others of its kind, is to provide teacher education at the basic level. The school runs three academic programmes: NCE, a franchised regular and degree programmes by the University of Ibadan, and another franchise, a sandwich programme by the Lagos State University (LASU). NCE students pay N20,000 as tuition. The UI franchise (regular) pay N50,000.  However, sundry fees (administrative and ICT fees), among others, were recently introduced by the management. Students also complained bitterly about the introduction of N12,000 as teaching practice (TP) fees. Over the years, TP has been free until when it was introduced by the management headed by the Provost, Prof. Kolawole Labayo Kazeem. When added together, fresh NCE students now pay N67,000 as school fees; NCE students between 200-300 levels part with N47,000, fresh students of UI must cough out between N76,000 to N133,800 as school fees, while sandwich students pay N66,000 as fees. However, the management justified its action, saying what students called a raise in tuition fees was just an introduction of administrative charges. Such charges, it argued, has helped in the speedy payment of staff salaries as well as meeting some running cost of the institution. Beyond running cost Beyond tuition, however, CAMPUSLIFE learned that the institution makes money via other means, such as the Youth Empowerment Scheme; a Federal Government’s initiative in partnership with the World Bank, Interim Joint Matriculation Board (IJMB) Centre, Centre for Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) exam centres and others. There are also speculations that the school makes money from agriculture and other innovative ideas due to its large expanse of land.  Staff shortfall Sources at the college complained of staff shortfall. This is coupled with the poor attitude to teaching by some academic staff. This development, CAMPUSLIFE learnt, is making students spend extra time to finish registration and other academic activities. Interestingly, some students are now made to pay a fine for late registration. Although there are new halls built by TETFUND, yet many students hang around during lectures due to congested classrooms. Others simply shift lectures as a result of insufficient classrooms. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the College ICT building that houses close to 300 computers is understaffed, with only four workers (a director and three support staff) manning the facility. Students who bore their mind to CAMPUSLIFE either chose not to mention their names or use only their first name for fear of victimisation. A 200-Level student, who identified herself as Olabisi, lamented the management’s refusal to recruit or employ more hands to run the ICT building. To further complicate matters, students have no access to their cumulative grade point average (CGPA) until their final year, CAMPUSLIFE further garthered. “I have heard several complaints of loss of files and data (by the ICT unit), until I became a victim and I know what I went through before it got resolved. Shortage of staff causes  delay in registration of fresh students. In the end, they (management) end up forcing students to pay N3,000 as late registration fee,” she added. Besides, Olabisi complained about late payment of fee and the fact that the institution’s portal, which is supposed to play other functions such as checking of results and uploading of latest information to students, only serve as venue for students’ tuition alone. A 400-Level Political Science undergraduate, who identified himself as Joseph, and another who gave her name as Yetunde, a student of English Language and Literary Studies, expressed dissatisfaction about the bogus charges. “They have increased it (tuition fee). We have no choice, but we will be happy if they reduce it. I know a lot of colleagues who have left school as a result of the increment. May God help us,” said Yetunde. Another student by the name Abisola has a different opinion. The 400-Level student of Economics Education feels it is a balancing act. She said: “Although the increment is exorbitant but the school needs to be run. I went through hell before I could pay my school fees, but the fact is that we are not depending much on the government. Also there are little changes in the school.  In terms of workers-students relationship, I can say it is great.” CAMPUSLIFE met Olorunfunmilola, an undergraduate of Geography Education who described management’s action as ‘deliberate’ since the Student’s Union has been proscribed. “Don’t mind these people,” Olorunfunmilola said in anger. “This is too much. They proscribed the union and frustrated student-leaders so that no one would talk. They should consider the economy and have pity on our parents who are half salary earners.” Adeola, a student from the Department of Social Studies, said the increment could not be condemned outright because it has resolved issues of late payment of salaries. “Although what I can afford as an individual, others may not be able to do so.  Students need to pay house rents and settle other bills. Toilets built by TETFUND are restricted to staff alone. Students make use of bushes and forests to ease themselves. They should make school fees affordable to reduce the rate at which students are leaving in droves.”  Proscription of NUESA and suspension of SU The Ilesa chapter of the Nigerian Universities Education Students’ Association (NUESA),  was proscribed by the management of the institution when the association reacted against the N12,000 TP fee, late issuing of results and mobilisation for the mandatory National Youth Service Corps. Further, CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the management made attempts to proscribe the union, but later reversed the action to suspension, by proposing a caretaker committee whose members were handpicked by the Governing Council. Similarly, elections into departments and faculties were cancelled. A reliable source who preferred anonymity informed CAMPUSLIFE that NUESA was proscribed while NCE students were on strike. “They (NUESA) protested against anti-students policies. We received a letter (from management) four days later that it has been suspended. Ask them why they suspended the union, they have no reason,” our source stated. Attempts by CAMPUSLIFE to speak with the Dean of Students Affairs were futile. Nonetheless, the college PRO, Ojolo Olusegun. who admitted some of the claims by our reporter, added that management had not gone to bed over the matter. Olusegun told CAMPUSLIFE that the whole college is undergoing renovation, adding that management is working tirelessly to put things right “Students won’t tell you that they vandalised water supply projects in the school. They will not tell you that there are toilets attached to TETFUND buildings and renovation is ongoing within the school premises,” Olusegun began. “On the issue of increment in tuition fees, this is untrue. There’s no increment at all. Only integrated fees were added as additional charges and they are necessary,” Olusegun added, debunking the tuition fee increase rumour. On the portal issue, Olusegun blamed the students for flouting management’s deadline. He continued:  “Portal was reopened several times that it became ridiculous and students were so obstinate that they refused to register on time. There’s no institution that does not have deadline for registrations. We have a number of cases where students only paid Acceptance Fees and ignored others.” Olusegun stressed that the N12,000 fee on TP became inevitable at least to mobilise supervisors  and materials for TP and its accompanying logistics. He expressed shock that the institution is alleged to suffer shortfall in staffing. “This is the first time I will hear of such,” Olusegun said. He added: “It is important to note that state government has stopped employment into offices since 2011. This is a government school and we cannot employ staff until government lifts the embargo.”. “Late registration fee is everywhere. There’s no school that does not pay late registration fee. We have postponed registration exercise for countless times yet some students refuse to pay,” he said on late registration charges.. Olusegun declined to react on complaints by the ICT unit, referring the CAMPUSLIFE reporter to the director of the unit for clarification. He equally denied management’s hand in students’ unionism. “Management did not proscribe the union,” he said. He added: “Students were on strike when the tenure of the SUG elapsed. They were not able to organise elections so the board of governors selected some students to act as members of the caretaker committee.  They (caretaker committee) have been charged to organise election which will be done very soon.” Nonetheless, the leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Osun State axis, confirmed the suspension to CAMPUSLIFE, saying both the union and management of the institution are at present making efforts to resolve the issue before the month runs out.