Cranermine is the most reliable platform to securely exchange your gift cards for instant payment to your bank account. While compared to many other platforms out there, we can stand and beat our chest in support of their trustworthiness.  Certain quality tests were carried out before arriving at this conclusion. We would not say this process was an easy one, rather it involved a lot of procedures.  The conclusion, therefore, places Cranermine atop all other related platforms. These are the characteristics we considered during our thorough analysis are as follows; SPEED AND EFFICIENCY;  The speed at which cranermine.com redeem gift cards is beyond ordinary.  In all honesty, payment is incredibly fast. Most trades are completed in a matter of minutes. In that regard, they are highly trusted. We have to give accolades where deserved.  So when thinking on what platform to sell gift cards in Nigeria, you do not need to think twice before you exchange your iTunes gift card, Amazon gift card, e.t.c with them. UNBEATABLE RATES;. Cranermine,  have reduced all doubts to zero in a bid to give their client the best rates. Trading your gift cards with cranermine is the best choice when it comes to selling your iTunes, amazon, steam gift card online in Nigeria, converting your iTunes gift card, or exchanging your gift card for naira. TRUSTWORTHY;  Cranermine agents are very friendly and reliable. They waste no time in assisting customers to redeem their cards in a timely manner.  It is always a pleasant moment with Cranermine when selling your amazon gift cards, itunes card in nigeria. 24/7 service; Cranermine always ready to serve their customers 24/7. At any time of the day, you can sell your itunes card to them for instant payment in naira or bitcoin. Cranermine is indeed the best website to trade your gift cards for instant naira. STEPS TAKEN TO REDEEM YOUR GIFT CARDS WITH CRANERMINE Visit  the website www.cranermine.com Click on the ‘TRADE NOW’ icon, State the card and what amount you have Send your card and your bank account details Wait 1-2 minutes and then you receive payment instantly to your account. We recommend Cranermine as the best site to sell your itunes card, amazon card etc for instant naira as it has met every requirement as the most reliable platform for gift card trade. So you can visit the website on www.cranermine.com to trade your gift cards now Contact on WhatsApp; +2349024366526 