A group, North Central Progressive Forum, (NCPF) has urged the leadership of the All Progressives Party (APC) to zone the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives in the 9th Assembly to the North Central zone. National Coordinator of the group, Godwin Meliga and its National Secretary, Emmanuel Abbah, in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, said that north central remained the only zone that had not produced either the Speaker or Deputy speaker since 1999. The duo said the group will support the ambition of Mohammed Bago to become the speaker of the 9th Assembly. They urged President Muhammadu Buhari, APC Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and members of the 9th assembly to support Bago who is from Niger state. Meliga said: “We have borne it upon ourselves to express to the whole world the political injustice that has been meted out against the people of this zone, even in the ongoing political calculations and scheming happening in the ranks and files of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “It requires no further political clarification to assert that the North Central Nigeria occupies a sensitive place in not only the geographical division of the country, but also a critical political status, comprising the following states; Kogi, Kwara, Benue, Niger, Nasarawa, Plateau and the Federal Capital Territory. This logically places the zone on the same number of states as the North West zone, at seven states, with the inclusion of the Federal Capital Territory. “It will therefore not anything close to being a misnomer or economical with the truth, if one could affirm that the North Central zone rightly deserves a special political status and consideration, in major national political discourse and decisions. “We therefore call on Mr. President, the National Chairmen of APC, State Governors and Honourable Members of the 9th House of Representatives to uphold the principle of natural justice and give due support to the call for an end to this political injustice against the people of North Central zone. “Mr. President, as a man who profess and uphold high integrity, should prove once more his unbroken commitment to the common benefit of all Nigerians, by recognising that it will be least unfair and politically incalculable, to say the least, that a North Central zone that produced the third highest votes for the President’s reelection, with  almost 2.5 million votes, winning an additional state for the APC, with many more Senators and House of Representatives Members, will again be denied the right of producing the Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives, in favour of a zone that already has the Vice President and also delivered a lesser number of votes compared to North Central zone,” he said Mr Abbah said the group was presenting Bago as the golden horse of the zone as the Speaker of the 9th Assembly. He said the north central has relinquished the position of the Senate President in strong support of a fair rotation policy. According to him, it will be considered as a betrayal on the efforts and support of the people of the zone, if the ruling party failed to consider and rightfully support the speaker of the House from the North Central zone. “Therefore, as the 9th Assembly is billed to be inaugurated by June, with all permutations playing out, the leadership of the North Central Progressive Forum uses this medium to call on all House of Representatives Members-elect, the leadership of APC and the Presidency to tow the path of honour and duly give regard to the North Central zone, if they truly believe in the overwhelming support of our people. “We therefore call on all Nigerians, the 9th House of Representatives Members-elect and the leadership of all the political parties in the House to give him the maximum support. A support for Hon. Bago is a support for the North Central, justice and fairness,” he said.