Force slammed ‘for carelessness’ The Lagos State Police Command has dismissed Inspector Ogunyemi Olalekan for allegedly killing a football fan, Kolade Johnson, on Sunday night. He was dismissed after the orderly room trial found him guilty of discreditable conduct, unlawful and unnecessary exercise of authority as well as unnecessary violence. A statement by spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said Sergeant Godwin Orji was cleared, as no evidence linked him to it. Elkana said: “The two police officers alleged to have been involved in the shooting of Kolade Johnson on March 31 were apprehended and subjected to internal disciplinary proceedings, known as Orderly Room Trial, by the command. The trial began on Monday and ended yesterday.  “They were tried on a three-count charge: (1) Discreditable Conduct (2) Unlawful and Unnecessary Exercise of Authority and (3) Damage to Clothing or Other Articles, contrary to Paragraph E (iii), Q (ii) and D (i) First Schedule, Police Act and Regulations, Cap 370 LFN 1990. “The trial started with the reading of charges and taking of plea. Five witnesses testified. “At the conclusion of the trial, the first defaulter, Inspector Ogunyemi, was found guilty of discreditable conduct by acting in a manner prejudicial to discipline and unbecoming of members of the Force by shooting and killing Johnson; unlawful and unnecessary exercise of authority by using unnecessary violence, by using AK 47 rifle on the deceased in total neglect to the provisions of Force Order 237 on the use of firearms. “The Adjudicating Officer, CSP Indyar Apev, awarded the punishment of dismissal from service and prosecution to the first defaulter. “There was no evidence linking the second defaulter, Sergeant Godwin Orji, to the shooting. He was, therefore, found not guilty, discharged and acquitted. “The first defaulter, Inspector Ogunyemi, is handed over to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Panti for prosecution in a conventional court.” A human rights organisation, Crime Victims Foundation of Nigeria (CRIVIFON), has condemned the alleged killing of a football fan, Kolade Johnson, by two officers of the Anti-Cultism Unit of the Lagos Police Command. The foundation, in a statement yesterday in Lagos, decried what it described as “careless use of rifles by the two policemen involved.” Command spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), had in a statement on Tuesday named the suspects as Inspector Ogunyemi Olalekan and Sergeant Godwin Orji. In the statement by its Executive Director, Mrs. Gloria Egbuji, the group said it was pained that the policemen allegedly involved in the killing were once beneficiaries of the police human rights training, facilitated by the foundation. It regretted that they allegedly threw away the knowledge they acquired during the training. “No Nigerian or even a foreigner in our midst should be deprived of his or her life in such an uncivilised manner as displayed by the Anti-Cultism Team involved in the dastardly act”, it alleged. The foundation expressed dismay about the alleged attitude of some policemen at a time the Federal Government was paying attention to the restructuring of the Police for efficient performance and especially with respect to human rights violation. Egbuji said: “As facilitators of the police human rights training, which began in 2006 at the Lagos Police Command, CRIVIFON will want every policeman, who undergoes the training, to bring the knowledge acquired to bear on his job. “They should not see the training merely as an opportunity to acquire certificate, but also the knowledge needed to improve their service delivery. “They should see the training as opportunity to reform their character traits, with respect to how they used to perceive people’s fundamental human rights before undergoing the human rights training.” She said the foundation was encouraged by the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari and the police management in their reactions to the unwarranted killing of the soccer fan, stressed the administration’s efforts to overhaul the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and other such units, particularly through regular training of personnel, to avoid violation of people’s fundamental rights.  