It is hard to write off Manchester United as they slug it out with Barcelona tonight in the Camp Nou for the spot in the Semi-Finals despite losing the first leg 0-1. The Red Devil may beat Barca for the following reasons: 1.    No doubt, Barca is the dominant force in Spain, where they are heading towards their fourth La Liga title in five years, but their Champions League fortunes tell a different story. Not since they last won it four years ago have they gone past the stage they find themselves now. Therefore, United may hope that previous failure and current expectation, especially in light of Real Madrid’s recent monopoly on the European Cup, weighs too heavily on their mind. 2.    The return leg at Camp Nou is similar to the round of 16, Manchester United will have an away fixture in the return leg. This had helped them to defeat PSG based on away goals and similarly, Barcelona could also be put under pressure in their home game. Manchester United will have a clear idea as to how many goals to score in the return leg to progress and this could help them in devising their game plan. We have seen Barcelona falter at this stage in the previous seasons and United will hope for something similar tonight. 3.    Barcelona has not been at their best in the Champions League in the last few years. The side lost in the quarterfinals in each of their last three Champions League campaigns. It is on record that the Catalan side lost a three-goal lead to Italian side Roma last year while in their previous two campaigns Barca were ousted by Juventus and Atletico Madrid. 4.    With Paul Pogba in form, he is by far the most improved player under Solskjaer’s management up till now. What Solskjaer has done is given Pogba the free role he thrives in while Ander Herrera and Nemanja Matic have taken over the defensive midfield mantle. If Pogba is in the mood, United will win the midfield battle that is already intriguing on the cards. 5.    David De Gea has lately looked unsure in his decision making but make no mistake, he is one of the best goalkeepers in the world and on his day, nothing goes past him. De Gea however has a Lionel Messi in the best form of his life to stop when he takes the field in the Champions League tonight. The Spaniard, who has kept 100 clean sheets in his Premier League career up till now, will need to deliver one hell of a performance over two legs to lead United to the semi-final of the Champions League this season.