The Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) will tomorrow conduct a by-election to fill the vacant Councillorship seat in Ward A ( Obele/Oniwala ) in Surulere Local Government Area of the State. Briefing reporters, Its Chairman, Justice Ayotunde Phillips (retd), said the commission had taken delivery of all election materials, both sensitive and non-sensitive, required for the conduct of the election. The commission, she said, had concluded the training of the personnel to be used for the conduct of the election. Justice Phillips urged the election personnel to comply fully with the rules and regulations guiding the conduct of elections, warning that the commission would not tolerate any excuses for mistakes on the part of the election personnel. According to her, the commission was working closely with the relevant security agencies, particularly the police, Department of State Service and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, to ensure a hitch-free and peaceful election. The LASIEC chief said two political parties – the All Progressives Congress ( APC ) and the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) are the only parties contesting for the councillorship seat which became vacant following the death of Razak Bello, who was the Councillor representing the Ward until his death. Kazeem Bello is flying APC flag, while PDP fielded Abdulateef Bolaji Sanni. Justice Phillips appealed to all eligible registered voters in the affected area to cast their votes for any candidate of their choice without any fear of molestation or attack, pointing that the by-election offered another opportunity for registered voters in the area to vote for the candidate they believed would give them effective representation in government and facilitate development to the community. While promising that the people’s votes will count, she explained that the period of the election would be between 9am and 3pm . The procedure, she said, would be simultaneous accreditation and voting. She commended the media for the support given to the commission, adding, however, that the media should also do more to enhance participation in the electoral process at all levels.