A Federal High Court in Abuja has struck out a suit in which Adamawa State Governor; Mohammed Jibrilla   Bindow was accused of parading forged certificates. The plaintiff, Mahmood Ahmed had, in the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1377/2018 alleged, among others, that the governor supplied false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the Form CF 001 he submitted to INEC. Ahmed said Bindow claimed to have sat for the West African Examination Council (WAEC), in June, 1983 and possesses General Certificate of Education (GCE) issued by the examination body. The plaintiff accused the governor of falsely declaring his educational qualification and date of birth for the purpose of nomination/election into the office of Governor of Adamawa State for the 2019 general elections. He prayed the court to disqualify Bindow from participating in the 2019 Adamawa governorship election. In a judgment on Monday, Justice Inyang Ekwo held that the suit has become a mere academic exercise. Justice Ekwo upheld the argument in the governor’s objection, to the effect that election had taken place and that he lost. The judge held that by virtue of Section 285(13) of the 1999, Constitution, (4th Alteration Act 2017), the suit has become an academic exercise. He subsequently declined jurisdiction. Justice Ekwo noted that governorship election in Adamawa State, “the subject-matter of the suit and which election the plaintiff sought to have the 1st defendant disqualified from contesting took place on March 2019. “From the above circumstances, it would amount to a vain exercise for this court to exercise the jurisdiction to hear and determine this case, as none of the reliefs claimed can reasonably be granted. “I consequently declined jurisdiction to try this suit, the same having become an academic exercise by virtue of section 285(13) of the 1999 constitution (4the Alteration 2019). “I make an order striking out this suit. The preliminary objection succeeds and I will not go into the substantive matter,” the judge said.  