Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson has urged international oil companies and regulatory bodies in the oil industry to embrace the campaigns against environmental degradation in the Niger Delta The governor said the oil firms should prioritise the imperative of meeting international best practice in carrying out their operations in the Niger Delta. Dickosn, who spoke at the ongoing two-day Nigeria Oil and Gas Opportunity Fair in Yenagoa, lamented the level of environmental degradation and the attendant challenges facing oil producing areas in the country. His media aide, Fidelis Soriwei, said Dickson stressed the need for stakeholders to take the environment and economic inclusion seriously to ensure sustainable peace and stability. According to him, demand for environmental justice and preservation should be the concern of not only the Bayelsa and South South people, but the entire country because the environment was the common heritage of everybody. He said: “I will continue to raise those issues and concerns that are germane to our people, especially as it concerns the environment. Just last week, I inaugurated a fact-finding Commission of Enquiry on our environment. “The concern of Bayelsa on the environment should be the concern for all of us because the environment is the collective heritage of all mankind. There is no Bayelsa environment and there is no Sokoto environment. Yes, we may feel it more today, but with time, it gets to everybody. “We need to collaborate more on issues of the environment. On our part as a state government, we assure you that we will continue to discharge our duties and obligations, working together with security agencies and community leaders to promote and maintain a conducive operating environment.” Dickson, however, thanked the Federal Government, Ministry of Petroleum Resources and other partners for building a state-of-the-art headquarters for the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board in Yenagoa. He also praised the Executive Secretary of the Board, Simbi Wabote, and Management and Staff of MegaStar Construction company, for expediting work on the project. The governor reiterated his call on oil companies to relocate their operation headquarters to Bayelsa, which he described as the cradle of oil and gas business in Nigeria, even as he restated his administration’s commitment to continue to provide the enabling environment for investments. According to him, the Bayelsa International Cargo/Passenger Airport and other investments in education, health and tourism were purposefully made to attract investors. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Ibe Kachikwu identified the celebration of mediocrity as reason why the country has not made appreciable progress in the oil and gas industry. According to him, the country should be producing four million barrels of crude oil and not the current two million barrels. He called on the participants to see the conference as a time for a sober reflection on why the industry was still underdeveloped and dominated by expatriates, and take bold steps in exploring opportunities in the sector.  