The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday conducted supplementary election in four local government areas of Rivers State, with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) reportedly sweeping the four House of Assembly seats in contention. According to some officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) who spoke to The Nation, the election took place in all the units of Abua/Odual and Gokana local government areas, but was conducted in some units in Ahoada-West and Opobo/Nkoro local government areas. An INEC staff who spoke in Port Harcourt, Davies Iluebbey, yesterday said although there was an early downpour in the state yesterday yet materials for the polls arrived the unites early enough. Another INEC staff, Mr. Samuel Udezi, who is the Electoral Officer in Opobo/Nkoro LGA, said the election was going on smoothly at the time he spoke. Meanwhile, the Rivers Police Command said there is calm in the four local government areas of the state where Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is conducting the State Constituency Assembly supplementary election. DSP Nnamdi Omoni, the Command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), said: “There is calm in the four LGAs; there is no report of any incidence for now. The Nation however noted that low turnout of voters marred the exercise in Abua/Odual, Gokana, Opobo/Nkoro and Ahoada West Local Government Areas of Rivers State for four constituencies in the state’s House of Assembly, which could not be concluded on March 9, as a result of violence, militarisation and thuggery. It was gathered that the voter apathy was as a result of fear of violence, as experienced across Rivers State during the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly Elections, as well as the March 9 Governorship and House of Assembly polls, which led to the death of many innocent persons, with many people injured and their valuable property also destroyed. INEC’s Head, Voter Education and Publicity, Edwin Enabor, described the supplementary elections as peaceful, smooth and that the electoral materials arrived at the various polling units on time and without any hitch, while lauding security agencies for doing the needful. Enabor noted that since the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Rivers refused to release the youth corps members serving in the state for the exercise, the electoral commission made use of its permanent staff and some students of the University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT) as ad hoc staff for the polls. As at press time yesterday evening, results of the elections were still being collated.