Changan Motors Nigeria, has unveiled the CS75, a Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV). The introduction was on the heels of the accomplishment of the brand, unveiled three years ago. It is an upgrade of the CS35 that has won the confidence of SUV enthusiasts. Changan Motors Nigeria Head, Sales and Marketing Vijay Sengar said the company is delighted that the brand has validated the quality, aesthetics and sturdiness of Changan line of automobiles, barely three years after it was introduced in the country. At a media preview of the vehicle in Lagos, Sengar said the vehicle, assembled in Nigeria, is competitively priced to challenge segment leaders, including B-segment SUVs – Hyundai Tucson, GS4, and Nissan Qashqai. The Changan CS75 crossover has the trappings of opulence, roomy, comfort, and striking ambience. Manufactured by Changan Automobile, one of China’s leading automobile manufacturers, with extensive investment in advanced research and innovative technologies, the Changan CS75 brings to bare the company’s 157-year experience in manufacturing. The rear end of the SUV, similarly, gets a distinguishing tailgate spoiler and a diffuser that exhibits a sporty character; incorporating Light Emitting Diodes (LED) taillights with brushed aluminum trim on the front and rear bumpers as well as agreeable chrome-plated elements and electroplated exterior trim pieces. It comes with 1.8-litre four-cylinder engine and 58 litres fuel-tank capacity. Its six-speed automatic transmission, churns out 130 horsepower and 230Nm of torque @ 220rpm in an estimated fuel-efficiency of 8.1 litres per 100km. The CS75 also ensures driving comfort with a blind-spot monitoring, keyless entry, push button start, trunk soft curtain, intelligent visible parking assist system, comprehensive six-airbag and very light multifunctional electric power steering, which makes getting in and out of tight spots an easy task. Rated as one of the safest SUVs in China, the Changan maker of the CS75 said the vehicle scored 59 points out of 62 in the Chinese-New Car Assessment Programme (C-NCAP), is a strict and comprehensive evaluation aimed at reducing harm and loss in traffic accidents. Assembled, serviced and marketed by Stallion Motors Limited, the CS75 is available in Changan Motors’ Nigeria accredited showrooms across the country.