The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has urged candidates for the 2019 UTME to adhere strictly to the printing order of their examination slips, to avoid unnecessary issues. This is contained in the board’s weekly bulletin tagged ‘JAMBULLETIN’, by the Head, Media and Information, Dr Fabian Benjamin, in Lagos. According to the bulletin, printing of the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) notification slip is on-going, as the board has since made it ready for all candidates who registered for the examination. Over 1.8 million candidates registered for the examination which has been scheduled to commence on Thursday, April 11. “The notification is to allow candidates know their examination schedules, which includes time, date and venue of the examination. “Candidates are therefore advised to take the printing order seriously in order for them to have an idea of the location of their centres, well ahead of the examination. “It is also to enable them prepare for all necessary logistics of being at their respective centres on time,” the bulletin stated. It added that the e-slips of the candidates had been placed on their JAMB profiles created at the point of registration. “For those who are unable to access their slips through their portal at www.jamb.org.ng, the board has provided a step by step process of making the printing easy. “First, they should go to the official JAMB portal, www.jamb.org.ng/efacility /printexaminationslip. “Next, candidates would be required to enter their registration number, telephone number used in vending the pin at the point of registration or email in the appropriate column and follow the next command,” it said. “Candidates are advised to print two copies of the examination slip in full, as one copy will be submitted at the centre while the second copy will be kept by the candidates for reference purpose,” it said. The bulletin added that it was important to note that there would be no rescheduling of the examination, no matter the reason. It added that all candidates must ensure that they are verified using the Biometric Verification Machine. Meanwhile, the board has also warned candidates and parents or guardians to desist from paying UTME application fees to schools or tutorial centres. It said that the warning became necessary owing to the growing practice of some elite schools/colleges and tutorial centres that collect money in bulk from candidates to register them en masse. According to the bulletin, through diligent investigation, the board discovered that schools involved in the practice usually levy candidates exorbitant sums running into millions of Naira for the purpose of the UTME registration. “In this regard, it should be reiterated that the board does not do group registration, as candidates are required to do individual registration. “The board has noted with displeasure a series of some of the unfortunate situation some of these schools, especially the elite ones, have put some candidates through. “In their bid to make money, they engage in series of infractions in the name of group registration and other acts inimical to the interest of the candidates and the sanctity of the examination. “This kind of fraudulent registration end up distorting candidate’s data,” it said. It warned the public to be mindful of such unscrupulous schools or centres who more often than not, register candidates at unauthorised centres. According to the bulletin, the board’s examination is not a school based examination and therefore does not require candidates registering in groups.