The Balogun General of Epe, Chief Lanre Razak, has urged Christians to imbibe the virtues of love, faith, trust, selflessness and perseverance demonstrated by Jesus Christ, in order to achieve a better society. In a goodwill message to mark Easter, Razak said its  celebration offered Christians  opportunity to chart a new beginning, considering the successful conduct of the  general election and the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari. Describing Easter, which commemorates the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ over 2,000 years ago, as an important yearly event in Christendom, he said a positive change of attitude by all would address insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, cultism and corruption in the country. Razak, a former Lagos State commissioner for public transportation, advised office holders at the federal, state and local government levels to emulate the virtues of Jesus Christ by demonstrating greater servant-leadership and accountability in governance to accelerate the nation’s socio-economic development and raise the living standard of the citizenry. He said: “We need leaders who can sacrifice their personal comfort for the common good of the citizens. The country needs more patriotic and selfless leaders who can improve the welfare of the people, instead of focusing only on their families, friends and communities. “I urge those in leadership positions to see public office as a call to service, and not to be served. They should change their attitude and draw lessons from the life of Jesus Christ during his earthly ministry and apply them in the discharge of their duties. They should shun bribery and corruption and serve the people transparently and with the fear of God. “At Easter, we are reminded of God’s unconditional love for His children, which was so strong that His Son had to die for mankind to be reconciled with God.’’ Razak, a member of the Lagos State Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), said the fact that Jesus Christ didn’t give up the faith during his ordeals ahead of his crucifixion and death, should motivate Christians that no matter the challenges the country was passing through, they should remain focused and not to give up because they would surely overcome like Christ. He said: “I call on all Christians and, indeed, all well-meaning Nigerians to demonstrate Christ-like qualities in their private and public conduct, even as I wish all Christian faithful a wonderful Easter celebration. Christians should also use this occasion to pray for continued peace, unity and prosperity in Nigeria. “This is a good time for them to entreat God to end insecurity and other problems facing the country. Let them shun violence, and set a good example for all Nigerians to emulate.” Razak enjoined Christians to continue with the intense prayers, fasting and almsgiving, which characterised the observance of the 40-day Lenten journey that ended on Good Friday and should find more hope in Christ’s resurrection at Easter. ‘’I use this occasion to call on Christians in Nigeria, especially those in Lagos State, to emulate the shining example of Jesus Christ. They should shun vices and continue to show love to their fellow human beings. They should relate with them in love, humility and live in peace,” he said.