Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH) has inaugurated a water factory to boost its internally generated revenue (IGR) and provide potable water for its community. Its Governing Council Chairman Prince Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), who spoke at the event, said it was one of his happiest moments. He praised the Rector, Obafemi Omokungbe, for his resilience and ability to undertake thought provoking projects, describing him as a silent achiever. “I am happy that the dream of establishing this water factory has come to pass. Therefore, I want to congratulate everybody that contributed to the project. I want to recommend this water for everybody, and encourage us to advertise this water, because no matter how good your product is if you don’t advertise it nobody will do it for you. I want to advise that all the materials that will be needed for the production of the water should be sourced from within, including the labeling, so that the money is retained here, nothing should go outside,” he said. Omokungbe remarked that he was happy because YABATECH water was another landmark achievement, adding that it was one of the uncompleted projects he inherited when he assumed office in March 2018. “The project particularly caught my attention; the reason being that water is a fundamental human need. Clean and safe water is required for healthy living and as a responsible institution; we are concerned with the wellbeing of our staff and students. “The college revenue is very poor, and it has become quite challenging to meet up with the maintenance of the existing facilities and provision of infrastructure. It, therefore, became necessary for the college to urgently improve its internally generated revenue to be able to meet its obligations, since the fund from government has become inadequate. It was on this basis that the YABATECH Consult was mandated to ensure the completion of this project within the shortest possible time,” he said. Omokungbe, an engineer, said YABATECH water had the nod of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administrative Control (NAFDAC) and would soon be the only packaged water sold on Campus. Yabatech Consult Director, Iyang Udoh, while welcoming guests, said the YABATECH premium table water and sachet water would be produced with state-of-the-art equipment, including reverse osmosis, ozonator and superior micron filters. When fully operational he said the factory would produce about 31,000 sachets of water (50cl) and 10,000 bottled water (75cl and, or 50cl) per day. According to Udoh, the factory has equipment to produce 66 big ice blocks per day with a cold room for storage. He thanked all members of the college instrumental to the factory’s success, including a student, who designed the water’s labels. “I must also appreciate one of our students of the Graphic Design Department, Mr. Moshood Ogunsanya, who designed the labels for our bottle and sachet water without making any demand, though arrangement is being made to pay him honorarium