Our lead story is completely different from what we had planned to publish but an argument I witnessed last week and the result of the subsequent research that followed the argument completely changed our focus. At a house birthday party last weekend, a guest while digging into her meat delicacies, complimented the hostess on the tasty, tender and juicy cow tail pepper soup she was relishing. To that, Mrs. Bunmi Akintola, the hostess said it was all thanks to her Pressure cooker. Another guest who later introduced herself to me as Mrs. Bose Bolaji said she can never be seen cooking with a pressure cooker as it completely destroys food nutrients. “What is the essence of pressure cooking when in the end the nutrients are destroyed and you are left with chaff?”, She questioned. “Beans is my favorite food and I like it very soft. The only time I enjoy it is when my wife cooks it in a pressure cooker. It gets done fast and comes out very soft. I do not really believe that all the nutrients in the beans I eat gets destroyed when cooked under pressure”, argued James Adedutu Adesope, another guest. Before long majority of the people in the room joined in the argument. Sitting in a corner I listened and watched them. I could not contribute to the argument as I was not even sure. However I started thinking about the healthiness of pressure cooking. Does it actually destroy food nutrients as majority of the people in the room believe?. Some of the nutrients in food products are lost whenever they pass through cooking or when they are generally being handled or being processed. No matter the method of cooking, some percentage of nutrients get destroyed or lost. It only becomes worrisome if the percentage lost is much. For instance when onions is cut or even orange, some of the nutrients goes into the surrounding air through oxidization. So some nutrients naturally get lost when food is being cooked whether by boiling, grilling, baking, frying, roasting, roasting etcetera but if cooking with pressure cooker is the quickest and fastest way food nutrients are destroyed is what we want to find out. Before we proceed any further, let us understand what is pressure cooker. It is the process of cooking food, using water or other cooking liquid, in a sealed vessel known as a pressure cooker. This stimulates the effects of long braising within a shorter time. Almost any food that can be cooked in steam or water based liquids can be cooked in a pressure cooker. Now back to our topic of the day. I pray and hope that majority of the people in that party, will have the opportunity to read this story. Does pressure cooking destroy food nutrients as majority of us believe? According to research findings, science shows that pressure cooking is healthy, that it can in fact preserve more heat sensitive nutrients than any other cooking method because of its shorter cook times. So nutrients like water soluble vitamins like Vitamin C, B vitamins-thiamin[B1], riboflavin[B2], niacin [B3],pantothenic acid[B5], pyridoxine [B6], folic acid [B7] and cobalamin [B8] and fat soluble vitamins ; vitamins A, D,E, and K are better preserved when they are cooked in a pressure cooker than through any other ways of cooking. Pressure cooking, increases the boiling point of water and decreases the cooking time. Since steam can not escape  from the cooker, you avoid water loss and are able to cook foods without losing heat. Most foods can be cooked using pressure cooker but because pressure cooking adds moisture into your food, tougher meat like cow tail, cow leg and tougher food products like varieties of beans cook faster and softer when prepared in a pressure cooker. All those beans varieties that our great, great mothers usually leave on charcoal fire over night are ideal for pressure cooking. Most of them cook between 30 minutes to 45minutes. One can of course cook rice, yam, potatoe, ecetera with pressure cooker but the cooking time must be reduced drastically maybe to 5 minutes in other to avoid over cooking the food. The best however is to study the instructions that come with the pressure cooker. Advisable cooking time for each food products are outlined. 