Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has sworn in his commissioners and special advisers in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. Correspondent RASAQ IBRAHIM examines the tasks before the new State Executive Council. Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, on assumption of office on October 16, last year, spoke of his determination to make a difference in the lives of the electorate who voted him to power. Fayemi’s mantra on his “second missionary journey” to Ekiti Government House is ‘Reclaiming the Land and Restoring Our Values.’ To translate this dream to reality, he needs tested and trusted men and women of unquestionable integrity who share the dream of turning around the fortunes of Ekiti through the instrumentality of his four-point agenda. The four-point agenda, which is being implemented to the delight of the people, include Social Investments, Knowledge Economy, Infrastructure and Industrial Development and Agriculture and Rural Development. Shortly on assumption of office, Fayemi appointed two commissioners whose offices are critical to the day-to-day running of government. They are Commissioner for Justice who also doubles as Attorney General of the state, Mr. Olawale Fapohunda and Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Oladapo Kolawole. They had since joined Fayemi, the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi; Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji; Acting Head of Service, Mrs. Peju Babafemi; Chief of Staff, Mr. Biodun Omoleye; Special Adviser/Director General Bureau of Public Procurement, Mr. Seun Odewale and Director General, Office of Transformation, Strategy and Delivery, Prof. Bolaji Aluko and the Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olayinka Oyebode in what looks like a “mini cabinet.” Fayemi who spoke at various for a noted that it would be unwise to appoint a full cabinet almost immediately after assuming office so as not to be spending resources on personnel rather than meeting the immediate needs of the people. As days rolled into weeks and weeks into months, many leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State were apprehensive of the shape the state cabinet would take. But with the government fully on ground and apparently living up to the expectation of the people, Fayemi has now deemed it fit to bring his “dream team” on board. The waiting game ended on Tuesday, April 2 when the governor forwarded the list of nominees for commissioner and special adviser positions to the House of Assembly led by the Speaker, Mr. Adeniran Alagbada. The list drew applause from many people of the state who applaud Fayemi for appointing individuals they regarded as “politicians who have connections with the grassroots” unlike what happened during his first tenure. The perceived grassroots politicians are also technocrats who have requisite experience in many fields of human endeavour to add value to governance. These cabinet members are expected to be going to their home communities to identify with the APC at unit, ward and local government levels and impact positively on the people at the grassroots. The nominees appeared before the Assembly on Thursday, April 4 where they were all screened and cleared paving the way for their swearing-in. Tuesday, April 9 will remain indelible in the memories of the Ekiti cabinet members as they were sworn in at the Osuntokun Pavilion of the Government House, Ado-Ekiti amidst pomp and pageantry. They were joined by their family members, relations, traditional rulers, community leaders and party members from their hometowns and other well wishers. The new Commissioners and Special Advisers filed out one after the other as the oath of allegiance and oath of office were administered on them. Fourteen commissioners and eleven special advisers who were all colourfully dressed swore to perform their duties to the best of their ability and for the good of Ekiti people.  Commissioners: Gbenga Agbeyo: Environment and Natural Resources: Agbeyo was the immediate past Assistant Secretary of APC in Ekiti State. During Fayemi’s first term, he served as the Caretaker Chairman of Ido/Osi Local Government. He was a lecturer at the College of Education, Ikere Ekiti before he joined politics. He hails from Usi Ekiti.  Foluso Daramola: Education, Science and Technology: This native of Omuo Ekiti in Ekiti East Local Government Area former Permanent Secretary retired from civil service in 2014 when he attained the age of 60. Daramola, who joined politics on retirement also served as Director of Information and Communication Technology in the Governor’s Office while in service.  Michael Awopetu: Youth and Sports Development: Awopetu served as Senior Special Assistant on Youth and Sports during Fayemi’s first tenure. He had previously served as Board Member of the State Sports Council. He is from Ogotun Ekiti in Ekiti Southwest Local Government Area.  Mojisola Yaya-Kolade: Health and Human Services: This native of Oye Ekiti in Oye Local Government Area has a distinction of being a practitioner of three major health professions. Mrs. Yaya-Kolade started career as a nurse before qualifying as a pharmacist and medical doctor later in life. She was one of the 33 APC governorship aspirants in the run-up to the 2018 Ekiti guber polls.  Bamidele Faparusi: Infrastructure and Public Utilities: Faparusi is from Ode Ekiti in Gbonyin Local Government Area and one of the 33 APC aspirants ahead of the last governorship election. This engineer-turned politician was a member of the House of Representatives between 2011 and 2015 where he represented Gbonyin/Emure/Ekiti East Federal Constituency.  Sola Adebayo: Works and Transportation: Adebayo, from Iyin Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government Area, is returning to a familiar terrain having served in the same ministry during Fayemi’s first term. He is the younger brother of the first elected governor of the state and current APC Deputy National Chairman (South), Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo.  Folorunso Olabode: Agriculture and Rural Development: Olabode is from Iye Ekiti in Ilejemeje Local Government Area. He was in the first administration of Fayemi where he served as Commissioner for Youth and Sports and later Commissioner for Rural Development and Community Empowerment.  Prof. Adio Folayan: Local Government and Community Development: This Professor of Agricultural Economics hails from Efon Alaaye in Efon Local Government. He served as Commissioner for Agriculture and later as Efon Local Government Caretaker Chairman during Fayemi’s first tenure. He is a grassroots politician.  Femi Ajayi: Budget and Planning: Ajayi is from Ise Ekiti in Ise/Orun Local Government Area. He held the same office during Fayemi’s first term and he has been rewarded for his loyalty.  Febisola Adewale: Lands, Housing and Urban Development: This indigene of Emure Ekiti in Emure Local Government is an ardent loyalist of Fayemi. He was a member of the House of Assembly between 2007 and 2011 before he later served as Emure Local Government Caretaker Chairman. The last office he held before the last Fayemi government wound down was as Commissioner in the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB).  Muyiwa Olumilua: Information, Tourism and Values Orientation: Olumilua, from Ikere Ekiti in Ikere Local Government Area is a trained architect and grassroots politician. He served as Senior Special Assistant on Projects during Fayemi’s first term and was one of the 33 aspirants who jostled for the APC 2018 governorship ticket.  Olusoga David: Investment, Trade and Industries: David is from Osan Ekiti in Moba Local Government, a former House of Representatives aspirant. He served as Moba Local Government Chairman during Fayemi’s first tenure.  Ayodele Jinadu: Special Duties and Regional Integration: Jinadu who hails from Ado Ekiti, the state capital, served as Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism during Fayemi’s first term. He later served as Special Adviser on Political Matters.  Moji Fafure: Women Affairs and Social Development: Mrs. Fafure, a native of Ikole Ekiti in Ikole Local Government Area, is a respected female politician in the state. She was a teacher who taught in many prominent secondary schools in the state before retiring to join politics. She served Ikole Local Government Supervisory Councilor, Governing Council Member of Federal College of Education, Okene and APC Women Leader for Ekiti North senatorial district. 