The Defence Headquarters on Saturday said troops of operation Whirl Stroke deployed in North-central of the country have rescued three kidnapped victims in a family compound in Katsina-Ala local government of Benue state. According to the spokesman of the Defence Headquarters, Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, the troops after rescuing the kidnapped victims destroyed the building being used by kidnappers to commit crime. He said in a statement that a notorious kidnapper known as Gana, now on the run, has been using the house as hideouts for kidnappers who engaged troops in a shoot-out during early morning raid. Col. Nwachkwu said: “Troops of Operation WHIRL STROKE deployed to counter banditry activities in North Central Nigeria have rescued 3 kidnapped victims in a building located at Gana’s family compound at Gbise in Katsina Ala Local Government Area of Benue State. “The victims, a man and two women were rescued during a dawn raid in the early hours of Friday 26 April 2019, when gallant troops stormed a building reportedly belonging to a notorious bandits’ leader, Gana. “The visibly traumatized victims claimed they were abducted about 2 months ago at Gboko by a gang of kidnappers and subsequently relocated to Gbise community. “Troops are still on the trail of the criminals, who fled their enclave after they were overpowered in a shootout with the troops. Troops have also destroyed the building which served as the kidnappers’ hideout. “The rescued persons have been handed over to authorities of Benue State Government for medical attention before reuniting them with their respective families. “Similarly, troops of Operation WHIRL STROKE deployed to Giza in Nasarawa State have arrested a bandit during a raid on a suspected bandits’ hideout at Alima, near Kadarko in Nasarawa state. “The bandit, who was intercepted with a locally made rifle and some quantity of gun powder is currently assisting in preliminary investigations after which he will be handed over to an appropriate prosecuting security agency.”