A teenager (names withheld) has told an Edo State Family Court sitting in Bénin City how she was raped by a community leader identified as Goddey Jatto, aged 34. The minor was said to have been allegedly defiled by Goddey who is the Odionwere of Jatto Street in Oregbeni Quarters. Speaking while being led in evidence by Police Prosecutor, Inspector Thomas Ojo, the victim said she was accosted, taken to a bush behind a fish-pond in the area and defiled by Jatto on January 22, 2019. “While I was waiting for my mother at the shop, I decided to go to a neighbour to help me call my mother on phone. Before I could get to the neighbour’s house, I changed my mind and turned back because I did not want to upset my mother. As I was returning to the shop, Jatto called me to help him take a book to his wife and I refused because I do not want my mother to get to the shop and not meet me there. “He insisted and as I walked close to him, he held my hand, closed my mouth with his other hand and dragged me to the back of his house by the fish-pond. “He removed my pant, brought out his baby (penis) and forced it inside my baby (virginal). It was so painful and when he finished, he gave me N200 and turned my back, trying to do the same thing again. I bend-down, picked my pant from the floor and ran,” she said. The child (victim) told the court that immediately she ran back to the shop, she met her mother and narrated her ordeal. “My mother cried, fell and couldn’t move. She informed the Police; they took us to the police station the next day,” she said. Mother of the victim said the defendant was initially released at Oregbeni Police Station and was under pressure for amicable settlement but she refused. She claimed that she was contacted by officials of the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development and was assured that justice would prevail on the matter Presiding Magistrate, Mrs. D.I Adamaigbo, who refused bail application for the suspect adjourned the case to May 2, 2019, for accelerated hearing.