Waiting for seven years before coming out with her debut single, ‘No Be Jazz’, Guchi looks at taking on the Nigerian music scene. JOE AGBRO JR met her and she reveals how she started out, what she is bringing to the scene and how she wants to go about it. LAST Monday, Guchi, 22, released her debut single, ‘No Be Jazz’. For the Afro-pop, dancehall and highlife singer, the day sealed her seven- year dream of becoming a professional artiste. Born Ugochi Onuoha in Kaduna 22 years ago, Guchi, as she is popularly called now, grew up as the second child with her mother, father and three siblings in Abuja. Guchi said she started music as a child from the church choir. She also attributed her dad’s musical influence as responsible for her own love for music. “Growing up, my dad was always playing Michael Jackson songs,” she said. “As a kid, I loved Michael Jackson. I would say my dad was a music lover and I got it from my dad.” She also remembers singing a song from a Barbie cartoon to her grandfather at their village in Mbaise, Imo State when she was seven. “My grand dad had a lot of grandchildren, great grandchildren and we were having a get- together with my grandfather and I was the only child that could come out and sing in public. So, I started singing at the age of seven. I could come out with a mic and sing.” In 2012, when she was 15, her confidence had swelled that she started getting singing gigs in Abuja. Last year, she won the best female artiste in Abuja with Prestige Entertainment. “I’ve been going for shows in Abuja. A lot of people know me in Abuja. I just came to Lagos. I have e not stayed up to six months in Lagos.” Though she says Abuja is a good place for entertainment, she is aware that Lagos is the place to be. Abuja, she said, “showed me so much love. In short, Abuja made me Guchi. Abuja showed me so much love. They appreciated me but when it comes to promotion, I think Lagos is better.” Earlier enrolled at Edo State University, Ekpoma, she said her commitment to music made her leave. However, upon relocating to Lagos, Ugochi registered as a student at the department of Theatre and Media Arts of the University of Lagos. “It has not been easy but I’m studying Theatre and Media Arts,” said Ugochi, on balancing her education and her musical career. “It’s something that I love to do. It relates to me doing music too. And I didn’t register for full-time in Lagos. It’s an evening class. So, I can have time for music.” She also knows she has to give her craft the needed time and resources to thrive in the competitive Nigerian music space. “I’m very prepared,” said Ugochi who believes that the entertainment industry is more of an act and she is ready to play the part. “I started music in 2012. I didn’t come out in 2012, that’s because I’ve been preparing for this. I have like many dozen of songs recorded already. We have loads on songs that we’re going to drop back to back. And I’m still going to record.” She said that her debut single, ‘No Be Jazz’, was inspired by her mother whom she says loves all her songs. “My mum loves all my songs. She dances to my songs. She does not even want to listen to the lyrics. As long as I sang it, she would dance to it.” She said the song preaches the virtues of love and patience. “In the good times and in the bad times, my mother was with my dad,” said Guchi. “But now, everybody wants the money. The song is preaching genuine love. It’s preaching trust.” The song was produced by Beats by Jayy and mixed and mastered by Mixed Monster while Unlimited L.A produced the video. Guchi said she has many songs in the kitty already and looks at dropping an album before the end of this year. And armed with a management deal with MVP, Guchi looks forward to having collaborations with the likes of Burna Boy, Davido, Kiss Daniels and Tiwa Savage. On how she gets inspiration to do her songs, Guchi said: “My songs tell stories. So, sometimes, the instrumentals could inspire something and I’m just imagining something. I’m not a freestyle kind of person. I like to write my songs. Sometimes, (it’s) the instrumentals, sometimes the environment, sometimes true stories that happen to me or a friend.” Guchi sees content as king in her music but is still humble enough to realise that she still has a lot to learn. “I’m yet to find my sound and I’m not ashamed to say it because so many artistes in Nigeria have not found their sound. It’s not usually easy for you to get your sound. And I’m working towards it.” However, she views the Nigerian music space as a complicated act. “I think Nigerian music industry is complicated because most of the news that you hear is not real. In the music industry, people come out with hits and then they’re dropping so low. You have to really keep up if not, you will go like back down. You’ll start like an upcoming artiste again. But Nigerian artistes are trying, compared with like last five, seven, eight years.” On what she considers her flaws, she said: “I do not freestyle. I’m a writer and I love to write inside my room. I think that is the only flaw I have. In time to come, I’ll get to meet artistes that they will be playing instrumental and I need to do something, like right there. But I write inside and I don’t feel like it’s a bad thing because everybody has their way of doing things.” Currently not in any romantic relationship, Guchi said she loves to read and surf the internet. “I like to search Google a lot. Whenever I’m alone, I’m with my phone googling, not Instagram, not Facebook. I like to check out new things. I like to be broad.” And like Beyonce and Tiwa Savage that she draws inspiration from, Guchi hopes that in the next 10years, “people should be saying I want to be like Guchi. In the next five, seven, 10 years, people should be using me for adverts.”