The Bauchi Governor-Elect, Sen. Bala Mohammed, yesterday disclosed that his party, the Peoples Democratic Party in the state will engage the services of 5 Senior Advocates of Nigeria, (SANs), 10 other senior lawyers and 50 indigenous lawyers from Bauchi in defense of his mandate at the election petition tribunal. The disclosure followed the petition filed yesterday by the outgoing governor, Mohammad Abubakar, and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi State challenging his victory in court at the last governorship election. Addressing journalists shortly after the submission of the petition yesterday at the tribunal, the APC Chairman, Uba Ahmed Nana, said   Abubakar, the gubernatorial candidate of the party at the last election, is seeking justice from the court. The governor-elect however noted that though his party is yet to be served a copy of the petition; it is readily prepared to tackle Governor Abubakar and the APC in the foreseeable judicial contest. Addressing newsmen at the Command Guest House in Bauchi, while receiving the group known as the Body of Bauchi Lawyers of Conscience who earlier volunteered to mobilise 50 lawyers in his defense, Mohammed said “The issue of APC taking me to the tribunal is a normal thing; that is why it is provided for in the Electoral Act. I want to use this opportunity to thank my supporters and the people of Bauchi for their show of patience. The petition is nothing to worry about because we have taken necessary measures.” “Though we have not been served, once we are served and we see the details, we are going to respond. “We are also going to engage our lawyers, about five Senior Advocates of Nigeria, about ten other senior lawyers and 50 Bauchi indigenous lawyers. That is to say the APC petition at the tribunal is dead on arrival due to the support of the Body of Bauchi Lawyers of Conscience (BOBALAC),” he said. Mohammed while accepting the offer of BOBOLAC to be part of his legal team said he is highly privileged to be rendered such services by the lawyers of conscience and quality.