The Ekiti Assembly House of Assembly on Tuesday suspended member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Segun Adewumi, representing Ekiti West constituency 1, for six weeks for alleged legislative misconduct. The suspension of the lawmaker was attributed to undue interruption of Speaker Adeniran Alagbada, while presiding over the House at the plenary on Tuesday. Following the verbal exchange, the Speaker was said to have exercised his powers and suspended him from plenary session in consonance with section 17 of the Assembly’s standing order. According to the speaker, the former Deputy Speaker during the period on suspension will be prevented from participating in any plenary session but could only involve in off- plenary activities of the house. “I am still the presiding officer of this house and it constitutes an infraction for any member to interrupt me when I preside, except you have an observation to make. “But with what transpired today, it seems Hon. Adewumi did not make any observation but only wanted to stall this proceeding and he is hereby banned for six weeks”. Other lawmakers in their submissions agreed with the action, saying the speaker didn’t circumvent the constitution and standing order in meting out the punitive measure on Adewumi. After the pronouncement, the lawmaker was said to have been ushered out of the hallowed chambers by the sergeant-at-arm. Discussing other issues of public importance after the initial face-off, a bill for a law to repeal Ekiti state official logo amendment law number 28 of 2014 and to re -enact Ekiti state government official logo law 2011 was passed by the Assembly. The bill, which passed through the first reading, was subjected to the second reading where it was debated by members and consequently passed through the third reading. Also, the Ekiti state development and investment promotion Agency Bill 2019 also passed through the first reading and committed to another legislative day for further legislative processes. However, the screening and confirmation of some Political appointees at the House fixed for today was shifted on the request of the Executive.