President Muhammadu Buhari has urged university administrators across the country to ensure “frugality” in their management of resources. The President spoke at the  second convocation of the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE), Delta State. He noted that the frugal policy of his administration would prevent wastes and allow fruitful use of the meagre funds available for the institutions for their development. President Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of State for Education, Prof Anthony Onwuka, directed the release of the varsity’s take-off grant. Emphasising that his administration would not tolerate any form of corruption, he said: “I admonish university administrators across the country to imbibe our policy of frugality in order to avoid wastages and any form of corruption. “I, therefore, sound this warning that we will not condone corruption in whatever guise. The very scarce resources that are made available must be judiciously utilised to give value to the system.” Challenging FUPRE to be innovative and take the lead in technological revolution in Nigeria, the President said: “No doubt, energy is critical to nation-building and it is a major challenge to our nation at this time. “Nigeria has continued to be a net importer of refined petroleum products in addition to its poor levels of electricity generation. I task the university and other agencies to rise and surmount these daunting challenges through the establishment of modular refineries and sustainable power generation to take this country to the Next Level.” Praising the varsity’s management for the achievements it recorded in the past two years, despite the “paucity of funds,” Chancellor of the University and Emir of Zamfara, HRH Attahiru Ahmad, assured of his continuous support to ensure the training of high level manpower for the petroleum industry. The chancellor hailed the host monarch, Ovie of Uvwie, HRM Emmanuel Sideso Abe I, and the Delta State government for their peaceful disposition and support for the institution. The Pro-chancellor, Prof Shehu Zuru, urged the Federal Government and the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board and other stakeholders in the oil and gas sector to support the varsity. Emphasising that the council was committed to taking the institution to its Next Level, Zuru said a “deliberate funding policy” through the implementation of all sections of the University Establishment Act was “urgently” required to propel the needed growth and development of FUPRE.