The Police in Ogun state have arrested three members of child – stealing syndicate; who steal children from unsuspecting parents. The suspects are Kate Njoku, Joy Okorie  and Onyeka Joseph (male). Temidayo Ajayi, one of the children recovered from the suspects was abducted with his brother in Sagamu July 2018. He has since been reunited with his parents while efforts are on to recover his brother from the gang. Members of the syndicate were found to have succeeded in stealing eight children from different locations across Ogun State and sold them to their prospective buyers in Anambra State. The syndicate’s mode of operation entails using two of their members to disguise as couple looking for an apartment to rent, most especially in a place where the target children reside. The Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who made these known in a statement on Wednesday, said the manhunt launched for members of the syndicate led to the arrest of the three. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), added that the anti-kidnapping/cultist unit who were given the mandate to crack the syndicate, embarked on high technical investigation which paid off when the principal suspect, one Mary Paul was tracked to Ondo State where she is on trial and remanded in prison custody. According to the Police spokesperson, following a synergy with the Ondo Command, relevant information was extracted, leading to the arrest of three other members of the gang directly involved in stealing of eight children across Ogun State. “Three out of those children were subsequently recovered from them. The suspects have all made useful statements to the Police on how they stole the children and sold them to their accomplices in Anambra State. The Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, has ordered a thorough investigation of the case with the view to bring other members of the syndicate to book. He equally appealed to parents to take the security of their children serious by not leaving their wards to the care of a total stranger,” Abimbola stated. 