Oyo state Police Command on Tuesday gave a stern warning against any misuse of firearms or weapons by any member of the state police Command, as stiffer penalty awaits any police officer found to have misused such weapons on the citizens they were hired to protect. While being reminded of their responsibility to protect lives and property, the Command gave a marching order to the officers to flush out criminally minded individuals, but doing so professionally. The state Police Commissioner, Mr. Shina Olukolu gave the warming Tuesday at the launch of Operation Puff Adder held at the Eleyele, Ibadan Police Headquarters, in line with the directive of the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Abubakar Adamu . According to the state Police Commissioner, the IG’s directive is that every state replicate the launch of the Operation code named (Puff Adder) to ensure that criminal elements are flushed out of the society and Oyo state must follow suit. He said the warning became imperative because Nigeria society has continually looked on to the police to effectively deal with crime in the land, adding that the ideas about how should go about it varies; notwithstanding, the police men must discharge their responsibility with utmost care and professionalism. “Therefore, the police force as a professional body must continually restrategise and ensure more result oriented tactics employed or emplaced to combat crime. Today, there appears to be unwelcome high profile crimes such as kidnapping, assassination, armed robbery, farmer and herder’s clash, cattle rustling, and other related crimes. These crimes are giving the police high command a great concern. “However, in these trying times coupled with insufficient logistics, the force is resilient in curbing these crimes restoring peace and providing adequate protections for lives and properties of the good people of Oyo state in particular and Nigeria in general,” he said. After the launch of the Operation Puff Adder, the decorated a total number of 155 police officers who were recently promoted to the next rank. The exited officers who filed out one after the other to get decorated with their new ranks were also counseled to exhibit professionalism in the course of the duties  by the Commissioner of Police , who reminded them that to whom much was given , much is also expected.