Ahead of the November 2nd governorship election, the Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, at the weekend, inaugurated committees to investigate the activities of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders and his appointed aides at the just-concluded general elections in the state. It was gathered that the party leaders, commissioners and other aides were apprehensive following the insistence of Dickson that they must render accounts of their actions in the last elections. But the governor while inaugurating the panels christened Stock Taking Committees at the Government House, Yenagoa, said they were not designed to enforce discipline in the party adding that issues of sanctions remained the exclusive preserve of the PDP leadership. Dickson, who was represented by his Deputy and Central Chairman of the committees, Rear Admiral John Jonah, said: “These committees are to evaluate the performances and roles played by party leaders and government appointees in the last election in the state and ensure the enforcement of operation deliver your units. “The assignment given to the committees is not aimed at enforcing discipline in the party. Issues of discipline are exclusive preserve of the party leadership. “All party members, appointees of restoration government are directed to cooperate fully with the committees, the results of various units will be submitted to the party chairman by the Secretary to PDP”. The governor charged the committees to be fair to all members and to avoid looking at their assignments as opportunities to settle old scores. He gave them seven days to submit their reports and urged them to get all required materials from the party leadership. Addressing the committees, he said: “You are working for the interest of the party. So, if you make mistakes in some places we will correct you. “Go with open mind and your report will be submitted in the central working committee within seven days or one working week and we expect you to get everything needed for your work through the party”. The committees were inaugurated in each local government area with Brass, Kolokuma-Opokuma, Ogbia, Ekeremor and Sagbama having six members each. While committee in Nembe Local Government Area comprised eight members, those of Southern Ijaw and Yenagoa have seven members each. In his response, the Chairman of Brass Committee, Sam Ateke, described the assignment as very important saying it was aimed at repositioning the party ahead of the election. He said: “The committee at the central level chaired by the deputy governor himself indeed shows the importance that is attached to the job expected to be done. “In that case we that are appointed as chairmen and members thank the governor for finding us worthy to be appointed to serve at these levels. “I want to on behalf of my colleagues say that we understand the intentions of the party and we know the importance attached to it. “PDP at state level wants to do everything possible to see that we have gone through one election by the grace of God and we have done well. We are going to face another election and we need to reposition the party”. 