Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman Tunde Balogun spoke on Asiwaju Bola Tinubu at 67 and expectations about the in-coming Sanwo-Olu administration. After elections, what next? The expectation of the people who voted us was to have good government. They want good governance. They expect us to come out with good programmes which we already have as a party in All Progressive Congress (APC) over the years and we had some cardinal things. We have programmes on transportation, health, education, housing and a lot of other areas. Firstly, on integrated transportation system, we want to have a type of transportation that has to do with maximum use of all things we have naturally. Like inland water ways in Lagos, we want to make maximum use of that, by using boat or ferry to transport people from one point to the other. On transportation, we want to make use of some mode of transportation through water, roads, bridges and railway that will be interconnectivity. Like, if you are coming with rail from Mile 2 going to CMS, there will be a terminus at a stop where you can be transfer to a bus. Getting out from the boat or ferry through water system to CMS and getting to a bus which will take you to other parts of Lagos. Also, we would ensure that the railway becomes one of the main modes of transportation in Lagos that can convey a lot of people at once from a point and take a large number of workers from that point in Lagos to other parts. Also, for the health system, we want to have a comprehensive health insurance scheme for Lagosians so that when you pay the premium for the insurance, you will have access to free medical treatment locally and this is part of the comprehensive health insurance scheme we are talking about. Also for the schools, we want to rehabilitate all our schools and ensure to have quality teachers with constant training with all teachers. We want have a lot of hospitals that will be well equipped. We want to improve the personnel of hospital and to improve the facility there. We want modern equipment for the facility in our hospitals. We want to train the health workers include doctors, nurses and all health officers in the hospitals. We want to ensure that our public schools are the best, that is to have quality teachers and the kind of education giving to our children must be standard. Also, we want to ensure that our housing programmes are second to none. We want to have a programme that will be a multi-modern system. How would you describe Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as a leader? As a man, he is fantastic and unique human being. He lives his life for others to thrive. He lives a life of service to humanity. I was looking at a picture of him in one of the daily newspaper recently with about five to six leaders in Nigeria such as Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Babatunde Raji Fashola, Akinwunmi Ambode and Adeola Ipaye, a lawyer. All these men were brought into limelight. They were made by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He promoted them to a leadership position in Nigeria. He did it single-handedly. To tell you the kind of man who he is more that any Nigerian, he is a man who have created more leaders than any other Nigerian either dead or alive now. He is very kind, generous and a philanthropic. He is generous to a legendary point. As a leader in politic, he is experience and brilliant. He has a lot of capital politically and enjoy it because of his year of experience and political acumen. He is a political strategist. In context of African, he has no equal to me. What advice do you have to the citizens of the country? All Nigerians should learn to live together as brothers and sisters. We should tolerate one another. If we really want build a good country, we must be our brother’s keeper. We must not discriminate against one another, no matter where you come from. Once you are a Nigerian, we should learn to accommodate ourselves and that is the way the country can unite together. How can Nigeria be a better place in the next three years? The role of a political building is first of all to offer good leadership, exemplary leadership, inspirational leadership that can inspire others to do well. To make this country better, a good leader must be ready to unite his people. He must lead them by example so that others can follow. He must be a man who must devoid of violence so that we can continue to live peacefully. He should not be a selfish man. He must be selfless, that is the way a nation can be build. What we need in the next three years is such leaders that can lead and leave by example, try and unite the people that can promote the economy of the well-being of the people in the country.