•Agency generates N6.3 in three months KWARA State Internal Revenue Service (KWIRS) said yesterday it is targeting monthly revenue of N5 billion for the state government. KWIRS added that it has raked in N6.279 billion to the coffers of the state government in the last three months. Executive chairman of the revenue agency Prof. Muritala Awodun spoke with reporters in Ilorin, the state capital. According to Awodun, the agency generated N2.16 billion in January; N1.76 billion in February and N2.38 billion in March 2019. The KWIRS boss said the revenue agency was yet to achieve its target of generating annual revenue of N60 billion for the state. Awodun added that the service had been developed to a point that it would not make less than an average of N2 billion every month. He said the agency started with N17.2 billion annual revenue generation in 2016, and N19.6 in 2017 and generated N23.1 billion last year. He said inauguration of the agency in 2016 had prevented abandoned projects in the state with monthly contribution of N500 million into the state infrastructure fund (IF-K) for completion and initiation of new infrastructural projects. Prof. Awodun, who said the state government had augmented monthly Federal Allocation with proceeds of the revenue agency to pay workers’ salary, added that the measure was made possible through ingenious financial engineering of the agency. On the delay in completion of ongoing under-pass project in the Ilorin metropolis, Awodun said the delay was brought about by complications that were not initially factored into the project, including 2019 electioneering activities. He said some heavy underground water pipes were discovered on the construction site, adding that the contractor had to depend on other experts for technicalities before work could resume on the project. He also debunked allegation on the invitation of some of the staff of the revenue agency by the Economic and Financial Crime and other related offences Commission (EFCC) over financial malfeasance, saying that no staff of the agency was invited or arrested by the anti-graft agency.    