•Tiger Woods win at the Master’s is much a moral tale as a physical wonder We made it, against the dark prophesies of pundits. He was written off as the icon of the sport. Not only that, he was not supposed to be a highflyer anymore and not worthy of an attention other than as a relic of a past grandeur. But Tiger Woods roared back, and the rest of the golf world cowered. Some had said he had been prowling around a major win in the past year. At one point in the final of the British Open in 2018, he held the lead, but he could not hold on. That temporary majesty was even counted against him as a marker of his loss of resilience. Tiger Woods never had a lead in the final or fourth round of a major and cede it to another player. Such magical feats happened in his prime. Some critics in this year’s tournaments described him as reliable, but not spectacular. But if he had to give the world a rude awakening, it was only classy to do it where his legend began – at Augusta National, the lush, breath-taking magnificence of a golf course, with its long, treacherous fairways, hazards, bunkers, roughs and greens. Tiger returned to the golf tournament where in 1997 he benumbed the world – The Masters. Then he was a young, spry player, with almost immature mien and exuberant hand pumps. In 2019, he was a balding 43-year-old, more muscular, and the field was a generation of upcoming, energetic and young players of the internet age. He was, in fact, fighting against the sort of generation he was when he conquered golf and rid it of some of its snob factor. It set in motion a run that would mow down golf course after golf course, player after ingenious player and would earn him the number one spot for the longest time any player has ever held it in the game, or any sport of active players. But in between when he won 14 majors and his latest miracle, Tiger lost his growl. It was a subdued man of marital woes, who confronted a scandal of bimbo eruptions, and a messy and public divorce. Woods fell out of favour, not only in the eyes of his colleagues, but the world of moral superiority. He lost virtually all sponsors, threatening his status as the bourgeoning first world sports billionaire. Nike, no longer into golf kits, hung around the dwindled man, who was compelled to stand beside his mother to utter an apology to a world still unsure what would become of an athlete of the kind the world had never seen. That was not the end of his woes. He sustained what many thought were career-ending injuries. He underwent a series of surgeries, including an intricate back-fusion, a consequence of flagellations he had suffered as he beat the field many a time. His pathetic picture still resonates of when he was lined up before law enforcement for driving under the influence; that is, drunk on the wheel.  Once he attended a Master’s dinner almost like a cripple, his body suffused with medication. Less than two years ago, he himself confessed he was not sure he would ever play golf again, and the world was reconciling itself to a sport post-Tiger and focusing on breeding new champions. There has never been any like him. Players have emerged, especially young ones – Spieth, Garcia, Johnson, Mcllroy. Their insurgences have fallen short with flashes like comets. He still has three more majors to match Jack Nicklaus’ major record of 18. That is what keeps him up at night and in practice at dawn. But his story, recorded as the greatest comeback in sports, is not ended as we watch, even now, the greatest golfer the world has ever known. It is as much a modern moral allegory as a physical triumph.