The NSCDC operative also shot and killed his colleague guarding the free zone moments before he shot the Korean employee. The decision to charge the gunman was the outcome of a police report issued by a Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge SCIID, Yaba, (DCP), Yetunde O. Longe, dated April 16, 2019. The gunman was detained by guards and employees of SHI-MCI FZE after he had carried out this killing. The case was then transferred to the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department of the Nigeria Police Force for investigation. The police investigation found the gunman, Innocent Oshemi shot and killed the Korean SHI-MCI employee with his official G5 rifle while on duty at the LADOL Free Zone. The investigating team took statements from the witnesses to the incident and visited the scene of the shooting. The coroner confirmed the victim died as a result of injuries received from the gunshot, including ‘penetrating missile injury to the body.’ On careful consideration of the evidence gathered by the investigating team, the Police established a case of murder of the Korean SHI-MCI FZE employee against the gunman. He will therefore be charged with murder and the case file will be forwarded to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) had at a press conference called for transparent justice for family of the victim in the case. At a press-conference in Lagos attended by family of the deceased Korean victim, Managing Director of SHIN, Jejin Jeon said: “SHIN would ensure that LADOL and the NSCDC are held accountable for any organisational and management failing that allowed the gunman to carry out this terrible crime in the LADOL Free Zone.” Jeon also showed CCTV of the shooting of the guard and Korean employee to journalists at the conference. The CCTV clearly showed the LADOL guard fired deliberately at his NSCDC colleague, killing him with three shots at the scene. He then moved to a different location where he also deliberately shot the Korean employee working in a crawler crane within the SHI-MCI yard. SHI stated the CCTV and the decision of the Police to charge the suspect with murder were further proof that statements by LADOL and the NSCDC after the shooting that the shootings were in error are false. In a statement on Wednesday, the Chief Operating Officer of SHIN, Mr. Frank Ejizu, commended the Deputy Commissioner, DCP Yetunde O. Longe and her team for their thorough investigation of the evidence of the case. ‘’This will result in the perpetrator of this terrible crime being charged for his acts. We invite the Director of Public Prosecutions to conduct a transparent and fair assessment of the evidence and to ensure that justice is done and seen to be done. “Justice is important for the victims, for their families and also for all the employees working in the LADOL Free Zone, who are understandably fearful for their safety. “The international business community will also be watching this case closely to determine whether Nigeria remains a safe working environment for their employees,” Ejizu explained