Elder statesman Oba Olatunji Hamzat on Saturday spoke on the challenges that will confront the incoming Sanwolu-led administration in Lagos State. The Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Advisory Council (GAC) leader and Olu of Afowowa Sogade in Ogun State said Governor-elect Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his team must fill the potholes on Lagos roads and ensure a clean environment. He emphasised that bad roads and refusal disposal should be in the government’s priority list. The eminent politician also reflected on politics and governance, urging the political parties to return to the culture of ideology. Oba Hamzat decried the evil of monetisation of politics, the collapse of party supremacy and discipline and lack of tolerance and patience among young politicians. The father of Deputy Governor-elect Dr. Obafemi Hamzat spoke on the state of the nation shortly after receiving a Honorary Doctorate in Arts and Public Leadership from the European-American University. The event, which held at the main auditorium of the University of Lagos, Akoka, was coordinated by a representative of the European-American University, Prof Simeon and Dr. Josephine Ebuta. The university management explained that Oba Hamzat merited the honour as an outstanding politician who had served as party officer at ward level, legislator, commissioner and party leader at the national level. Oba Hamzat was accompanied by his son, Obafemi Hamzat; Chief Busura Alebiosu, Chief Rabiu Oluwa, Oyinlomo Danmole, Kunle Jeje, Emmanuel Bamigboye, Dr. Adesola Taiwo and Caleb Akinbolade. The traditional ruler said the gridlock in Lagos was mainly caused by potholes on major roads, urging the incoming administration to rise to the challenge of fixing them. Oba Hamzat said: “The first thing is the pot holes on our streets and major roads, which I think is the major factor for traffic jam or gridlock. “Every nook and cranny where you have roads in Lagos is full with potholes, they must first face that. “The second is refuse disposal. The roads are littered with refuse here and there, they must face those two challenges simultaneously so that the residents of Lagos will appreciate them.” Lamenting the eclipse of the politics of ideology as practiced by political parties during the First and Second republics, he said modern political parties had jettisoned their core ideas and principles. He stressed: “It is the party themselves that have completely abandoned ideology, which they stand for. “Discipline is no more, they do not even award merit for those who worked. For us to return to sound party ideology we have to return to restructuring the political parties themselves to follow the part of discipline and merit in whatever they do. “There are people who worked very hard for the party but at the moment, politics to me is being monetised and it may not allow us to get good candidates because in a situation where you want to run for the governorship of a state and you are looking for N20bn, where will you get it from? “Even the habit of expecting money from politicians before they vote is a dangerous situation. “Unless we try to change it, things may not work well. I think we should begin to think of voting for merit and not necessarily money.”