Sir: The performances of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the just concluded presidential and gubernatorial polls must have surprised many Nigerians. With the defeat and the attendant shock or confusion that trailed the party after its defeat in 2015, many Nigerians had thought the party would cease to exist. These assumptions were proved wrong as the party which was gasping for oxygen finally breathed a fresh air in the 2019 general electiona. In the build-up to the 2015 general elections, the party was enmeshed in zoning crises. The position of president which was supposed to be zoned or rotated to the North was denied by the incumbent president, Goodluck Jonathan. This action led to the mass exodus of the party’s members to the new APC. Other factors that contributed to the party’s defeat were corruption and insecurity. Nigerians were fed up with worsening insecurity in the Northeast states and other parts of the country. The menace of Boko Haram and the escalation of bombings across the country indicated total leadership failures. These negative indices shaped the 2015 election and aided APC to power. The PDP also suffered post -election crises. The former acting chairman, Ahmed Makarfi, fought a fiece battle with his arch-rival, Modu Sheriff over the control of the party. At last, through the court, Makarfi was recognized as legitimate acting chairman of the party. The party later succeeded in conducting a rancour-free convention where new leaders emerged. Now, that is history. The questions begging for answers are how the party which was silently dying got a new life? What magic wands did the party employ to put its house in order? The APC since the time it came on board has been making political blunders. Firstly, the corruption it accused PDP of entrenching has also been perpetuated under its watch. The Babachir Lawal’s grass-cutting saga, the reinstatement of former chairman of the President Task Force on Pension Reforms, Abdulrashid Maina etc. remains fresh in the mind of Nigerians. The APC-led government was also accused of selective war against corruption. The general insecurity bedevilling the country has refused to go. Boko Haram challenges which were limited to Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states have spread to middle belt and Northwest states. The herdsmen versus farmers skirmishes has become the order of the day. In Zamfara State, cattle rustlers have been having a field day. Hardly a day passes without reported cases of killings. Many villages have been sacked by these bandists. Under APC, many states civil servants are owed salaries for months. The states governors have failed to effect the necessary changes they were voted for. No wonder, APC lost Bauchi, Sokoto and Adamawa states. The gradual return of PDP has shown that political culture has changed. Nigerians are now politically wise. They are ready to vote out any non-performing government at any time.  Pambegua, Kaduna State.