A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Olusegun Olulade has advised public office holders and those who find themselves in public office to be focused and affect lives before they leave their offices. Olulade, popularly known as ‘Eleniyan’ added that public office holders should be conscious of the fact that they would leave the office they are occupying one day. The lawmaker who will not be part of the 9th Assembly represents Epe 2 constituency at the Lagos State House of Assembly was speaking at a dinner he organized for members of the Lagos State House of Assembly Correspondents Association (LAHACA) at DRemembrant Hotel, Alausa Ikeja.. The lawmaker pointed out that despite the fact that former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was no longer in office he is still relevant because he had invested in people. “Title would not take you far, what will take you far is your contribution and service to the people. “To be in government is not just about being called a lawmaker, Governor or President, one day, you will leave office. “If you want to amass wealth, and you don’t want to help people what will you do with the money. Everything you say about me I will keep it up. I have learnt from you. “I want to thank every one of you and I want to assure you that I will not change. Feel free to see me anytime you want in or outside office. I do not have a place to hide, this is who I am and this is what I would continue to be,” he said. Olulade, who had served as the Chairman of the House Committe on Information and later House Committee on Health, revealed that he would continue with his ‘Eleniyan Care Foundation,’ to take care of people. He added that he was still very young, and that he was available as their next door neighbour. “I still have a lot to offer the people of Lagos and Nigeria. There is another office that is very powerful that I would be occupying from June 8, 2019. “I will use it to affect more lives and to serve humanity. I would leave everything to God that has helped me to come thus far and I know He would not abandon me. “I will make myself available to you so that if there is anything we can do together I will be there for you. “I am still very young and I still have a lot to offer the people by the grace of God,  what I pray for is good health, long life and prosperity,” he stated. Olulade went down memory lane and recalled that he got into the House without knowing that he would be made the Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Security, Strategy and Publicity then. “After I became the Chairman of the Information Committee I invited the then Chairman of LAHACA and others to become my friend. When there were issues over stories that could destroy the image of the House then, I would meet with members of LAHACA. “We later held a meeting in your office and since then I became a part of LAHACA. If there is a group I would miss as I am leaving the Lagos State House of Assembly, it is LAHACA.” He enjoined other people to see the media as their friends, saying that no matter what anyone did, if the media didn’t report it, the person would be doing himself a disservice. “I want to appreciate you for everything you have done. You projected me and the Assembly in a way that has made people to conclude that we are ‘Above The Common Standard of Excellence’ in Lagos Assembly “I want to thank you on behalf of all the members of staff of the assembly and on behalf of the two speakers that I have worked with including Rt. Hon. Adeyemi Ikuforiji and Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa.,” he said. Earlier in his welcome address, the Chairman of LAHACA, Mr. Akinboye Akintola said that Hon. Olusegun Olulade had always been a person that was close to the media. Akintola stated that as the Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Olulade facilitated a good relationship with the leadership of the Assembly and the media. He said that the lawmaker initiated the dinner programme with the media without any prompting. “We have to acknowledge what Eleniyan did as the Chairman of the House Committee on Health. “I just want to advise him to continue with what he is doing. That brand; Eleniyan will remain with us until you get to where you want to go,” he said. 