As the date for the take off of the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme draws nearer, Mojec Meter Assets Management Company, a subsidiary of Mojec International Limited, and also one of the selected MAP operators, is partnering some banks to ease the roll out of meters to customers next month. Mojec with the banks – FirstBank, Wema Bank, Unity Bank, Keystone Bank, Zenith Bank, Sterling Bank, Polaris Bank and First Option Micro Finance Bank – entered into a deal to provide retail financing to electricity customers to ease their acquisition of prepaid meters. The banks will provide finance to customers within the coverage area of Mojec’s partner-electricity distribution companies (DisCos) across the country. The banks, this week, signed memoranda of understanding (MoU) with Mojec in Lagos. MAP is a scheme that was initiated by the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing and approved by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). The MAPs will provide, install and maintain customers’ meters and fast-track the closure of the metering gap, which is five million and  end estimated billing. According to the regulation guiding MAP operation, a MAP must install a customer’s meter within 10 days of payment for such meter and the operators of the scheme must meter unmetered electricity users in Nigeria within three years from the time they strart work next month. Mojec International Limited Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Chantelle Abdul, said at a summit of the partnering banks and DisCos in Lagos that the company is determined to bridge the metering gap in the sector by ensuring provision of top quality electricity meters to customers in Nigeria. Abdul said: “Now that MAP is here, Mojec is once again blazing the trail in the provision of high-end quality prepaid meters to customers, helping to reduce the financial burden estimated billing is putting on electricity consumers. Mojec as a company has invested a lot of resources positioning it as best suited to meet the metering needs of all customers within the coverage of its partner DisCos. “Mojec would be partnering eight DisCos, including, Ikeja Electric, Eko DsCo, Abuja DisCo, Kano DisCo, Enugu DisCo, Jos DisCo, Ibadan DisCo and Kaduna DisCo, covering about 20 states of the federation.” The General Manager, Finance and Management Services, NERC, Abdulkadir Shettima, commended Mojec for its leadership in the metering subsector as demonstrated by its efforts towards the full scale implementation of the MAP scheme, which allows customers easy and direct access to meter assets. “This MoU signing between Mojec and these banks as well as the announcement of the company’s readiness to implement the MAP scheme is very commendable. It goes to show that Mojec is a real leader in this business and it is committed to industry’s mission of ensuring that every household in this country is metered.” Polaris Bank Chief Executive Officer Tokunbo Abiru explained that the bank was pleased to partner with Mojec by providing financing support to customers on the meter acquisition scheme. “Our bank is glad to be facilitating the acquisition of these meters by granting loans to eligible customers under the programme,” he said. Keystone Bank Acting Chief Executive Officer, Abubakar Sule, explained: “Energy cost is by all standards the major cost line in most homes and businesses. The scheme is set to eradicate the unnecessary prevalence of estimated billing, which deprived the national economy of funds which otherwise could be deployed into other productive use. We are, therefore, excited to be part of this initiative to bring electricity to homes and businesses at the most prudent cost, putting households and business in control of their expenditure pattern.” The Managing Director Unity Bank Plc, Tomi Somefun, explained that the development reinforces the long-standing beneficial relationship and business commitment it had maintained with Mojec International Limited for well over two decades, adding: “The partnership will create beneficial impact on electricity customers, further drive financial inclusion through consumer banking, restore customer’s confidence, increase transparency and thereby replacing the opaque estimated billing system that had prevailed.” The Divisional Head, Retail and Consumer Banking, Sterling Bank, Shina Atilola, represented by Ayodele Odulaja, Head of Power and Telecoms Team, stated: “We are excited to be a key driver of the pre-paid meter acquisition programme, which will eliminate the inefficiencies associated with estimated billing and inaccurate post-paid meter readings. Leveraging technology, Sterling Bank is reputed for providing Nigerians with a convenient way to access loans ranging from N10,000 to N5million in five minutes through the Specta online lending platform. ‘’Electricity consumers will benefit from the speed of this solution under this partnership without the attendant delays of traditional lending.” The Managing Director, Wema Bank, Ademola Adebise, noted that the partnership with Mojec is a proof of the bank’s commitment to provide simple and easy retail financing for Nigerians. ‘’As a bank that takes pride in applying innovative solutions to societal challenges, we are proud and excited to work with Mojec in meeting the demands of equitable electricity metering in the country. This is a reflection of our can’t stop, won’t stop drive to create avenues that will support Nigerians to achieve their future dreams today,” he said. The Managing Director, First Option Micro Finance Bank, Godfrey Ogbuehi, stated: “The MAP project resonates so much with the company’s goal of enhancing lives and in response, a new product,  Light-Up Loan (Prepaid Meter Acquisition Loan), has been  strategically   created   to   provide   funding   to   help   energy   consumers   (both individual  and businesses), especially  the  low-  income  earners and  rural  dwellers; acquire prepaid meters with ease under the Meter Asset Provider Regulations.”