Women in Imo State under the aegis of ‘Assembly of Concerned Igbo Women Leaders of Thought in Nigeria and the Diaspora,’ has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to release the Certificate  of Return to the winner of the Imo West senatorial election, Governor Rochas Okorocha, to avoid possible breakdown of law and order. The women advised the electoral umpire to stay away from partisan politics and adhere to the provisions of the constitution. The group also condemned what they described as the growing discrimination and resentment against the Southeast by the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). They argued that the decision to exclude the Southeast from the sharing of leadership positions in the National Assembly, is a confirmation of a grand plot against the zone ahead the 2023 general  elections. Rising from their meeting in Owerri, the Convener of the Assembly,  Barrister Ijeoma Igboanusi, said that it was an act of ingratitude for the party to treat Okorocha that way after building the part from the scratch in the State. Igboanusi said,  “History remains our witness. Without Okorocha, the APC would have been another regional party struggling for relevance without a nationalistic appeal. Igboanusi described as despicable that the party could look the other way when the rights of one of their foremost founding fathers were being trampled upon. She said. “The women leaders of the South-east having patiently waited and keenly watched the dramatic turn around cum actions of the INEC in Imo west senatorial zone in withholding Okorocha’s certificate of return are poised to as,  what kind of democracy are we practicing in Nigeria!? The women also decried the position of the party in zoning the leadership of the National Assembly, and reminded the party that “The Igbo constitute a leg in the tripod stand of the party and security were since the president is from the North,  the vice president from the South-west, it is only fair and just that the Senate presidency or the speaker of the House of Representatives be zoned to the Igbo in the South-east.” 