Barely five days after three suspected kidnappers were killed in Kaduna, men of the Nigeria Police have killed three out the armed bandits that stormed Kakangi Village of Birnin-Gwari Council in a gun battle. Meanwhile, Kaduna State Police Command lost two of its men in the cross-fire with the bandits. The Command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO,) DSP Yakubu Sabo confirmed the development in a statement he issued on Sunday. The PPRO said, “the command received a distress call through DPO Randagi on 6/4/19 at about 1900 hrs  that armed men in large number entered  Kakangi village of Birnin Gwari council, who started shooting sporadically and attacking the villagers. “Upon receiving hints, combine teams of PMF Personnel,  conventional Police and Vigilante were quickly mobilized to the village to engaged the bandits in fierce gun duel and successfully repelled the attack, but however, “two of our men paid the supreme sacrifice during the intense gun duel with the bandits. “Our gallant men gunned down three of the bandits and several others escaped into the bush with bullet wounds.” PPRO confirmed. But the chairman of Birnin -Gwari Vanguards for security and good governance, Ibrahim Abubakar Nagwari while narrating the incident said the bandits stormed Kakangi around 5.00 pm on motorcycle shooting sporadically at the police station before proceeding on a house to house attack and torching houses. He explained in his statement that a survivor of the attack at Gagumi  Kakangi said: “we were sitting in front of the police station and suddenly bandits heavily started shooting. I jumped through the fence to escape. As I was escaping, thick smoke from several locations overshadowed the sky.” Nagwari however added that he learnt from several sources that many people were feared killed, including high profile indigenes of Kakangi who were attending a mass wedding. The PPRO said in his statement that “One Inspector Aliyu Mohammed and Sgt Rabiu Abubakar both attached to Randagi Division, as well as Sgt Ibrahim Nasir along with six civilians were injured and are now receiving treatment at the General Hospital B/Gwari. The attackers also torched some houses in the village.” He said the Command has mobilized more reinforcement to the area with a view to apprend the perpetrators of the attack and bring them to justice. “The Commissioner of Police CP Ahmad Abdurrahman has condemned the attack and assured members of the public that the Command will fish out the culprits. He however appealed to the good citizens of the State to support the Police with prompt and relevant information that could help in getting rid of the bandits in the State.” The Commissioner of Police prayed for the repose of the souls of the gallant officers who lost their lives in the operation and quick recovery of the injured persons. 