NO Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, 74 elected political office holders are among the few privilege Nigerians. Osinbajo noted that the president, the vice president, the thirty-six governors and their deputies, belong to the club of elite that preside over about 200 million Nigerians. The vice president also pointed out that the 74 of them who he described as special, privileged and fortunate have great responsibilities, especially with the current economic situation of majority of the populace. He said: “Accept my heartfelt congratulations on your elections. Heartfelt, even to the PDP governors, we belong to an elite club of a nation of over 200 million people -only 74 of us. “We are special; privileged and enormously fortunate that our people chose us to lead them. This comes with great responsibilities multiplied by the fact that most of our people are poor.” The vice president decried the number of out-of-school children, which he said is embarrassingly high. He further noted that the burdens of poverty is what those who voted expect will be alleviated. Prof Osinbajo said: “History and providence has put us in this position this time and we have the chance to work against these problems. “All elected officials in Nigeria have always complained of inadequate funds. So we will not be saying anything new. There is an increase in minimum wage. There is nothing new under the sun. We just have to confront the problem. Already, our deficit is close to two trillion. “States must simply earn more IGR. We must work with the federal government to make broadband infrastructure available across Nigeria. “We require broadband infrastructure across the country. It must be allowed to happen. We have agreed at NEC to allow that happen.” Osinbajo said that the President has made it clear that he will focus on human development in the next four years. He said: “We are implementing the basic healthcare provision fund. Budget alone is not enough. Health insurance remains the way out. We expect that by 2028 we will have complete coverage of National Health Insurance.” Thirty states, he said, so far make up the 9.5 million children being fed daily across schools. He also noted that the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) is collaborating with states to vastly improve the business environment in Nigeria, which he said is aimed towards boosting the country’s economy.