Al-Qalam varsity in Katsina on Saturday matriculated no fewer than one thousand nine hundred students, who took oath of allegiance, promising to obey the rules and regulations governing their stay in the self acclaimed, First Islamic University in Nigeria. The students were admitted into the University to a pursue four year degree programme from the 2018/2019 academic session. The Vice-Chancellor of the University, Prof. Shehu G. Ado represented by Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Kabir Kado, while congratulating the students urged them to utilize their opportunity wisely by graduating with flying colors. He said ” You should not engage in any irresponsible and unwholesome lifestyles and anti-social activities not only on campus but wherever you are and above all you should constantly remember Allah and obey His command”. The varsity helmsman further thanked the University Council, Katsina Islamic Foundation and the Board of Trustees of the University for giving his Management their full support to foster the development of the University. Earlier, the Registrar of the University, Sani Abashe Adamu enjoined the students to avail themselves with provisions contained in the students Handbook. He said ’’You should understand that Al-Qalam University is an Islamic institution which resolves to inculcate sound Islamic moral values in students alongside conventional education’’. ” I would like to urge the matriculants to shun examination malpractice in its totality and turn away from indecent dressing, indiscriminate interaction between opposite gender and all other forms of vices’’. It was the 14th matriculation of the University which admitted its first batch of students in 2005. In a related development newly admitted students into AL-Qalam University, from Niger State have been urged to embrace the sound Islamic discipline and culture enshrined in the school’s rules and regulations to ensure their successful academic pursuits in the varsity. Sarkin Nupawa of Katsina, Alhaji Ndanusa Yunusa Abubakar, who was a special guest of honor at an event organized by Niger State Students Association for newly admitted students of the State’s origin in the University, while counseling the students further pleaded with them to respect and love their fellow students. The President of the Niger States Students Association, Abdullahi Aliyu, in his welcome address assured the new students that the association will guide and ensure they succeed in their academic programs