Ngozi Okonta Simeon, an agro-allied farmer and entrepreneur of over one decade is the Managing Director/Chief Executive, Cycalis Integrated Concepts, a startup which makes colourful and creative aprons, raincoats and hair accessories. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, the Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA) graduate talks about how she started small and grew bigger making distinct products and carving a niche in an unbeaten track. Excerpts: What or who inspired you to go into the sector? In any human endeavour, there is always a need to be attended to. To succeed it is important to look at a need and identify what to do in perspective. Once this has been done, then we can tackle it. For us, we discovered that most hair covers in the market are either too small or not durable at all. In addition, we also realised that with the trend of big hairdos, it was important to come up with something bigger, colourful and durable. Interestingly, the inspiration came when a friend saw a sample of this kind of cap in my bag and her swift reaction to the size and colour inspired me to go for it. What was it like at the beginning? I would say that the beginning of every success story is never smooth. However because it’s my vision and with the inspiration which I believe God is with me, I was determined to face it headlong. I was determined to make it no matter the challenges that will come my way. What were you doing before this and what was the experience like? I have always been an entrepreneur and I was always waiting and hoping for every opportunity to prove myself. I was so sensitive about this aspect of my life that I can grab every opportunity to hone my skills. And after my National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) I worked with Genevieve magazine, there I gathered some managerial skills to prepare myself for my aspiration. Then when the time was right for me to venture into the business, I started gathering my resources together and the rest is what we are seeing now. Let’s talk about some memorable moments in your life and career? For me, the memorable moments in my life would be when I had my first son and when I started getting orders from my products as a beginner. Another memorable moment for me would be when I got income from the business. It was very inspiring and memorable for me. What are some of the challenges encountered? For me, the challenges started when I began to ask myself how I was going to launch myself to the market. In addition, I was also worried about how to get the machines required to do the great job as well as surviving in the market with the ever elusive capital. However, I remained unshaken because I am determined to succeed and make a difference with my business. From the onset, I already knew that I should not despise every little beginning, so I forged ahead from there and was determined to conquer the market. Initially, we started with 50 items and now we have grown to supplying   thousands of our products to our numerous clients. How do you cope with the challenges? For every challenge, there is always a solution and they actually make me stronger. I actually believe that challenges come and go. It is only somebody that is not ready to grow, that won’t be ready to face the challenges of life and business. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life and career? The greatest influence in my life is my passion and it drives me to do more. I strongly believe in the never give up spirit; this keeps me moving all the time. I must also say that my husband has been a great pillar of support for me and he keeps encouraging me to do more. In addition, my friend (my business mentor) Margaret Osinaike has been my push as well as my support beyond my imagination. Let’s compare when you started doing this and now, what has changed? Yes, I must say that a lot has changed and is still changing in the business. From the number of product we started with and the creativity that has gone into what we do. Also, we have added some new products and it’s still on. In addition, we have been able to put up a business structure in such a way that our business is a growing concern for our competitors in the sector. One other interesting fact is that we have also added some technology into our production process. That is not all. Along the line we have also increased our capacity in terms of volume of our production and personnel. In what ways has being an entrepreneur changed your lifestyle? Life as an entrepreneur is very interesting. In the process, I have been able to appreciate value addition in what we do. This is reflected daily in terms of new innovations that we rolled out with strategies, process, discipline and corporate culture which are hallmarks of a good entrepreneur. I am also more matured now than then and totally in control. Going a step further, I can proudly tell you that I am also more at home with my customers now, unlike what obtained at the beginning of the business.  I am also more competent and more mature in the way that I deal with riding issues now than when I started. What are some of the changes that you would like to see in the sector? I would like to see a better enabling environment for business, especially businesses owned by women. It is also important to have easy access to business funds without encumbering bottlenecks, tax rebates. Furthermore, I strongly believe that it is important to have more training opportunities for entrepreneurs by the governments. And for those of us in the sector, quality of product should be the key in whatever we do. What are some of the lessons that you have learnt while doing this? I have learnt over the years that success is achieved through determination, focus and patience. Business is a risk, so it is very important to always calculate your business risks. Also when you have a vision do not procrastinate because more than a million people are also thinking of that same thing in your mind. So take action and do not delay. What are some of the new areas that you would like to explore in future? We have a lot of product lines that we have already started in our business model. We shall follow our business strategy in other to bring out the best and satisfy our customers at all times.