About 100, 000 people are to benefit from a real estate business initiative and other money-making ventures over the next decade. The opportunity, coming under the ‘Zero to Hero’ programme of a Southwest-based real estate development firm, Pertinence Limited, is now in its third year. In a chat with reporters at the event held in Lagos recently, the Executive Director of Pertinence Limited, Mr. Sunday Olorunseyi said: “In 10 years of doing business, we should be able to empower not less than 100, 000 Nigerians. The journey is still very far, we have done 5,000 so far. So, we still have over 95, 000 to go and we are in our third year; we are doing our best to achieve that,” He explained that the ‘Zero to Hero’ programme, held quarterly, presents an avenue for aspiring entrepreneurs to learn, earn and leverage on the back of a real estate company, including mentorship opportunities. Besides, such individual gets the chance to join a fast-growing team of millionaires since the person will get enlisted into the Pertinence’s network. For Olorunseyi, the eventual target would be for the firm to empower about one million people; hence the continuous sharing of the promoters’ life and business story including stories of people whose lives have been transformed through the ‘Zero to Hero’ initiative. Corroborating Olorunseyi’s views, the second Executive Director of Pertinence Limited, Mr. Wisdom Ezekiel, explained that the management of the firm realised that their success stories and those of others being shared, have been very inspirational to people, hence, their decision to create a platform to empower and encourage people to manage their own success stories. “We discovered that a lot of people come to ‘Zero to Hero’ to hear our stories and get inspired so we decided to add some guidelines on things they can do so that they can practice the principles behind the story. “This year, we have also introduced the hall of fame to encourage people to do better. We did an increase and factored it in the commission of our marketers across board. So, we introduced the hall of fame to celebrate our most productive marketers,” Ezekiel explained, adding that the platform encourages people to register to be part of the company or as business representatives. One of the pioneer marketers on the platform, Benita Charles, became the first to be inducted into the Pertinence ‘Hall of Fame’ as a mark of her productivity in the first quarter of this year.