In the view of stakeholders, the introduction of the micro pension scheme by the federal government to cater for workers in the informal sector will bode well for the economy, reports Moses Emorinken In what financial and economic analysts have described as a very ambitious plan, the federal government hopes to provide about Nigerians, especially those not already captured in the existing pension scheme. President Muhammadu Buhari during the official launch of the Micro Pension Plan at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, last week, assured pensioners of his administration’s renewed commitment to pension payment despite the meagre resources within government’s disposal. The president reportedly noted that the initiative is part of the government’s plans to ensure that hardworking Nigerians live in dignity and retire in peace when due. The President disclosed that the MPP is expected to mobilise about N3 trillion savings from the informal sector into the N8.6 trillion pension assets in the country. According to the National Pension Commission, its goal is to achieve pension coverage for 30 million people in the informal sector by 2024. Nigeria’s informal sector constitutes an estimated 69 million workforce, which represents an estimated 88 percent of the country’s workers that currently lack pensions for their old age. ABC of the micro pension scheme Speaking in an interview with our correspondent on the modalities of the micro pension scheme, the Pencom boss, Aisha Dahir-Umar, said, “The National Pension Commission has issued a robust Guideline on Micro Pension Plan pursuant to the provision of Section 2(3) of the Pension Reform Act 2014. The Guideline spelt out detailed legal, institutional and operational frameworks for the administration of the product by licensed pension operators from the point of enrolment to the point of accessing benefits from the pension account by participants.” Target participants Micro Pension Plan targets the significant majority of Nigeria’s working population who, incidentally, operate in the informal sector. Participants are expected from various informal sector workers including market women, members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), members of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Associations, Keke Napep and Okada Riders Associations, Butchers Associations, workers in the Movie and Performing Art industry, mechanics and other workers in the automotive industry and single professionals like lawyers, accountants and many others. Micro Pension Plan is designed to fit the peculiarities of these informal sector groups. The National Pension Commission had extensively engaged all relevant stakeholders and obtained their inputs before the product was developed to suit their requirements. Echoing similar sentiments, the Head of Corporate Communications of PenCom, Mr. Peter Aghahowa said, “The Micro Pension Plan (MPP) came to be as a result of amendment of the Pension Reform Act of 2014. Recall that when the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) commenced, it commenced with the pension reform act of 2004, before it was revised in 2014. When it was revised in 2014, one of the provisions that was revised was an expansion of the scope, not just limiting it to the formal sector as the 2004 act is, but now the revised law expanded it and included the informal sector. It is an initiative from Nigeria that is derived from the Contributory Pension Scheme.” Best practices According to the image-maker of PenCom when the micro pension scheme was formally introduced into the Pension law in 2014, ahead of its implementation, the Commission looked at other jurisdictions like Kenya, Ghana and India. “These are jurisdictions that are similar to our demography. These countries have had very vibrant pension schemes for the micro pension plan. These are countries where this kind of pension plan has been running for some time.” On the likely challenges being envisaged, Aghahowa said the main challenge is the issue of enlightenment and education. Financial literacy generally is low; how much more pension literacy which a subset of financial literacy. Now that we are dealing with a sector that you might have quite a number of them not so educated, there is need for them to be enlightened. That I believe is a challenge that can be strategically overcome. Safety of funds Concerning the safety and protection of the funds of those hoping to key into the Micro Pension Scheme, he explained that the Contributory Pension Scheme has run now since 2005; over thirteen years, and the commission has good stories from beneficiaries because it is a funded scheme. “A lot of things have been built into the pension industry, even the separation – the Pension Fund is not the administrator that holds the funds, the Custodians have the funds. The administrator administers; so you can see that a lot of safeguards have been built into the system and I believe that is why it has been so successful. Safety of the funds is a key and principal objective of PenCom. I am assuring the public that there is no cause for alarm.” Stakeholder voices Expectedly, some of the representative bodies at the informal sector have expressed excitement over the introduction of the micro pension scheme. Speaking with a cross-section of the bodies they said it was an idea whose time has come. Firing the first salvo, the Public Relations Officer of the National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS), Ijeoma Anuforo said, the scheme no doubt gives operators in the informal sector the opportunity to put a little money aside for contingency future plans. “Now we can plan towards retirement at the pace we want to maintain the kind of lifestyle we want when we retire. It is a massive pool of people and good business for the Pension Funds Administrators (PFAs). We are presently in talks with PenCom and PFAs. We are also going to have sensitisation programmes in every market where people are going to be signed up immediately.” The President of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Comrade Najeem Usman Yasin, explained that “the pension plan is a timely innovation and the much needed intervention for the informal sector. “Our drivers do not have pension at the time they are aged or retiring from driving. With this innovation from PenCom, our members can key into it such that by the time they are retiring they will have something to fall back on.” The General Secretary of the National Union of Textile, Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NVTGTWN), Mr. Issa Obalowu Aremu, his union is super excited that PenCom has designed a special scheme for the large army of the informal sector workers. He said that: “The informal sector has a workforce potentially close to 80 million Nigerians; this way we might be looking at multiple trillions of Naira. “We started to be part of the Contributory Pension Scheme in 2004, and can bear witness that today that the workers in the formal sector are secured in terms of their pension after work. Don’t forget that there have been crisis of compensation in this country. “Today, in terms of regularity of payment for workers who have contributed and are due for retirement, they get their dues as at when paid. It has been better managed, so I want to commend the National Pension Commission. The only way we can overcome income poverty is the social protection through pension schemes.” The President of Pension Funds Operator Association of Nigeria (PenOp), Mrs. Aderonke Adedeji, “When the scheme started over 12 years ago, it was essentially for the organised private sector, public sector and the states. If you look at the demographics of the country, clearly the larger percentage were excluded from the scheme. “This was not intentional, and I believe the way the scheme started was really the best way for it to start. Structures, systems, processes had to be put in place, even the law was changed in 2014. “For the industry, it is a continuation of our mandate and an extension of the benefits of providing long term security for every Nigerian. “As operators, our responsibility jointly with PenCom is enlightenment, which is the first and most important aspect of this plan. “Second is the process of registration. It is our job to bring people onboard. The registration process has to be as seamless and simple as possible. It will largely be technology based because in order to reach the masses and give easy access, there will be a lot of reliance on technology. “Next will be to begin to invest funds, administer the funds, and to keep people’s record to ensure that they are aware of their balances are. When it’s time for payment, we process payments as well. The fact that it is now available to everybody is a major relief to most people. But like anything that is new, we will need time to build it up. I believe in another ten years when we look back we will realise that a lot of progress have been made.” The Head of Communication of Abuja Markets Management Limited (AMML), Mr. Innocent Amaechina, the commission needs to intensify in its strategy and rate of engagements and education of the participating public from the informal sector. “I expect that people will readily accept the new initiative by the Commission because nobody wants to be left behind. “Already, we hear that those in the informal sector complain about some things that the people in the public service are enjoying that they do not enjoy. The informal sector is the driver of the economy, but they sometimes feel neglected; so I expect that they will accept it with both hands. “I expect PenCom to give us a product that will be tailor-made specifically for the informal sector; they cannot expect to use the same criterial for the formal and public sector for us.” On his part, Dr. Bond Nnnamani, who is the Chairman of Gudu Amalgamated Traders Association in Abuja said: “PenCom has contacted us concerning the Micro Pension Scheme, however, we have not concluded with them on the modalities.  It is a very good venture. It helps us to be better prepared and secured towards old age. The challenge with most business men and women is not that we don’t have money, but that our savings culture is very low because we normally plough back most of our profits into the business. The scheme is surely a very good one from the Commission.” For the Chairman, Garki Market in Abuja, HRH Igwe Friday Ozochimereze, “the PenCom have not done enough to reach out to stakeholders in the informal sector especially in the areas of regular engagements and proper education about the scheme. “I believe that the Micro Pension Scheme will be beneficial to my people. However, they (PenCom) need to do more to reach out to us,” he said. More people continue to show their readiness to engage the scheme which will give to them upon demand the dividends of their investment when the need for it arises. The Chairman of Zone 3 Neighbourhood Traders Association in FCT, Mr. Okonkwo Ifeanyi, who spoke with our correspondent, explained that some Pension Fund Administrators have approached his market but have not reverted to them on a full plan and modality for the scheme. “We are greatly expecting the scheme to kickoff, but the PenCom needs to spend more time enlightening the people because a lot of us still have ill-feelings towards pension,” he said.