MEMBERS of the board of National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) have commended the Executive Director of the agency, Mr. Adedayo Thomas over some reforms on effective steering of Nigerian movie industry. NAN reports that the board members noted in Abuja, on Tuesday, that the film censors board, under its current leadership, has been repositioned for better staff welfare and relationship with relevant stakeholders and industry players. According to Mr. Lawal Mai-Arewa, Acting Chairman of the Board, “Before we were constituted, the NFVCB as an agency of government has no board until Adedayo Thomas was appointed to head it. “So, when he assumed office as the Executive Director, he met a lot of challenges facing the organisation, such as poor staff welfare, accommodation problems and very poor stakeholders-relationship. “As a board, we give him a pass mark today, and we are very committed to working with him because he has changed the story for good. “In the meeting today, we have ratified the 2018 budget because it was well implemented, as staff welfare, programs and other initiatives other agency are well taken care of,” he said. Thomas, who assumed office in March, 2017, spoke on some of his reforms that have taken place in the agency within the two years he had so far. He said: “When I assumed office, there was no effective enforcement operation and today that has changed, I even go to the field on enforcement operations. “Staff welfare, which was at zero level before I came, is now a topmost priority with two successful promotion exercises conducted under my watch, and that has not happened for a long time. “Officers at all levels now have the opportunity to attend film festivals and other relevant events that expose them to how the industry works at the global stage. “The board is currently on its media literacy campaign across the six geo-political zones, where Nigerians, especially youths are sensitized on the menace of  piracy and spreading hate speeches on the internet, among others.” Corroborating Mai-Arewa, another board member, Hon. Zuwaire Gambo said that for the first time, they are able to understand their roles as board members, and have decided to work according to the mandate of the board. “Based on the minutes and reports presented by him, he has shown accountability, prudence and transparency in the day-to-day running of the NFVCB,” she said, adding that, “as an industry person himself, the Executive Director has been able to come up with initiatives and programs that boost the morale of his workforce towards better service delivery by the board. This is what is making it easy for all the board members to key into his vision for the board.” She urged members of staff and the management team of the board to support the Executive Director in his poise towards building a strong agency, saying that the task of regulating the evolving Nigeria’s film and video sector, reputed to be largest in Africa and second in the world, was enormous and required a strong and united board.