Though the 2019, general elections may have come and gone, history would no doubt record, the exercise as a peculiar one. This may not be unconnected with the negatives that overshadowed the intent of the elections nationwide. Recall that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had given the world assurances that the election would be free, fair and credible. This was aside the chest – thumping by the electoral body that it was ready for the elections as scheduled. Indeed, nobody had cause to doubt INEC in view of the fact that the nation was conducting its most expensive election in history. Even INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmud Yakubu told the world that the commission had enough funds to undertake the poll. Alas, the world was taken by surprise when INEC told a shocked world that it had postponed the Presidential election scheduled to hold February 16 to 23. Curiously, the announcement was made long after Nigerians had gone to bed with the hope of exercising their franchise the next day. This was no doubt due to the fact that Nigerians had put their hope in an electoral umpire in dire need of help. Even President Muhammadu Buhari who had landed in his home town of Daura to vote was peeved by the development, as he assured the nation that a probe would be launched into the incident after the polls. Two weeks after, when the Presidential Election held, INEC’s inefficiency was again laid bare before the world. From Lagos to Kano, Rivers, AkwaIbom, Bauchi, Ondo and many more, it was complaints galore over different impediments arising from faulty card reader machines to poor voter’s turnout, late arrival of materials and many more. When the governorship election eventually held, things went from bad to worse across the states. On the said date, INEC ad-hoc staff staged an early morning strike to protest non- payment of their allowances among others, leading to late take off of the polls. In Akwa Ibom state, apathy was a major tool deployed by the people to express a vote of no confidence to protest the glaring partiality of the Resident Electoral Commissioner, (REC), Mr Mike Igini who from day one had aligned himself with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. In fact, the All Progressives Congress (APC) had told the world that it was uncomfortable with Igini superintending over elections in the state months before. This was to no avail as the electoral body’s hierarchy in Abuja looked the other way despite this glaring injustice. Even when the APC chairman in the state, Mr. Ini Okopido raised a weighty allegation in a petition, that Igini told him point blank in a telephone conversation that this party will never win in the state, this was never investigated. Said he “in a recent telephone conversation with the undersigned,(Ini Okopiodo), APC state chairman, Mr Igini threatened that the APC will never win election in Akwa Ibom state no matter how big and massive our total rally is. He told me he would ensure the PDP is declared winner, no matter what happens” Hear him again “we have evidence that Igini has handed over uncollected permanent voters cards (PVCs) to officials of Akwa Ibom State Government House, Uyo. These uncollected PVCs are in thousands” In other climes, a thorough investigation of such petition would have been carried out, but mum was the word from the Mahmud Yakubu-led INEC. Even when other political parties under the aegis of forum all registered political parties in Akwa Ibom State through their chairman, Kingsley Akaiso, corroborated the APC Chairman’s claims, INEC refused to budge. Akaiso who is also the chairman, Fresh Party said “in the political process in the state, INEC has portrayed unbridled partisanship through the selection of its ad-hoc staff, some of whom are drawn from the employees of the commission, contrary to extant practices and institutions requirement. “Through connivance with the state government, all the ad-hoc staff of the commission is made up of loyal members and supporters of PDP. “In addition, the commission has acted as though it were part of the Government House, Uyo. Inspite of our representations to the head office of the commission in Abuja, nothing has been done to allay our concern that INEC office in Akwa Ibom state is not a fair umpire and cannot deliver a free, fair and transparent election because it is partisan and in bed with the ruling PDP government in the state. This anarchy must be looked into” With the pictures painted, it was therefore unsurprising that Akwa Ibom state recorded the least voter turnout in her recent history as only about 600,000 turned out to vote despite the fact that no fewer than two million PVCs were collected. Worse perhaps was the fact that despite wide spread cases of faulty card reader machines in the state, manual voting was the order of the day. This was contrary to assurances by INEC that nobody would be allowed to vote if not captured by the card reader. No doubt, this gave INEC in the state a window to partner with its allies in the PDP to seize the moment by using the opportunity to their advantage. Even after the election, there are panicky measures been employed to cover the tracks in order not to further expose the charade that played out during the elections in the state. Already cases of vehicles loaded with thumb printed ballot papers said to have been found in the forests came up and this must be investigated and the culprits brought to book. This is the least anyone would expect in view of the fact though APC was declared winner at several collation centres, with such eventually changing in favour of PDP, even as electoral officers of such places were suspended, including that of Ikot Abasi, for no just cause by Igini. Even in Obot Akara, home stead of former Akwa Ibom Deputy Governor Chris Ekpeyong where elections could not hold, results of a non-existent election was declared. Most annoying were, the vituperations of former Prelate of the Methodist Church, Nigeria, Rev. Sunday Mbang who used to stand up for  what is right and just in the past, but not unexpected in the circumstance. This is a sad reminder that the pulpit is no longer a place of grace as merchandise has suddenly taken over the church in these days of yore. However, the beauty of it all is that the APC in the state has not embraced violence in any form as a way of fighting the carefully scripted fraud in the name of election. That it has toed the constitutional option in its attempts to right the wrongs as provided for in our constitution is a welcome development. This, it must continue to do since whatever has been stolen from the people by the way of their mandate can still be retrieved using the instrumentality of the law. The APC, nay the people of Akwa Ibom State must therefore rise to the occasion by seizing the opportunity to retrieve their mandate through legal means instead of resorting to any form of violence. Like the famous Poet, Ngugi Wa Thiongo wrote in one of his poems “the raving clouds shall not be long. They shall not be long victorious” Umohinyang, social commentator and political analyst wrote in from Lagos.