•PenCom right in barring states not contributing to pension fund from bonds LAST week, the media reported the decision by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) to bar pension fund administrators from investing in the bonds of nine states that have yet to amend their state pension laws and join the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). The nine states are in three categories: in the first is Yobe, still stuck with the old Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS); in the second category are Katsina, Bauchi, Borno, Benue, Kwara and Plateau states that have not moved past the drafting stage of the relevant bills while in the third are Akwa Ibom and Cross River states said to have theirs pending in the states’ houses of assembly. The restriction, according to PenCom, might extend to another 15 states which, although have passed the law, have it only on paper as evidenced in their failure to fund the Retirement Savings Accounts (RSA)of their workers. Of this, Ogun stands out, with the state chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) disclosing that the outgoing administration of Governor Ibikunle Amosun had not remitted funds to workers RSAs for  about 108 months, followed by Delta with beneficiaries claiming that many of them spent over six years after retirement before being paid their entitlements. We understand the underlying frustrations which informed PenCom’s latest regulatory action. It has been some 14 years since Nigeria moved from the archaic DBS, which being poorly funded, offered no guarantees to the beneficiaries aside the tears and sorrow routinely witnessed in pension offices across the federation. With the crises that attenuated that DBS on the one hand and the innumerable benefits offered under the CPS being so self-evident on the other, we would have thought that the old would have long yielded the space to the new. The latest development is not only troubling, it is revealing of how far the country still has to go. Without question, PenCom has the prerogative to set out the guidelines for those wishing to borrow via its bonds programme. With neither the power nor authority for that matter to force the states to pass their own pension laws, the best it could do is keep those states away from accessing whatever benefits that came the way of those in compliance. Clearly, those states desirous of raising funds through pension bonds must know that the choice is theirs to make –either to follow through on their pension legislation and hence benefit from whatever benefits deriving therefrom, or explore other avenues to finance their development activities. That seems fair and reasonable. The measure, unfortunately, does little to address the problem of poor RSA remittances to the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs).  That, unfortunately, is the elephant in the room. Presently, it is not just the states that are in default; some private sector players are not left out, with many in arrears of their pension obligations. While a part of the problem is directly traceable to what is clearly a culture of indiscipline and impunity of corporate and institutional players, the situation on the whole, is reflective of the general poor state of the national economy – the reason why a penal solution to a problem that is organic will in the end be somewhat simplistic. The nine states as indeed the other 15 have both a moral and legal duty to do good to their workers and this without further delay. The continuing agonies of their pensioners make it imperative. It smacks of grave abdication that governments whose primary responsibility is to ensure the welfare of citizens are derelict; more shameful is that some governors have been known to hound labour leaders who have the guts to protest this gross abdication. The measure by PenCom should only be the beginning; if only for the existential problem that non-compliance constitutes to the workers in the affected states, the Federal Government might consider additional measures to get them to comply.