Former world champion and the President/founder of the International Double Dutch League (IDDL), Laila Taliba Little is delighted with the opportunity to impact her knowledge in Rope Skipping sport on African coaches and youths at a three-day intercontinental workshop, NationSport reports. The workshop organized by the Nigeria Rope Skipping Federation is scheduled to hold at the Lagos State Sports Center, Mobolaji Johnson Sports Hall, Rowe Park, Yaba, Lagos from Thursday 18th – Saturday 20th April, 2019. Laila, who alongside four other world rated trainers and coaches from USA; Cynthia Banks, Geraldine Code, Emma Barnes and Ayanna Atsu Haarul
who arrived the Muritala Muhammad International Airport aboard Delta Airline, were welcome by the officials of the Nigeria Rope Skipping Federation with members of the Nigeria Football Supporters Clud adding colour to the occasion. In a chat with NationSport on arrival in Lagos, Laila said she felt excited coming to Africa for the first time. “I am so excited to be here in Nigeria, this is my first time in Africa and I am so pleased, Alhamdulillahi. “I’ve been doing this rope skipping for a long time, since I was a kid. I’ve been dreaming about coming to Africa and to come to Africa and do something I love, is a blessing from God. I’m just privileged to be part of the program and start the sport here, it is a blessing. This sport gives opportunity to appreciate teamwork, gives you discipline and confidence to do whatever you want in life,” Laila told NationSport. While welcoming the visitors, Secretary General of the Nigeria Rope Skipping Federation, Olusesan Olukoya said over 1,000 school kids/students as well as 200 teachers from across the country would gain from their vast knowledge of the sport during the intercontinental workshop. He confirmed that delegates from other countries including Botswana, South Africa, Kenya, Ghana, Togo and Benin Republic will be attending the workshop. The Vice President of the Africa Jump Rope Federation (AJRF) and Project Coordinator at the South African Gymnastic Federation (SAGF), Keo Mokolopo would be representing the World Jump Rope Federation (WJRF), while a board member of the International Jump Rope body would also be co-training at the intercontinental workshop.