In a bid to fully develop gymnastics and make it a household affair in Nigeria, the Lagos State Gymnastics Association has partnered with the International Gymnastics Federation to reposition the sport. At a stakeholders’ meeting organised at the Upbeat Recreation Centre, Lekki, Lagos, the two organisations identified key areas to work on, with a view to improving the acceptance of gymnastics in Lagos. Solutions on how to make the sport a financially-rewarding activity for gymnasts and coaches were also proffered and arrived at during the meeting. Speaking at the event, Chairperson of LSGA, Moyo Ogunseinde, emphasised that the time had come for gymnastics to be included in schools’ curriculum in Lagos and in fact Nigeria so that young talents could be identified and nurtured early. Ogunseinde, who has brought in new innovations and constantly engaged with relevant stakeholders since taking over the leadership of the association a few months ago, said that her team was working tirelessly to improve the welfare of athletes and coaches in the sport. While unveiling a four-year developmental plan for gymnastics in Lagos, she expressed belief that through increased collaborations and sponsorships, the sport could be one of the most popular activities among the young and old. She said, “As an organisation, we are working closely with key stakeholders in gymnastics including coaches and athletes to further develop the game. “Our target is to make the sport a household activity not just in Lagos but in Nigeria as a whole and it for this reason we are clamouring for it to be included in the curriculum of schools in the state. Commending LSGA for the initiative, Development Officer for Africa, FIG, Tseko Mogotsi, pointed that there was need for more funding in order to properly position the sport on the continent. He said, “Funding is a big problem for gymnastics in Africa and that is why we must mobilise all available resources to drive the sport forward. Executive Chairman of the Lagos State Sports Commission; Dr Kweku Tandoh, and the Director General of the organisation, Mr Babatunde Bank-Anthony, commended Ogunseinde and her team for their efforts in developing gymnastics in the country.