Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra state has commended students of St. John’s Secondary School, Alor for their outstanding performance at the International Festival of Engineering, Science and Technology (I-FEST) competition in Tunisia. The students, Meshach Ugwuishi, Anthony Chuka- Umeora, Daniel Nwachukwu and Dominic Machi, came third out of thirty-one countries that participated in the exercise. Their work titled, “Adaptable Alternative Power Supply for Sub-Saharan Africa”, involved two innovations – an inverter which traps energy from the sun and a single fully backed solar technology panel. Receiving the students at Government House, Awka, Obiano pledged his administration continued investment in the education sector to assist students realize their potentials. The governor, represented by his Deputy, Dr. Nkem Okeke, lauded the students’ quality innovations, underscoring the place of focus and determination towards winning more academic laurels. Appreciating the students and their teachers for the honour brought to the state, Obiano called for more devotion from both teachers and students to realize his vision for the sector. Earlier, the Commissioner for Basic Education, Prof. Kate Omenugha attributed the victory of the students to doggedness and proactiveness. She observed that the efforts of the present administration on qualitative and functional education in the state were already yielding results. The Manager of the school, Rev. Fr. Francis Unegbu noted that the students’ devotion to the project was instrumental to the success story. He said the school competed in Electricity and Energy under Physics and attended with a manually made electric Inverter and solar panel. On his part, Principal of the College, Mr Samuel Otubah, noted that the encouragement provided by the school management contributed to the students’ feat. One of the students, Meshack Ugwuishi said they were poised to make the nation proud through their innovations amidst financial challenges.