Who owns the 138.70 acres of land situated opposite Nichemtex factory at Molatori and Owode villages in Ibeshe Ikorodu? Was the vast land acquired from its owners by the United Nigerian Textile Limited (UNTL) decades ago? The above questions are begging for answers, following a brewing crisis between Nichemtex management of and the Ominiha/Shosanya families. They both are claiming ownership of the property. The parties have since January engaged in petitions and counter petitions to the Inspector General of Police (IG) Mohammed Adamu and the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Zone Two, Onikan with allegations of land grabbing, encroachment, police intimidation and harassment as well as conducts likely to cause breach of public peace. While the families through their lawyer, Adefolaju Oloko, accused the company of forging documents for the said land, Nichemtex alleged that the family attempted to grab the property it bought over four decades ago, which was duly registered on June 12, 1990 with Certificate of Occupancy (CofO) 21/21/1990H, issued in favour of UNTL. A petition to the IG dated March 27 and signed by Mahmud Adeshina for the company’s lawyer, Nichemtex had been in physical possession of the properties bought from the families since acquisition with a warehouse and block of flats erected in one of the acres. Trouble, however, started in 2003 when the Efunba family of Ikorodu instituted suit ID/285/2003 against Nichemtex before a Lagos High Court while the Ajako, Shosanya and Fadeyi families of lkorodu also filed  suit IKD/78/2014 in 2014. Both suits, the lawyer explained, were consolidated in 2017 and is currently before an Ikeja High Court. Disregarding the pending suit, the textile firm alleged that the Ajako, Shosanya and Fadeyi families filed a petition of forgery against them at the Police zonal headquarters in Onikan. “We and our client responded to the said petition and furnished the police with our client’s documents of title to enable them conduct an investigation into the matter so as to determine the veracity of the said title documents. “Despite the fact that the said petition of forgery is pending before Zone Two, Onikan, the said families have employed some other members of the police force to facilitate their acts of criminal trespass and encroachment on our client’s property and engage in a conduct that is likely to cause a breach of the public peace,” read the petition. Policemen attached to the Special Protection Unit (SPU) and the IG Monitoring Units, have, on the directive of the IG, raided the property and harassed workers despite the pending lawsuit, it was learnt. “On Wednesday, January 16, a number of Mobile Police Officers (MOPOL) went with some members of the said families and their lawyer, purportedly under the order of the Inspector General of Police to our client’s property, erected another gate and locked same up with a chain and padlock. “Thereafter, we wrote a petition dated January 23, on behalf of our client to the Area Commander of the ljede Division of the Nigeria Police Force, lkorodu informing him of the atrocious act of the said families, which is being facilitated by policemen, but the Area Commander politely declined to intervene in the matter because it was already before Zone Two, Force Headquarters, Onikan, Lagos. “On March 20, the members of the afore-mentioned families, acting in consonance with Baales within the Ibeshe/Owode communities, trespassed into the property of our client in which its warehouse is located. They were about 30 of them who were accompanied by some armed mobile policemen, who all forcefully entered into the premises of our client. “On March 21, the same set of people were seen by our client’s security guard conveying a good number of building blocks and cement into the property of our client with the intention of altering the block of flats on the premises and erecting new structures,” the petition stated. Noting that the actions of the trespassers were capable of causing breach of peace, the company said the continuous shutting of its premises, encroachment on its properties with building materials could provoke some hostilities between parties. “It may even lead to the loss of lives as the said families are desperate and have resorted to using armed members of the Nigeria Police to facilitate their trespass. It is disheartening that the police is being used by the above families to perpetrate acts of criminal trespass, encroachment and conducts that are likely to cause breach of peace. “We wrote letters dated January 17 and 18, 2019 to the Assitant Inspector General of Police, Zone Two headquarters, informing him about the actions of the unknown armed mobile policemen, who have been facilitating the trespass of the members of the said families, but no investigation was conducted nor any step taken to curb the trespass. “On February 7, our client received a letter of invitation requesting for the presence of its Managing Director at Zone Two Headquarters, Onikan, Lagos. Other than that, no attempt has been made by the said police formation to stop the families’ use of the police in harassing and encroaching upon our client’s property. “We implore you to use your good offices to investigate and intervene in this matter so as to put an end to the acts of criminal trespass, encroachment upon the property of our client and to also ensure that they do not use members of the Nigeria Police Force to perpetrate further atrocities on our client’s property,” it stated. But the families denied changing or locking the gate to the premises, stating that they only erected fence on part of the vast land where the fence had collapsed. Baale Ayodele Ominiha, who spoke on behalf of the families, said at no time was the land sold to UNTL, adding that the company expressed interest which was communicated to the family lawyer then, but never paid for the land. He said if the firm was sure of purchasing the land, it should provide the original receipt of sale, just as it has the one issued when it bought the Nichemtex factory land.