Opeyori Anuoluwapo and Dorcas Adesokan will lead 16 other players to the All Africa Senior Badminton Championship which comes up from April 22-28 in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The Badminton Federation of Nigeria (BFN), yesterday released a list of 18 players that would represent the country at Africa’s apex badminton championship. Others who will join Opeyori in the men’s team are, Godwin Olofua, Eneojo Abah, Clement Krobakpo, Habeeb Bello, Aliyu Shehu, Gideon Babalola, Kayode Mope and Isaac Minaphee, while Deborah Ukeh, Peace Orji, Chinenye Ibere, Amin Christopher, Sofiat Obanisola, Ramatu Yakubu, Zainab Alabi And Augustina Sunday will join Adesokan in the women’s team. The coaches are Benjamin Orakpo is the head coach, while George Shitta and Susan Udeh Agboola are the assistant coaches. Already, 18 countries have registered for the showpiece event, which will see the best male and female Badminton players on the African continent compete for glory. These countries include; Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Congo, Congo DRC, Eritrea, Egypt Ghana and Ivory Coast. Other participating countries include; Kenya, Mauritius, Seychelles, South Africa, Togo, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe and host Nigeria. Also, Brisby Christopher Egbonyi who just graduated from the University of Port Harcourt won the mascot competition and will be presented with the prize money of N100,000 during the championship. At the unveiling of Alabo the Shutter at the weekend, The Commissioner of Sports, Hon Boma Iyaye who represented the Governor of the state, Nyesom Wike applauded BFN for highlighting the rich cultural heritage of the Rivers people. He reiterated the commitment of Governor Wike to ensure the event is a huge success. He appealed to the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports to back Rivers State to host other sporting events. The Permanent Secretary in his remark, Adesola Olusade lauded the visionary leadership of the BFN boss, Francis Orbih. He said the BFN has exceeded expectations in terms of performance. He thanked the Government of Rivers State for support to BFN and urged other State governments to emulate Rivers State Government by giving greater support to sports development and youth empowerment. He reiterated that the Ministry will give the necessary support to augment the efforts of Rivers State Government to ensure the 2019 All Africa Senior Championship is a huge success. He commended BFN for initiating the Mascot Challenge which is a brilliant idea to empower the youths as the winner would be rewarded during the opening ceremony. 