•The West must do more for Africa beyond rhetoric These are truly critical times. The earth, or shall we say mother earth, must be aging and heaving with much difficulty. She is sure to get creaky in the knees; crusty flakes would fall off; morphing into veritable fallouts in world affairs. Such is it that the rains, for instance, would miss its cue in the season, splattering out of turn. That has huge implications for agriculture value chain and attendant food security. This is just one example of the disruptions besetting the world, which are beyond the control of man. This must be the message Christine Lagarde, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) was trying to pass at the joint annual spring meetings with the World Bank, last week. According to her, the Bretton Wood institution had to cut its forecast for the year across the board because 70 per cent of the world’s economy was decelerating. “But just like nature, the global economy is currently quite uncertain… we are now talking about synchronised slowdown by 70 per cent of the world economy,” Lagarde said. Speaking in the same vein, David Malpass, President of the World Bank Group is concerned about the rising level of poverty in Africa. He noted that the situation was jeopardising the bank’s goal of ending extreme poverty by 2030. Malpass: “By 2030, nearly nine in 10 extremely poor people will be in Africa, and half of the world’s poor will be living in fragile and conflict-affected settings. This calls for urgent action –  by countries themselves and by the global community.” It is obviously from this standpoint that the IMF boss picked out Nigeria while she spoke from her elevated global podium. Lagarde shunned diplomatic-speak and any form of finesse as she brought up Nigeria as example of economic bad behaviour in an already tipsy world. Apparently miffed, and worried by the burgeoning number of the wretched-poor  in Nigeria, Lagarde asked the Federal Government to urgently remove subsidy on petrol. It is the right and sensible thing to do now”, she insisted. She expatiates: “… For various reasons and as a general principle, we believe that removing fossil fuel subsidies is the right way to go. If you look at our numbers from 2015, it is no less than about $5.2 trillion that is spent on fuel subsidies and the consequences thereof.” She noted further that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) spent about N623.16 billion on fuel subsidy under its ‘under-recovery arrangement’. IMF was unequivocal in stating that this kind of economics would keep hurting Nigeria. The IMF also cautions Nigeria’s government to be wary of the current massive offering of loans from China. While the bank thinks there was nothing wrong with the loans per se, it urges borrowing countries like Nigeria to look critically at the terms under which the loans are booked. On both counts of chucking subsidies on petrol and taking China’s cash with caution, the twin western world money institutions are standing on good grounds in asking that the sensible things be done. But both the Nigerian government and people seem to have only negative response towards the otherwise sensible homily. Apart from the need to protect and preserve her sovereignty, it is also believed that both the IMF and the World Bank have not been the best of friends of Nigeria. For instance, huge stolen funds from Nigeria sit in vaults in the UK, US and other Western nations who have blatantly refused to repatriate them. Further unsavoury economic practices have for ages been deployed by multinationals and International Oil Companies. One instance: major oil exploiters have been shipping crude oil out of Nigeria for over half a century. They would not deign to refine. These practices have more adverse effect on Nigeria’s economy than fuel subsidies. Concerning loans from China, some countries of Africa may have failed if not for China’s direct intervention in infrastructure development in the last decade. In a manner of speaking, Western nations had literally abandoned Africa. But, in all of these, the people to blame are African leaders whose irresponsible attitudes have brought the continent to the situation where foreigners talk down on the continent with reckless abandon.