While most people complain about the perennial gridlock in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, Lagos and other major cities, budding entrepreneur and Chief Executive Officer of Doorstep Dispatch Services, Justin Chukwuemeka Enuonye has said the traffic chaos in Nigerian cities, especially in Port Harcourt and Lagos provides an opportunity to begin a business, contribute to the economy and create employment opportunities. Enuonye, a native of Ogwashi-Uku in Delta State, is a graduate of Business Administration from Limkokwing University of Creative Technology, Cyberjaya Malaysia. Unlike his counterparts who remained after studying abroad, Enuonye’s faith in Nigeria was a motivating factor for returning home after completion of his education. On arrival in Nigeria, he settled in Lagos which he described as a great city full of amazing people and so many great restaurants. But sadly, as a fast and ever-growing city and population, the metropolis of Lagos and its environs have acquired an unenviable reputation for traffic congestion. This, he said, made it difficult for people to just drive to their favourite restaurants at any time to enjoy their favourite meals. He said he also noticed the number of small businesses emerging in the city that was in desperate need of a reliable delivery company to help deliver items to clients. He, however, said there are many challenges which reliable logistics companies experience in the city. These observations gave rise to the idea of an online food, tech and parcel delivery venture, which he hoped would revolutionise food and parcel delivery services not only in the economic hub of Lagos, but also all over Nigeria. This resulted in the establishment of Doorstep Dispatch Service. “I thought that I can use technology to build something that will solve that logistics problem in Lagos and Nigeria. “I lived and studied abroad. When I came back to Nigeria, I decided to settle down in Lagos. I noticed that there is an increase in the number of businesses, restaurants and startups but one thing remained the same and that is the traffic situation. I noticed that people usually have hard time going to their favourite restaurants at any given time of the day because of the traffic situation. “Secondly, a lot of these businesses keep complaining of their logistics aspect of the business; that need hasn’t been met yet. They still feel backward in their business. At that point, that is where the idea of Doorstep Dispatch Service came about,” he said. The Doorstep Dispatch Services founder said the idea of the business was conceived in 2016, but because the country was not well-prepared for the use of technology at that point, the idea of Doorstep Dispatch Services did not materialise. “We started building the mobile application in February, last year and completed it around June. We started the test run from then. It was launched officially last month,” he said. He further explained that Doorstep Dispatch Services was aimed at being the preferred choice for dispatches in the continent and it is their goal to have and maintain a 100 per cent customer satisfaction record at all times through prompt, safe and intact delivery of food and parcels to customers anytime, anywhere. In order to achieve this unique goal, Doorstep Dispatch Services developed the mobile application, which can be downloaded from Apple App Store and Google Play. It allows users to order food directly from their choice restaurants and also request for pick-up and drop-off of parcels. Enuonye explained that the App also has an amazing feature that allows users to track their order in real time so as to ensure the safe and timely delivery of their food or parcels. Already, he said Doorstep Dispatch Services has about 100 restaurants on board the mobile application ready to serve every user to their utmost satisfaction. On its future plans, he said: “At the moment, Door Step Dispatch Services is covering the whole of Lagos Island and hopes to extend it to the Mainland and other areas of the state in the next one month. “The target market or audience of Doorstep Dispatch Services is everyone who has a smart phone and has access to Internet.” In its bid to alleviate the unemployment situation in the country, Doorstep Dispatch Services has employed over 40 youths and hopes to employ more youths as it expands its services to other parts of the city.