Barely few hours after the foundation laying ceremony of the National Youths Service Corps, , Permanent Orientation Camp Clinic in Ondo State, the Camp Clinic Community Development Service group has embarked on massive mobilisation of resources to complete the project. The foundation laying ceremony which held recently in Ondo, was performed by the Ondo State Head of Service, Barrister Toyin Akinkuotu. The group which is made up of professionals in various fields mapped out strategies to ensure that the project does not tarry beyond the expected completion period of one year. The Camp Clinic CDS group has started to solicit for financial donations and materials. The group has as its members, two corps doctors- Gbenga Ijimoroti and Jane Ukwuoma. Other professionals in the group are Orji Onyeka, who is a Building Technology graduate; Inu Jamiu from Estate Management field; Asia Faith, an Electrical Engineering graduate as well as Onumajuru Blessing whose area of specialisation is Civil Engineering. The mobilisation team disclosed that Association of Permanent Secretaries in Ondo State through Pastor Gbenga Adelayi, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance had supported the project financially. According to them, Ondo State Hospital Management Board under the supervision of Permanent Secretary, Dr. Niran Ikuomola, had pledged to support the project. Also, Dr. Durojaiye, Permanent Secretary, Ondo State Ministry of Health, is said to have expressed the willingness of his ministry to partner NYSC on the project. The Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko through the Vice Chancellor, Professor Igbekele Amos Ajibefun made a commitment while the management of the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, through the Chief Medical Director, Dr. Lasisi Ahmed enlisted the support of the Principal Officers of the health institution to assist on the construction. The mobilisation train also called on the royal fathers in the Akoko Division of the state, namely Oba Akadiri Saliu Momoh, the Olukare of Ikareland; Oba Samuel Kolapo Adegbite Adedoyin, the Owa-Ale of Ikareland and Oba Yisa Olanipekun, the Zaki of Arigidi Akoko to seek royal blessings and their support for the construction of the edifice. Meanwhile, the NYSC management starting with the immediate family and staff of the State Coordinator, Mrs. Grace Akpabio are not left out. The Assistant Directors as well as Chief Inspectors and other cadres have indicated their willingness not to be left behind. Meanwhile, the construction company handling Ikare Akoko- Akure Road has notified the NYSC of their intention to supply the laterite sand for the multi million Naira project.