Over 100 residents of Ojota yesterday benefited from a kick-out malaria campaign organised by Ikeja Electric (IE). The campaign, which was part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), was organised to enlighten members of the Hausa Quarter at Ojota on the dangers of malaria and the need for environmental hygiene. The event, which featured distribution of treated mosquito nets to the residents, had in attendance representatives of Health Management Organisation (HMO), Hygeia. IE’s Chief Technical Coordinator Sunday Oyewole said the company was interested in the health and well-being of its customers, which explains its people- centred CSR projects. He urged the residents to keep their environments clean, avoid blocking drainage and use the mosquito nets, “since malaria, a tropical ailment, is transmitted to humans by the female anopheles mosquito.” Oyewole said: “The net is to be used to protect and prevent bites from mosquitoes. It should not be kept under the bed. The net should be exposed to sun before usage, to avoid suffocation. “There are over 100 million estimated cases of malaria and 300,000 deaths yearly in Nigeria. People fall sick because of mosquito bites; we want to reduce the number of malaria deaths. This is why we visit communities yearly. “At IE, we celebrate the World Malaria Day and join in the global campaign against malaria. That was why we came here to educate the residents on the dangers of malaria and mosquito bites. We usually visit communities. Last year we were at waterside communities at Okota and Amuwo Odofin. We want our customers to know that we are not just giving them electricity for their money, but also interested in their well-being. “We want to show them care. We deem it fit to come and talk to them on the hazards of malaria and distribute mosquito nets to people. These nets kill mosquitoes once they perch on them because they are treated with insecticides.” Appreciating the company for the gesture, Seriki Hausa Alhaji Attahiru Hassan said the nets would be put to good use, adding that some of his kinsmen slept outside. Said he: “I thank Ikeja Electric for doing this for our community. I pray God bless them more. The nets will really be of help to us, especially some of the boys who sleep outside. It will prevent bites from mosquito. I also hail them because electricity has improved in our area. They should keep it up.”