The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has bemoaning the spate of killings and kidnappings across country, saying that President Muhammadu Buhari’s “incompetence” in the handling of governance was taking a huge toll on the nation. Addressing newsmen in Abuja yesterday, Secondus observed that the frightening security situation has continued to raise concerns among prominent Nigerians, including clerics and monarchs. He said the situation has got to a point where the citizenry are raising questions as to whether the country still has a Commander-In-Chief. Urging the President to seek quality advice on the security challenges, Secondus said: “While the Presidency continues to argue that there exists government in our country today, what obtains in reality is different. “The level of bloodletting occasioned by the barrage of criminalities across the country can only be happening in a country without government. “Things got even worse as the remaining goodwill of the people on this government vanished after it arm-twisted the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) into tampering with the will of the people in the February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections. “There is no evidence of the presence of government in this country as crimes of all kinds are being committed all over the country and Nigerians have never lived in such great fear and trembling for their lives. “From Kaduna to Zamfara, Benue to Taraba, Plateau, Lagos to Enugu etc., bloodletting is continuing unabated. “Even the President’s home state of Katsina has lost about eight local government areas to bandits, not to talk of the North East. “Everyone holding public office must know that one day, they will be held accountable for their actions.” Secondus deplored the incessant killings in Kaduna State, where a British humanitarian aide worker, Faye Mooney and others were shot dead by gunmen last week. He blamed the heightened insecurity in Kaduna State on what he described as “provocative leadership” existing in the state, which he said is being indirectly encouraged by the Federal Government. “The situation has deteriorated to the extent that this country can no longer protect the lives of international aid workers who are here to help us clear our mess. “The senseless, continuous bloodletting in Kaduna State should be blamed on the type of provocative leadership existing in that state and indirectly encouraged by the federal government. “The ‘body bag’ governor in the state does not seem to know how to engender peace among the people. His actions and utterances facilitate instead of ameliorating the ill feelings among the people.”