The Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Oyo state branch, Pastor Benjamin , has urged government at all levels to reintroduce Christian Religious Studies in primary, secondary and higher institutions. Akanmu made the call while speaking on the significance of Easter, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ibadan on Sunday. He said this would go a long way to help the young ones to know about God early in their life as they pursue their academic dreams. He said this will also ultimately bring peace to the society, as the students grow with the fear of God. Akanmu urged Christians to have faith in the power that resurrected Jesus Christ from the dead, live patiently and trust in God despite their plights. “If Jesus didn’t resurrect, we will still be in sin, the Jewish leaders chose to make up the story that it never happened, but on the third day after his death He rose, today He is alive and reigns eternally. “For broken homes, the neglected, betrayed, bereaved, prisoners, sick, among others can be restored by the power of His resurrection, the same power that raised Jesus is available for us today, if we can embrace Him,” he said. Also speaking, the Catholic Bishop of Oyo Diocese, Most Rev. Emmanuel Badejo, urged Christians to emulate Jesus who laid down His life for the redemption of man. “Easter Sunday changes the history of humanity, for the righteous, death is a mere passageway, not the end, death will not have the final word, but love and God will; Jesus conquered the devil, death, sin and darkness. “We must emulate Jesus and live sacrificially; our leaders must similarly make sacrifice for the people, no leadership has legitimacy if it doesn’t make sacrifice and serve citizens. “Our government must do everything possible to protect Nigerians, secure freedom for the kidnapped, deal with all forms of killings, “We suffer heavy loss of lives and the authorities do little about it, this must change. “All Nigerians should believe in Christ and never lose hope, don’t commit suicide, do not despair, God conquered death so what else can He not do for us, let’s always love one another irrespective of tribe, religion or status,” he said. Badejo further urged Christians to spare a thought for fellow citizens suffering from all manner of insecurity, especially in the North and other places, even as they celebrate the season. “I express solidarity with fellow Nigerians who are victims of clashes, bloodshed, killings, kidnappings, other tragedies, I pray fervently for a turnaround for peace and harmony all over Nigeria,” he said. Also, Rev. Alex Okoye of All Saints Anglican Church, Koroduma, Nasarawa, called on the government to emulate the selfless life of Jesus Christ and offer selfless service to the masses. Okoye urged them to also show love and compassion to the masses by fulfilling the promises they made during electioneering. “Easter shows that Jesus Christ has power over death, grave, it gives Christians hope, it shows that he who believes in Christ has eternal life; Jesus Christ is the resurrection and life. “As we celebrate Christ’s resurrection, I pray that everything dead in Nigeria comes back to life in Jesus name, amen,” he said. NAN reports that Easter is observed by Christians three days after Good Friday, it commemorates the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead; churches in Ibadan metropolis joined their counterparts to celebrate the day. NAN 