The Bayelsa State government has appealed to youths to desist from cultism, killings and other crimes capable of hindering development. Commissioner for Youths and former President, Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide Udengs Eradiri said instead of engaging in crime, youths should discover their talents and channel their energy towards developing them. According to him, the Seriake Dickson-led government has robust empowerment programmes for youths in agriculture, tourism and entertainment, and urged youngsters to take advantage of the opportunities. Eradiri, who spoke at the Restoration Easter Fest II, organised by the Ministry of Youths, said the event was part of the government’s programmes to showcase the talents of Bayelsa youths to the world. According to him, such programmes were necessary to positively engage the youths and promote peace ahead of the November 2 governorship election. He said: “We are using this as an opportunity to bring the youths to the front to let Bayelsans see their talents. Most of the energy young people use for crime can be harnessed for development of the state. The more we organise youth-oriented programmes, and youths who unfortunately have been cultists enjoy themselves, the ice is broken. With the constant engagement of the youths, killings and violence are reduced. “So, the ministry is trying to organise programmes that will regularly bring people together for regular interactions. We are designing programmes that will, as much as possible, reduce the perceived violence. “Instead of trying to reach Bayelsans to vote for them, they are rather preparing young people for violence. What we will be doing as a ministry is to dissuade the young people from applying violence in the elections. “Therefore, our programmes will be geared towards a peaceful Bayelsa, and we have an administration and a governor who is loves peace.” Eradiri added that five persons were rewarded with functional smartphones through a raffle draw for coming early to the event. 