The inability of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Okechukwu Enelamah, to attend day- to- day activities of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Abia state was due to his tight schedules, an associate has confided. The associate pointed out the minister in the last four years operated a very tight work schedule given the nation’s desire to diversify the economy, which has compelled him to lead the foreign investment drive. However, the associate added, this has not stopped him from playing his roles as one of the party leaders from the state. He pointed out the minister has always been represented in all activities of the party in his state. Some party chieftains in the state have advised against his reappointment accusing him of not committed to the party and exhibiting indifference to party- related issues. Reacting to the call to the President to drop the minister, the associate said: “I don’t know the reason for all the noise and being sponsored by clandestine people. “There are some party leaders who are gingering this bickering of the political machinery of the state. “He has supported the state in all capacities, it may not be money, but the economic dividend of his position will however manifest in the state.” Enelamah, the associate added, has done very well for the state in area of attracting federal government project and other investment opportunities. “That he does not answer to day- to- day activity of the party in the state does not make him an absent member “This is a man who jets out of this country making sure that foreign investment profile is internationally recognised and reasonable, but then he has his foot soldiers all over. “I can assure you that he is well represented in any capacity concerning the affairs of the party. “His physical presence may not really matter but he is well represented in all the political party activities. “He has done so much for the state and we looking at the dividends of democracy, I personally have brokered a meeting between him and the party executives and he has carried them all along. “He vowed that in the whole state in the east no state will benefit anything more than Abia state. “In every aspect of democracy Abia has benefitted. Among the achievements of the Minister in Abia state is the Eyimba economic free zone that has the capacity of employing more than seven thousand Abians. “These are projects that are beyond party affiliations irrespective of who is in power, it is for economic benefit of the state by extension the nation, he has so much laid emphasis on made in Aba products which attracted the presence of the federal government by incessant visit of the Vice President who has constantly represented President Muhammedu Buhari in that capacity knowing the potentials of Abia, Aba when it comes to Made in Nigeria goods.” He associate added: “He has also gone across board to make sure investors come to recognise the potentials of Aba and has laid so much foundation for complete potentials, harnessing the potentials for Aba for the near future. “There are so much road infrastructural facilities which he has attracted by way of Abia state being one of the states of the NDDC.”