The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested a staff of the Nigeria Railway Corporation and two others over alleged fraud and ticket racketeering. The commission has also invited three other officials of the Railway Corporation in Kaduna for questioning. A source in the commission told The Nation that the arrest followed a tip-off and intelligence report bordering on tickets racketeering, economic sabotage, extortion and other sundry financial malpractice at the Kaduna station of the Kaduna-Abuja train. The source said the railway staff and two touts in the EFCC net were picked for defrauding unsuspecting travelers by hiking the traveling ticket fare. According to the source, “Operatives of the Kaduna Zonal Office of The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Sunday, April 7, 2019 stormed the Rigasa Station of the Nigeria Railway Cooperation in Kaduna Station on receiving intelligence report bordering on tickets racketeering, economic sabotage, extortion and other sundry financial malpractice. “On arrival at the station at about 9.47am, some of the operatives took strategic position while others disguised as passengers who joined the queue for the purpose of buying tickets. “In the cause of the operation, it was observed that due to the kidnapping and robbery on the road highway, there was an influx of travelers, therefore some members of staff of the station in connivance with some touts were defrauding unsuspecting travelers and selling train tickets at higher rates. “For economy ticket of N1300/N1500 they were selling at a rate of N2,000 to N5 000 and for first class which is N2500 was being sold for between N7,000 to N15,000. “Based on this intelligence observations, the EFCC operatives swung into action and arrested three persons including a staff of the rail station and two touts. “In the course of investigation after the arrest, the Station Manager, Chief Marketing Officer and Chief Parcel Booking Officer of the Kaduna Railway Station were invited to the Commission’s Kaduna office for further questioning.” The source disclosed. 