As the ancient town of Owo in Ondo state begin the traditional burial rites of its departed monarch, Oba Folagbade Olateru-Olagbegi,a prominent indigene of the town,who is the Aare-Atunluse of Owo, Chief Rotimi Ibidapo yesterday described the departed monarch as a huge loss to Ondo state and Nigeria as a whole. Ibidapo who  was in the palace to mourn the departed law lecturer turned monarch commiserated with the family of the late oba Folagbade Olateru-Olagbegi and described him as very distinguished  and  accomplished human being. According to him, during his reign as Olowo, the ancient town of Owo witnessed unprecedented development and all-round peace stressing that Ondo state will greatly miss him. Ibidapo said, “He was a loving man, he lived an heroic life which would never be forgotten. It was during his time that the son of Owo town  became the state governor. “Personally, during his reign, I got breakthroughs in life, he will be living in our minds forever”. The Aare Atunluse of Owo however prayed that the existing peace and unprecedented development would thrive in the town during the reign of the next Olowo. Also at the palace yesterday to identify and commiserate with the people was the former Governor of the state, Dr Olusegun Mimiko. Mimiko while describing the late monarch as an epitome of good deeds, said the monarch lived a fulfilled life. He said, “I have no doubt in my mind that he is in the bosom of our Lord Jesus Christ. As a former governor of this state for eight years, I benefited a lot from his counselling as traditional ruler. Mimiko prayed that the next monarch in Owo should sustain the good virtues of the departed traditional ruler. The lawmaker representing Ondo North senatorial district, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice yesterday also commiserated with the people of Owo kingdom over the demise of Olowo of Owo, Oba Folagbade Olateru Olagbegi. In a press statement signed by his press secretary, Kayode Fakuyi, Boroffice described the demise of the monarch as huge loss to humanity. It said “On behalf of my family and the people of Ondo North senatorial district, I commiserate with the Olagbegi Royal family, the Olowo-In-Council and the people of Owo kingdom over the demise of Olowo of Owo, Oba Folagbade Olateru Olagbegi.