The Imo State House of Assembly on Tuesday summoned the Accountant General Casmir Ozuzu and Commissioner for Finance Ugochi Nnanna-Okoroto appear before it on Wednesday to throw light on the debt profile of the State. A motion moved by member representing Nkwere Local Government Area, Hon Chika Madumere (Nkwerre), urged the House to invite the Accountant General and Finance Commissioner to come and give account of the actual debt profile of the state “since the governor had consistently said that the state was not indebted”. Madumere said the Accountant General and Finance commissioner were in the best position to give insight on the debt status of the state. When the motion was put into vote, the lawmakers unanimously agreed that the duo be invited to appear during plenary on Wednesday. A motion to ascertain the position of the 2019 budget appropriation bill was also moved by Kennedy Ibe. Ibe said that since the governor presented the appropriation budget in December, it had not been passed into law. The House Committee Chairman on budget appropriation, Marcel Odunze, said that “to the best of my knowledge as the House Committee Chairman on budget appropriation, the 2019 budget appropriation has not been passed into law but to my surprise I am hearing that the budget has been passed.” A motion for the 27 Local Government Area Chairmen to appear before the house on Wednesday was equally considered. The motion, which was moved by Arthur Egwuim(Ideato North), stated that the chairmen slighted an invitation by House Committee on LGA matters to give account of the financial status of the councils. Ibe, who supported the motion, said that it was an insult for the LGA chairmen to send two persons on the auspicious of ALGON, Imo state. Ibe, said that ALGON was not known to law. A motion compelling the Secretary to the State Government, Mark Uchendu, to appear before the house on Wednesday was equally considered. The motion was moved by Lawman Duruji (Ehime Mbano LGA). Duruji said that it was unacceptable for the SSG to allegedly insult the Lawmakers through a radio broadcast over the creation of new autonomous communities.