The Police in Bayelsa State are searching for a suspected armed robber identified as Oginivie, who allegedly killed a member of his gang, Gialaemi Ben, for protesting an unfavorable sharing formula. Police Commissioner, Sholla David, explained on Tuesday the manhunt for Oginivie was following the arrest of other members of his gang after the murder of the 19-year-old Ben. David, who paraded 15 suspects arrested for various criminal activities in the state, named other arrested members of Oginivie as Victor Meremunya 30, Isaac Ogan 22, Pereowei Ibiagbe 23, Tibolayefa Louis 23 and Gift Samuel 22. He said: “They burgled a house and stole a generator. They sold the generator and shared the money. “One of the suspect Gielaemi Ben ‘m’ 19yrs protested that he was given smaller amount. “The principal suspect one Oginivie ‘m’ surname unknown shot him dead. “In the course of investigation operatives went to arrest one of the suspects, Isaac Ogan who engaged the police in a shoot-out. “He was shot on the leg and a locally made pistol was recovered from him. “The suspects are detained, while the principal suspect Ogilivie is at large. Efforts have been intensified to arrest the fleeing suspect”. David further said the police foiled an attempt by kidnappers to abduct an eight-year-old daughter of one Mrs. Amara Diekedie. “The Command Control Room was alerted and responded swiftly. “The kidnappers were pursued and one of them was gunned down. The 8- year old victim was rescued. “Upon a thorough search of the surrounding premises two unserviceable locally fabricated AK 47 Rifles where recovered. Investigation is ongoing,” he said. In another incident, the police boss said policemen on a stop and search operation intercepted a tricycle conveying Santus Berekeme ‘m’ 24yrs, Ebi Egbe ‘m’ 25yrs and Ebiereke Dunatus for a search. “The suspects quickly jumped out of the tricycle and took to their heels, the policemen pursued them and in the process, the suspect opened fire one the officers. “The officers fired back and shot one of the suspected Ebiereke Dunatus lucky on his leg. “The other suspects were rounded up and arrested and one locally made revolver pistol, one locally made pistol, two live cartridges and one expanded ammunition were recovered from them. “Investigation further reveals that the suspects had on 27/03/2019 robbed one Izuchukwu Nwabu of two Tecno phone valued at N32,000 and N20, 500 respectively, a cash sum of N84,000, in his shop at Opolo-Epie , Yenagoa. The suspects have confessed to the crime. Investigation is ongoing,” he said. David said the buildup to the concluded general elections created security challenges and lamented proliferation of small arms in the state.