Nigeria is endowed with enormous human and natural resources, yet many of her citizens live in abject poverty,  a professor of Agricultural Economics, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University Lapai (IBBUL), Eniola Oluwatoyin Olorunsanya, has said. Olorunsanya spoke while delivering the institution’s 12th inaugural lecture at the school premises titled: “Poverty in the midst of plenty – The challenges of farming households in Nigeria.” She quoted a study by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which assessed the rate of poverty, and the level of income inequality among rural households in Nigeria. The study submits that poverty continues to increase with huge chunk of the country’s wealth circulating in the hands of a few. According to Olorunsanya, determinants of poverty include socioeconomic characteristics of the household, physical assets and community factors which include location of residence, among others. She lamented that the country was lagging behind in development index amid vast resources endowment and relatively high gross national income, a development she attributed to government’s inefficient and poor income diversification strategies. She said: “The global food crisis has been attributed to a number of factors including climate change, population growth, increased demand for bio-fuels, failure to improve crop yield, high oil prices leading to increased input loss for producers and traders. The structural problems like under-investment in agriculture and dominance in supply chain of food and agricultural policies skyrocket prices of food. Rapid urban growth for instance, is raising concerns about supply.” Olorunsanya recalled that the food security assessment in 2005 revealed that about 750 million people in 70 low-income countries were victims of food insecurity, noting, however, that Sub-Saharan Africa is the only region where hunger has risen in the last decade. According to her, female-headed households are at more poverty level than male-headed households due to poor access to formal education and modern production procedures. “There is need for urgent measures to be taken by both government and relevant stakeholders to swiftly eradicate poverty among rural dwellers,” she noted, calling for an improved farming system, development of farmers’ cooperative societies among farming households and measures to mitigate the climate change scourge, among others, as ways of reducing poverty in the country.