•FAAN ought to be aghast at the question of safety over congested airport aprons In aviation, safety is paramount.  So, rules and regulations must be obeyed by operators and nations in the aviation industry, as set by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). This is because air transport disasters always spell great tragedy; and losses for many nations. It is in the light of this that we find the outcry by some foreign airlines about the congestion of the Lagos airport apron as not only disappointing on the part of the Federal Ministry of Transport and the Aviation authorities but also extremely very disgraceful. No matter the pretentions that most complaints by ‘outsiders’ are always in bad faith, this one by the foreign airlines have physical structures that are movable and identifiable. The items causing the said congestion at the Lagos and even other airports in the country are old, unserviceable aircraft  often abandoned by domestic operators. Sadly, the airlines had petitioned the Federal Ministry of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) but nothing seems to have changed. Just a few years ago, the Port Harcourt International Airport was voted as one of the worst airports in the global aviation industry. Whether the Nigerian aviation body denies or accepts the tag is neither here nor there. There are global standards of operation; and each country is judged based on the set standards. The congestion at the aprons has many implications. It signposts an aviation industry that is lethargic about running with the rapid development  in the global tourism and business  markets.  The security implications are very dire. The report about the hazards of a congested apron includes the blocking of the CCTV facilities, which invariably stalls the much needed security recordings in one of the most sensitive sectors in the world. The reports of unclearred cargoes on the tarmac area for commercial aircraft,  at the Murtala Muhammed Airport cargo apron, have left that section congested. The result is that the tarmac can no longer accommodate a seamless operation by commercial aircraft that pay aviation charges.  Inability to clear new cargoes equally become huge burdens to the commercial carriers, with huge financial implications and loses. Passengers are equally subjected to so much inconveniences by the operational failure in the aviation sector, as they either have to walk long distances or have to ride ground transport to board or disembark from planes packed far off. This could be quite exasperating for passengers, especially the physically infirm and children. We believe that FAAN and other aviation bodies must wake up to their responsibilities. Decongesting the apron at the airport in Lagos, and indeed across the country, is not such an indomitable task. The aviation industry in the twenty first century has evolved globally to meet the daily challenges of passengers.  It is very disappointing that minor actions like keeping the airports clean and devoid of any obstructive physical structure would be so neglected to the extent of foreign airlines fretting over the security at our prime international airport. Primarily, a greater percentage of in-bound and outgoing passengers are Nigerians whose lives must matter to our aviation authorities. The foreign airlines, truth be told, mainly have business interest to protect, even when safety of their passengers is equally a huge concern. Transportation and Aviation authorities in Nigeria must realize that the country, given its global status, must grow above its current foibles. Countries like Ethiopia and Rwanda have been reaping huge benefits from a well-developed and maintained aviation industry. Given the population of Nigeria, a properly run aviation sector would propel the country to huge economic growth. Given its economic prospects, Nigeria ought to have shot up to a continental business and tourism hub, in ways that can add to great economic prosperity than what currently obtains.