Indications emerged weekend that victims of the collapsed 7-storey building in Port Harcourt, the Rivers state will soon get justice. It was gathered that the state governor, Nyesome Wike has given a directive to the state Attorney General to put in place a process to arrest and prosecute the owner of the building, Sir Francis Allagoa, apparently for the failure to comply with the building approval he got in 2014. Recall that a 7-storey building (with an underground layer) under construction in the Woji road axis of the Government Reserved Area (GRA), of Port Harcourt, collapsed shortly after casting of the sixth floor in November 2018, thereby killing many and injuring others. The governor had set up a commission of inquiry led by a state High court Judge to investigate the incident. The committee, it was gathered, sat between December 23, 2018 and January 7, 2019. Reports of the committee indicted Alagoa, the site engineer and the Architect of the building. Also found wanting in the incident are some principal staff of the state ministry, including Dr. Reason Onya, who voluntarily stepped aside from his position to allow for smooth and uncompromised investigation into the immediate and remote cause of the callapse. The  government after the  state Executive meeting presided over by Wike on Friday, directed the State Attorney General, Zacchus Adango  to prosecute Alagoa and any other person whose actions constituted criminality as established by the Judicial Commission of Inquiry that investigated the collapsed 7 Storey building. Rivers state Commissioner of Information and Communications,  Emma Okah,  said: “The Rivers State Government accepts that the owner of the building,  Sir Francis J. Allagoa should bear all liability regarding compensation to families of the deceased persons and individual expenses of those injured.” He said: “Allagoa is also to bear the cost and make good the damage done to the adjoining property owned by Mrs Edna Ezekiel Hart.” The state government also declared  that in line with the recommendations of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry it will comprehensively reform the procedures and processes relating to building approvals and actual construction of buildings to eliminate failure of buildings in the future. The government added that the collapsed 7-Storey building was not covered by any approval and that the one obtained in July 2014 was for a four-five floor building. The Rivers State Government directed the State Civil Service Commission to take disciplinary action against Town Planner Edmund Obinna, Director of Buildings and Plan Approvals because his actions fell short of expectations. The Council also directed the State Civil Service Commission to take disciplinary action against Rev Dr. Mina Aprioku,  Director of Development Control for professional deficiency. The Attorney General of the State was directed to prosecute Engr Adeniyi Ibiyeye and Architect Timiebi Reuben for professional misconduct. The Council resolved to report Engr Ibiyeye to the Nigerian Society of Engineers and the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria for necessary disciplinary action.