A LAGOS High Court yesterday struck out a robbery charge preferred against three men,  Abubakar Ali, Abdullahi Ibrahim and Abdulraman Abdullahi, for want of diligent prosecution. Justice Modupe Nicol-Clay said the men had been detained for seven years without the state diligently proscuting them Ali, 29, a labourer, Ibrahim, 32, unemployed, and Abdullahi, 25, a commercial motorcyclist, were in 2012 brought before Chief Magistrate M. O. Ope-Agbe at Igbosere, Lagos Island  after their arrest for alleged robbery. Chief Magistrate Ope-Agbe remanded them in prison, pending advice by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), at the instance of the police. The DPP recommended their trial and the case was transferred to the high court where they were arraigned before Justice Nicol-Clay in July 2013 for alleged  conspiracy and robbery. The judge heard that the defendants, at about 4:50pm, on or about September 6, 2012, at 404, Close, Banana Island, Ikoyi Lagos, robbed Mr. Adeshina Oyeniran of four phones, jewellery and recharge cards of various networks, all valued at N220,000. They pleaded not guilty. The prosecution listed six witnesses, Olowookere Stephen, Adeshina Oyeniran, Temidayo Oyeniran, Yetunde Arikawe, Corporal Eje Agada and Sergeant Bashiru Adeleye, to prove its case. But it never did despite  being given several opportunities. At yesterday’s proceedings, defence counsel Mrs. Grace Adenubi and Busola Byron of the Legal Aid Council questioned the prosecution’s willingness to go on with the trial. Adenubi said: “My Lord, this is a 2013 case. For six years, the prosecution has not been able to present witnesses. There has been no witness since arraignment. We apply that the case against the defendants be struck out. “Our application is anchored on Section 36 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which guarantees every defendant the right to fair hearing within a reasonable time. This case is long overdue for striking out, in the interest of justice.” Justice Nicol-Clay granted her request