The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) and its Business Women’s Group (NAWORG), during the week, rolled out recommendations to ease loan application processes for women entrepreneurs in the country. NACCIMA National President Mrs. Alaba Lawson recommended that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, and the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs set aside funds for additional investment in financial literacy initiatives for women and to simplify the application process for obtaining loans. In addition, she urged the CBN to publicly share data pertaining to women’s access to all available financial opportunities, including loans and grants. According to Lawson, making this data public will allow women’s business organisations to analyse the data and issue periodic reports to highlight the need to increase access to finance for women entrepreneurs. She gave the recommendations at the NACCIMA/NAWORG media briefing for the up-coming conference tagged “Women empowering Nigeria’’ in Lagos. According to her, women entrepreneurs across the country were faced with several barriers to accessing finances, despite the existence of several federally-sponsored loan programmes for small businesses and women entrepreneurs. The NAWORG also advised the government to create a Public-Private Financial Inclusion Committee within all Ministries, Agencies, and Departments (MDAs) to make decisions on financial policies and management affecting women’s access to finance. The group said the committee should review the current criteria for allowing women applicants to access loans and grants in an effort to reduce barriers for women entrepreneurs. Lawson, in reiterating the fact that Nigerian women play an increasingly important role in generating wealth and creating jobs in the economy, said the conference served to build the momentum of advocacy activities to encourage key government officials and commercial banks in women empowerment. “During this campaign, NAWORG will carry out financial literacy workshops in Oyo, Imo and Kano states. These workshops are scheduled to hold in Ibadan from April 16 to 17, Owerri from April 23 to 24, and Kano from  May 2 to 3. “The workshops will be immediately followed by a Pubic/Private Dialogue Session in Abuja, where NAWORG will present an updated policy paper and have opened discussions to improve the existing loan application process. “All of this is to ensure that women entrepreneurs can better access finance through these programmes,’’ she said. The Project Director, NAWORG, Mrs. Afolake Jimoh, said the empowerment of a woman ensures the stability of the family nucleus, and by extension, the society. She, therefore, urged the government to ensure the implementation of policies on ease of access to loans and finance to enable better empowerment for women. The programme is being executed with the support of the Centre for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), in collaboration with the Association of Nigerian Women Business Network (ANWBN).