The Inspector-General of Police, Ag. IGP Mohammed Adamu has charged officers and men of the Force in Zamfara and Sokoto States to be offensive and take the battle to the bandits. Zamfara and Sokoto States are states in the North West currently experiencing the challenges of armed banditry and other associated crimes. The IG in company of the DIG in charge of Operations, Abdulmajid Ali gave the charge on Tuesday during a visit to both States. According to a statement by the Force Spokesman, DCP Frank Mba said the visit was to enable the IGP conduct an on- the – spot evaluation of operational and deployment strategies currently in place in both States and also to afford him ample opportunity to have a “one-on-one” interaction with officers and men on the ground. He added that the visit will also serve as a morale booster and help to galvanize local support for the Police and other Security Forces currently engaged in the Operation Puff Adder. While addressing the officers and men of both Commands, the IGP charged them to be on the offensive and take the battle to the bandits’ camp and ensure total reclamation and domination of all the public spaces occupied by them and bring them to justice. In a town hall meeting held in Gusau, the IGP commiserated with the community members particularly those who lost their loved ones or incurred one loss or another as a result of the activities of the bandits. The IGP however, called on the people to support the security agencies with human intelligence and any relevant information that could aid the success of the operation. Those in attendance for the meeting include; top government officials – Secretary to Zamfara State Government Prof. Abdullahi Muhammad, Chief of Staff of Zamfara State Government, Engr Abdullahi Abulkarim, traditional rulers, local government chairmen, farmers association, Mityetti Allah, religious leaders amongst others. On their part, the stakeholders commended the Federal Government for banning mining activities in their area. They equally requested for increased deployment of Policemen to their communities, even as they urged that the members of the Civilian Joint Task Force be allowed to join the Police in tackling the menace of armed bandits in their communities.