As aspirants prepare for the Kogi governorship primaries ahead of the November 2, 2019 elections, Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, reports that for the sitting governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, who is seeking re-election on the ticket of All Progressives Congress (APC), it seems to be a tough battle FOLLOWING Independent National Electoral Commission’s announcement of the November 2 date for the governorship elections in Kogi State, many politicians have come out to declare their interest in the governorship seat of the state. Festus Okoye, chairman of INEC’s Information and Voters’ Education Committee, made the announcement. One of the aspirants that have indicated interest is the incumbent Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello. He officially declared interest to seek re-election come November 2. Expectedly, he wants to run on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). While announcing his second term bid at the Banquet Hall of the Government House, Lokoja, Bello said he consulted very widely with the leadership of his party at all levels and also with his people at the grassroots before making up his mind to run again. He said he got the nod of the people of Kogi State that he should run for another term. “I would like to inform the good people of the state, the All Progressive Congress (APC) family and supporters from the state, the local government areas down to the wards and polling units, as well as various stakeholders, opinion moulders, families and friends of my interest to run for a second term in office as the Executive Governor of Kogi State,” the governor said. Sources within the governor’s camp revealed to The Nation that prior to his public declaration this week, he had met with party leaders, chieftains and several other stakeholders within the Kogi State chapter of the APC, to seek their support for his re-election bid. “I can tell you confidently that majority of the leaders and chieftains of the APC in Kogi State are ready to work for the re-election of Governor Yahaya Bello. We strongly believe he is the only candidate that can win Kogi for the APC come November 2. He will win the ticket of the party and go on to win the general election,” our source, a party executive committee member, said. Faleke, others want APC ticket But if Bello and his supporters are hoping that he will pick the governorship ticket of his party with ease, then they may have to think twice. This is because a couple of prominent chieftains of the ruling APC are now eyeing the party’s ticket ahead of the November 2 governorship election in the North-central state. One of those said to be currently working round the clock within the party to garner support in his bid to snatch the ticket from the governor is Hon. James Faleke. Faleke, the current Member representing Ikeja Federal Constituency of Lagos State, was the running mate of Abubakar Audu in 2015 governorship race. An associate of the Reps member told The Nation that he is currently consulting with party leaders and members across the state in his bid to galvanise the people behind him as he sought to fly the banner of the ruling party in the November 2 governorship election. Although he is yet to publicly announce his gubernatorial bid, party sources said he has informed party leaders and his disciples of his ambition. Another APC chieftain, Babatunde Irukera, is also consulting ahead of APC’s primary election. Irukera, who is the first son of Elegbe of Egbe, a prominent traditional ruler in the state, according to his supporters, is determined to pick the ticket of the ruling party. Similarly, former Commissioner for Agriculture in the state, Dr Tim Diche, has also joined the governorship race in the state. He is aspiring to be handed the APC ticket. Diche contested in the primary of the APC in 2015. He is from Adun-Woiwo in Bassa LGA of the state. He vowed to fast track development in the state when and if he eventually becomes the governor. According to the former commissioner, his ambition is being boosted by the demands and calls from the people of the state who feel he has what it takes to pilot the affairs of the state better. “Kogi State is not working at the moment. I want to adopt a new governance strategy for the development and prosperity of Kogi State,” he said. Also, a former Military Administrator of Oyo and old Ondo states, Ahmed Usman, has declared intention to contest the next governorship election in Kogi State on the platform of the ruling APC. The retired Army Colonel said his decision was informed by the current sufferings of the people of the state arising from bad leadership. “I am in the race to save the people of the state from this agony and squalor. I cannot fold my arms and watch the people continue to suffer,” he said. The former Military Administrator, while urging party faithful to support him to get the ticket, promised that under his leadership, the state would witness accelerated development. “As a former military officer of the infantry corps, he would use his wealth of experience and exposure to mobilise the people of the state for development if given the mandate, promising to run a transparent government.” Audu’s son too Outside the APC, the son of late former governor of the state, Prince Mustapha Audu, is also threatening the re-election bid of Governor Bello. Recently, the young politician announced that 17 political parties have adopted him as their preferred candidate and next governor of Kogi State. According to the candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), Governor Bello should forget about being re-elected. It would be recalled that Mustapha’s father, the late Abubakar Audu, participated in the 2015 Governorship Election in Kogi State as the candidate of the APC, but he died before INEC declared the election inconclusive. Governor Bello was brought into the race by the APC to replace him during the Supplementary Election that year. “Today is the beginning of our freedom, Lugard House gate is open. We shall occupy it. We are tired of half salary, no school fees. We are tired of suicide in Kogi State. Today we are ready to move Kogi forward. I am contesting in order to liberate the people of the state from poverty and negligence by the present government of the state,” he said. He pointed out that if elected, the issue of civil servants in the state would be solved immediately, particularly in the area of workers welfare and salary. He also promised to bring the dividends of democracy closer to the people as his administration will embark on meaningful development. He also assured the people of the state of his readiness to govern the state and bring meaningful development if given the chance. Aspirants divide Kogi APC Following the sharp division that currently pervades the rank and file of the ruling party in the state over who should fly the banner of the APC come November 2, some stakeholders last Sunday said they were worried over the fortunes of the party in the state, urging the national leadership to intervene in the way aspirants are going about their gubernatorial ambition. The Nation gathered that leaders and chieftains of the party, including members of the State Executive Committee, are currently divided as they all line up behind various aspirants of their choice. According to reliable party sources, unless something urgent is done to reunite the party; the governorship primary election may de dogged by a serious crisis. Party elders, under the auspices of Kogi Rescue Group (KRG), said there was the need for genuine reconciliation in the party so that it would perform well in future polls. They claim the ruling party has never been this divided since its formation, urging the national leadership to call the gladiators to order before it is too late. A statement signed by Alhaji Yusuf Idah, on behalf of the group cautioned against using the results of the 2019 General Elections to rate the APC in the state. The statement read in part, “During the general elections, the APC won seven House of Representatives seats out of the nine in the state. It lost West Senatorial and two seats of the House in the National Assembly elections. In the state Assembly election, the APC won all the 25 seats available. The election was, however, allegedly marred by violence.” While calling on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to call the governor to order, the group advised that Hon. James Faleke, a frontline aspirant and leader of a faction of the party, should be invited and discussed with in the interest of peace and unity within the party ahead of the November election. “Remove Faleke from the equation and the APC will be served the Adamawa and Bauchi dishes,” the group said. The party elders accused Governor Bello of frustrating efforts made to reconcile aggrieved members of the party. “The National Working Committee must call all warring factions to a meeting and agree on the way forward. This is the major consideration to bring to the table if the APC must win the forthcoming governorship election and subsequent elections.” PDP talks tough Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has declared that it will end the reign of Governor Bello in the state by winning the November 2019 governorship election as it is determined to “salvage the state by enthroning a people-oriented government.” The party made the boast after a crucial meeting of Kogi PDP stakeholders in Abuja during the week. Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s spokeman, said leaders resolved to “forego all personal ambitions and work together for the interest of the party and the Kogi people ahead of the election.” He added that the party’s winning feats in Bauchi, Imo, Rivers, Adamawa, Bauchi and Osun states will be repeated in the forthcoming Kogi governorship election. According to him, PDP has the support of the people of the state, who are eager to be liberated from the misrule of the APC under Governor Yahaya Bello. “As we all know, our people have gone through pains, pangs, acute poverty, hunger, dehumanization, brutalization, job losses, untimely deaths, suicide and all sorts of anguish as a result of the misrule of the incumbent APC government. The people of Kogi state are therefore looking up to the PDP for a rescue and we cannot afford to fail them. We must therefore not allow anything to demoralize us as the winning streaks, which our party displayed in Imo, Adamawa, Bauchi, Osun among others, will be repeated in Kogi state by the grace of Almighty God. “In this race, we must also bear in mind that we have the support of the people. Kogi state has always been home to the PDP notwithstanding the temporary setback of the APC. We must therefore prepare ourselves, stand with the people and salvage our dear state from the pangs of misrule. Our people yearn to move forward and we must give them that leverage which they earnestly seek,” he said. Similarly, a state chairmanship aspirant of the PDP in the State, Comrade Alfa Fidelis, said PDP will defeat Governor Bello come November if the ruling party presents the incumbent governor as its candidate. “It is an obvious fact that the last election was militarised. I also want to say that the PDP did not have someone who could stand and fight for them.” 