As part of its aim to appeal to more segment of the society, Goldberg, a beer from the stable of Nigerian Breweries Plc, has signed on popular hip hop star Olamide as its brand ambassador. The official unveiling held on Saturday at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, just a few hours before Olamide was scheduled to headline the special Easter edition of its flagship consumer engagement platform – Unlimited Faaji – organised by Goldberg at the Ikeja City Mall as part of Easter festivities. Tagged ‘The Take Over’, the event also had in performance other star-artistes like Zlatan Ibile, Mayorkun, DJ Kaywise, Dotun and Odunlade Adekola. Nicknamed ‘Your Excellency,’ Goldberg aims to build on culture and tradition while embracing the contemporary. Olamide expressed happiness on being part of Goldberg. “Honestly, I was really happy about being a part of the family and for the record, this is my very first endorsement of the year,” said Olamide. “And it’s not for any other reason than the fact that bronze na learner, silver na learner, na Gold be the oga. “For me, endorsing the brand Goldberg is just like a representation of what the brand Olamide stands for. Olamide came from the streets and all that, came from Bariga (Lagos) but you cannot deny the fact that the brand Olamide is not a selling brand. And that’s what gold is really all about.” By this move, Olamide who is also known as Badoo, joins Yoruba actor Odunlade Adekola as ambassador of the brand. Giving his address, Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Lager Brands Nigerian Breweries, Omotunde Adenusi, said Goldberg and Olamide share the same values of culture and tradition. “Olamide epitomises a lot that Goldberg stands for,” Adenusi said. “As we all know, he is unapologetic about his love for his roots, his culture and tradition. Moreover, his impressing ability to combine all these authencity with more contemporary music genres, making him one of the most talented entertainers to grace the Nigerian music scene. “Olamide is without a doubt one of the most revered artiste in Nigeria and we’re delighted to have such a talented act, I dare say a bundle of talent on board.” Speaking ahead of the revelation of Olamide, Nigeria Breweries’ Corporate Communications and Brand PR Manager, Patrick Olowokere, said, ““Goldberg is using this announcement to give its consumers a taste of what is to come.” Also present were Senior Brand Manager, Goldberg and Life, Maria Shadekon and football legend Jay Jay Okocha. Goldberg has promoted music shows like Fuji to Bam, Juju to gbayi and Ariya Repete. And since inception last year, the Unlimited Faaji train has travelled across the country, delighting fun-seekers with top-rated music artistes and comedians, especially in locations like Lagos, Akure and Benin.