When the dialysis centre being built at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) by the Lions Club International comes on stream, renal failure patients may no longer need to travel abroad, reports ADEKUNLE YUSUF. THE Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) is to host a new dialysis centre. The centre, which will be equipped to treat all renal ailments in the country, is being built by Lions Club International (District 404 A1) Nigeria for the Lagos University Teaching Hospital  (LUTH). On completion, the 36-bed facility will stem medical tourism, thus, conserving the much-needed foreign exchange for the country. Chairman, LUTH Board of Management, Alhaji Isa Bello Sali, said at the foundation-laying of the centre in the hospital, that the centre would signpost a major shift in the fortunes of LUTH. “This is an epoch-making event.  It is significant to us as the beginning of the resurgence in philanthropic activities for good cause. It is the beginning of moving LUTH forward, providing quality service and stemming the tide of medical tourism which has drained our scarce foreign reserves,” he enthused. The centre is dedicated to the memory of club’s former district governor, Lion Isaac Olusola Dada, who passed on on July 12, 2017. He conceived the facility as his pet project when the mantle of leadership fell on him. Chief Omolola Dada, widow of the past district governor, said the project, valued at N210 million, would house 36 dialysis machines and help prevent deaths from renal failure.  She expressed regret that her husband could not see through the project before his demise. “As he was preparing for his tenure as District Governor 2017/2018, a needs assessment revealed the absence of a fully functional dialysis centre in LUTH. Chief knew that as the foremost referral hospital in the country, countless people looked up to the hospital as their last resort for affordable care,” she said. The Lions Club International Foundation, represented by its chairperson, Dr.   Naresh Aggarwal, supported the project with $100,000.  Dr. Aggarwal urged rich Nigerians to support the prompt completion of the project, which he described as “leaving a mark and a legacy for humanity.” Chief Tunde Afolabi, described as a great pillar for the project, asked everyone present to support the quick completion and furnishing of the centre. The Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole, has said that establishing more dialysis centres would address medical tourism in Nigeria as people with kidney problems would be able to get the quality treatment they are seeking abroad in the country. Adewole, who was represented by Prof. Chris Bode, medical director of LUTH, said the country is in need of more dialysis centres to give people with kidney disease medical care. “In Lagos with over 20 million persons, there is a paucity of many critical needs. One of them is the fact that we have very low numbers of dialysis centres where people who are critically ill with kidney diseases can go and get care. This centre has come with a great benefit, not just to LUTH but the whole of Lagos; we need more of it in the country,” Adewole said. Prof. Bode recalled fond memories of Chief Dada and his passion for helping the indigent to receive prompt and quality healthcare. He disclosed that the hospital which began offering dialysis care in 1984 could treat 600 patients monthly in the past. He also expressed regret on the decline in service and promised that the gesture of the Lions Club will boost service delivery and bridge the gap in the provision of critical care to an estimated 20 million people resident in Lagos State alone. “We appeal to all like-minded organisations to assist LUTH. The late Chief Isaac Olusola Dada renal dialysis centre will be one of the largest in the country for modern renal dialysis. We will ensure that the cost is affordable even as we go cap-in-hand seeking more interventions,” he promised. Prof. Bode said with the intervention of the Nigerian Sovereign Wealth Fund, the hospital now has a modern cancer treatment centre which will begin operations on May 1. “The NSIA-LUTH Cancer centre which will run on a public-private-partnership basis for quality and sustainability will provide comprehensive cancer management and give meaningful returns to investors. It will serve as a   beacon for private sector and public health collaboration in the provision of health care. If they don’t see us as valuable they won’t bring their money to tie down,” said the MD. He disclosed that the institution is working on its hospital-wide information management scheme. The gesture, he promised, will reduce paper load, improve efficiency and reduce stress for patient in tracking their records. “Another target is to expand operation theatres, intensive care unit and eye treatment unit, organise our labour work to provide all-round care and ensure that no patient is referred anywhere.  We want to achieve 100 per cent efficiency, if possible,” he said. Chief Dada had proposed to build a dialysis centre at LUTH as his legacy project during his tenure as district governor. In fact, he had a positive discussion with the hospital management before his demise. The project concept and design have been reviewed and is expected to come on stream within a year. The foundation laying ceremony was witnessed by a large number of Lion Club members, members of LUTH management board and the family of late Chief Dada. But his wife and children, with the support of the Lions Club and friends, picked up the gauntlet. The journey towards actualising the dream began late 2017, when members of the Lions Clubs International (District 404 A1), family and friends of the late Dada, gathered at a fundraiser in Lagos. The mission: to donate money for the construction of a dialysis centre. Chairman of the occasion, Mr. Ayo Jagun, described the late Dada as a formidable personality. “After the late Dada decided to embark on the provision of the dialysis centre, we discussed how we were going to keep it running, because  it’s not enough to provide equipment, we must  maintain it and we know that power supply is still an issue in many teaching hospitals in the country. “We decided that after the completion of the centre, we will also support it with a power generating unit. We have to make sure the project we all are embarking on is built in a year’s time. I think we should be able to raise N200m to get the project done,” Jagun said during the fundraiser. At the event, Olabode Emmanuel, who was father of the day, said the project was dear to the late Dada’s heart and the club would ensure that LUTH had a befitting dialysis centre to reduce the number of Nigerians  dying of renal diseases. Also speaking as one of the mothers of the day, Chief Folorunsho Alakija, described the District Governor as an achiever and a giver who also encouraged those around him to donate to charitable causes. “We must all give what we can to see that this cause is fulfilled. He was a complete gentleman who would give all he had and muster others to do same. His wife and I have been friends for over 35 to 40 years and now is the time for us to support each other. I encourage everybody to give in honour of a man with a heart of gold,” she said. Prof. Bode, who disclosed that the  late philanthropist was convinced to change his original idea, said the initial plan that he (Dada) had was to build a hospice for LUTH. He added it was LUTH that convinced him that “what we really needed was a functional dialysis centre. After I took him on a tour of our renal unit, he was convinced. We were in the process of drawing up the structure when he passed on but we know the project will be actualised. “We want it to be a one-stop centre for patients with kidney diseases. They will get dialysis and also have their clinics. Also, it costs about N20m to get a renal transplant done abroad and that is just for one patient; if all these resources are channelled into getting a centre, patients will not travel abroad. We hope this project will inspire others to give as government cannot do it alone.” Also at the fundraiser, widow of the late philanthropist said actualising the project will do a great honour to the memory of her husband who loved humanity to a fault. “Over 15,000 patients who need dialysis in Nigeria cannot access it, either because they cannot afford it and also due to a lack of facilities. There are also only 150 dialysis centres in the country and many are not functional. It is our hope that everyone that knew my husband will support us in fulfilling his dream to building this dialysis centre,” she said. Dignitaries at the 2017 fundraiser included His Royal Majesty, Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi, Chief Ajibola Ogunshola, former Chairman, Punch Nigeria Limited, and Lady Maiden Ibru, wife of the late publisher of The Guardian Newspaper 