The Lagos Waste Management Authority’s (LAWMA) stringent alarm, on the virtual collapse of the environment in Apapa, Lagos, is dire – but hardly news: “Our findings showed a general degradation of the environment in the area and a looming epidemic, if the situation is not quickly addressed,” the body warned in a release. “Owing to this situation,” LAWMA continued, “LAWMA sweepers cannot work efficiently there; people bathe and defecate on the road, thus wearing out the asphalt. The roads have also been turned into mechanic workshops where major repairs of heavy trucks are carried out, spilling engine oil and diesel on same road.” These indeed are a dire report on the Apapa environment. It also shows how one out of many urban mixes – a traffic gridlock – could, not only mess up the environment almost beyond repair, but also exact terrible social costs, leading to needless deaths and trauma. What LAWMA didn’t capture was the possibility of the collapse of bridges and flyovers, labouring under the excessive weight of parked trucks, since those facilities were not configured to withstand dead weights. Everyone knew this was disaster brewing, before our very eyes. Yet, everyone feigned helplessness. It is time to move against this clear and present danger before it turns children into orphans, wives into widows, husbands into widowers; and further degrades the Nigerian common humanity. The root cause clearly is the long queue of tankers and allied articulated trucks, on business shuttles to the ports, either to disgorge exports or bear imports further inland.  The first problem here is the over-utilisation of the two Lagos Ports, at Apapa and nearby Tin Can Island, to the operational detriment of other sea and river ports in the country: Warri, Port Harcourt, Onitsha, Lokoja, etc. Though this can only be corrected in the long run, efforts at diversifying port services in the country deserve urgent attention. Then, there is the devil-may-care outlawry of these tanker drivers, who seize any track of available land as emergency parking lot, including bridges and flyovers. It is the dire manifestation of the Nigerian’s contempt for safety, and the legendary penchant to bait disaster, only to wail uncontrollably when the inevitable happens. Because these drivers, and their support staff, park just anywhere, they block off, for days and weeks, some significant part of traffic.  That increases the stress on Lagos road, with its signal traffic gridlock. But being hooked in a place for days, without access to toilet facilities, inevitably results in the environmental hell LAWMA is crying about. Double trouble for LAWMA: though it is charged with clearing urban refuse and managing general waste, the big trucks hamper its own compactors from accessing Apapa. So, while the trailers choke up the road, and their drivers foul up the environment, yet LAWMA is barred from doing its job of clearing these wastes. With Lagos over-population, and the jaunts to Apapa by those hustling for daily bread in the maritime sector, the environment is fast degraded – with putative disastrous consequences. That is why the federal and Lagos State governments must put heads together to chart an emergency to clear these trucks from Apapa and environs; and enforce the orderly access of these trucks to the ports, only when they are sure they would be attended to.  If anyone must park to wait, space should be found outside that area; and adequate technology can be used to prompt the drivers to move to the ports, only when the port is ready for them. If this emergency is not imposed fast, a needless epidemic may well consume lives in that blighted area. However, the ultimate solution is the integration of rail into Nigerian ports.  That way, the bulk of the egress or ingress would be by rail. That is another good reason the Buhari presidency must accelerate its rail modernisation programme.