A Muslim group, “Muslims against Terror” has strongly condemned last week’s bomb attacks in Sri Lanka which killed both Christians and Muslims in their respective places of worship by yet-to-be identified suspected terrorist group. In a release made available to The Nation by the spokesman of the group, Doctor Ahmad Amadi Jnr, the group said that they were shocked over the deadly attacks in Mosques, Churches and others that led to the killing of innocent people and wounded others in New Zealand, Sri Lanka, Nigeria respectively. “We are horrified by the news that Muslims, Christians in New Zealand, Sri Lanka were attacked and killed during worship on Friday Prayer and on Easter service”. The assaults in the mosque, churches, appeared to be a well-planned ‘’terrorist attack”. “Such acts of violence, killing on worshippers are acts of violence against all beliefs and denominations and against all those who value the freedom of religion and choice to worship”. According to the group, attacking innocent people is not courageous; it is stupid and will be punished on the Day of Judgment. … It’s not courageous to attack innocent children, women and civilians. It is courageous to protect freedom; it is courageous to defend oneself and not to attack. “We express our deepest sympathies and sorrow. We condemn, in the strongest terms, the incidents, which are against all human and Islamic norms. This is grounded in the Noble Laws of Islam which forbid all forms of attacks on innocents. God Almighty says in the Holy Qur’an: ‘No bearer of burdens can bear the burden of another’ (Surah al-Isra 17:15). The group who called for the apprehension of the perpetrators and their sponsors said “All Muslims ought to be united against all those who terrorize the innocents, and those who permit the killing of non-combatants without a justifiable reason. “Islam has declared the spilling of blood and the destruction of property as absolute prohibitions until the Day of Judgment. … [It is] necessary to apprehend the true perpetrators of these crimes, as well as those who aid and abet them through incitement, financing or other support. They must be brought to justice in an impartial court of law and [punished] appropriately. … [It is] a duty of Muslims to participate in this effort with all possible means.” ‘’We called upon the international community to close ranks and uproot the scourge of terrorism in order to ensure international Peace and Security’’. Terrorism, religious hatred and intolerance cannot be allowed to win. “We must stand together to make sure that no one should ever have to practice their faith in fear. “We condemn the attacks, killing on the places of worship of our Muslims, Christians, brothers and sisters on their holy day of worship, as well as on the hotels in Colombo and the people killed in Nigeria etc. “On behalf of Muslims Against Terror, we offer our deepest condolences to the families of the victims who had gathered to worship peacefully and were killed by the terrorists. Our thoughts and solidarity are with New Zealand’s Muslim community, the Christians community in Sri Lanka and all of its people on this dark day,”  We pray for the recovery and the healing of all those injured in the attacks. “We call upon his Excellency, President Maithripala Sirisena and the Government of Sri Lanka, New Zealand, Nigeria etc. to conduct a comprehensive inquiry and bring the perpetrators of the heinous crime to justice. “We stand with victims in solidarity during these difficult times. “We pray for Peace, Love Freedom and Security to return to Sri Lanka, New Zealand, Nigeria and the world this year in the name of Allah (God) our Lord we pray (Ameen). “May Allah (God) guide them and protect us all (Ameen), the release read. 