Founder of Slot, Nnamdi Ezeigbo, has called on tertiary institutions to brace up for disruption in the education space by embracing e-learning. Delivering the second research and development public lecture of the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH) titled: Disruptive Innovation and Sustainable Entrepreneurship, last Thursday, Ezeigbo said disruptions had forced changes in other sectors like ICT (for example BlackBerry versus android phones); transportation (traditional taxis versus ride-sharing cars); media (conventional media versus social media) and the like. With disruptions aimed at making products and services cheaper and more convenient for end users, Ezeigbo said embracing e-learning would help schools get more students and extend the frontiers of learning to people who would ordinarily not have been able to attend. Ezeigbo said: “Is your industry going to be disrupted soon or are you likely the disruptor? Let’s look at education. Regular universities – I  was at Covenant University for their annual entrepreneurship event. They have large space and they do not have any e-learning platform. My question is imagine if a company, or if an institution like YABATECH developed robust e-learning centre where people can actually attend courses and achieve whatever degree or diploma they want, imagine how many people would be admitted? Imagine how many people would love to come to YABATECH but because of the inconvenience  of leaving their homes. So E-learning is the next disruption that will happen to our traditional educational institutions,” he said. “One thing about disruption is that when it comes, many people won’t take it seriously.  They would say how many would want to do part-time online. Go to Open University, so many more students are going to Open University ‘’ Why are they going to Open University? It is basically because of convenience. Consumers love convenience,” he said. Commenting on the lecture, the YABATECH Rector, Mr Olufemi Omokungbe, praised Ezeigbo for being a worthy ambassador of the institution where he studied in the 80s. He said there were many lessons from the lecture contained in Ezeigbo’s book on entrepreneurship copies of which he hoped the Slot boss would donate to the institution. Ezeigbo reduced the price of the book, Entrepreneurship the Slot Way from N3,500 to N1,500 on appeal of another lecturer. He also said he could enter into partnership with the institution to train students in mobile phones repairs through the Slot Academy.