The Interfaith Dialogue Forum for Peace (IDFP) yesterday attributed the unending kidnappings and killings in the country to lack of enough intelligence by security agencies. IDFP expressed concern that government has to act fast before the situation gets out of hand. The Co-chairperson of IDFP, Alhaji Kunle Sanni, who spoke to reporters at the ongoing two-day workshop on gender and child rights, said the security agencies have all it takes to fight the criminals. Sanni said adequate intelligence gathering amongst security operatives will help end what he described as the unfortunate development. He called for synergy between local communities and security operatives to achieve positive change. His words: “Government should be in charge of security with the collaboration of local community. Government cannot do it alone. The local community cannot do it alone. But the problem we have is the fact that it seems that the security agencies are not on top of the situation. And government has to do something fast because the situation is becoming alarming and it is almost all over the country. “Initially, it was isolated to the northeast. Now, it is moving to the northwest and southwest and everywhere. We need a lot of efforts from the government to tackle the security agencies to be on top of the situation. “But we as local people, we live with these criminals and we should be able to know where they are hiding and hibernating so as to collaborate with government to see that the situation is put in check. “The security agencies have all it takes to fight these criminals. Every year, we know how much is voted and budgeted for security, so where is all the money going to? And I believe that the problem we really have is not having good intelligence. If we have good intelligence, we will be able to know where these criminals are hiding and fished out and punished.” On the gender and child rights, the clergy said: “There are so many interventions about the rights of women, but it is not localized. Some men do not want the women to know their rights. And there must be a balance.”