The Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Kwara State, Uchechukwu Wihioka, yesterday said many accident victims have died due to poor handling by rescuers. He said proper enlightenment among road users can save accident victims on Nigerian roads. Wihioka spoke in Ilorin, the state capital, at the second emergency and first responder trauma training programme for officers and selected members of the public. The sector commander said the FRSC organised the training in conjunction with an Australian agency which specialises in trauma management. He added that it was aimed at training people on safety measures to take when accident occurs and which will not make them cause more harm to injured victims. “Safety requires a collective measure. It is not for road safety officials alone. It’s for everybody. So, we should be knowledgeable about what to do when on the road. With this, we’ll reduce deaths from road crashes and know the right things to do to not damage further what has already been damaged. “When you find yourself on the scene of a road crash, don’t be in a hurry to leave the scene. Stop. The moment you stop, you may save a life. With the knowledge already garnered from a seminar like this, you can always package the victim to safety. We should all be safety conscious and be willing to render informed assistance,” Wihioka said. The FRSC chief, who said road accidents had been reduced in Kwara by 45 per cent in the first quarter of the year, added that the feat was achieved with assistance from the media and the public. He said: “We’ve also intensified high-powered monitoring on our highways, for instance, Oloru-Bode Saadu-Jebba road. We’ve also introduced camp measures with our officials always there to calm down traffic and road users, among other safety measures.” Works and Transport Commissioner Aro Yahaya said the state government partnered FRSC to carry out road safety activities to reduce road crashes. He said road safety activities can only be carried out in collaboration with other concerned stakeholders, hoping that the seminar would make roads safer and reduce carnage by 20 per cent. The commissioner said the government was committed to improving road infrastructure, particularly the Gerin Alimi Diamond Underpass and Sango-UITH road dualisation in Ilorin, among other critical ongoing road projects in the state. “In the event that we’re unable to complete these ongoing projects, I call on the incoming administration to complete and put these unique and strategic projects to use for benefits of Nigerians and Kwara,” Yahaya said.