Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains have hailed Governor Kayode Fayemi for appointing credible politicians and technocrats as commissioners and special advisers. A chieftain, Chief Joseph Alake, said the new team will drive the governor’s vision for a better state. Also, a chieftain, Smart Oyeyemi, said the quality of the State Executive Council reflected the vast talents in Ekitiland. The commissioners have been screened and approved by the House of Assembly in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. Their names were forwarded to the House last week by Governor Kayode Fayemi, following extensive consultations with stakeholders and party leaders across the 16 local governments. The list, according to observers, reflected the geographical spread. It is a mixed grill of politicians and technocrats bubbling with vigour, vitality, experience and patriotism. The governor had shortly after he was inaugurated last October forwarded two nominees Mr. Dapo Kolawole and Mr. Olawale Fapohunda to the state House of Assembly for screening. The two were subsequently appointed as Commissioner for Finance and Attorney General/Commissioner for Justice respectively. Their appointment was undoubtedly to underline his adherence to due process in the administration and financing of the state. That adherence to due process was what helped him after he left office in his first term when the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC did not bother to call him to account, despite the desperation of his successor to frame all manners of charges against him. The appointment of  Fapohunda was also indicative of the governor’s proclivity to enhancing the rule of law. The governor’s place of honour in the civil rights community where he and his wife, Erelu Bisi, had sufficiently acquitted themselves with honours across tribe and political barriers. The commissioners are: Dr. Adio Afolayan; Dr (Mrs.) Moji Yaya Kolade; Chief (Mrs.) Moji Fafure; Mr. Emmanuel Foluso Daramola; Mr. Folorunso Olabode; Engr. Dele Faparusi and Mr. Gbenga Agbeyo. Others are Mr. Olusoga Davies; Mr. Sola Adebayo; Mr. Michael Awopetu; Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua; Mr. Femi Ajayi; Alhaji Ayodele Jinadu and Mr. Febisola Adewale.appointment of the The nomination of Yaya-Kolade, who contested the governorship primaries on the banner of the APC, must have shocked and at the same time impressed many. In reaching out to a fellow contestant primaries, Fayemi may have shocked some people. He would also have impressed those sufficiently appraised of Dr. Yaya-Kolade’s experience in health and business. A nurse, pharmacist and medical doctor, Mrs. Yaya-Kolade has experience in health matters that is bound to intimidate anyone. She had before her relocation to Nigeria also established a health facility in the United States. Dr. Adio Afolayan will also be serving for the second time in the cabinet, having served as commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development in Dr. Fayemi’s first term between 2010 and 2014. In that period he especially delighted stakeholders in agriculture with his enthusiasm to upgrade their capacities especially in mechanised farming. he was instrumental to the purchase of 12 tractors for the sector in that period. Another person returning to the cabinet is Sola Adebayo, a younger brother of a former governor of the state, Otuba Niyi Adebayo. Adebayo served as commissioner for works in the first Fayemi administration and was a key participant in many of the infrastructure development during that time especially the remodeling of Ado Ekiti. Another old hand in the list is Alhaji Ayodele Jinadu who served as special political adviser to the governor in his first term. Gbenga Agbeyo is former chairman of Idi-Osi Local Government Area and member of the inauguration committee. Dele Fapurusi is former member of d House of Representatives who served as deputy girector general of the campaign and was crucial in those frightful days after the Director-General, Opeyemi Bamidele was shot is also on the list. Muyiwa Olumilua is the son of the first civilian governor of the state. He drew commendations to himself last year when ahead of the APC party primary to choose a candidate for the Ekiti South Federal Constituency, he withdrew in favour of the erstwhile chairman of the Ekiti South Senatorial chairman, Kayode Babade. He said the withdrawal was to support the election of someone from Ikere Ekiti, which had been denied the seat over the years. His act of self-sacrifice would undoubtedly have been appreciated by party elders and all other stakeholders. Mrs. Fafure, Senatorial Woman leader is also on the list and will add verve to the cabinet with her passion for mobilisaiton. The nomination of Dr. Olabode who served as the Commissioner for Rural Development and Community Empowerment in the first term is revealing in the opinion of some stakeholders. It could be a determination of Dr. Fayemi to re-energise the spate of community development in the state. Dr. Fayemi created the ministry in his first term in 2013. It was Olabode’s turf to ginger development of the rural areas especially given that 70 percent of the population of Ekiti people live in the 131 rural communities in the state. He used the community development associations at that time as a link between the rural communities and the government. The ministry was responsible for building and renovation of oba’s palaces which was seen as a community development project. Even more remarkable was the grant of about N10 million to communities for self help development projects. 10,000 cooperative societies with about 500,000 members.