The kidnappers of the Lagos State Fire Service Acting Director Rasaki Musibau have contacted his family, The Nation learnt yesterday. Musibau and six others were abducted at Iwoye along the Epe-Itoikin road, Ikorodu on Saturday about 8pm. The incident, it was gathered, occurred while the fire chief and others were going to Epe. The Nation gathered that the kidnappers had blocked the Itoikin bridge, ambushing occupants of a Sienna, Corolla and a Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV). Details of the abductors’ conversation with  Musibau’s family were not disclosed. Contacted, police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), told The Nation that the police don’t negotiate ransom with kidnappers. According to him, the Special Forces deployed by the Commissioner of Police (CP) Zubairu Muazu and the command’s Anti Kidnapping Unit are on the trail of the abductors. “There was a contact established, but we do not negotiate ransom with kidnappers. The Special Forces deployed by CP Zubairu Muazu are still on the trail of the kidnappers and we are getting closer,” Elkana said. The Nation learnt that there was a marathon prayer yesterday at the headquarters of the Lagos State Fire Service, Alausa for the release of the agency’s acting director. The prayer, it was gathered, was replicated in all the 16 offices of the Fire Service in the state. “We held a special prayer for the release of our Oga this morning. The prayers were also carried out in all our offices. We couldn’t do much work because everybody was in a sober mood. We can only pray for the kidnappers to release our boss,” a worker said. The Vice Chairman of Ikosi-Ejirin Local Council Development Area, David Odunlami has denied that his personal assistant was among those kidnapped. Speaking with The Nation last night, he said none of his two personal assistants was among those kidnapped. “As I am speaking with you, my two personal assistants are not involved. None of them was on the scene of the incident. I do not have any relative or anyone working in the council among those kidnapped. “However, we are hoping that the kidnappers will release those abducted. It is disturbing and worrisome,” he said. According to the police, those abducted include Rasaki Musibau, Mufutau Adams, Funmilayo Adelumo, Asiogu Martha, Lasisi Muka and two others. Vehicles recovered from the scene include Toyota Sienna, Toyota Corolla and Opel SUV.