It might seem ironic that after a Miami fortnight that has proved the virtues of the emerging generation, Sunday’s men’s final brought together a pair of thirty somethings: John Isner and Roger Federer. These men are more seasoned than your neighborhood vindaloo. Isner, 33, is the defending champion in Miami – even if he won last year’s event in the very different surroundings of Crandon Park – while Federer, 37, first lifted this title all the way back in 2005. The previous season, he had faced Rafael Nadal for the first time here, suffering a dramatic straight-sets defeat. With the Old-boys stepping out in the center court in a contest won by ‘Fed Power,’ the memories of this fortnight seemed destined to surround the Canadian teenagers who battled their way into the semi-finals. Denis Shapovalov confirmed the talent he had announced with a similar run at 2017’s Rogers Cup in Montreal, while Felix Auger-Aliassime – who came through qualifying – was appearing in the headlines for the first time, though surely not the last. His semi-final against Isner had been considerably more dramatic than Federer’s thumping of Shapovalov. The challenger served for both sets, only to be broken each time, whereupon Isner seized the tie breaks to complete a 7-6, 7-6 victory. The culprit here was a glitch in Auger-Aliassime’s service action, in which he throws the ball up too far to the right of his body, limiting both where he can hit it and how much topspin he can apply. Impressively, he was pictured on his own on the practice courts soon after the match had finished, trying to iron out the kink. “I think I did the best that I could,” said Auger-Aliassime afterwards. “I just couldn’t serve from my part. It’s like I caught a virus or something. “I couldn’t put a second serve anymore. Even the first serve, if you put it in, you don’t have to hit the second serve. Yeah, that’s just very tough to swallow.” Shapovalov, meanwhile, became the latest victim of Federer’s red-hot form, which has thrown up a sequence of spectacular highlights clips in the past week. Federer has never been reluctant to express himself on the court – “playing creative is gold,” he once told The Telegraph – but recently there is the extra sense of a man who has achieved so much in the game that he is playing with house money. “He has every shot mastered,” said an admiring Shapovalov afterwards. “When he needs a shot, he’s going to go for it; he’s going to make it. I don’t think he has any weaknesses. That’s why he’s the GOAT [Greatest Of All Time].” Shapovalov was then asked which moment had been the best for him. He smiled and replied: “The warm-up.” One unusual detail of this semi-final was that, despite two competitors who possess an undeniable X-factor, there were numerous unoccupied seats on the Stadium court. This has been a theme throughout the new-look Miami Open, which has been created on the existing footprint of Hard Rock Stadium, home of the Miami Dolphins. The event has an art gallery, several high-end restaurants and the largest TV screen yet seen at a tennis event. The outside courts, which are constructed around a water-feature that recalls the Billie Jean King Tennis Centre in Flushing Meadows, have buzzed with life from the first day. But the weakest feature of the site is the main arena, which has never filled its 13,800 capacity. Perhaps next year there will be adjustments to this central feature