The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) and President Muhammadu Buhari of desperation to cling to power at all costs. According to the main opposition party, Buhari and his APC desperately want to continue to exploit Nigerians, protect the ruling party’s corrupt leaders, cover their incompetence and conceal the humongous sleaze in the administration. In a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said this is why APC and “the cabal” at the Presidency resorted to violence, intimidation as well as manipulation and alteration of results at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rig the presidential election. The PDP also accused certain APC chieftains and presidential aides of making desperate efforts to distract the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal and derail the course of justice by making and promoting baseless judicial interpretations and externalising proceedings of the court. The statement said: “The President Buhari-led APC administration wants to remain in power to prevent investigation into the N14 trillion allegedly stolen under its watch; including the N9 trillion stolen from the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, as detailed in the leaked Nigerian National Petrolum Corporation (NNPC)  memo; the over N1.4 trillion alleged oil subsidy sleaze and the N1.1 trillion worth of crude diverted using 18 unregistered companies linked to APC interests. “This is in addition to the N33billion National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) fund, and the over N18 billion stolen out of the N48 billion approved by the National Assembly in the 2017 budget for the rehabilitation of Internally Displaced persons in the Northeast, among others. “Furthermore, the Buhari-led APC administration is desperate to avoid an investigation into its unwholesome borrowings that led to the escalation of our nation’s debt stock from N12.12 trillion in 2015 to an overburdening N24.39 trillion in 2018. “Within a space of three years, this administration has borrowed a total of N12.27 trillion, yet it cannot point to any significant development project into which the money was invested. This includes the N2.66 trillion borrowed in 2018, ahead of the 2019 general elections. “These and many more are funds meant for infrastructural development and welfare of Nigerians but which have been cornered by APC leaders” The opposition party insisted that the Buhari Presidency lacked the competence and integrity to run a creative, transparent and credible administration that can guarantee economic growth, wealth creation and a dependable system. “The negative effect is the further dipping of our economy, as investor’s confidence, which shored up at the expressed resolve by Nigerians to elect  Atiku Abubakar as their next President,  slumped with the rigging of the presidential election”, the PDP added. The party urged Nigerians not to despair but to continue to be steadfast in the aspiration for the recovery of the “stolen” presidential mandate at the tribunal. According to the PDP, that is the only way to return the nation to the path of peace, national unity and a vibrant economy.