Founder & Chancellor of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, ABUAD, Aare Afe Babalola, SAN, CON, has berated the present arrangement whereby admission quota in Nigerian Universities is largely based on how long the individual universities have been in existence. Instead of basing admission quota on the age of a university, Babalola, a seasoned University Administrator with a seven-year stint as Pro Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the University of Lagos before he established ABUAD, believed that admission quota should be based on the quantum of equipment and human capital each university is able to put in place. Speaking at a reception in honour of the Chairman of the Medical & Dental Council of Nigeria, MDCN, Prof. Abba Hassan, OON, over the weekend, Babalola blurted: “Students admission quota should not be a reward for old age but a reward for quality equipment, infrastructure and Human capital put in place by individual universities”. He added: “Everywhere in the world, admission quota is not a reward for the number of years a university has been in existence. Rather it is a consideration for the carrying capacity of such a university. The carrying capacity of a university is the highest number of learners (students) that a particular institution will be able to effectively manage for qualitative education, considering the human resources at its disposal. “This suggests that the admission of students at this level is in accordance with the facilities available and human resources on ground in any particular university. These facilities comprise of good staff/student ratio, accommodation, required number of Lecture rooms, libraries stocked with the appropriate books, renowned national and international journals among others while the human resource include quality and qualified teaching and non-teaching staff in the right number and mix”. The frontline Educationist recalled that in Nigeria, the issue of admission quota has basically been based on the age of institutions. But at a point, this trend was reversed by the Immediate Past Executive Secretary of NUC, Prof. Julius Okojie, who appreciated the place and import of carrying capacity because he found it to be grossly discouraging. The Founder equally recalled that ABUAD was given the mandatory admission quota of 50 for its Law Programme at inception as a new university, but the figure was later increased to 100 by the NUC. When the Council for Legal Education came for accreditation three years later, it found out that both the Council and the NUC had been unfair to the university regarding the approved admission quota for our Law Programme. It therefore increased it to 180 on account of its investment which include, but not limited to 10 different classrooms, teaching laboratories, one Moot Court, two Law Clinics, state-of-the-art E-Libraries and physical libraries, a staff/students ratio of 1/16, E-software, Lexis Nexis and Compu Law among others which can conveniently cater for more than 1,500 students. Following the monumental achievements of ABAUD Law Graduates at the 2018 Bar Examination where all the 165 graduates presented scored 100% pass by ABUAD with the Overall Best Student coming from ABUAD and ABUAD Graduates wining 24 out of the 36 available Prizes, its admission quota has since been increased to 300. Drawing from the example of ABUAD College of Law and the massive investment therein, Babalola invited the MDCN boss to borrow a leaf from the NUC and increase the admission quota for ABUAD’s MBBS programme from the present level of 120 based on the following reasons: ABUAD is the only university in Nigeria that has two different Teaching Hospitals: the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido-Ekiti (FETHI), which ABUAD helped to upgrade with N2.8 billion to bring it to its present enviable status of a Teaching Hospital and its new 400-bed ultra-modern Multi-system Hospital which was commissioned at an elaborate ceremony on October 20, 2017. ABUAD Multi System Hospital has five Modular Theatres equipped with Pneumatic Tubes. It is also populated with the following Specialist Equipment among others: SPEC Scan, CT SCAN, MRI and Ultrasound Scan/X-ray. It also has the following Surgical Specialties: General Surgery, Paediatric Surgery, Plastic, nature Urology, Orthopedics, Neuro-Surgical Specialties, Cancer Surgery (Oncology), Endocrine Surgery. ABUAD Multi System Hospital is Africa Centre for Help Babies Survive (HBS Programme) and also Africa Centre for Chronic Dialysis Centre. In co-operation with project CURE of the United States of America, ABUAD is now the Centre for Help Babies Survive Programme. The Centre trains students and mothers in helping mothers to survive, Cervical Cancer Screen (CCS)/ Breast Cancer Screen (BCS), Colon Cancer Screen (CCS), Prostrate Cancer Screen/ Colon Cancer Screen. In order to add international flavor to the nation’s health care delivery, teaching, training and research, ABUAD Multi System Hospital has entered into partnership with some reputable players in the global Heath Industry such as the world renowned Abbot Laboratories, Aster Hospital, Dubai, Project C.U.R.E., USA, Narula, India, JNC International, Trigenesis India, College of Pharmacy, Howard University, USA and Bridge of Life (BOL) USA, as well as Johns Hopkin Hospital, USA. To complement its Medical Training Programme and bring it at par with its Law programme which has been acknowledged by NUC as the “Best in West Africa” and its Engineering Programme which has been dubbed by the Nigerian Society of Engineers, NSE, as the “Template for Engineering Education in Nigeria”, ABUAD deliberately went out to hire the best hands in Medicine and Allied professions to teach and mentor its students  and the results are already showing in our Academic accomplishments in Medicine. During its first MBBS Examination in July 2018, ABUAD recorded an unprecedented 100% with eight (8) Distinctions, the equivalent of First Class in other disciplines. This accomplishment makes ABUAD the first university in the country to produce Medical Doctors in six-and-half years after its Medical Programme flagged off when some other universities which commenced their Medical Programme some two decades ago are yet to graduate their first set of Medical Doctors. Babalola commended Hassan for his humility and simplicity despite his towering attainments in life which he (Babalola) said challenged him the more contrary to the notorious behavior of man as summarized by Pope Benedict in the dark ages when he said: “when man is of lowly position in life, he is invariably humble, but no sooner he attains the heights than he falls rapidly from humility”. According to Babalola who said that his university is out to set new standards by raising a new generation of leaders, Hassan was in ABUAD to see what the university has been doing to change the face of education in Nigeria for the better and how the 21st Century Multi-system Hospital has been impacting medical education and quality Medicare positively. Earlier, Hassan who said Babalola looked younger in real life than he looks on TV commended his host for the superlative work he has single-handedly been doing since the establishment of ABUAD nine years ago. Impressed by infrastructural development of the university within its short history of existence, Hassan said: “Sir, you are doing so much for the country for which I thank you sir. All we need in this country today is a minimum of four universities like yours and things will change for the better”. He added: “The whole country should be grateful to you for what you doing here. We pray we have many people like you in this country so that our education can go back to where it was shortly after independence”.