Garlic (Allium sativum) an age long spice used in flavoring and cooking. History has shown that its use as in medicine is as old as the history of man. Research has shown that application of Garlic prevent and treat a wide range of conditions and diseases in man. All over Middle East, East Asia, and Nepal, garlic has been used to treat bronchitis, hypertension (high blood pressure), TB (tuberculosis), liver disorders, dysentery, flatulence, colic, intestinal worms, rheumatism, diabetes, and fevers. Presently, garlic is used for numerous situations linked to the blood system and heart, including atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), high cholesterol, heart attack, coronary heart disease, and hypertension. Today, garlic is used for the prevention of lung cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, stomach cancer, rectal cancer, and colon cancer. Raw material: The major raw material is garlic bobs. Preparation Sorting: This is the separation of the good ones from the bad ones Cleaning: Simply separate the bulbs from the bunch into individual cloves and remove all the skins. Slicing: At this point, the cleaned cloves are transferred into slicer, or it could also be done manually depending on the production capacity installed. Dehydration: The sliced garlic is at this point moved into flash dryer for dehydration. Alternatively, it can also be done manually by the drying under the sun. Milling: Dried garlic is transferred into the dry hammer miller to be blended into powder form. Cooling: Garlic powder is moved to a neat cool dry place for cooling before packaging. Packaging: The processed garlic powder is at this point neatly packaged either in air-tight containers or in properly labelled nylon and it is ready for marketing. Storage: Garlic powder stores well and is fun to share with family and friends if you do find that you made too much. You must shake the package for the first three days to ensure that any remaining moisture is evenly distributed through the powder and prevent mold. Note that if the garlic is properly dried, the powder can have a shelf-life of over two years. Profitability: Garlic powder is rapidly gaining popularity in Nigeria and the entire world, for this reason more families are daily embracing the use of garlic powder in spicing various kinds of food for the purpose of its medical applications. Machineries/Equipment: Monetary requirement: The amount of money required for such investment depends on the capacity or the size of the processing plant you wish to install. Practically, as low as N380,000 to as much as N28,000,000 can successfully install a processing plant for you. NOTE: The stated amount is excluding the factory premises.  