Last week, I informed you of what you should look for before you decide on a particular family planning method. In this week, I will take you along as we discuss the various family methods that are currently available. I will also point your attention to those methods that are in common use in Nigeria. Natural methods: The most effective family method that never fails is abstinence from sex. You cannot be pregnant if you don’t have sex barring medical intervention, such as intrauterine insemination (IUI) or in-vitro fertilisation (IVF). Advantage of abstaining from sex is that you do not need to take any medication and you have nothing to worry about.  Further, this method is compliant with almost all known mainstream religious doctrines and Nigerian cultures. Next in line is Billings or Calendar method. This method is for those who are looking to get pregnant or avoid pregnancy by monitoring their time of ovulation. The problem with this method is that couples especially women may not be able to accurately determine their menstrual cycle to help them calculate the fertile or ovulation period. The advantage though is that there is no medication to take and this method is acceptable to some religious authorities such as the Catholic Church. Still on natural method, is the Lactational Amenorrhoea, which is cessation of menstrual period in a breast-feeding woman. A woman who is fully breastfeeding her child is 98 per cent guaranteed to be protected from pregnancy. The main condition is that the baby must be exclusively breast-fed only. No water and artificial food from elsewhere. The hard part is that the woman is not so much free from the baby, day and night. Further advantage is that there is no medication necessary. No side effects of medications. The next natural method is withdrawal method. In this case, shortly before ejaculation (release of sperm), the man withdraws his penis from the vagina. This method can be tricky as it requires strong will in the heat of the action and this is the reason for its failure: poor will and weak motivation. To be effective, the two couple must cooperate, focus and be determined to use this method. Failure rate is high. Let us now move to barrier method of family planning. The most commonly used method of barrier method is condom. In this case, there are two forms of condom. However, the more commonly use or being available is the male condom. The female condom is clumsy to use but if desired, it’s available. Either way, use of condom requires strong will, determination and cooperation. Male condom should be inserted over the penis before sex begins. Similarly, if the female is the one to use, it should be inserted before sex and left in place for a little while before removal. Poor compliance with direction for use and unfortunate bursting of condom during sex accounts for the high failure rate of this method of family planning. Another barrier method is the diaphragm, which is a dome shaped device. The woman should insert it in the vagina ahead of sex and preferably, she should apply anti-sperm substance or foam onto the device. If well used, it serves as a good alternative to other methods of family planning. Let us now move on to another group of family planning called hormones. In this category, there are those that you can take by mouth as tablets and those which we call implants, rings or those which we call injectables. Implants and injectables are very commonly used in Nigeria. Oral contraceptive pill has a long history and is well tested and is effective to the point of 99 per cent if used properly. However, a long term use is not for a woman with history of cancer, aged over 35, medical history of deep vein thrombosis and obesity. The problem with the oral contraception is that the tablet must be taken every day except few days at the end of each cycle to allow for menstrual period. Injectable hormones can be taken every three months or in some case every two months intervals. Breast-feeding women can take it too.  You can stop the injection at any time without much worry about your fertility, which will return shortly after you have stopped taking the injections.  I should dispel one of the common complaints about these injections here. It does not necessarily cause women to put on extra weight. If weight gain is a problem, the user can shift to other methods.  I will conclude the final article on family planning next week. If you need support on what I have discussed here, you may call 08188343865 for assistance.