For the first time in many years, the attention of the global community in a Holy Week has shifted from activities at the Vatican to the city of Paris where fire broke out beneath the roof of the very famous Notre Dame Cathedral on April 15. Given the significance and history behind the building, the world attention and mournful ambience are rooted in the value attached to its existence and the legendary growth in its religious, political and social relevance, not only to France but Europe as a whole, and in a globalised world, all other continents. Notre-Dame de Paris literally translates to ‘Our Lady of Paris’ whose history is rooted in the tradition of Catholicism as the Cathedral is dedicated to the Virgin Mary, mother of Jesus, to whom the Catholics show a lot of reverence and honour. The building marks in a way the shift in spiritual obeisance from the ancient times as history has it that the building was a replacement of the Gallo-Roman temple dedicated to Jupiter before the advent of Christianity. Interestingly, the building was started in the 12th Century and took two years to complete. The over 800- year-old building stood as a pride and symbol of France in addition to the Eifel Tower. With an average of 30,000 tourists daily, and almost 13 million tourists a year, it qualifies as one of the most visited sites in the world and obviously contributes to France’s economy. The Gothic history, the architectural marvel, housing most of priceless artworks and relics, including Christ’s Crown of thorns contribute to the treasure that the Cathedral had become not only to France and the Catholic Church but also the entire world. With tourism, education and business almost getting inseparable, the structure seemingly has over the centuries emerged a unifier of some sorts. In architectural history, it stands as a great inspiration to that sector as it is the first building in the world to use flying buttress. The sheer size, creativity and antiquity of Notre-Dame is second to none. Not too many world sites have been so inclusive of the spiritual, religious, political, historical and socio-cultural values that the cathedral has been for over eight centuries. It is therefore commendable that France as a country has over the centuries worked very hard at preserving its essence. It has been a work in progress as the living work hard enough to bequeath a strong and well-maintained cathedral to the next generation. The global mournful ambience and outpour of solidarity and donations for rebuilding symbolises unity and peace over the years. Notre-Dame stands on the admirable Catholic principles of peace and community spirit, supported by governments in France in commendable marriage of state and religion. There is an effortless embrace of humanity as a whole without recourse to the divisive tendencies of politicians or religious leaders to coerce or discriminate against any creed. We acknowledge very admirably the reaction of the French government, the Catholic Church and all citizens at the display of restraint by not resorting to any precipitate conspiracy theories that has no professional investigative backing. In a world where most politicians tend to whip up divisive and flawed populist emotions, it would have been easy to jump the gun but President Emmanuel Macron showed leadership just like the Prime Minister of New Zealand at the wake of the Mosque shootings few weeks ago. The immediate response with donations from European, other countries and even from individuals across the globe is testament to the value people attach to the Notre-Dame and its global impact, even beyond the historical legacy it bears proudly. The building has been owned literally by the whole of Europe and the West as a continental treasure and symbol of Western civilisation and communal brotherhood. For Africa, and especially Nigeria, Notre-Dame, this fire incident, reactions and global attention and reactions must be food for thought. Most secular states do not let religion bring division. Monuments are supposed to be national treasures that ought to be preserved across generations. A country like Nigeria that at a time banned the study of history in schools is merely ruining the coming generations that would or might rely on others for their own history. As a nation of fascinating pasts, we cannot boast of any magnificent relic or a yearning for it. We show no nostalgia for our heroes nor dredge up any unknown facts to illumine our memory. The Biafra monument in Umuahia is more of a mockery than a remembrance. Our rich cannot envy the same rich abroad who have rallied over a billion dollars for Notre Dame. The lack of proper planning in most sectors impacts negatively on the preservation of monuments and their historical, socio-cultural and economic values, and generations of their sense of history. Like a popular idiom goes, Nigerian governments at all levels must begin to plant trees that they might never be alive to enjoy their fruits or shade. Macron is barely 40 but the world can see his passion that he even wants the building rebuilt in five years and more beautiful than before. That is leadership and it has pushed the rich in France and donors around the world to be part of history because history will always remember and be there for generations.