The Kogi State governorship election will hold on November 2. The stage is set for the contest between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Correspondent James Azania examines the preparations for the poll. The stage is set for the governorship election in Kogi State. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the exercise will hold on November 2. The late Prince Abubakar Audu was defeated as a sitting governor, when the  PDP snatched victory from the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). Twelve years later, the APC, led by Audu/Faleke upstaged the ruling PDP, even though neither Audu, nor James Faleke, his running mate mounted the saddle. Audu died a day after the November 21, 2015 poll. The exercise was declared inconclusive by the INEC, even with the APC in unassailable lead. A re-run was conducted in the affected areas that led the electoral umpire to declare the now famous “inconclusive,” electoral verdict. Alhaji Yahaya Bello, who came second in the APC primary inherited the victory, followed by the epic court cases that ended with the judicial affirmation of Bello as the elected governor. The ruling party has, however, not ceased hemorrhaging from the wound  inflicted from the day its original standard bearer (Audu) passed on. The Igalas of Kogi East produced governors since the advent of democracy in 1992, the issue of power rotation was a big issue during the 2015 campaign. Audu gave his word that power will shift to either the Igbira, Kogi Central or the predominantly Okun in Kogi West, after his four-year tenure, if elected. Audu did not live to occupy the Lugard House, but his promise of power shift endured, with the governor emerging from outside Kogi East. Bello, from Kogi Central has no worry as to his proprietary to seek a second term. Through material and other area of support for the police and other security apparatus, Bello-led administration has been able to rein in the orgy of criminality, kidnapping and armed robbery, resurgent communal clashes in the Bassa axis  and deadly attacks by suspected herdsmen in Omala local government in Kogi East. Bello has so far been able to navigate the myriads of booby traps that dogged his path at inception, owing primarily to the way he emerged as governor. While fallouts with some of his earliest and ardent supporters and other co-travellers, including Senator Dino Melaye (PDP – Kogi West) and Chief Clarence Olafemi, a former Acting Governor, who also found his way back to the PDP, may have taken their toll, Bello’s appointees and predominantly “New Direction” devotees, remain as a bulwark in his political firmament. The governor’s style, including the running of local government councils through non-elected sole administrators, has continued to generate controversy. While Bello has been applauded in some quarters for injecting young and new faces into governance in the state, his critics assert that the appointments are anti-productive, neophytes that add no value to administration, as against those who worked for the victory of the APC at the presidential and governorship polls in 2015; an election that led to the outer of the ruling PDP. On the economic front, Kogi has being unable to move beyond being a predominantly civil service state, and with the alleged backlog of unpaid salaries, which the government has always controverted, the situation is precarious. The gains of the increase in revenue generation, developments in the business and property sector, which is better attested to in the sprouting of new private petrol filling stations and exotic buildings springing up by the day around the Government Reservation Area (GRA), Lokoja and environs, indicate that things might not be as bad as being painted. Baring any unforeseeable development, Bello remains the person to beat, in the race for the APC ticket. But, whether or not he will return to office for a second term, can only manifest after the November election. Dichie: From the ruling APC, Dr Tim Nda Dichie, from the minority Bassa in Kogi East, has indicated his interest to vie for governorship. A former member of Bello’s cabinet, he took not a few by surprise, when he abruptly resigned as Commissioner for Agriculture, barely more than a year in office. An experienced politician, philanthropist, insurance and business magnate, Dichie was one of the aspirants who challenged for the APC ticket during the 2015 party primary. The Basange high chief packs a lot of weight and is seen as one of those that may spring a surprise in the months ahead. Dichie, who prides himself as a “symbol of unity between the majority and minority” has articulated his for seeking office. He said God has positioned him to be next governor of Kogi, and that the financial strength of other aspirants would not change God’s plan.  Faleke factor: Though it might be too early to predict, other contenders likely to bid for the APC ticket, will soon manifest, even as the Faleke factor continue to loom large in the background, as speculations as to whether or not the National Assembly member representing Ikeja Constituency at the House of Representatives, has refused to die down. From Ekirin-Adde, in Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi West, Faleke’s entrance into the race in 2015, as the running mate to the late Audu, marked a turning point for the APC, and signposted the ouster of the PDP in Kogi. If Faleke decides to come into the race, there will be alignments and realignments, and the political configuration may not be the same again.  PDP: Last week, PDP said it will reclaim its place as the ruling party in Kogi State. The party, in a communiqué by Bide Ogunmola, the Publicity Secretary, which was issued at the end of the state executive meeting held in Lokoja asserted it’s readiness for the election. Assuring the aspirants of a level playing ground, the party said it had no “anointed candidate,” ahead of the primary. PDP said: “That the party is fervently prepared to provide a level playing ground for all the governorship aspirants; the exco has no anointed candidate; and will ensure the emergence of a credible that will defeat the incumbent governor.” It advised members to be resolute and not be disappointed with the outcome of the last (general) election “because PDP was robbed of its victory.” “We have vowed to defend our votes in the forthcoming election. The exco has pledged to lead the struggle to win the next election with all determination and purposeful leadership,” it added. The PDP lamented that “never after now would the people suffer untold hardship in a state abundantly blessed with human capital resources.” It described Kogi as worst off in terms of the people’s wellbeing, particularly workers.” It urged members to remain united, as the APC-led administration has “outlived its usefulness, having made Kogi State the poverty capital of Nigeria. “The outcome of the last general election in which result showed that the PDP won in all elections by popular vote but was robbed by the APC-led administration of Governor Bello, due to intimidation, use of guns and several manipulation that is being challenged legally.”  Social Democratic Party (SDP): The Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Kogi has also said that it would present a candidate for the poll. The party said it will present a credible candidate that will “rescue the Kogi from bad governance the state is currently witnessing.” Alhaji Muktar Atima, the chairman of SDP, said that the party would be on the ballot in the election. According to him, the wide acceptance enjoyed by the party in the just concluded elections has positioned it for victory in the coming governorship election. He blamed the Independent National Electoral Commission for “working with the APC to militarise the last elections, and outrightly rig the Kogi polls,” as the strategy employed to short change the party from being announced as winners, but assured that the party is working to ensure that the peoples’ vote in the November election count, that would see a change in baton to the SDP. He observed that the party made an impressive performance in the Presidential and National Assembly elections, pointing out that, if not for the infractions, SDP emerged as the third force the people of the state voted for. He predicted a landslide victory for SDP. Dr. Philip Salau of the Labour Party (LP) is and Dr. Alex Kadiri (APC) are others that may enter the race.