All eyes are on Dr Franceska Nwafulugo, the first woman to be appointed Rector of Federal Polytechnic, Oko, Anambra State, to resolve the institution’s age-long crisis. ARUKWE IFEANYI, (HND1 Building Technology, OKOPOLY), reports. IF there is anything workers of Federal Polytechnic, Oko (OKOPOLY) Anambra State, expect of their first woman Rector, Dr Franceska Nwafulugo, it is the resolution of the institution’s age-long crises. The workers and students flocked to the convocation arena for her inauguration last month. Dr Nwafulugo’s appointment was seen by many as ‘divine’. First, she is the first woman Rector  in the 38 years of the institution’s existence. Second, her emergence, despite other high –heeled contenders that slugged it out with her, was seen as a soothing balm for an institution so steeped in crisis and desperately in need of a peacemaker. Dr Nwafulugo, 54, and with teaching experience in polytechnic education spanning 26 years, knows the terrain quite well. Unfortunately, she was bequeathed an institution riddled in bad blood, internal strife and industrial disharmony, lack of trust, and bottled-up emotions. Yet Nwafulugo, a chemical engineer, is determined to roll up her sleeves and hit the ground running. Prior to her appointment, Dr Izuchukwu Onu had taken over in acting capacity in February. This followed the expiration of the two-term tenure of the former Rector, Prof Godwin Onu. Given the limitation of power that can be exercised by an Acting Rector, staff and students had anxiously prayed not only for a substantive rector but one that would calm frayed nerves. Having understood the gush of crisis preceding her emergence, Nwafulugo, without being told, knows she must first seek peace by urging aggrieved workers and students to forget the past. Barely two years ago, a clash erupted between some students and youths of the community, leading to the management shutting down the school for months to forestall vandalisation of its property. Besides, the institution has battled underfunding and threats of erosion. Before Dr Izuchukwu Onu was handed the baton, his predecessor’s two terms of eight years were a cascade of turbulence. Ahead of the national strike declared by the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics in December, OKOPOLY chapter of the union has been at loggerheads with the management. Their agitations bordered on poor funding of polytechnics, lopsided appointment, employment of unqualified teachers; review of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information (IPPIS) scheme in polytechnics and the funding of the Consolidated Tertiary Institution Salary Structure (CONTISS 15) migration, among others. The crisis paralysed the institution’s activities to the extent that it could not hold its combined convocation last year. Also, thousands of its fresh students who had been offered provisional admission could not join their colleagues as activities were virtually grounded. In all fairness, Onu would generally be remembered for his attempts to digitalise the institution. His tenure was also credited with the establishment of some international links and exchange programmes with some institutions in India, the United Kingdom and China; yet his leadership style appeared not to have sat well with some stakeholders and community leaders in the host community who believed Prof Onu was not a manager of people. The crisis reached a head in March 2015, following allegation of a clandestine plan by  Onu  to relocate the institution to his hometown in Ezira, a few kilometers from Oko. Though the institution’s Governing Council repeatedly denied the allegation; the news drew the ire of community leaders and women who a staged series of protests under the aegis of Oko People’s Union (OPU), demanding that Onu be sacked. In March of same year, authorities of the institution set up a seven-member committee to seek a truce in the workers-management crisis. The committee headed by the Chaplain of the institution, Venerable Chukwudi Osondu, comprised some influential individuals, including a former rector and registrar of the institution, Prof Uba Nwouba and Mr Ben Okechukwu. The committee could only do little to assuage individuals’ grievances. There was also an insinuation that the rector was orchestrating his reappointment for another four years term in office. This was also denied by management. If anything, however, it only compounded the festering crisis when Prof Onu was eventually reappointed. In her inauguration address, Nwafulugo extended the olive branch to everyone, insisting that the era of vendetta and bickering was gone for good. She urged all to purge their hearts of bitterness and begin a new journey of transformation in the institution. Nwafulugo explained that no sustainable development could be achieved in an atmosphere of rancour and industrial strife, pleading with warring factions to lay down arms and embrace the wind of change. Unveiling her vision for the institution, the new Rector promised that her administration would be hinged on a tripod: staff training, welfare and academic research. Said Nwafulugo: “I want to see this polytechnic attain new heights in the field of academics, innovations, creativity, ICT (information and communication technology), entrepreneurship, and infrastructural development. This administration will create a conducive learning environment which will enhance quality teaching and learning, thereby producing graduates that would positively impact the nation and the world at large.” She also assured that her tenure would focus on promoting science education, technology, and infrastructure which, according to her, are benchmarks of reputable institutions in the world. Bearing in mind the deep-seated animosity with the host community under the previous administration, Dr Nwafulugo did not waste time in bridging the lacuna. Her visit to the traditional ruler of Oko community, Prof Laz Ekwueme, and the hosting of the daughters of Oko (Umuada Oko), were steps to reignite the symbiotic relationship both parties once enjoyed. “I have come to seek your support to take Federal Polytechnic Oko to the next level,” Nwafulugo said while addressing the Igwe-in-Council. “I have come with lots of plans but this requires all hands on deck to make this dream come true. Women are pillars of our homes and I would bring my experience in the polytechnic system to bear to ensure that the institution becomes the envy of all.” With excitement sprawled on his face, Prof Ekwueme promised to give the new management his full support. The traditional ruler also seized the opportunity to call on the government to urgently consider the upgrading of the polytechnic to a full-fledged university, adding that the institution is long overdue for that status. Few weeks after her inauguration, the Rector crisscrossed various departments and units, interacting with head of departments, coordinators, and heads of various units. Nwafulugo described the facility tour as an ‘eye opener’ as it afforded her on-the-spot assessment of the institution on one hand, while also giving her first hand knowledge of critical areas that needed immediate attention, on the other. Having gone around, she said management would immediately commence renovation of students’ classrooms and lecture halls to acceptable standard. To improve power supply in the institution, Nwafulugo also directed the immediate installation of transformers which have been acquired but not yet installed. In addition, she has directed the reactivation of streetlights in key areas on campus to further boost security and enable students move about freely on campus.  Nwafulugo warned that her administration would not tolerate wastage of government facilities, noting that various ongoing projects must be completed in record time. At present, refurbishment is ongoing at the main gate of the institution to enhance its aesthetic quality and free flow of traffic. The work includes designing of new nameplate for the institution, revamping of the water fountain and beautification of the entire school premises. The Rector promised to diversify the internally generated revenue (IGR) base of the institution and reduce sole dependence on government funding. She said management has commenced discussions with reputable organisations to explore viable sources of revenue for the institution. At the same time, Nwafulugo bemoaned the lack of recreational facilities on campus. According to her, since the polytechnic has a large youth population, a recreational centre would provide a platform for staff and students to exercise and develop sporting skills for a lifetime career. Though, Nwafulugo’s appointment is being embraced by workers many who have sent in their congratulatory messages. Nevertheless, the new administration is being advised to tread softly, avoid mere praise singers and learn from the mistakes of the past. The newly elected Chairman of the OKOPOLY-ASUP and his predecessor comrades Signor Igbokwe and Godson Okeoma respectively, said the union’s expectations are high on the new management. Igbokwe urged the new Rector to create an environment that will enhance her performance. He warned her to steer clear of sycophants that have been a clog in the wheel of progress to past administrations. “A woman rector is good to have at this time in the polytechnic to unite all divides. Her coming will bring more progress and success,” Igbokwe stated. Okeoma admonished Nwafulugo to bring in new innovations capable of restoring back the lost glory of the institution. He advised the new management to ensure successful accreditation of abandoned programmes; introduction of new ones and restoration of quality academics delivery that has been the hallmark of OKOPOLY. The Students’ Union of the institution is equally upbeat of Nwafulugo’s ability to deliver. Comrade Izuchukwu Akuche aka Obidada who is the President of OKOPOLY SU, said Nwafulugo’s arrival, though still very brief, has brought great relief to the once troubled institution. “Mummy,” Akuche said,”your appointment attests to your outstanding leadership, and the unwavering confidence the Federal Government has in your ability to deliver. This sterling qualities in you will account for the rapid transformation of Federal Polytechnic Oko as the most progressive, efficient and effective institution in Nigeria. “Your excellent leadership so far has brought so much joy and succour into the lives of the students, and staff of Federal Polytechnic Oko. Your gift of love, peace and rejuvenation in our lives are exceptional, your developmental stride are intimidating. “On behalf of the students, we joined millions of your admirers to felicitate with you. We pray that God Almighty will give you the wisdom, knowledge, understanding and strength as you pilot the affairs of the polytechnic.” Members of the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics (SSANIP) OKOPOLY chapter, also identified with the new management. “Her administration must be seen to be people-oriented and do everything within the law to be voice of the voiceless in this institution,” said SSANIP-OKOPOLY Chairman, Comrade Innocent Okeke. “She must divest herself of petty politics of religion, ethnicity and gender. Also, rumour mongers and pretenders are the real enemies of any administration. We wish her tremendous success in all ramifications,”Okeke added. Also a sister institution-Federal Polytechnic Nekede, has described Nwafulugo’s appointment as a reward of her innumerable contributions in the education sector. “Your emergence as the Rector of this great institution shows that the records of your achievements as a dogged engineer and educationist are of note,” said the Rector of the institution Dr. Michael Arimanwa. A non-teaching staff of the institution Ifeoma Okoye, said since Nwafulugo is a product of polytechnic education, she no doubt has a clear vision of the problems affecting OKOPOLY. She therefore expressed hope that her administration would be a blessing to the polytechnic. And yet another, a lecturer in the Department of Mass Communication, Mr Ugochukwu Onuegbu, described Nwafulugo as a thorough-bred scholar hoping that the new Rector’s would break the jinx that has kept OKOPOLY almost on the same spot for sometimes. Aside having lectured for 26 years at Kaduna Polytechnic, Dr Nwafulugo was once the chairperson, Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN), an arm of the Nigeria Society of Engineers (NSE), Kaduna chapter and member of so many other professional bodies.