•Yes, short-changed Nigerians must struggle to throw off present shackles. But anarchy comes from ‘struggle’ without structure RADICAL thinker, Prof. Olusegun Osoba, of the old University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) fame, was his old furious self when he declared, rather sensationally in Lagos on April 23, that what Nigeria needed was “struggle”, not “restructuring”. But can “struggle” get any purposeful result without a deliberate structure? It was at the public presentation of the Minority Report of the Draft Constitution for the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1976, which Osoba co-authored with the late Dr. Bala Usman, of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.  The “50 wise men” Constitution Drafting Committee (CDC) was convoked by Military Head of State, Gen. Murtala Muhammed, to write a future constitution for Nigeria, as part of the government’s transition to civil rule programme. One of the nominated members, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, turned down the offer, thus reducing the membership to 49.  Of the 49 members, 47 agreed on the Majority Report. But two, Osoba and Usman, demurred, writing instead, the Minority Report. But new Head of State, Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, who received the reports, after the February 1976 assassination of Muhammed, ignored the Minority Report and went on to base the 1979 Constitution on the recommendation of the CDC majority, subject to amendments by the Justice Udo Udoma-chaired Constituent Assembly, later assembled to finish work on what was to become the 1979 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. At the Centre for Democratic Development Research and Training, Zaria (CDDRT)-sponsored presentation in Lagos, Dr. Abubakar Siddique, its director, lamented: “Our people have sunk into a very deep level of desperation. Corruption level is unbelievably high. We live in a country that is extremely unjust.” Various indices indicate that claim is most probably true. Dr. Siddique also claimed that Nigeria had not addressed any of the challenges the CDC minority report identified 43 years ago, implying that if it had, the country would probably have been better run today.  That too might be true. It was in the midst of the general jeremiad, not unexpected at such occasions, that Prof. Osoba launched into the lamentation about restructuring. Restructuring is “a lie” he declared. He also doubted the sincerity of those advocating “resource control”, yet another variant of the omnibus “restructuring”, as is “fiscal federalism”. But all of these are driven by the “self-interest” of parts of the country that feel short-changed; and therefore cry out for peaceful and rational solutions.  It is one context “self-interest” is not negative; and can’t just be equated with, and dismissed as, selfish craving. Self-interest, after all, drives human and group actions. So, though Osoba was right to have questioned the report card of Niger Delta governors who gross 13 per cent derivation with little to show and yet holler “resource control!”, that still doesn’t completely negate restructuring, as a campaign for wealth creation, with prime reward for the creators; against the present resource-sharing order, where everyone awaits a dole. “All nations of the world … have at one point or the other in their history,” the old radical thinker thundered, “removed the hands of looters from their treasury and put themselves in the hands of reliable and working honest people. So,” he added, “there is no ambiguity about it: a continuous struggle is the only solution to our problems, not restructuring.” That could well be true. But struggle and structure are not mutually exclusive; just as restructuring assumes there is a structure that needs re-tinkering. So, to get the best orderly and peaceful results, struggle must complement structure. Otherwise, anarchy looms, from which nobody gains – and the classic example was the French Revolution, which though guillotined an old order, birthed new disorders.