Edo State Acting Governor, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu has laid the foundation for a 300-capacity Computer-Based Test (CBT) Centre, being constructed by the Ovia South West Local Government Area (LGA), in Iguobazuwa, headquarters of the council area. Addressing journalists after the ground-breaking ceremony, Shaibu said the centre will bring succor to students residing in the area, who are faced with the task of travelling long distances to sit for Computer-Based Tests, including the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME). Shaibu commended the council chairman for the effort, noting that the step will complement efforts by the state government to reposition local councils for sustainability. The acting governor, who was on a working visit to Ovia South West LGA, visited the Odionwere of Iguobazuwa, Pa Solomon Omokaro, where he assured of the state government’s drive to attract more infrastructural projects to the council. Shaibu noted that the construction of roads in the council, which is reputed for its agrarian prowess will allow for easy evacuation of farm produce to the city centres and open the council to more economic activities. While inspecting ongoing construction work at Arosa Road, Shaibu charged contractors handling the project on timely completion before the rains set in. He expressed satisfaction with the progress of work at Imasabenwen Road, assuring that asphalt work will soon be completed on the road. “The people are happy with the present state of the road. The rehabilitation of the road has brought progress to this area,” he added. Shaibu also inspected the Revenue House, Marriage Registry, Army accommodation, Council Hall and Legislative Building, all in the council area. Earlier, Chairman, Ovia South West LGA, Hon. Destiny Enabulele, said he has aligned his administration’s objectives with that of the state government, noting, “I have executed over 30 different projects in this council. Some have been completed while others are ongoing. Some of the projects include the construction of modern markets, renovation of schools and rehabilitation of borehole projects.” Enabulele added that the CBT centre would be completed in two months, assuring that it would reduce the risk associated with frequent, long-distance journeys embarked on by students residing in the area.