Last week’s ruling of the Federal High Court that Senator Sonni Ogbuoji, who defected from the Peoples Democratic Party to All Progressives Congress in 2018, must vacate his senatorial seat has revived the controversy over defection and the issue of mandate given to a lawmaker, reports Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu WHEN the Federal High Court sitting in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, last week ordered Senator Sonni Ogbuoji to immediately vacate his Ebonyi South Senatorial District seat for defecting from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on which platform he was elected into the Red Chamber, to All Progressives Congress (APC), it resurrected an old debate over a habit that has continued to heat up Nigerian political theatre. The debate over the need to force a lawmaker to vacate his seat if he defects to another party other than the political party that sponsored his election first gained wide national attention between 1999 and 2007, when many lawmakers defected to other parties, leaving the parties on whose platform they were elected in the cold. Citing unfavorable consequences on the fortunes of the parties, party leaders and other concerned observers then called for constitutional amendment that would make it legal to force such lawmakers to vacate their seats. With the amendments in the relevant laws, many had thought the matter had been finally laid to rest. But this seems to be far from the truth as every defection in the political scene has remained a source of controversy and legal battle for the coveted seat. The relevant law, Section 68(1) g of the 1999 Constitution as amended, states that a federal lawmaker should vacate the seat if, “being a person whose election to the House was sponsored by a political party, he becomes a member of another political party before the expiration of the period for which that House was elected: “Provided that his membership of the latter political party is not as a result of a division in the political party of which he was previously a member or of a merger of two or more political parties or factions by one of which he was previously sponsored.” Section 109(1) gives the same condition for a lawmaker at the state level when it states that “A member of a House of Assembly shall vacate his seat in the House if- (g) being a person whose election to the House of Assembly was sponsored by a political party, he becomes a member of another political party before the expiration of the period for which that House was elected: “Provided that his membership of the latter political party is not as a result of a division in the political party of which he was previously a member or of a merger of two or more political parties or factions by one of which he was previously sponsored.” These provisions notwithstanding, the issue of losing the plum legislative seat after a lawmaker’s defection to another party has continued to remain a critical issue. For example, the case concerning Senator Sonni Ogbuoji, which the Federal High Court sitting in Abakaliki ruled on last week, again raised the issue of whether or not the lawmaker’s mandate is his or his party’s. It also raises questions on when it would be safe to say that one’s political party is in crisis enough to warrant defection to another party without attracting the punishment of losing seat. Justice Akintola Aluko, who delivered the 71-page judgement, said by defecting from PDP to APC in 2018, Senator Ogbuoji “flouted Section 68(1)g of the 1999 Constitution.” The judgement was in respect of suit number FHC/AI/CS/44/2018 filed by Evo Ogbonnaya Anegu, Oti Ama Ude, Uche Richard Ajali, Una Sunday Okoro and Simon Ajali Ogbadu for themselves and on behalf of the members of the PDP in Ebonyi South Senatorial District. They asked the court to declare Ogbuoji’s seat vacant for defecting to the APC when there was no crisis or division in the PDP. After a prolonged debate between the plaintiff and the defence attorneys on the correct date of Ugbuoji’s defection, the court held that the plaintiffs proved their case beyond reasonable doubt, “adducing credible evidence to establish that Ogbuoji defected to the APC in January 2018 and not January 2017 as he claimed in his defence. “It also said that at the time of defection, there was no division or faction in PDP to warrant such defection as permitted by section 68 (1) g of the constitution.” The court therefore ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to withdraw the Certificate of Return issued to the senator and to conduct a fresh election to fill the seat. It also ordered the senator to “refund to the coffers of government all monies, be it salaries, allowances or any order form of payment, he may have received as benefits from the position from the date of his defection.” Ogbuoji had defended that he resigned his membership of the PDP and defected to APC on Jan. 27, 2017 when the party was still enmeshed in crisis and not January 2018 as claimed by the plaintiffs. But the plaintiff argued that “Ogbuoji, who claimed to have defected from PDP to APC in January 2017, took active part in the non-elective and elective congresses of PDP in August and December 2017 as a delegate.” The debate on whether lawmakers who defected to other political parties must loss their seats have remained unresolved as it have continued to trail every round of defections in Nigeria. It peaked in the months before the 2015 General Elections. It would be recalled that in 2014, shortly after 37 PDP members of the House of Representatives had defected to the APC, when the report became rife that many PDP senators had also completed arrangements to defect to APC, Sen. Ita Enang from Akwa Ibom State, for example, warned that all senators who defect from one political party to another must lose their seats. He said “while it was acceptable for politicians to defect to another party, it was unacceptable for them to retain their seats.” According to Enang then, “the law clearly mandated that any member intending to defect to another party must prove that there was a division in the member’s current party or the party had merged.” Almost five years after, the same question was the major issue in the legal battle: Was there crisis, or was there a division in the political party when Ogbuoji defected? He said there was division when he resigned his membership in 2017 but the plaintiff convinced the court that he did not leave the party in 2017 as alleged, but that he left it in 2018 and that in that 2018, there was no crisis, no division in PDP. Commenting on whether there is any time a political party would be said to be free of crisis or division, Dr. Francis Ugochukwu, a political analyst told The Nation that “political parties are populated by people with independent minds. Even in the developed democracies where political parties are built on ideological lines, members have their individual views on issues. This means that within such parties, varied opinions and interests can be identified. These, however, are not what constitute division or crisis. Although the relevant law, Section 68 (1) g of the 1999 Constitution as amended did not specify what it means by the words ‘division’ or ‘crisis,’ it seems we generally believe that a political party in Nigeria can only be said to have crisis or a division, when it becomes factionalised, that is when more than one executive claim leadership of the said party. If this is accepted here, it would be correct to say that it is possible for a political party not to have division. So, if any elected politician decides to defect from the platform it used to win election at a time there is no faction, it would be fair to force such an official to vacate his seat as the law provides.” The question of whether or not there is division has remained a major controversy in the country. It would be recalled that in the case of Zaphaniah Jisalo (Abuja Municipal Area Council /Bwari Federal Constituency of the Federal Capital Territory) and Ahmed-Tijani Damisa (Okene/Ogori-Magongo Federal Constituency in Kogi State) who were elected on PDP platform but defected to APC, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, was urged by members to invoke Section 68 of the Constitution and declare the defectors’ seats vacant. He declined and argued that their reliance on Section 68 (1g) is not enough to demand that the defectors’ seats be declared vacant, since according to him that provision did not define the meaning of division. As he puts it: “Division in a political party is not defined by the constitution. The constitution does not state whether it should be at the national, state or local government level. So, we should allow the judiciary to do its job.” Aside the difficulty inherent in the interpretation of Section 68 (1), it has been observed that matters like this have only led to endless legal battles. For example, when in 2014, the then Speaker of the House of Representatives and later Governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal and other 42 PDP members of the House defected to the APC ahead of 2015 General Elections, citing leadership crisis in PDP, the matter dragged on until the 2015 Elections when Tambuwal was elected Governor of Sokoto State. After the elections, nothing was heard of the cases. Today, what seems to generate more heated controversy is the court’s ruling that Ogbuoji should refund all his salaries and other earnings from the time of the defection. Commenting, Israel Mbang, a lawyer, argues that it would not be fair to ask an elected lawmaker to refund his earnings at the time he was still a legitimate occupier of the seat at the chamber. “This does not seem fair. I am sure the senator will appeal this judgment. If he is guilty, he is guilty from the time he was found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction. Until that judgment was passed last week, the said senator was innocent. Although he was elected on a political platform, he has the people’s mandate. He is the person the people elected for a specific term and if up till the time of the said judgment, he was legitimately doing the legislative duties, asking him to refund his earnings within that term is a matter that should be tested at the appeal,” he said. As Ogbuoii drags the matter to appeal, it seems the controversy has just begun. 