KADUNA State Governor Nasir El-Rufai has directed all political appointees to submit letters of resignation by April 30. The move to enable the governor to exercise his constitutional prerogative to decide on re-appointments while also giving the Ministry of Finance adequate time to compute severance payments and reconcile any liabilities. According to the directive, each notice of resignation must be submitted along with a handover note, signed by the political appointee on behalf of the ministry, department agency (MDA) or office to which he or she had been appointed. “All resignation letters should be properly addressed to the Principal Private Secretary,” the statement said. A statement issued by the governor’s spokesman, Samuel Aruwan, stated that El-Rufai thanked all political appointees for their contributions and service to the state during his first-term. The statement reads: “As he constitutes the team that will assist him in his second-term, the governor said he expects the process to be enriched by the handover notes from the political appointees, and the report of the Transition Committee headed by the Deputy Governor-elect, Dr. Hadiza Sabuwa Balarabe. ”The following appointees are expected to comply with the directive: All Commissioners in the State Executive Council, All Permanent Secretaries, Special Advisers, Directors-General, Executive Secretaries, Managing Directors, General Managers and other Heads of Agencies, Senior Special Assistants, Special Assistants and Technical Assistants to the Governor, other than the Kashim Ibrahim Fellows. “Excluded from compliance with this directive are full-time commissioners of certain State Executive bodies, who retain their tenured appointments in the following agencies: i. Fiscal Responsibility Commission, Civil Service Commission, Judicial Service Commission, Assembly Service Commission, the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIECOM), the Peace Commission, Public Procurement Authority and Water Regulatory Authority.”