The Inspector General of Police (IGP) Muhammed Adamu  has assured members of the Anglican Communion in the Diocese of Akure that  the killers of the diocesan bursar, the late Gabriel Abiodun will be unmasked. The IGP spoke through the Assistant Inspector General of Police,(AIG) Zone Eleven, Mr. Leye Oyebade  yesterday in Akure,the Ondo State.   He made the promise while paying a condolence visit to the Anglican Bishop of Akure, Rev. Simeon Borokini over the death of the bursar. The police also promised  to mount surveillance on banks and commercial premises to curtail  activities of criminals especially in Ondo State. It would be recalled that  three suspects  reportedly trailed the deceased to his office in a Toyota Corolla car. They were said  not to be wearing masks. The deceased was shot to death on Thursday by suspected gunmen shortly after he returned from a new generation bank where he went to cash an amount said to be N500,000 for payment of  retirees in Akure Anglican Diocese. Adamu equally stressed the need for the people to be security conscious, saying that the job of policing should not be left in the hands of the police alone. According to him, Zone 11, comprising Ondo, Osun and Oyo states, has mapped out a new strategy to address crime and criminology, especially robbery and kidnapping. The IGP said: “We will meet with all stakeholders to determine the crime that is more prevalent, for example in Ondo State, we will focus more attention on riverine area where most culprits enter the state”. He sought the assistance of the public on information about activities of criminals, adding that community policing would be prioritised. The bereaved Bishop on behalf of the Primate, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion) Rev. Nicholas Okoh,  appreciated the Nigeria Police led by IGP Adamu for its concern and the swift action taken on the dastardly act. He urged  security operatives to quickly ensure the arrest and prosecution of the killers, describing the death of the Diocesan Bursar as very shocking. The team later moved in a convoy to Ude community, Igoba along Ado-Ekiti road, the residence of the deceased to commiserate with the family of the deceased. At the house, symphatisers were seen mourning the deceased, who was described as very peaceful and down-to-earth. However, the bereaved wife, a nurse, was still unconscious, and could not speak with reporters who stormed the residence.