Twenty states are likely to pay the N30,000 monthly minimum wage. Their governors spoke on the controversial matter after President Muhammadu Buhari signed the New Minimum Wage (Amendment) Bill into Law. Many of the states, however, said certain conditions must be reached between the workers’ umbrella unions and the Federal Government for them to pay. Some said they were waiting for the implementation template from the Federal Government. Labour, which vowed not to condone non-implementation of the new wage, plans to pile pressure on the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission (NSIWC) to release the template to state governments. The Vice Chairman of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Sunday Salako, said the union would continue to put pressure on the government agency not to delay the template for the new wage to states. He said: “Labour will not rest in the pursuit of the new minimum wage. Of course, we will mount the pressure. Once we have information on the reason for the delay, we will write to the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission. I am sure that the chairman will not want to see the other side of labour.” According to the General Secretary of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Dr. Peter Ozo-Eson, the first task before governors after their inauguration on May 29 will be to negotiate the implementation of the minimum wage. He, however, noted that all states were not expected to pay the same amount to workers. His words: “Each state council of the NLC will open negotiations with the state government. We’ve just conducted the state council elections. The new leadership that emerged in various states will open negotiations with state governments as their first assignment.” Below are the states that have shown willingness to implement the new minimum wage: Kano Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje said his administration has given priority to the welfare of civil servants. That, he said, accounted for not owing its workers. He said: “We are ready to pay N30, 000 monthly salary, because the welfare of our workers is paramount. We will pay the N30, 000.” The governor assured workers that the new minimum wage would be implemented without any retrenchment. NLC’s National President, Ayuba Wabba descibed Ganduje as “a pacesetter” in civil servants/government cordial relationship, urging other governors to emulate him. Speaking at the NLC pre-May Day Symposium organised by the Kano chapter of the union, Ganduje said that his administration would not sack any worker, even as he urged the workers to reciprocate the gesture by putting in their best. Ganduje noted: “Because of my understanding of the importance of labour and the survival of the civil servant as a formidable entity, we have introduced several emoluments to deserving workers and now this symposium as a pre May Day programme and is the first of its kind in Nigeria.” Wabba said: “There is a symbiotic relationship between workers and the government, with both sides expecting results, the government expects quality public service while workers expect to have sound welfare in order to be able to carry out their jobs effectively.” Zamfara Zamfara State Governor Abdul-Aziz Yari Abubakar promised to ensure better welfare for workers. Speaking through his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Publicity & Public Enlightenment, Malam Ibrahim Dosara, the governor said that any state government with the interest of workers at heart will ensure the quick implementation of the new minimum wage. Osun The Osun State Government said it will await the guidelines on the N30, 000 minimum wage. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Adesina Adeniyi, said that since it has already been signed into law, the state will only wait for the implementation guidelines of the minimum wage. He said: “When the guidelines are released, the state will study, understand and eventually go into its implementation. “Governor Gboyega Oyetola is concerned about the welfare of the people of the state, including the civil servants, and, therefore, will have no difficulty in ensuring that what is necessary is done at all times.” Kwara The Kwara State Government also looks set for the payment of the new wage, according to Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Communications, Dr Muyideen Akorede. Akorede recalled how the state raised a committee headed by the Head of Service (HoS), Modupe Susan, to work out the modalities and sources of revenue for payment months before the President signed the new into law. “The committee is expected to submit its report to Governor Ahmed in the next two weeks,” the governor’s spokesman said. Continue in page 2