The North-West Democratic Front has openly endorsed the bid by Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila to become the Speaker of the House of Representatives in the 9th Assembly. Making the endorsement known in a statement signed by its Chairman, Abubakar Ainu, a former Sokoto state chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), the Group observed however said that, Mr. Gbajabiamila would need the support of a strong deputy. He said, in line with the commitment of the All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership to rewarding loyalty and integrity, Mr. Gbajabiamila would make a great Speaker and the House would be dynamic if he is backed by an equally loyal, strong and experienced member such as Alhaji Musa Sarkin Adar. According to the statement, “On behalf of the people of the North-west, we hereby endorse the declaration of Femi Gbajabiamila to run for office of the Speaker of the 9th Assembly. “Our endorsement is in line with the spirit of members of the House which was displayed when Gbajabiamila, the House Leader and five time legislator, (APC-Lagos), made his formal declaration on the 31st of March and was accompanied during his official press release by returning and new members, who were over 100 in number. “We are also convinced by Gbajabiamila’s pledge to mentor the next generation and unite the nation which informs our recommendation for Sarkin Adar, another strong nationalist to be made Deputy Speaker,” The group said. While commending the stand of the APC on rewarding loyalty, the Group said Gbajabiamila and Sarkin Adar are not only core party loyalists but competent, tested representatives of proven integrity, honesty and experience as well. Shedding light on their choice for Sarkin Adar as deputy, the Group said he is one of the rarest unapologetic believers in the grand ideals of President Buhari who has not for once contemplated any distrustful act nor played against party principles, objectives and standpoint on any issue. The Group noted that Musa Sarkin Adar who represents Goronyo/Gada Federal Constituency of Sokoto state would make a competent deputy for Mr. Gbajabiamila who is eminently favoured by the APC for the speakership. Recounting some of the qualities that inform their preference for Sarkin Adar, the Group said, prior to his becoming a member of the federal legislature, he has made commendable mark as Director in the Governor’s Office, Sokoto state and at the Nigerian Ports Authority where he was Personnel Manager. “In the 2007 elections, he contested for the House of Representatives seat and won and got re-elected in 2011,” the Group said and pointed out that he spearheaded the historic move against the imposition of a Speaker in 2011 by the then ruling party. “He also made the nomination for Emeka Ihedioha as the deputy speaker on the floor of the house and the nomination was seconded by Hon Kumo. “In the 2015 elections, he re-contested on the platform of the APC and won,” the Group said, adding that he was Chairman, House Committee on Electoral Matters in the 6th Assembly and Chairman House Committee on Land Transport in the 7th Assembly.