A House of Representatives member-elect on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Lagos State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr. Ganiyu Johnson, said his emergence to represent Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 1 in the National Assembly has conferred on him a responsibility for the entire members of his constituency, irrespective of party affiliation. His words: “My emergence has shown that my responsibility is to take care of the whole constituency. I will take care of those who voted for me and those who did not vote for me. My opponent and those who voted for me are my responsibility. The whole domain is my constituency. I have a responsibility to extend dividend of democracy to everybody; it was not only the APC that voted for me, it was the electorate that voted for me.” Speaking to reporters in Lagos, Johnson said he would serve the people, provide dividends of democracy by empowering the youths, through skill acquisition and provision of soft loans to kick off. He also promised to attend to the elderly, students and improve on the infrastructural needs of the constituents by lobbying the executives and other stakeholders. While appreciating the electorate for their support in the first election and the rerun election, he pointed out that the APC had a relationship with Lagosians. He the party’s clinching of all the 40 seats at the House of Assembly simply means that it had a connection with the people and that as a party its word was its bond. Expressing confidence in the electoral process, he commended Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for a successful election, noting that there was improvement over the last presidential and National Assembly elections. He said that all the lapses of the first elections were improved upon, like lateness in delivery of election materials and card reader failures. He said that he was very hopeful that in the next election there would be much improvement and people would continue to have confidence in the nation’s democracy.