Chairman of Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), Dr. Mohamed Mahmoud Abubakar and his daughter, Yesmin Mohammed Abubakar who were kidnapped on Kaduna-Abuja road on Monday have regained their freedom. This is as the Acting Inspector General of Police; Mohammed Adamu Abubakar disclosed that, one suspect has been arrested in connection with abduction of the UBEC Chairman. A Kaduna State Police Command’s statement, which confirmed the development, also said that, IGP had during his official engagement in Kaduna visited the released kidnap victims. The statement signed by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Abubakar Sabo read that: “The Kaduna State Police Command wishes to inform the general public that following a pressurized patrol and combing of the area by the Police Operatives deployed to rescue the two victims kidnapped along Kaduna – Abuja Road yesterday, the victims Dr. Mohamed Mahmoud Abubakar the Chairman of UBEC and his daughter Yesmin Mohammed Abubakar have been released this afternoon unhurt. “The release came at the time when the Inspector General of Police IGP Mohammed Adamu Abubakar mni was attending a Zonal Meeting of Northern Traditional Ruler’s Council in Kaduna. “Thus, the IGP used the opportunity to visit the family and sympathize with them on the unfortunate incident. The IGP assured the family of Police commitment to unmask the perpetrators of this dastardly act. “IGP Mohammed Adamu Abubakar informed the general public that already one suspect has been arrested by the Police in connection to the incident and one AK47 Rifle with 29 rounds of live ammunition was recovered in his possession. “The suspect named Audu Ahmadu is undergoing interrogation in Police custody. Efforts are on course to apprehend the remaining fleeing suspects. “The three victims kidnapped at Kajuru Castle recently during the unfortunate incident that claimed the lives of Ms Mooney and one other have also been released today due to intensive pressure mounted on the surrounding areas by the Police. “The Command is also re-strategizing to fortify security along our highways to reinforce the ongoing efforts of Operation Puff Adder. The Commissioner of Police CP Ahmad Abdur-Rahman reiterated the Command’s commitment to reduce crime and criminality to the barest minimum. “The CP appeals for Community support by assisting the Police with intelligence to facilitate proactive policing measures of the Command,” the statement read. 