The Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) has said the concessioned port terminals have complied with the International Ships & Ports Facility Security (ISPS) Code. The ISPS Code, being implemented under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), is an amendment to the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) Convention (1974/1988) on minimum security arrangements for ships, ports and government agencies. The ISPS Code, which came into force in 2004, prescribes responsibilities for governments, shipping firms, shipboard and port/facility personnel to detect security threats and take preventive measures against them. STOAN spokesman Mr. Bolaji Akinola, in a statement, affirmed that private terminal operators have provided adequate security in their areas in compliance with the ISPS Code. “The ISPS Code is an essential maritime regulation for the safety and security of ships, ports, cargo and crew. For this reason, all private terminal operators in the six major port complexes across the country do not take the responsibilities of ensuring adequate compliance to the provisions of the code lightly. We have made, and will continue to make, significant financial investments towards ensuring that every operational area assigned to us in the ports are well secured,” Akinola said. He commended the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), the Designated Authority (DA) for the implementation of the ISPS Code and working with terminal operators to ensure the ports remain compliant to international port security. Akinola appealed to the Federal Government to strengthen the Marine Police to patrol the port waterfronts to keep intruders at bay. Commending NPA and the Nigerian Navy easing the gridlock on port access roads in Lagos, he appealed to the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing to hasten repairs on the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway and the Ijora-Wharf Road to ease the pains of port workers, users and truck drivers. “The gridlock persists and there is need for a more drastic action on the part of the Federal Government to address the problem. We must reiterate the imperatives of good access roads, functional rail network and truck parks as necessary long term solutions to the gridlock  in and around the port area,” Akinola added.