President Muhammadu Buhari will soon sign the new companies and allied matters bill into law in a bold step aimed at addressing corporate challenges and enhancing business operating environment. Secretary of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) and Senior Special Assistant to the President on Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, yesterday said the President will soon sign the new Companies and Allied Matters Act into law. The new Companies and Allied Matters Bill is regarded as the largest corporate reform in nearly 30 years and represents a comprehensive re-enactment of the current Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 1990. The new bill reviews several impediments in the 1990 Act and comprehensively addresses several issues affecting a company from incorporation to winding up and insolvency in line with current global standards. The new CAMA is expected to make doing business in Nigeria easier and it is expected to serve as impetus for foreign investments. Part of the amendments includes simplification of the process of starting and growing business and alignment of corporate structures and practices with business size, orientation and financial capability. Oduwole spoke at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in Lagos when the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr Okechukwu Enelamah led the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) to the Exchange in commemoration of the successful completion of the reforms under National Action Plan (NAP) 4.0. She said the PEBEC has been working to make Nigeria a progressive and easier place to do business. “It is a journey, though we are not there yet but we are thankful for the support we received from the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), particularly, on the legislative aspect of the new Companies and Allied Matters Act that will be signed into law by the President very soon,” Oduwole said. She emphasised the need for the private sector to partner with the Council to grow the economy, pointing out that the government, through the ease of doing business initiatives, has been working on various reforms towards making the country attractive for businesses to thrive. Enelamah  said the Federal Government and the NSE are committed to stronger collaboration to deepen the Nigerian capital market and boost the national economic development. He said the partnership between government and the Exchange will make the capital market to be better and stronger. “We look at this partnership as extremely important and therefore what we are doing today is not only symbolic, but significant. We hope it will lead to a better cooperation and relationship between the stock market and the government and within the private sector and the government,” Enelamah said. According to him, government is committed to deliver reforms aimed at improving the enabling environment for doing business in Nigeria through systemic interventions. “We want businesses in the country to do well and this is the role of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council, which is primarily to support businesses to prosper,” Enelamah said. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema commended the improvement in ease of doing business in Nigeria noting that Nigeria has moved from 169 position in ease of doing business ranking to about 126. Doyen of Stockbrokers and Managing Director, Trust Yield Securities, Alhaji Rasheed Yusuf, commended the call for robust collaboration between government and the capital market operators. He urged the government to further use the capital market in the implementation of national economic plan in order to achieve accelerated economic growth and development noting that the deficits in government’s budget could be financed through the capital market.