The Senator-elect for Niger South Senatorial District, Mohammed Bima Enagi has declared that he will ensure that the people feel his representation at the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly as he has no intention of being a ‘bench warmer’. He said that for a long time the people in Niger state and Niger South in particular  have not felt the impact and proper representation of their elected representatives in the National Assembly and this have placed the Senatorial district at a disadvantaged position. Speaking to newsmen in Minna, Bima said one of his area of interest is to improve the socio-econonic development of Niger South. “We are in this game because we have seen what our people have gone through over the years, we saw yesterday, God has made us see today and we hope to know tomorrow. We are not happy with the trend of events in Niger South over the years and we believe we can contribute our quota to change the destiny of out people. “Unlike others before us, we are not in this game for any selfish interest, we only believe we can improve the socio-econonix economic development of our area. We believe that our area can do better than what is happening today. I can assure you that we will change the direction of politics in Niger South. “So many things have not been found well but we believe now, we can add value in that area. We are not just going to the Senate to make laws but to adequately represent our people. We are not going there to warm the bench and keep quite like other people. We are going tgere to bring the dividends of democracy to our people.” Bima noted that Niger South Senatorial Dsitrict which is known as the Nupe Kingdom should have been more developed than it is if his predecessors had been honest in bringing development to the area. “God has given Niger South the population, natural resources, agricultural potentials, solid minerqkw and talents which we believe should have made our area better than it is now. This is the reason why I entered politics, to contribute my part in bringing back the glory of Niger South.” Speaking about his court case against Senator Mustapha Sani Musa who contested his candidature for the Senatorial zone under APC which he won recently, he commended the judiciary for not allowing itself to be manipulated and coerce adding that his Predecessor, Senator Mustapha Sani Mohammed was only out to make a mockery of the judiciary. “This man was out to make a mockery of the Judiciary, he knew he never won the election, infact, he was the one who got forth in the position of the votes in the primary election. How can someone who polled not up to 2,000 votes say he won the election to someone who polled over 24,000 view. “The sad thing is that when he was in the Senate, he could not speak for the zone. He got the Senate seat on a platter of gold and did not do anything to improve us. “This is someone who does not associate with the people, he is never on ground,  he does not even speak our language. He did not do anything while he was there and he expected the people to vote him again, the people are not blind. They knew what they wanted that is why they voted for me.”