If you have often wondered why your girl broke up with you, maybe you need to retrospect upon the kind of relationship you shared with her. Take a look at some reasons, which are a complete turn off for women, leading to subsequent breakups. A successful relationship is plausible only with mutual acceptance of each other, in a complete manner. But if you make the following mistakes, chances are you’re still going to wind up single sooner or later. 1. You don’t know how to treat or make a woman happy. 2. You only Text. Texting is perfectly acceptable when you want to flirt or ask a quick question. But for conversations that take more than 30 characters, pick up the phone and call your girlfriend. 3. You Never say “I’m Sorry”. Everyone likes to save face. But having too much pride to never apologize can be a really big problem. 4. You are not romantic and you don’t know how to use words such as; sweetie, Angel, Sexy, My world, Treasure, My Queen etc. Women love to hear their praises. 5. Some guys lie a lot believing that ladies fall in love when you tell them lies. It’s wrong because when she finds out the real you, she can quit the relationship. 6. You don’t know her friends. Boxing out your partner’s friends is a relationship deal breaker. You don’t have to love her girlfriends, but you need to respect the bond she has with them. 7. You don’t ask questions. Your silence says a lot. By not asking follow-up questions to her stories, you’re expressing that you’re not interested in her life, 8. You have No Future Ambition (NFA). No woman wants a man that has no prospect. 9. You’re never on time. You got stuck in traffic. You spilled a coffee as you walked out the door. You lost track of time. Whatever the excuse is, your girlfriend is sick of you consistently showing up 5 or 10 minutes late. 10. You can’t stop gushing about your ex. A man who keeps talking about his ex-girlfriend all the time is heading towards a breakup, even before he realizes what’s hit him.   Why did you break up with your Ex?