The 2019 elections have come and almost gone as the battles have shifted to the legal front. But a look at the race has shown that women are significantly few in the number of candidates and winners in the election. Except for a few of them that were elected into legislative houses, there were little gains for the women folks in the Nigerian political system. Truth be told, the two major political parties – All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) – claim to love the womenfolk dearly. They wax lyrical tunes and political messages to show their interest in advancing the political interest of women in the country, but unfortunately, this is where it ends. In the last general election, no woman was nominated governorship candidate of both parties and none was elected. Instead, the best they did was to nominate a few of them as deputy governorship candidates – and like deputy governors all over the country, they do not have any political influence, and their relevance is negligible. Statistics put women and youth at almost 80% of eligible voters in the country; yet, they have been ignored politically, except during elections when their votes count. In numbers, under the current political system, women’s representation in the House of Representatives is 5.5%; in the Senate, it is 5.8%. Only five out of 73 candidates that ran for president in 2019 are women. In all, 1,668 men and 232 women vied for 109 senatorial seats while 4,139 men and 560 women competed for 360 seats in the House of Representatives. Since 2006, Nigeria’s National Gender Policy highlights women’s right to equality in economic, social and political life, with provisions to increase women in elected and appointed positions to 35 per cent—but that hasn’t happened. “There have been so many protocols, conventions, amendments of the Nigerian constitution, which support providing a quota system, but in reality, women are excluded in politics,” says Blessing Obidiegwu, Head of the Gender Division for the Independent National Electoral Commission. “Such problems as patriarchy, violence in elections and their economic situation serve as barriers to women’s participation.” In 2016, a Gender and Equal Opportunities Bill was tabled, calling for the adoption of temporary special measures to eliminate discrimination in political and public life. UN supported the bill’s passage in five states (Anambra, Ekiti, Imo, Kogi and Plateau) and is currently advocating, alongside partners, for its adoption at the National Assembly. Although Mrs. ObyEzekwesili was just one of the six females among the 73 presidential candidates, before she withdrew her candidacy, her role was significant insofar as she was a direct repudiation of the gendered narratives that portray women candidates as incompetent and unable to compete in the world of politics. While women make up 47 per cent of registered voters for the 2019 elections, only eight per cent were cleared to vie for electoral positions in presidential elections. Furthermore, all six women presidential candidates withdrew their candidacy even though their names remained on the ballot box. Women can expect to remain a significant minority in elected offices under this election cycle. Women’s minimal participation in Nigeria has multi-dimensional implications for the democratic project in Nigeria and for the continuing quest for gender equality in Africa’s biggest economy. The 2019 elections is the sixth consecutive general elections since the beginning of the fourth republic in 1999. This marks what is undoubtedly, a measure of democratic progress – if only for conducting periodic elections since the return to civil rule. What remains deeply in doubt, however, is how inclusive this progress has been and, in particular, to what extent women have benefited from the democratic dividend of equality and fairness. The first of the wife of leaders of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to place a significant role in advancing the course of women was Mrs. Maryam Babangida. With her Better Life for Women programme, she significantly brought to the fore, women’s cause. This was followed by Maryam Abacha, Stella Obasanjo and Patience Jonathan each in their individual ways. In the present dispensation, the wife of the president, Aisha Buhari has been very outspoken in her resolve for political inclusiveness for women. A couple of years ago, she openly said to her husband and the political leadership that she would not mobilize the women for him if there are no political changes in the system. During the last elections, she and the wife of the vice president, Dolapo Osinbajo introduced and ran the Women and Youth Presidential Campaign for the APC. The success of this was clear through the door-to-door campaign members embarked upon across the country. This is an indelible new introduction into the political lexicon of Nigeria. Before the elections, President Buhari repeatedly announced that he will engage more women when he wins his second term. We wait to see whether he will follow his words with action now that he has won his second term. Liberia’s former head of state, Ellen Johnson Sir-leaf made history as Africa’s first female president. In the United States, Senator Hillary Clinton has made a positive impact in America’s politics. Also the late Republican Party’s presidential candidate, John McCain picked a woman – Sarah Palin, the governor of Alaska as his running mate for the U.S election. This could be seen as the strong factor women constitute in the political parlance of any nation. Today, many countries of the world are making efforts to bridge the gap between men and women in politics. But in Nigeria, the representation of women in government even though has improved is still very low compared to what obtains in other nations of the world, particularly in the developed nations. The representation of women in the last republic, 2003 election, was poor – only three women made it to 109-member senate, while 21 were elected in 360-member lower House of Representatives. As it were, the number of serving female ministers is still very few. A greater inclusion of women in the political permutations of political parties in order to win future elections is becoming a reality. Whereas the exclusion of womenfolk has been maintained by successive governments without repercussions, just as it happened in the last elections, the implication of neglecting women may prove costly in 2023. There is no doubt that women have some potentials and rights to contribute meaningfully to the development of their country. Therefore, the Nigerian government should work towards achieving gender equality in democratic governance, increase women participation and access to politics. It must be realized that the role of women as homemakers cannot be downplayed in that it equally has an extended impact on their responsibility in service; the feminine touch – they say, cannot be wished away. 