THE hospital, where a 15-month-old baby, Taye, died during blood transfusion has been shut, pending investigation, the Lagos State Government confirmed at the weekend. This confirms The Nation’s exclusive report on the hospital’s closure on Thiursday. Taye, a twin girl, was referred to the HJ Clairoowen Medical Centre at 10, Busari Street, Egbeda, by a paediatrician at the General Hospital, Igando, whose name was simply given as Dr. Joy, last Sunday. The child’s parents  Mr and Mrs Adeola Adetunji alleged that Dr. Joy said the baby needed blood and oxygen urgently. Because of the urgency of the matter, she reportedly said she was referring them to Clairoowen as there was no bed space at the general hospital. Besides, the bereaved parents are alleging that the blood given to the baby was not screened. They accused  Dr. Joy and her clinic of negligence, adding that they buried Taye on the doctor’s advice without an autopsy. In a statement,  Director, Public Affairs, Ministry of Health, Mrs. Adeola Salako,  said: “For the purpose of clarity, it is important to mention that safety of lives and the well-being of citizens is of utmost importance to the Lagos State Government and as such the avoidable death of 15-month-old baby Taye Adetunji is regrettable. We commiserate with the bereaved family and pray that God will comfort and grant them the fortitude to bear the loss. “Since the report of the unfortunate incident, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris, has ordered investigation into the circumstances that led to the death of the child, as well as allegations of patients poaching by doctors from general hospitals to their private clinics. “It is also worthy to note that the Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA) has shut the private hospital, HJ Clairoowen Medical Centre and Maternity, where the child died and investigations are ongoing on the operations of the facility, whose documents show that it has not been registered with HEFAMAA or certified for health care delivery. “The ministry will make known its findings in due course and mete out appropriate sanctions to anyone found culpable in the unfortunate incident. We assure citizens of our resolve to address patients poaching and ensure that residents have access to quality health care service without exploitation. “As a government, the well-being of citizens is of utmost importance to us and this is the main thrust of our social contract with the people. The Lagos State Government is a responsible and responsive government and we will not rest on our oars to ensure that justice, in this case, is served without let or hindrance. “In this regard, we advise the public not to patronise any health facility not bearing the HEFAMAA logo and to channel complaints and petitions in respect of unprofessional conducts by health care providers or health facilities to the HEFAMAA Office, Room 514, Ministry of Health, Alausa, Ikeja. “We wish to also note that it is against the norm and highly unethical for general hospitals or any government health facility to refer patients or cases to private health facilities. The public is, therefore, to take note of this and report any health worker or government facility that indulges in this unprofessional act.”