BIODUN Stephen is a Nigerian film director, writer and producer, who specialises in romantic drama and comedy films. Her first film, The Visit, was one of the first Nollywood movies bought by Netflix and earned AMVCA nomination. OLAITAN GANIU met her at the private screening of her latest movie, Joba and she talks about her biggest fear as a producer, how female filmmakers have been given a space to flourish among other issues. Her humble beginning AS a teenager, Biodun Stephen dreamt of being an actress, but fate took her through a different route. “It was initially acting,” said Stephen who eventually became a film producer. “I really wanted to be an actor. I was busy going for auditions, though, it was never about not passing an audition. It was always about not being picked for whatever reason. Also, I think when I was much younger, there were just few men who were as tall as I was, so pairing me was difficult. And when they paired me, they paired me with older men. So, they were automatically doubling my age in real life.” For Stephen, she wanted to avoid being typecast, one of flaws on which Nollywood seems to place actors. “You know how Nollywood works? The moment you are known for a character, that’s the character you will always be playing. For instance, Carol King, I always assumed she was old. And when I met her 10 years after, she said ‘oh, I am not as old as you think.’ You know because she always plays someone’s mother for a long time, I had a perception that since she is a mom, she must be in her 50s. But alas, she is still young.” Investing on upcoming actors BUT that was not the only thing Stephen noted about Nollywood. She saw how upcoming actors did not get their breaks and after her own break, she decided she was going to consciously give other actors a chance to shine whenever that opportunity comes. “Someone gave me an opportunity in the person of Late Chris of Koga Entertainment. Someone took a gamble on me, so why won’t I do that to others,” she said about her humble beginning. “And probably because I have come from a place of hunger. I mean being hungry for the space I am now. And also, because I write my script myself, I need to find the perfect person. If it means that I have to drill talents till we get it right. I like working with young talents because someone needs to give them the chance.” Passion and inspiration STEPHEN whose ability to do so many things is a perfect definition of ‘Jack of all trades.’ “On my own part, I was confused for so long. One of the crises I suffered from was an ability to do so many things. I can write, act, directing, present and so on.” She added: “I was on radio for a long time which has helped me to find my purpose as a film maker because I did a talk show on radio which was about sharing life issues. So that helped me to realise that even as a film maker, whatever I am writing has to speak the truth and help someone find peace.” Her fresh-out-of-Film School movie, The Visit, instantly shot her into limelight, received accolades from movie practitioners as well as netting international endorsement. “My maiden movie, The Visit, was one of the first Nollywood movies bought by Netflix,” Stephen said. “When I wrote it then, my goal was just to produce a fantastic movie with small budget, but it turned out big and received great accolades. It was on Netflix, Africa Magic, Rok TV, Ebony Life, and other platforms.” Female filmmakers overtaking And proud to be a part of the growing folds of Nollywood female filmmakers, Stephen remains focused on producing more amazing movies. “The paradigm has shifted,” she said with smile. “The top films of last year were made by women. Women have been given a space to flourish, career wise, in this field. I think the men are out there supporting us. People like Amaka Igwe and Emem Isong paved the way. That evolution has also brought women to the fore. I am happy for Nollywood. I am happy that a lot of things have changed. Now, you can have a talent in industry and the talent is recognised without having to sleep with anybody or kiss anybody’s ass.” Her biggest fear However, revealing her biggest fear as a producer, Stephen said, “I think one of my biggest fears is accepting money to shoot a movie, though I do get several offers.” “In as much as content is king, the demand for it is getting higher but the remuneration is getting lower. Producers who have made huge box office returns, check out what they have put in and their returns. If you say you make N100million in cinema, split that in three ways first before you start considering returns on investment from the one-third that comes to you.” And airing her view on the talk around town that Netflix, owning a particular Nollywood series, might tamper with the originality of the story, Stephen disagrees. “I doubt if they will tamper with the originality because it’s the authenticity of the story that will make it different. You can’t sell sand to the Arabs. They already have enough sand. I think what they will focus on will be on technicalities, qualities, production value and picture but the core of the story, I doubt if they will tamper with it because that’s what will make it different.”