A RULING house in Ifon-Orolu, the headquarters of Orolu Local Government Area of Osun State, the Olumoyero royal family, has alerted  the police of alleged plot by some people to cause mayhem in the community over chieftaincy tussle. In a letter by Mogaji Karimu Ojolowo Magbagbeola, Prince  Mufutau Mqgbagbeola, Prince Tajudeen Akintola and Prince Musibau Akintola dated April 2, 2019, the Olumoyero family said the people concerned had perfected the plan to cause confusion and make the community ungovernable for the Olufon of Ifon-Orolu, Oba Al-Maroof Adekunle Magbagbeola. Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, Osun State Police Commissioner Mrs. Abiodun Ige and the Department of State Services (DSS)  were copied the letter titled: “Petition on allegation of disruption of public peace.” The royal family identified some people as the brains behind plot to orchestrate the crisis in the community. The letter reads in part: “These disgruntled elements, who have misinterpreted the ruling of the Supreme Court on the Olufon tussle, are planning to recruit and mobilise members of the public to attack the palace. Part of their past plot that failed includes circulating wrong and libelous information that the incumbent Olufon is not a bona fide member of the Olumoyero royal family. “Their ill intention is aimed at causing chaos and disaffection between our royal father and his subjects. They have even gone farther by threatening the lives of key members of the Olumoyero family, especially  those that are close to the palace.” Appealing to the police authorities to caution those planning to for cause trouble in the community, the family demand thorough investigation of issues they raised in the letter and eventual prosecution of “whoever found to be connected to plotting mayhem in Ifon” at the law court. But, one of those accused of plotting the mayhem, Prince Kolawole Akintola from Olumoyero ruling house had led a protest against the Olufon, saying that the monarch was not entitled to the throne. Akintola, who alleged that Olufon is not from the Olumoyero ruling house, led the protesters around the ancient town.