Marc-Andre ter Stegen has warned Barcelona they will be living dangerously if they try to defend their slender lead against Manchester United – but is confident there will be no repeat of their Champions League quarter-final meltdown against Roma last season. Barcelona face United at the Nou Camp on Tuesday night holding a 1-0 advantage from the first leg of their quarter-final at Old Trafford last week. The Spanish champions led 4-1 against Roma last season only to lose 3-0 in the return leg in Italy to exit on away goals and Paul Pogba has claimed United’s dramatic comeback against Paris St-Germain last month might also play on Barcelona minds. But Ter Stegen is not expecting Barcelona to wobble again, even if he is adamant they can leave nothing to chance against United, who have scored nine goals in four Champions League away ties, including a 2-1 win at Juventus. “There is not much to be said about what happened in the past,” the Barcelona goalkeeper said. “It was hard of course but it’s another year on, we got over it [Roma]. We don’t want that to happen again. “We need to bear it in mind and look forward and tomorrow is a good time to achieve a good success for us, with all our fans around us, and hopefully we will beat them. “United are very quick. You always have to be alert. I think it’s the key to win this very difficult game. They know how to play in a very calm way. “They made things really hard for us. We want to go out and master the game, have the ball as much as possible. We have to defend as we did there. “The good thing is that we play differently to PSG but they are really dangerous. The result we got in Manchester is dangerous because it’s a very small advantage, it’s not enough to defend. “We need to step forward and create risky situations. We have to keep the ball and create good chances and score.” Ernesto Valverde, the Barcelona coach, rested six senior players, including Lionel Messi, in Saturday’s surprise 0-0 draw against La Liga’s bottom club, Huesca, although Ousmane Dembele made his comeback after a month out with a hamstring injury. 