The graduands of Usmanu Danfodiyo University (UDUS), Sokoto have urged the management to hold convocation yearly. They gave the advice following the low turnout at the combined 35th, 36th, and 37th convocation held at the varsity’s convocation theatre. According to them, organising the event yearly would enable the graduands to attend the event massively. CAMPUSLIFE observed that some of the graduands couldn’t attend the convocation because they had been mobilised for the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), while notifications of result of others were not yet ready. Further findings by CAMPUSLIFE showed that some of the students do not live in Sokoto, while others are working. One of the embarrassing moments at the event was the absence of the overall best graduating student, Ojo Suleiman Adebowale. “I wish that I made it to the event being among the valedictorians of the day, but I tried to talk with the camp co-ordinator, but he didn’t grant me the permission,” Adebowale told CAMPUSLIFE on phone. A 2016/17 graduate of Applied Chemistry, Sarat Alabidun, who also could not make the event, explained that she had already departed to the United States for her Masters.  She said: “I couldn’t attend the convocation because I am not in Nigeria. I’m in the United States for my Masters programme. I graduated about three years ago; so it’s been a while. Even if I were in Nigeria, I might not have come because Sokoto is far and I stay in Lagos.” Nonetheless, Biliamin Aishat, a 2016/17 graduate of Biological Science, who attended the event, recounted the horrendous 14-hour journey she endured from Ilorin to her destination. “It’s the management that is at fault not us,” Aishat protested. “I just finished my service. You can imagine me just returning after my pass out parade (POP), only to again embark on a journey for this convocation. Some people cannot bear the risk of coming to this place after they have departed to their various destinations. At least, they should be organising it (convocation) every year immediately after students graduate to make it easier for students to attend,” she said. Fatimah Abdulwaheed Akinola, a 2016/17 graduate of Mathematics, blamed the poor turnout on the foot-dragging posture of the management, adding that students who graduated a long time ago, would not show interest in the convocation. “I think the low turnout was due to the fact that it’s a joint convocation. People are already engaged in different things. Some of them have married and it will be impossible for them to come here,” she noted. “My advice is that they (management) should find a way to abolish joint convocations. We can be doing this every year. People cannot afford to miss their own convocation ceremony. I also travelled all the way from Osun State to meet up with this event but not everybody has such a privilege” Alanamu Oluwadamilola Rashidat also bemoaned the combined convocations. “The turnout is averagely okay but lower to what I was expecting because most of the people are faraway and they don’t have the chance to come down to this place. “The combination of the 35th, 36th and 37th convocation ceremonies are too hectic. It will be more preferable and encouraging if they can make it annually,” she advised. Habibu Bawa a 2017/18 graduate of Microbiology bemoaned the delay in the release of their results’ notification. For Bawa, his set was not part of the event because they are yet to collect their notification of result. “Why should I come when we are yet to collect notification in our department? Some have collected notification since first week of February but we are yet to collect ours. Are we part of the convoking graduands?” He asked furiously. Imam Fulani Abdullateef a graduate of Common and Islamic Law, noted that having contacted all his friends and discovered that most of them would not attend the event, he decided that he would simply sit at home. “The distance from Kwara to Sokoto is not easy,” lamented Abdullateef. Majority of my course mates didn’t attend; so, I will be lonely and that will make the programme boring to me,” he concluded.