Two traffic wardens TW GII Idoko Sunday and TW GII Katdel Dabit have been dismissed and charged to court for complicity in the death of a staff of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), ASC Ogah Jumbo. Their arraignment followed investigation, which indicted them for assault and excessive use of force on the deceased after his arrest. A statement by the Force Spokesman, DCP Frank Mba in Abuja on Wednesday also noted forensic analysis by a pathologist as seen in the autopsy report clearly traced the cause of death to injuries inflicted on the deceased during his encounter with the traffic wardens. Details of the update into the cause of death of Ogar read: “In keeping with the assurances by the Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP Mohammed Adamu, to ensure a transparent, accountable, comprehensive and speedy investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of the late ASC Ogar Jumbo, an Assistant Superintendent of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the Nigeria Police have today arraigned in Court the two Traffic Wardens – TW GII Idoko Sunday and TW GII Katdel Dabit for complicity in the unfortunate death of the NSCDC Officer. “The arraignment of the erstwhile Traffic Wardens is sequel to the outcome of investigation into the case of alleged discreditable conduct and unlawful exercise of authority reported against them on 20th March, 2019. “The former Traffic Wardens had earlier been subjected to the internal disciplinary procedures of the Force – tried in an Orderly Room, and dismissed before the arraignment. “Police investigations positively indicted them for assault and excessive use of force on the deceased after his arrest.” On the outcome of the autopsy, Mba said: ​”For avoidance of doubt, the autopsy report states in part that the death was due to blunt force injury to the head, multiple skin and soft tissue injuries on the fore head and face, and that there was no natural disease in the body to sufficiently explain the sudden death.” He also stated that the two traffic wardens have been remanded in Kuje Prisons pending the next adjournment of the case. The IGP warned that like the indicted traffic wardens, any police officer found wanting for unlawful use of force and other sundry offences, will be publicly named, shamed and brought to book to serve as deterrence to others.