The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won the presidential and National Assembly elections in Edo State. But, Governor Godwin Obaseki rose swiftly to abort the plan of the main opposition party to win majority of seats in the House of Assembly elections, reports Correspondent OSAGIE OTABOR. The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State is in a celebration mood. It has broken an all time record in electoral contest in the just concluded House of Assembly polls held on March 9 by winning all the 24 seats in the House. For the first time in the history of the state, the House of Assembly would not be having a Minority Leader. Basking in the euphoria of its victory in the February 23rd Presidential and National Assembly elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had called on Edo people to repeat the feat in the House of Assembly elections by giving the ruling APC a bloody nose. The APC has lost the presidential election by polling 267,842 against the 275,691 scored by the PDP. The victory of the PDP, especially in Edo South where Governor Godwin Obaseki  and Minister of State for Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, hail from, was a big blow to the APC. It was a shock to see a sitting governor losing in his senatorial and House of Representatives seats to the opposition. In Edo Central, the PDP retained its political prowess, winning the senatorial and the House of Representatives seats. After the presidential election, Edo APC returned to the drawing board to strategise on how to prevent the PDP from winning majority seats in the Assembly. The APC wanted to avoid a repeat of what former Governor Adams Oshiomhole suffered in the hands of a PDP-dominated Assembly. Sources in the ruling APC said factors responsible for the electoral defeat were identified. The factors included sabotage on the part of some party leaders, hate speech against President Mohammadu Buhari by some Christian leaders, lack of voter’s education, proper sensitisation of the people on the achievements of Obaseki and the need for a cooperative Assembly. Before the March 9 election, Obaseki held a strategic meeting with party leaders in Oredo where he released the mobilisation fund. Source at the meeting the sum of N40m could not be accounted for. Some youths at the meeting who were shortchanged were said to have been enraged that the leaders could shortchanged them. It was revealed that some leaders did not use prescribed party agents, but opted for family members. A source at the meeting said Obaseki challenged the affected leaders to reveal what he gave to them. According to the source: “We were shocked when Obaseki started talking. He revealed so many things. He said he was shocked how the leaders sabotaged his efforts. Obaseki asked them if it were his re-election, that is how he would have lost. “The governor spoke to a point that he threw away the microphone. None of the leaders utter any word in defence. He has said he would deal with them. “We are happy that the Governor set up a 25-man team to work with him for the purpose of the House of Assembly election this Saturday.” Obaseki further met with  stakeholders, including the Igbo Traders Union, where he explained to them why they should not support the PDP to have majority in the Assembly. Unlike before the presidential election when Obaseki decided not to campaign with his achievements, he recorded several speeches which were relayed on radio, television and social media where he talked about the need to continue with projects like roads, Bénin River Port, Industrial Park and several others. The APC selected new party agents and trained them on the proper way to vote, with a view to avoiding voids votes as was experienced in the Presidential election. On March 9, there was voters apathy in some areas while other areas witnessed huge turnouts of voters. Agents of the APC were more vigilant as they resisted any attempt. In Edo Central where the APC had found it difficult to win, the party won all the seats for the first since 1999. APC candidates that emerged are Chris Okaeben (Oredo West), Crosby Eribo (Egnr) Henry Okhuarobo (Ikpoba-Okha) Roland Asoro (Orhionmwon West) Nosayaba Okunbor (Orhionmwon East) Osaro Obazee (Oredo East) Washington Osifo (Uhunmwode) Ugiagbe Dumez (Ovia North East 1) Vincent Uwadiae (Ovia North East 11) Sunday Aghedo (Ovia South West) Francis Okiye (Esan North East 1) Emmanuel Okoduwa (Esan North East 11) Victor Edoror (Esan Central) Sunday Ojiezele (Esan South East) Marcus Onobun (Esan West) Ephraim Aluebhosele (Igueben) Ganiyu Audu (Estako West 1) and Aliyu Oshiomhole (Estako West 11). Others were Emmanuel Agbaje (Akoko-Edo 11) Yekini Idaiye (Akoko-Edo 11) Eric Okaka (Owan East) Micheal Ohio-Ezo(Owan West) Oshoma Ahmed (Estako Central) Kingsley Ugabi (Estako East). The Secretary to Government,  Osarodion Ogie, said the results showed President Buhari won in the state, if some APC votes were not cancelled or voided. Ogie said the PDP has been decimated, adding that it cannot be victorious in any election in the state. He said: “We saw Obaseki’s capacity for annihilating the opposition during the last local government election in which all the 18 candidates of the All Progressives Congress triumphed in the state. “With all the 24 House of Assembly seats in our kitty, we are determined as a party, to put our best foot forward in the gubernatorial election, come 2020. The rising profile of our party under Obaseki is phenomenal, and Edo people have spoken that they appreciate his people-focused policies and programmes.” Obaseki thanked the voters for coming out en masse to vote for candidates of the APC. He said he was delighted by the enthusiasm and maturity exhibited by voters across the state while casting their ballots. He said: “My dear good people of Edo State, I thank you immensely for the massive votes you gave to candidates of my party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Saturday March 9, House of Assembly election in the state.” “With this overwhelming endorsement of my party and my administration, my government is now turbocharged and fired up to exceed the expectations of the millions of Edo people and residents who reaffirmed their faith in our developmental programmes and policies at the polls on Saturday. “We campaigned vigorously and impressed it on our people that a vote for the APC House of Assembly candidates, is a vote for me to continue and complete all ongoing projects in every sector of the state. “Thankfully, this message resonated well with our people and you have charged us to continue with all our ongoing reforms in Edo State. We will continue to create more jobs, construct more roads, renew our education and healthcare system, invest more in the security of life and property, and industrialise Edo State, in our collective quest to actualise the Edo of our dreams. “I assure you that we will not take for granted this loud vote of confidence in my administration. I will continue to put you, our people first, in all our development plans.”