THE Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi, has urged Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola to bring his experience to bear in improving the state’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). According to the monarch, this is the only way to enable the governor to raise enough funds to carry out his programmes. The monarch spoke during a visit to the governor at his country home in Iragbiji, Boripe Local Government Area. Those who assist the governor to receive the Alaafin, who was accompanied by his son and member of the House of Representatives, Prince Hakeem Adeyemi, were Akinrun of Ikirun Oba Abdul-Rauf Olayiwola Adedeji; Aragbiji of Iragbiji Oba Abdul-Rasheed Olabomi; Elende of Eko-Ende Oba Abdul-Rauf Adebayo Olaniyan and Olororuwo of Ororuwo Oba Kamorudeen Adeyemi Adeyanju. The Alaafin hailed Oyetola for building on the good legacies of his predecessors, saying a state like Osun needed a robust revenue profile to enable its governor to deliver democracy dividends, adding that Oyetola had started well and he had no doubt about his capacity to perform. He said: “You have to use your wealth of experience in administrative, financial and political sectors to improve the revenue base of the state. “You might know that I am fully aware of the significant role you played to boost the revenue profile of Lagos State. “You were among the few people that deployed financial professionalism and expertise to help Lagos to raise its revenue status at a time its local governments’ allocations were seized by the Obasanjo Government during Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s tenure “Osun is not a rich state. So, my advice to you is to use your ingenuity and the experience acquired to advance the economy of the state.” The monarch called for unity, love among the Yoruba and implored Oyetola to join hands with his colleagues to place the Southwest to its rightful position. “My concern is to ensure that Yoruba people are properly placed in the scheme of things in Nigeria,” the Alaafin said. Oyetola expressed delight over the Alaafin’s visit, which he described as a symbol of support for his administration. He said he was thrilled the monarch decided to come to his country home, adding: “The visit will occupy a big place in my diary.” He lauded Oba Adeyemi for being supportive of his administration with prayers and advice. The governor described the Alaafin as a man of integrity and honesty and implored him not to relent in his efforts until the region actualises her dreams.