Tears flowed at the weekend in Nembe-Basambiri, Nembe Local Government Area Bayelsa State following the burial of 26-year-old supporter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Kenneth Adebo, who was shot dead on the eve of the Presidential and National Assembly elections. Adebo was killed by thugs suspected to be members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in an electoral violence that erupted in the community. Speaking in an emotion-laden tone, the father of the deceased, Mr. Francis Adebo, who could not hold back his tears said it was painful to lose his son in such circumstance. The bereaved father said: “What do you want me to say? Is my son still alive? Why my son? I believe that my son died for a course. He sacrificed his life for a course. “He has been buried. I don’t have anything to say. If I open my mouth, I will say things I don’t want to say. Please let me be”. Also speaking, the Youth President of Nembe Basambiri, Iro Theo described the death of Kenneth Adebo as a great loss to the entire youths of Nembe Federation and Bayelsa. He said: “Today, we came to bury Mr. Kenneth Adebo who was shot by PDP thugs on the 29th of March, eve of the presidential and national assembly elections here in Nembe Basambiri. “What happened is that some people tried to hijack electoral materials on the eve of the election and the youths of the community protested that the materials should not be hijacked, that the materials should be given back to INEC so that the following day, everybody can go and vote the candidate of their choice. It was during the resistance that this happened”. Describing the late Kenneth as a humble gentleman, the youth president said the family and the entire community would greatly miss him. Speaking further, Theo said: “Personally, I will miss him so much because I have worked with him. He was a kind, gentle and likable young man. “I want justice to be done on those who killed Kenneth. Those who killed Kenneth should be arrested and prosecuted. The police know what to do. They should not be biased. “If the police show bias in this case, nature will catch up with them. I know that those who killed Kenneth will not have rest of mind. They will be hunted for the rest of their days”. Also speaking, a female indigene of the community, Mrs. Favour Emmanuel, who described the death of Kenneth as shocking and painful, said they were in the community to show their last respect. “Kenneth was a very calm, cool-headed guy. The most painful part of his death is that his wife was carrying about four months pregnancy before he was killed. ‘’It’s a pity that he just died that way. He was good looking, handsome and hard-working”, she recounted.