Dr. Sunny Akpoyibo is President/Chief Executive, Asteven Group, a solar-energy solution company with branch networks in England, Germany, China, Cameroon, Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Kenya with ongoing expansion in Uganda, DRC and Burkina Faso respectively. Akpoyibo an entrepreneur who also sits on several boards including Renewable Energy Academy (ASREA), the foremost academy offering hands-on skills on sustainable energy and allied studies in Africa, in this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde speaks on the opportunities for small and medium scale enterprises in renewable energy and allied sector. Excerpts: What are some of the achievements of your organisation? The greatest achievement is that we are able to build capacity amongst youths and women. We are able to create access to clean energy among those in the rural areas and the urban centres. We are also able to create access to finance because clean energy needs access to finance. Those are the major activities and over the years we have been able to innovate. One of such innovations is the one-child, one-reading light project. And the second one is the National Green Campus Initiative that says Nigerian students shouldn’t be using kerosene lanterns. The other is the innovation for us to be able to design a-pay-as you-go Solar system that everybody can use, just like when you are buying your kerosene in order to eradicate the hazard posed from the other type of energy sources. How long have you been doing this? Our company was established in 2010 and it has been a very interesting journey for us. What are some of the challenges experienced doing this? The challenges come from the environment and I must also say that the awareness created has also created a number of new challenges such as access to finance. Some of the lessons learnt over the years are that we have to do more and create awareness to achieve the set goals. What inspired you to go into the sector? The environment is going bad especially in Africa and it is actually affecting our overall development. It is worsened by the fact that many do not have access to energy to pursue the opportunities available to them. All our textile mills and other industries have gone down because there is no energy. Imagine a young woman trying to guard against poverty going into hairdressing but she is out of business because there is no energy. The young man who is a barber also needs energy but it isn’t available when they need it. We need it for our national grid and even in the rural areas. So, for me that is one of the things that inspired me. As a people, if we have to get out of poverty, we need to provide alternative sources of energy particularly; the sun which a lot of us say is too harsh these days. Interestingly, the sun is a huge source of revenue for us and it can be put into productive use in different ways. What are some of the changes that you would like to see in the energy sector? We want more people to have an awareness of the opportunities and potentials in the sector. We also want more people to embrace alternative energy sources and there are a lot of potentials in the sector for women and young people. Where do you see your company in the next five or 10 years? In the next five or 10 years, we are already going global. We should be in all African countries and Nigerian homes especially the rural areas and have access to all our products. Tell us about your Academy? What are some of the things that you have done? Our Academy is unique and we have been able to train more than 800 students free. There are so many opportunities and potentials in the sector for young people who have passion to make a difference in the society. The academy therefore focuses on taking them through a basic knowledge about Alternative sources of energy as well as how to maintain the knowledge acquired. We also create a business model for them because of sustainability. The fact that we train them free is inspiring and the fact that they also know about our products. So, they are usually the ones advocating for this and they are known as the Green Ambassadors. In the process, they work passionately and actually create opportunities to our major clients and reach out to the people especially in the grassroots. The Academy is the first of its kind in sub-Sahara Africa, built and structured to support the rapidly developing markets for renewable energy and energy efficient industry. We have installed over 20 megawatts of renewable energy in Nigeria and it translates into carbon emission reduction of 20744tCO2eq per year in Nigeria. In spite of these huge efforts, it is unacceptable that about 60 percent of Nigerians still do not have access to modern forms of energy. It is also worrisome that about 94 percent of the population with access depends hugely on fossil fuel generators, kerosene and wood fuel. Renewable Energy holds the key to changing this dependence. Since the adoption of the Paris Agreement on climate change in 2015, the world is travelling in this direction. What were you doing before setting up the company? That is a very good one. I have always been in the industry and before this I trained in Energy and specialised in Facility Engineering. I later moved to energy conservation and then looked out for the alternative energy that has better conservation. So, I have been doing the same thing in different ways and getting better. What advice do you have for Nigerians about the sector? I will tell them that getting out of poverty is the only way we should we should go in Nigeria and to help us do that effectively, Renewable energy is a key factor. It will definitely help a lot of individuals and businesses to get out of poverty and succeed in what they do. Why is green energy a better option? We have to make use of energy that is safe and green energy provides this alternative. A story of a grandma that touches the heart comes to mind here. The daughter was to go to a party and her two children said they wanted to go to grandma instead of staying with the house help. So, they brought them to grandma and she was so happy. The daughter said grandma, you have to lock the doors and whenever they take the light make sure you put on the generator and she said no problem. After all, I am the one who took care of you till you grew up, she told her daughter. The daughter left and of course NEPA took the light. She said let me just put on the candle for a few hours for the children to go to bed. The children being what they are, one of them a twelve year old woke up and wanted to go and urinate. She went to where the candle was, lit up the candle and put it on the rug afterwards. Then the candle burned off and killed an 80-year-old-woman and two grandchildren. Is that not pathetic?