Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state has appealed to his opponents to set aside political bitterness and differences in the spirit of the Easter celebration and join hands with him to uplift the state. Emmanuel, who made the plea during his Easter broadcast to the state Friday, urged those who contested against him to accept the outcome of the last elections as the will of God and Akwa Ibom people. According to him, the well-being and future of the people should supersede any partisan political interest, adding that the Easter season epitomizes love and sacrifice which politicians must display for the interest of the state. He said: ”I am again inviting my brothers and sisters on the opposite side of the political divide to join hands with me to build a prosperous, safe and secure State where our people will continue to rise and claim the faith of their greatness. ”This should be no time for mutual recriminations.  Let us show that politics can and must be more ennobling than how certain people may make it appear. ”Let us begin to build a new vista of understanding of what political contest is all about: that a winner must emerge and the loser must not be treated with contempt or derision. ” I remain dedicated to promoting and projecting this beautiful virtue – politics that is played without bitterness as the Second Republic politician Late Alhaji Waziri Ibrahim had preached. ”Today, I urge you again to celebrate all that is good and ennobling in us. We are great people, of great heritage, and we must stand ready to work together to ensure and sustain a great future for ourselves and our children”. He governor thanked the people of the state for giving him another opportunity to serve, promising to improve on all sectors in his second term. ”In our Second Term which we are gearing to commence on May 29, this year, we will work twice as hard to sustain and expand the layers of good governance, touching lives, challenging our people to further rise to the faith of our greatness and show as I have always emphasized, that government can indeed be a force for good and not one for ill. ”We will, as enunciated in our 2019 Manifesto, dedicate ourselves to the Completion Agenda predicated still on massive industrialization push, infrastructural expansion, more investments put into ensuring our children are prepared through quality education that will get them ready for the 21 Century, our health care delivery will continue to expand, agriculture and tourism will receive the necessary boost, we will work to provide power for all,  build human capacity, expand our job opportunities and wealth creation mechanisms. ”We will continue to engender in our youths an entrepreneurial or ownership mind-set and ensure that our women are encouraged through soft loans to expand their businesses of trading and other small and medium scale businesses. ”In short, we will work to build a State whose economy will be the envy of all. I urge you as always to continue to pray for us and support our determined efforts to use our resources to build a solid economy for our people,” he said.