ALL Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been hailed for his decision to commission a biography of the late Second Republic Senator Hassan Adisa Babatunde Fasinro. At the Fidau for Pa Fasinro, Tinubu promised to sponsor the writing of the biography to document the life and achievements of the late Town Clerk of Lagos City Council (1966-1975) for all Nigerians and future generations to appreciate. Welcoming the decision, former Lagos State Commissioner for Public Transportation Chief Lanre Razak said the biography would also highlight the late Pa Fasinro’s great qualities and unblemished career in public service, “which our politicians should emulate.” He said it was during the late Fasinro’s nine-year tenure as town clerk that the famous City Hall was built at a cost of about four million pounds sterling without any borrowing by the council. The hall was inaugurated in July 1968 and remains an architectural masterpiece about 51 years after. Razak noted: “Though a lawyer trained in Britain, Fasinro was a committed community leader till death on March 31, 2019. Members of his Otto community in Lagos Mainland, his maternal home, will live to remember him for life. “No meaningful community development or social infrastructure was executed in that community without his contribution. The history of the community will not be complete without a mention of this great patriot. Fasinro is Otto and Otto is Fasinro even in death. We will live to remember him. “We members of his family appreciate the Asiwaju’s gesture to sponsor Baba’s biography, which will document the legacies of our great leader for the young and old to fully comprehend. “But we are not surprised at Tinubu’s decision because of the cordial relationship that existed between them before Pa Fasinro’s passage. While the latter was a founding father of Lagos State, the former is the architect of modern Lagos. “Tinubu’s leadership traits and administrative style while in office as governor for eight years remain second to none and a golden era of the state. Both serving and incoming governors across the states should, therefore, draw from the fountain of wisdom and emulate the legacies of these great Lagosians. “Another amazing fact about our late father is that he never got involved in community issues because of any monetary reward. He always intervened and got the job done because of his belief that the community has a right to what is due to its members”. 