BORNO State Governor Kashim Shettima has confirmed that former governors in the yet-to-be inaugurated Ninth National Assembly have endorsed Senate Leader Ahmed Lawan and House of Representatives Leader for Senate President and House Speaker respectively. Shettima made the confirmation while fielding questions from reporters in N’Djamena, Chad, at the weekend. Besides, the governor informed that the three senators-elect and House of Representatives members-elect from Borno State have endorsed Lawan and Gbajabiamila for the exalted offices. He, therefore, dismissed the insinuation in some quarters that former governors in the National Assembly were against the election of Lawan and Gbajabiamila as leaders of the two chambers of the national assembly. According to Shettima, supporting President Muhammadu Buhari’s programmes and political decisions remained the only for the APC governors to show appreciation to the President. He said: “All our governors, including those coming to the senate are 100 per cent in support of our party’s stance as far as election of new leadership for the national assembly is concerned. “As far as Borno is concern, we are in alignment with the aspirations of Mr. President and that of our party. “Whoever the party endorses for any position, we will solely stand behind such a person because party discipline is absolutely essential for the sustainability of our democratic experiment. “If everyone is to vote according to his own free will surely that would be a recipe for disaster or confusion. So, we have to align ourselves with the aspirations of the president.” The governor, who was part of Buhari’s entourage to meeting of member nations of the the Community of Sahel – Saharan States (CEN SAD) in N’Djamena, expressed the hope that the body would come out with lasting solutions to the challenges of insecurity in the affected areas. Commending Buhari for his role in promoting peace and stability in the region, the governor enjoined member nations of the CEN SAD to intensify efforts in addressing the problems of terrorism and banditry along the Lake Chad basin and beyond.