A 42-year-old man, Jamiu Yisau, who has been diagnosed with kidney failure, needs N10 million for a transplant. Jamiu struggled to walk and talk when he visited the corporate office of The Nation at Matori, Lagos, at the weekend.  He was assisted by his employer, Mr. Muyiwa Matuluko and his colleague, Mudashiru Olanrewaju. Matuluko is the chief executive officer of a media production company in Lagos where Jamiu works as an operations manager. Dr Ayo Odeyemi of the Blue Cross Hospital, Ogba, Lagos, said Jamiu’s kidneys were bad, adding that they were already affecting his brain and other sensitive organs. Jamiu has resumed  dialysis at Clinix Laboratory, Antony, Oshodi, Lagos, upon his doctor’s advice. He  undergoes dialysis on Mondays and Thursdays. He has been spending  N80,000 on it since March. The ailment, which started on February 28, may have worsened, with  doctors now finding it difficult to locate his veins. They said the kidneys were down to five per cent capacity. Jamiu has been surviving on donations by Rotary Club of Gbagada, Lagos and old students of St. Theresa Minor Seminary, Ibadan, Oyo State. Matuluko said: “The funds are spent on a daily basis. He buys drugs and two pints of blood at N15,000 per unit. The screening costs N6,000. These, coupled with dialysis, accrue to N80,000 for a session. We have spent N1.2 million for Mondays and Thursdays dialysis at Clinix Laboratory.  We have the receipts. “We have not even raised anything for the N10million transplant. Rotary Club of Gbagada has helped us to raise N1million.” Matuluko, who described Jamiu as a diligent and honest worker, appealed to Nigerians to save him. He said Jamiu’s brother, Ahmed Muritala, is ready to donate a kidney. “We have found a donor, but we need to raise the fund urgently to do the kidney transplant. Neurologists at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, said his dialysis now has to be done thrice, because twice is not enough. “Jamiu is too nice.  He’s a reliable employee. He started with me as a driver in July 2001 and was converted to a cameraman. He is hard working. We’ve built the company together. He’s a supportive worker. This is why I can go to any length to do anything for him. But I can’t do it alone. This ailment has incapacitated him. He doesn’t deserve to die like that. He’s a good person. Help give him a chance to live. He is an asset to this country,” Matuluko added.