The Adamawa State Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Yola has received a petition from the Action People’s Party (APP) over alleged failure of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to include the logo of the party on the ballot of the last Match 9 governorship election in the state. In their petition, the party asked the tribunal to order the conduct of a fresh governorship election for which the candidates of the party will be duly presented to the electorate. Counsels to the APP, Barrs. Obed Okwukwe Agu and Oluchukwu Nweke, filed the petition before the tribunal headed by Justice Suleiman Akanbi who promised speedy dispensation of justice. The APP became the first party to go to the tribunal to allege non-inclusion of party logo for the Adamawa State governorship election. Parties have until close of Wednesday to file petitions at the tribunal over the governorship election. The Movement for the Restoration and Defence of Democracy (MRDD) had earlier gone to the state high court, while the governorship rerun was yet to be held, to make the allegation and to seek a nullification of the March 9 election. The high court dismissed the case on March 28 for lack of evidence, but it has reportedly been appealed. The APP in its petition, is telling the Adamawa Election Petitions Tribunal that the entirety of the Adamawa State Governorship election is invalid by means of substantial non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (As amended). ”The election is invalid by means of unlawful exclusion of Mr. Bitrus Madeh as the valid candidate of the petitioner to contest the gubernatorial elections,” the petitioner said, adding that Mr. Bitrus Madeh and Audu Zanda as its validly nominated and /or replaced governorship and deputy governorship candidates for the election were unlawfully excluded. They asked the tribunal to declare that the Adamawa State governorship election held on 9th March, 2019 is invalid or voided “for substantial non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act.”