Africa is plagued by poverty, gender inequality, poor health indices, bad governance and non- adherence to the rule of law, among other problems. Many youths are developing ideas and learning skills to address these problems. BUSOLA SEBIOTIMO met some of them in Lagos. Challenges facing Africa are numerous.They range from poverty and poor governance to gender inequality and armed conflict, among others. The continent also boasts of a huge population of youths. Compared to 27 per cent of Europeans, nearly 60 per cent of Africans are aged 25 and below.  Africa’s young people are being enlightened about the continent’s problems and equipped with skills to deal with them. Last week Wednesday, 46 young Africans from 15 countries gathered at the Facebook Hub in Yaba, Lagos for a YALI TechCamp Reconnect Workshop organised by the United States Consulate. It was a platform to discuss technological solutions to problems they had discovered in their environments, which they shared with The Nation. Like it happens in Nigeria, Guess Nyirenda from Zambia, has seen youths being used as political thugs during elections.  Initially, Guess tried to end violence during elections but learnt through the TechCamp that he could achieve more by promoting dialogue and peace well before elections. He conceived of a programme called Drivers of Dialogue, Reconcilaition and Peace (DDRP) to help youths be part of the electoral process without recourse to violence. “Some of the players in the electoral process, especially political parties, engage young people in violence to cause division. Hence, we introduced a campaign called ‘Violence must fall’. But it didn’t yield the result we expected because it was targeted at the young people when the environment was hostile. Now the campaign has evolved to DDRP which is to promote dialogue, reconciliation among young people,” he said. Gideon Olarenwaju is doing something similar in Nigeria. His digital platform, ‘Openify’ helps to promote youth participation in the electoral process to solve accountability and transparency problems. “We are working on a mobile and online platform called Openify. Openify seeks to promote active youth engagement and participation in electoral processes towards accountable, transparent and fair elections in Africa. What we do is to promote a platform that can promote civic education and mobilise the active participation and involvement of young people in selecting the next generation of political leaders who will have the interest of the people at heart. “We leverage mobile technology. With the platform, we can mobilise young people at the grassroots who can organise town hall consultations and meetings to educate people at the local level. So, we are not only providing a platform for educated, savvy, intellectual or technically-inclined young people online. We are also catering for the needs of rural people cause we have ambassadors in all local governments in Nigeria,” he said. In Zimbabwe, Munyaradzi Dodo is working to make parliamentary proceedings more accessible.  His project – Open Parliament – has been extended to two other countries where citizens learn more about parliamentary business on the social media. “I am working on a project called Open parliament. It is in Zimbabwe and we have launched it in Somalia and Zambia. Open Parliament Zimbabwe works on the government to aggregate government data. We work with Zimbabwean government to aggregate Acts of parliament, proceedings, Senate hearings, and portfolio committee hearings and make them more accessible to people online. We do Facebook live stream on the parliament sessions and we tweet all the parliament events and we break down the Acts so other people can understand them better,” he said. He said attending the TechCamp helped his project. “TechCamp helped me connect with Zambians as I attended the one in Zambia and then it helped us established connections with networks in Zambia. And also, there is collaboration with other Zimbabweans working in similar fields that I met there,” he said. Chabu Mulundu is giving rural people in Zambia a voice to be part of the civic process through her project, ‘Empower to Engage’. “Our first TechCamp pitch was a project called Empower to Engage. It aimed at engaging young people in rural areas who have no internet access to have a voice and also to encourage them in more civic duty participation as well as political participation. The TechCamp I attended previously was on transparency and accountability, and the work that I do apart from the pitch is recruiting. I am in recruitment sector, so transparency for me is a very big issue when it comes to recruitment. When I say that, it is because my organisation and I try to promote fair and equal opportunities for everyone, irrespective of gender, age or where you come from. That can only be done if you have a proper transparency system in place”. Apart from governance issues, some youths are also working to address problems of peace in areas of violence and extremism. Mohammed Limanti is a Nigerian concerned about bringing peace to the areas ravaged by the Boko Haram insurgency. He said as a Peace Ambassador, he uses various media platforms to advocate for peace. “I am a peace ambassador. I advocate and promote peace. My region is one of the regions ravaged by Boko Haram and all sort of insurgencies. After attending my first TechCamp, I got to explore my talent of using various social media platforms to promote peace. I have experience as a journalist, radio presenter. I produce programmes on peace, I interview the political, religious leaders at times, edit it, then come back to post it on Facebook, and people listen and understand my campaign. Sometimes on radio, if I get the opportunity to speak on air like one hour 30 minutes or write a report, I advocate peace. I believe by educating our community, the young ones on the effect of peace, we would have a good generation to come,” he said. Another Nigerian, Muhammad Bukar, said he uses photography and digital storytelling to tell positive stories about people in the areas affected by insurgency that does not make the news. “I am working on digital storytelling, particularly using photography for counter narrative and storytelling. My project is inspired by how the image of Borno State is represented. The mainstream media just cover the bomb blasts, the kidnappings and negative stories.  And there is still so much positive things happening. I am trying to counter-narrate what is really happening in Borno State. I trained about 30 young people in storytelling and photography. I have a community of photographers that are using images and storytelling to tell our stories ourselves, also humanising our stories unlike mainstream media that would just say five died in Borno. We involve in ground-breaking journalism: who really these people are, how it really happened and we comfort their families with these stories. We are building resilience – challenging the extremist propaganda that there is more life in Maiduguri,” he said. Asmau Ayub, a Ghana-based mental health professional, who was also a participant, said her project ‘Peer for Mental Health’ seeks to solve issues of mental health in her country. “I am a mental health professional and my project is basically an online platform known as ‘Peer for Mental Health’. It seeks to promote issues of mental health, talk about breaking stigmas that affect mental health, also gives the opportunity for young people to report issues like suicidal idealisations among their peers. I use online platform because it connects us. Most people are using Facebook, Whatsapp, and Snapchat and so on; so we use the digital tools that already exist to promote issues of mental health,” she said. On his part, Ahmed Buchaka, a Nigerian, is helping young techies to actualise their ideas. “I am working on something new and we hope to launch it January next year. It is a project called ‘Innovation space’ (iSpace) in Nigeria. It is similar to Co-Creation hub but we are doing it free for Nigerians. The purpose of the project is to bring young techies to come together to bring their own ideas into life,” he said. Ahmed also said TechCamp has helped him to love ICT. “I don’t have any background in ICT, but with TechCamp, I love ICT. I’m here to learn, collaborate with other young techies here in Africa and Nigeria and see how we can move forward in ICT”. A trainer at the TechCamp, Tomas Rakos from Prague, Czech Republic, said the TechCamp helped the young ones focus their ideas for impact. “I have trained in TechCamp before in Accra, Lusaka, Europe. The whole programme is designed to help the entrepreneurs’ social impact people from the NGO sector to get their projects conceptualised, put it in practice and get it going. I was working with one of the participants Moses Mwansa in the last two years on a project called ‘My School, My Vote’. It is aimed to bring participative budgeting into the entry schools. Thanks to the TechCamp, we were able to work on this idea. It is his idea because he wanted to help his city of Kitwe and with my expertise, we put a project together, applied for the grant money, received the grant money and got the project going. It’s all thanks to TechCamp. “I’d say techcamp is a platform where if someone has a good idea, they give him the resources, expertise and advises to make it happen,” he said. Addressing the young people at the event, Russell Brooks, Public Affairs Officer, U.S. Consulate-General in Lagos, said the youth were proof that the problems in Africa could be solved by Africans. He said: “When former U.S. president, Barack Obama, established the Young African Leaders Initiative in 2014, he did so out of the conviction that the future of Africa is largely in the hands of its youth. “In providing support for this initiative, the U.S. government has demonstrated its belief that real solutions to African problems can best be developed by Africans.”