The Human Rights Law Service (HURILAWS) Tuesday said prisons can be decongested through more use of non-custodial sentencing. It noted that despite provisions for it in the Lagos State Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL) 2015, prisons remain overcrowded because minor offenders are jailed rather than being given alternative sentences, such as community service. The group said the expectation was that with the ACJL, the number of persons on awaiting trial and in prisons would significantly reduce. “Sadly, that has not been the case,” it said. HURILAWS said the Lagos ACJL has been implemented for more than 10 years with no significant reduction in prison population. It referred to a 2017 report by the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics indicating that Lagos has the largest concentration of persons in prison in Nigeria. “Anecdotal evidence suggests this may be as a result of a weak non-custodial legal framework,” said HURILAWS Senior Legal Officer Collins Okeke during in a briefing in Lagos. According to him, there is a growing shift from custodial to non-custodial sentencing. “Experts around the world are developing new non-custodial measures and improving on existing ones. The Lagos state ACJL 2015 makes provision for non-custodial punishment. “The challenge is that what the Lagos ACJL 2015 provides does not go far enough to significantly reduce prison population in Lagos state. “There is an urgent need to reform non-custodial provisions of the Lagos ACJL 2015. “The Lagos state Chief Judge has introduced sentencing guidelines and trained magistrates on application of restorative justice. “The Lagos House of Assembly should complement the judiciary by extending probation and community service in the ACJL 2015 to adult offenders. “Fines prescribed in Lagos laws should be commensurate to the offense and offenders,” HURILAWS said. The group noted that at present, probation services under the Lagos ACJL 2015 are only available to juvenile offenders. “There appears to be a reluctance to extend probation services to adults even when available evidence suggests probation would have been better employed to rehabilitate adult offenders than imprisonment. “There is also the challenge of infrastructure and personnel. “Lagos State with a population of over 15 million has only two juvenile courts, two remand homes and three approved schools, where children in conflict with the law or beyond parental control are counselled and taken care of by probation officers. “The numbers of probation officers are inadequate; most probation officers are overworked and poorly paid, giving room for corruption,” HURILAWS said.