Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has entered into an agreement with the French government to sponsor science-based lecturers in government-owned tertiary institutions for postgraduate studies abroad. The programme started in 2016, when Kano first sent 11 lecturers from the Kano University of Science and Technology, Wudil, Yusuf Maitama Sule University and Kano State Polytechnic, to study various science-based programmes in prestigious French universities. Another set of 11 were sent in the second batch in 2017, which also included lecturers from Sa’adatu Rimi College of Education, Kumbotso, College of Education and Preliminary, Kano, Audu Bako College of Agriculture and College of Arts, Sciences and Preliminary Studies, Tudunwada. Last year, 10 lecturers from various state-owned tertiary institutions went to France. Altogether, there have been 32 beneficiaries. In a letter of appreciation to the governor, the Chairman of the Kano State Government/French Embassy Joint Scholarship beneficiaries, Malam Bashir Ado of the Chemistry Department, Kano State College of Education and Preliminary Studies, praised Ganduje for being unique and transparent. He added that the state had the highest number of foreign-sponsored students in France. “This shows seriousness and unalloyed commitment,” the letter reads. The programme is being coordinated under the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Higher Education, Dr Hussaini Jarma, whom the beneficiaries praised for his commitment. Jarma said the programme was jointly being funded by the state government and the French government. According to the agreement, the French government pays tuition fees and health insurance expenses. while the state government takes care of students’ upkeep and travelling allowances. “This programme is jointly carried out between the state government and French government. It is restricted only to lecturers.  The state pays all its dues to the French Embassy account directly. There is no third party engagement.  It is a bilateral scholarship scheme with well-defined responsibilities for the two parties, that is Kano State government and French government,” he said Jarma said while some of the beneficiaries completed their second degrees, others enrolled for PhD programmes. This year, Jarma said a fourth batch of lecturers would also go for their postgraduate studies. “Our wish is to, in the next 10 years, have higher institutions that could compete with any similar institutions at the global level,” he said.