The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has assured the victims of the Ibadan tanker fire accident that the Federal Government will provide intervention to help them bounce back. This is coming even as the Oyo State Emergency Management Agency (Oyo SEMA) promised to carry out thorough fumigation of the accident scene as well as total evacuation of the relics of the fire before the end of next week. Recall that on Thursday, a 33,000 litre fuel laden tanker fell on the Sawmill bridge of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, spilling all its content. In the ensuing inferno, atleast three persons were confirmed dead while three vehicles and about ten motorcycles were burnt to ashes. Nearby kiosks and shops with goods worth millions of naira were also torched in the inferno at the Onipepeye axis, under the Sawmill bridge. The Acting Director General, NEMA, Air Commodore Akugbe Iyanmu speaking during an on the spot assessment of the accident scene lamented the rising case of fire accident which he said had led to avoidable deaths of innocent citizens. Accompanied by NEMA Zonal Coordinator, the State Director, Oyo State Emergency Management Agency, Director, Oyo State Fire Service, the NEMA boss assures that the victims, as Nigerians deserve the support from the government through the agency. He said, “We were informed of the incident by our Zonal Coordinator and we also read about it in the news and what the DG emphasised is that anywhere the Nigerian life is threatened and needs humanitarian support, we have to be there. “So, he directed that we move here immediately to see the extent of the crisis, the people affected, the victims and see how the agency can respond. “Assessing the needs of the victims now will be premature, there are relevant agencies including fire service and state emergency agency among others involved, they all will come up with their reports, then we will all put heads together and look at it because it is becoming too frequent and the lives of our brothers and sisters are been lost in avoidable deaths. So, we really have to give maximum attention to it. “As we await the reports from the zone, I can assure you that the intervention will come as soon as possible. In fact, if we can get the reports today, we will intervene today, but we will have to wait for the normal procedures to be followed. “As you are aware, disaster management and humanitarian intervention are procedural, so we just wait for the reports so that we will verify so that intervention will not go to the person that was not affected. “The DG always emphasis that the intervention must always get to the real victims and that is what we want to do and we have to be careful. The National Emergency Management Agency is for Nigerians and all the victims of the fire incident are Nigerians and there is no way they won’t get intervention.” Speaking, the Executive Secretary, Oyo State Emergency Management Agency, Mr Akin Makinde noted that there was no need of cordoning the affected areas, “as you can see, life has returned to this place and every other thing will be done. “Fumigation of this place will be carried out during the week, and the evacuation of the burnt vehicles will also be done without much delay. “What we were waiting for was for the national body to come and assess what had happened. And as you can see, they have come. “What we would need to do is to collaborate more with NEMA to sensitise our people. During the course of that fire, the fire services men were here, it took them 45 minutes to access the venue of that incident. They were barricaded from going into that scene. “If they had allowed the fire services men access to the scene, it wouldn’t have escalated to this point. But we will continue to enlighten our people.” Confirming the situation, Director, Oyo State Fire Service, Mr Paul Oyerele said despite the service mobilising his men from both the nearest Gbagi station as well as from the state headquarters as soon as it got the distress call, the hardship they suffered led to the high rate of casualties. Oyerele said, “When our men got there from Gbagi, which is the nearest station, and the reinforcement from the head office, sent to complement their efforts, just to make sure we minimise the effect of the inferno but when Gbagi team got there, there were a lot of people who prevented our men from getting to work on time. “There were lots of people who gathered round and blocked their way, and before they could manoeuvre to get to the scene of the incident, few moments after that, the inferno broke out. “My advice to the people is that firemen are friends of the citizenry and the masses, anytime they see us, they should allow our men to work, they should pave the way for our men and give us right of way to accident scene, so that we can get there on time and take preventive measures, so that incident like this, could be avoided in the future. “In fact, on some occasions people are so hostile that they start stoning our people for no just reason. It has been like that and it is not the best for us and for the entire citizenry.”