A notorious gang of youths known in Adamawa State as Shilla Boys, killed a 24-year-old student and injured an octogenarian and some other people in three separate incidents around Jimeta, Yola, during the week. In Hospital Road area, the Shilla Boys rounded up on a Computer Science student of the Adamawa State Polytechnic, Emmanuel Hassan, and beat him to death. Emmanuel Hassan, who was described as an easy going, hardworking young man who combined studies with work, is a source of grief to his aged father and other relatives now in mourning at their Post Office area residence in Jimeta. Emmanuel’s elder sister, Lydia Hassan, who spoke to our correspondent on Friday, said the hoodlums surrounded Emmanuel at a famous joint, Madam State, and began to beat him, and that Emmanuel struggled to climb over a nearby fence to the other side in a bid to escape, but that his attackers shouted ‘barawo, barawo’ in Hausa, meaning ‘thief, thief’, following which a crowd which had gathered, joined the Shilla Boys in giving Emmanuel jungle justice. “We were told by those who witnessed the incident that Emmanuel’s terrified exclamations that he was not a thief fell on deaf ears and they punched him to death,” the sister said. Lydia said the family was not aware that Emmanuel had any issue that should warrant the ruthlessness of the Shilla Boys, but that she was sure Emmanuel did not have the mind or time to be a thief. “Emmanuel was always busy at school or at the Azuri Club where he did part time work as a maintenance electrician. He had no time or need for criminal activities,” she said. At the Wauro-jabbe community in the same Jimeta in Yola North LGA, the Shilla Boys abducted a minor, Kumaga Yohanna, and they were on their way to the bush with him when they encountered a team of police and vigilante who rescued him after giving the armed youths a chase. At the Bachure area of Jimeta, the Shila Boys stabbed a woman, said to be in her 80s, and has to be admitted into a hospital. A source said the boys had earlier carried out a mass attack in a street in Bachure where they injured some people, and that they had been after the old woman’s son, only to go after the woman when they could not get the son. The police, who confirmed the incidents, said 16 people had so far been arrested. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Othman Abubakar, said Friday that the police would as usual treat the suspects in accordance to the dictates of the law.