Liverpool has regained top spot in the Premier League table courtesy of a 2-0 victory over Cardiff City in South Wales. Jurgen Klopp’s side patiently toiled in the sunny conditions during the first half, but Georginio Wijnaldum broke the deadlock shortly before the hour mark and James Milner made sure of the points with a late penalty. The Reds had been knocked off the summit by Manchester City’s narrow win over Tottenham Hotspur on Saturday, but the champions must now beat Manchester United at Old Trafford in Wednesday’s derby to retain control of the topsy-turvy title race. Regardless of whether they win the title or not, Liverpool has now broken its club record for number of points in a Premier League season and could end the campaign on 97 points but still miss out on the trophy. As expected, Liverpool quickly assumed control of possession and territory in South Wales, but Cardiff packed men behind the ball and made it difficult for the visitors to break through, with the only notable sight of goal from the opening 20 minutes seeing Sadio Mane slice an effort high and wide. The Reds should have taken the lead midway through the first half, though, when Mohamed Salah and Mane combined to set up Roberto Firmino, who lifted his effort over the bar when he only had Neil Etheridge to beat. Liverpool’s pressure increased as the half wore on and Mane had a half-chance to break the deadlock when he darted across his marker to meet Trent Alexander-Arnold’s low delivery, only to fire over with a difficult finish. Salah then came close just three minutes later when he span away from Bruno Ecuele Manga to leave himself through on goal, but Etheridge was quick off his line to thwart the Egyptian. Cardiff spent the majority of the first half focused on containing Liverpool, but they did almost score against the run of play on the stroke of half time when a scuffed Victor Camarasa effort bounced into the path of Oumar Niasse, who could not get enough on his shot on the turn to really trouble Alisson. Liverpool ended the half with 79% possession but were being made to work by the stubborn hosts, and Cardiff created another half-chance soon after the restart when Nathaniel Mendez-Laing swung a cross in to Sean Morrison, whose looping header landed on the roof of the net.