Starting a successful business is one of the hardest things for most Nigerians. To make it easy for new entrants, non-governmental organisations have taken the campaign to secondary schools where pupils are exposed to basic training on how to start and run a business venture, DANIEL ESSIET reports. More than half of Nigerian citizens under 25 years face unique challenges in starting their businesses. But the country has an opportunity to embrace and meet youths’ expectations by providing tools, information and support. These will not only encourage and motivate millennials to become young entrepreneurs, but make them ethical change-makers in their communities. A  forum organised by Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN) and Aspire Coronation Trust (ACT) Foundation on: My Company, My Region is expected to play an important role in enhancing and encouraging young  entrepreneurs to thrive. It is an initiative aimed at inspiring entrepreneurship spirit among youths and solve the unemployment problem in the country. The forum held in Lagos. JAN’s My Company, My Region is geared towards encouraging junior secondary pupils to learn and apply entrepreneurial thinking as they explore higher education and future career choices. Developed as a response to the alarming dropout rate of pupils between junior secondary and senior secondary schools, it aims to provide young people with the skills, values and opportunities required for wealth generation and gainful employment. A junior pupil of  Imaad Secondary School, Lekki, Lagos State, Master Martins Kazeem, held his  audience spell-bound when he presented his  dream of designing solar powered food processing machine. No one could believe that was coming from a pupil, who was still in the junior secondary school. People saw a young man already thinking about how to solve farmers’ problems and needs every support to make a difference in the society. His presentation spoke hope  into hearts and inspired others to dream. He created an image of a young man on the path to greatness. He received praises from the audience. Speaking after Kazeem and other pupils had made their presentations, JAN Executive Director, Simi Nwogugu, said the organisation’s mission is to change pupils’ perception about life and entrepreneurship. She observed that Kazeem had a pretty clear idea of what he wanted to do and that the organisation was ready to support people like him to work towards achieving their dreams on graduation. She added that the initiative is targeted at Nigerian school children in JSS2 and JSS3, noting that the programme aimed at aiding pupils to explore entrepreneurial opportunities in their regions by educating them on how to convert opportunities to successful businesses. According to her, most people need some preparation before they’re ready for the workforce, and planning should begin long before the time to start a career. Nwogugu expressed delight in the level of support offered by ACT Foundation for creating an enabling environment for entrepreneurial growth. ACT Foundation Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Osayi Allie, restated the grant maker’s commitment to partnering the right organisations to accelerate entrepreneurial development. “This is our second successful partnership with JAN. With them, we look forward to developing world-class entrepreneurs, who can create innovative businesses that solve problems and generate wealth within their communities. ACT Foundation remains dedicated to fostering work readiness and financial literacy among Nigerian youth, skills that are desperately needed if we want them to have a sustainable future,” Ms. Alile continued. Represented by ACT Foundation Head of Programmes, Ndifreke Okwuegbunam, Ms. Allie, said the programme provides pupils an opportunity to learn how to turn an idea into a business. The programme introduced pupils to the process of design thinking as a problem- solving process and provided an authentic entrepreneurial experience for pupils with  each session building towards a product-pitch competition. JAN Programme Manager, Rita Odion said the pupils were exposed to  basic business management issues such as planning for a venture, assessing  market, creating business plans. She said JAN envisioned an educational system with an entrepreneurial and innovative approach where aspiring pupil entrepreneurs will be taught skills that can help them tackle today’s critical socio-economic issues. She said the programme  will lead the aspiring pupils to develop a highly effective leadership skill set with the confidence and practical experience to be successful in their educational career. She said 2,000 pupils have been reached in Lagos and Ogun states.