Crude oil prices are expected to average $66 a barrel this year and $65 a barrel in 2020, World Bank said in its April Commodity Markets Outlook yesterday. This is a downward revision from the October forecast due to the weaker-than-expected global growth outlook and greater-than-anticipated United States (U.S.) production. Its Director, Prospects Group, Ayhan Kose, said: “The outlook for commodity prices is sensitive to policy-related risks, especially for oil. The outlook for oil could be swayed by a range of policy outcomes, including whether the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and partners extend production cuts, the impact of the removal of waivers to the U.S. sanctions on Iran, and looming changes in marine fuel emissions regulations.” After a drop in late 2018, oil prices have risen steadily since the start of the year, as OPEC and partners have cut production, and output has declined in Venezuela and Iran. U.S. shale production is expected to remain robust after surging in 2018. Energy prices overall – which also include natural gas and coal   are expected to average 5.4 per cent lower in 2019 than in 2018. Metal prices are however  expected to continue a recovery this year that follows a sharp drop in the second half of last year. The recovery has been spurred by stabilisation of activity in China after weakness around the turn of the year, as well as various supply shortfalls. Its  Equitable Growth, Finance & Institutions Vice President,  Ceyla Pazarbasioglu, said: “It has become clear that the commodity price cycle has come to an end, which is causing strains for exporters but may offer opportunities for importers. Exporters may have to adapt to slower gains in commodity revenues with economic diversification, while importers could take advantage of lower commodity prices for increased investment.” Agriculture prices are projected to fall 2.6 per cent this year but rebound in 2020 due to lower crop production and higher costs for energy and fertilizers. An escalation of trade tensions would likely push prices lower, but higher-than-expected energy costs could lift prices more than expected. A special focus section shows that when countries intervene to dampen the effect of food price fluctuations on their citizens, the collective intervention of many countries can produce the opposite of the intended effect and amplify movements in world prices – to the detriment of the most vulnerable populations.