The House of Representatives-elect for Isu-Nkwerre-Njaba-Nwangele Federal Constituency in Imo State, Ugonna Ozurigbo, has said assured his colleagues from the state under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Action Alliance (AA) will obey the decision of the of the APC and  President Muhammadu Buhari on the Speakership of the House of Representatives. Ozuruigbo, who spoke with journalists in Owerri, stated that the Reps from APC and AA are have already queued behind Hon Femi Gbajiabiamila as the Speaker in line with the directions of the party. According to Ozuruigbo, who is the serving Deputy Speaker of the Imo State House of Assembly, Gbajiabiamila will emerge the next speaker of the Green Chamber going by the growing support he enjoys among lawmakers. Ozurigbo, who is the Gbajabiamila’s coordinator in the Southeast, noted that apart from Reps elected under the platform of the APC, those from other political parties are also solidly behind Gbajabiamila’s ambition. He said that as a founding member of the APC, he cannot be seen to be opposing the decision of the party and that of President Muhammadu Buhari. He informed that both the President and APC had endorsed Gbajiabiamila as the next Speaker. According to him:  “We cannot afford to be at variance with the decision of the party and the President, we will support Gbajabiamila and that is my message to all the members from the Southeast, we should be part of the mainstream in the 9th session of the National Assembly. “The National Chairman of the APC, Adam’s Oshiomhole has said that the six key principal positions will be divided among the six geopolitical zones and the implication is that of the Southeast did not get anything in the House of Representatives, they will definitely get something from the Senate”. On whether he has the support of the Imo State governor Rochas Okorocha on the decision to back Gbajabiamila, since another Rep has joined the race for the office of the Speaker from his state (Imo), Ozuruigbo said: “Of course Owelle Rochas Okorocha is an APC leader and he respects party decision and that of the President. After I was appointed Gbajabiamila’s coordinator in the Southeast, I came to him and told me and he told me that it was the right thing to do and he gave his blessings”. Besides, Ozuruigbo also noted the Southeast does not have the numerical strength to produce the Speaker of the House of Representatives.