A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, Hon. Obilo Ogbonna has said no politician worked more than Chief Ikechi Emenike for President Muhammadu Buhari’s reelection. His statement reads: “One of the major drawbacks of politics in Abia State is the preponderance of charlatans or people without any known address, either first or second addresses. “One Ben Godson who has no restraint and is available for rent for a kobo has the temerity to mention the revered name of High Chief Ikechi Emenike in his so-called press briefing. “This so-called Ben Godson has no known address in Abia State. Every Abian will tell you that in the last elections, no one campaigned more than High Chief Ikechi Emenike in Abia State and he did so in company of his amiable wife: Ambassador Uzoma Ikechi Emenike who was fully on ground to accompany him on most of the tours. “This is apart from the numerous elaborate meetings and political gatherings he hosted in his Umukabia, Umuahia country home. How then could a journeyman Ben Godson arrive at a conclusion that Ambassador Emenike did not contribute to the fortunes of the Party in Abia State. By the way, when did Ben Godson and his sponsors begin to love President Muhammad Buhari and support APC?” “It is on record that when High Chief Emenike mobilised visionary Abians to support the candidature of President Muhammad Buhari, Ben Godson and some of his sponsors were agents of Governor Rochas Okorocha”.= “Now that Governor Rochas Okorocha is self-inflicted politically down, they have found a new anchor in Senator Orji Uzor Kalu who not only campaigned against President Muhammad Buhari in 2015 but said numerous unprintable things about him. Such characters  and their sponsors should certainly not be taken seriously”. “Abia politics in particular and its development, in general, will continue to be a mirage until the likes of Ben Godson and his sponsors are told in clear language that “politics is not synonymous with criminality and that politics is about decency, truthfulness, progress and should not be a meal ticket for charlatans.” 