The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Sweet Sensation, Lady Kehinde Kamson, has said customers will receive gifts “during this Easter, as the Opebi outlet reopens today.” She said there would be a special promo during the reopening, adding that customers would win prizes on Easter Monday. “All they have to do is keep buying and enjoying the Real Deal Meal from today till April 22 to qualify for a lucky dip on Easter Monday. Customers not living in Opebi, Ikeja and their environs are not left out, as the promo extends to 11 other outlets across Lagos. There will be music, popcorn, candies, cakes and lots more. “It promises to be a special Easter this year at Sweet Sensation and everybody is invited to be a part of the sweet experience,” Kamson said. She said the company, determined to deliver the brand’s promise of quality service, temporarily shut down its Opebi outlet to give it a facelift and introduce incentives for its esteemed customers. Kamson added: “The upgraded facility will now feature a lounge, a Yippee outlet for the fit fam, as well as a fun station outlet for children to have fun and make new friends with their counterparts. “From the backyard of a family home to establishing sub-brands, Sweet Sensation is moving into its 25th year with exciting changes and a reputation as one of the top Quick Service Restaurants (QSR) in Nigeria.” The Head of Marketing, Olakunle Oyebanjo, said the outlet was closed for about three weeks to enable the company upgrade its facilities and improve on its delivery to customers. He said: “One major core value of Sweet Sensation is innovation; we constantly question the status quo and try to ensure that we give the best to our customers. We upgraded our facilities to better our offering to customers. We started with the Isaac Jones, GRA branch to offer more delight to customers and this is because we want to continue to give the best to our customers. We want to give them more quality at affordable rate. “The new thing customers will get in Opebi is that we have a better ambience, we will offer the best of meals and we are introducing other specials, which are more intercontinental-based such that will be found in top or Chinese restaurants. They will get it here at an affordable rate. “We are also introducing a game, Arcada, where family can bond in an exciting environment of fun. We have ps4 games, air hockey and basketball; we have games for two, games for three or more persons, so that they can bond together and become closer. We are introducing healthy meals and fresh made juices of no preservatives and no sugar. These are some of the efforts in line with the brand refresh that the company is going into so that customers can enjoy more.”  