Judicial workers in the country under the auspices of the  Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) has threatened to disrupt courts activities, as well tribunal sittings across the country if the planned removal of the Chief Judge of Kogi state, Justice Nasir Ajanah, is carried out. JUSUN National President Comrade Marwan Mustapha Adamu said such recommendation was null and void and cannot stand the test of time and Warner that the union would not be guaranteed industrial harmony in the  judiciary, as her members would be withdrawn from all courts in the country should the governor be allow to carry out his evil motive of removing the Chief Justice Comrade Mustapha said: “We condemned this wicked recommendation for the removal of the Chief Judge of Kogi state, Justice Nasir Ajanah by the State House. We warned against total shut down of nation’s judiciary in solidarity with our members in the state who have been on strike for five months over this matter and also that the matter is pending in Court. “We see this action by the lawmakers as an affront to the Judiciary and against the doctrine of separation of powers as enshrined in the 1999 constitution as amended. We also believe that for the Assembly to even deliberate on the matter is subjudice, since the issue is before the court. “The national headquarters of the union had earlier seek for an audience with the Governor on how best to resolve the matter but all do not avail”. Judicial workers in the state have been on strike since December 2018 over non-remittance of funds accruing to the state Judiciary resulting in eight months accumulated salary arrears. The workers last month approached the National Industrial Court. The union urged the court to determine whether the Executive arm had the powers or constitutional right to usurp the powers of the JSC, by scheming to take over payment of judiciary staff salaries and other emoluments without reference to and approval of the Commission. It also sought the determination of the Industrial Court whether, on the other hand, the Chief Judge and other heads of courts had received any subvention since July 1, 2018, and have refused to pay the salaries and emoluments of staff. JUSUN urged the court to declare that subject to the provisions of the constitution and laws of Kogi State, amounts standing to the credit of Kogi State Judiciary in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the state, be paid directly to the heads of courts. It also urged the court to declare that the Executive lacked the power to withhold funds accruing to the Judiciary, and its continued refusal to remit such funds were unconstitutional, illegal, ultra vires, wrong, null and void; and of no effect. 