As usual, I am seated on my vantage, comfy chair on this twenty feet high and ten feet broad wall standing between us and the Buhari government. From there, I have watched with some kind of sad bemusement as our Minister of Labour, Dr. Chris Ngige, inadvertently put his Size Eleven foot in it. How do I know he wears Size Eleven? I don’t; but have you noticed that people in government tend to abandon their former shoe sizes called ‘Size C-caution’ and take on these large sizes called ‘Size C-carefree’ that go flip-flop? The Minister of Health, Prof. Adewole, also has that same size! Don’t get me wrong; I’m firmly on Ngige’s side, and I’m firmly on the people’s side. Indeed, I’m firmly on everyone’s side who has a side to stand on. When people put down stakes on a side in an argument, it’s usually because they have something to gain; may be a house, a jet or a future vote as in ‘it’s your turn today to need my vote, it may be my turn tomorrow’. It’s called buying your tomorrow vote today. Nations have been built on such bargains because, really, arguments are bargain chips held in trust. Our Minister of Labour caused something akin to a stir by stirring the hornet’s nest. How was he to know that he would be stung so sharply by so many angry wasps? Indeed, the reactions that have trailed his utterance, that Nigeria presently has enough doctors so it can afford to export the surplus, have come very close to a ‘calling out.’ You know what that is, don’t you? It is that act of asking satisfaction from someone to explain himself (no, not herself; in a woman, it would be considered vulgar) on account of an utterance. The demand usually took different dimensions in the past: a duel of fists, swords or pistols. Very interesting spectacle then. The ones I witnessed in the sixteenth century (truly!) sometimes had people blazing at each other with guns simply for saying someone had told an ‘untruth’! And pouf!, a life would be lost. Anyway, Nigerians appear to have called out the minister to explain himself, which he did. I’m not sure though if the explanation was not longer than the main; you know, like the photocopy being longer than the original and one is not sure any more where the truth lies. It sounded too much like an apologia. However, for anyone to have said, originally or in photocopy, that Nigeria has produced enough doctors has never been sick enough to visit a Nigerian hospital. Or, he has forgotten what it is like to be sick and have had to go to a hospital in his fatherland. The truth is that that statement caused the people’s emotions to boil, then broil over, then froth and finally be vomited. The statement brought to the fore once again, just what the people think about their government functionaries: not much. So, let me see if I can be on the minister’s side here, not that he needs anyone to fight for him; he appears quite capable of putting his foot in it by himself. You know, it’s a little like the advert of a suicide hotline that said, ‘Thinking of killing yourself? Come, let us help.’ So, I have not come to help the minister. No, I have certainly not come to hang him either; my name is Oyinkan, not Brutus. I appear to be clowning around today, don’t I? Never mind me, it’s just one of those days. There are certain truths that the Ministers of Labour and Health need to accept about the country’s health facilities: they hardly exist, and to say that people are not happy about that is to put it very, very mildly. Naturally, when things like the minister’s utterance come into being, then facts that have been socially ignored begin to emerge from people’s angry reactions. For instance, I did not know that the ratio of doctors to the populace stands presently at 1: 6,000. I have no idea what figures the two ministers have been working with, but it could not have been this. I think they probably were using themselves to do the calculations: if the medical field could spare them to go into the political field, then certainly, there must be a surplus. The medical field can also spare more doctors to become tailors, singers, interior decorators, doctors-in-diaspora, etc. Apparently, our two political doctors were only using the absence of training spaces for our budding resident doctors to draw their conclusion. No, no, no. The parameter needs to change sirs. We must shift our attention to the country’s needs rather than the health sector’s affordances. For a country of one hundred and something million people to have only forty thousand or thereabout doctors is far from hitting the mark, hence the absurdity of the ratio mentioned above. The health sector’s needs are enormous and a frontal attack on these needs will serve better than a frontal attack on doctors’ desires for greener pastures. Let’s take the physical needs to start with. I think that every right thinking person has made enough noises about the state of our health facilities. Anytime you have to pass through the public hospitals as a visitor, teaching hospitals included, you have to pray that you should only pass through. If and when you do find yourself becoming a patient, your prayers will now be that you should not contract anything heavier than what you went in for. The hospitals are standing contagion zones. The reasons are not too remote for us to guess: The Honourable Ministers and their families have become twice removed, like remote cousins, from the average Nigerian and can no longer patronise Nigerian institutions, like the schools, the hospitals, or even the road-side bukaterias. This is just not fair; those bukaterias are missing them. The monies government functionaries are said to be spending on their blood pressure alone outside the country are enough to take care of the illnesses that deprived Nigerians across the land shove in my face in traffic: abnormally swollen scrotums, cheeks, breasts, legs, arms, or fingers. Our hospitals, big and small, lack facilities, and the government is pretending not to notice. The dichotomy between the governed and the governing is clearly wide, as the minister’s statement shows. If it wasn’t, he would have known that, according to my research especially from those around me, doctors’ desires for greener pastures is motivated by the absence of fulfilment at home. There is a lack of opportunity because hospitals at home are too few, too primitive, underfunded, lacking in attention, and inadequate in service delivery. Nothing about their situation spells adequacy or surplus of doctors. The governed know all these, but not the governing bodies because they both inhabit different universes. The kind of gulf exhibited in the minister’s utterance is what actually gets the people’s goat. People are angry because the governed and the governing are not feeling the same pain, and yet someone undertakes to rub salt in the people’s wound. The anger that spills out must necessarily flow from the belly. Most Nigerians agree that one of the reasons for the low influx of funds into education or health sectors is this overly large cost of governance. Politicians are paying themselves sums that checkbooks cannot contain as remunerations and pension. On the other hand, I find it marvelous indeed that people are making their feelings known on the subject of the minister’s utterance. This is a good sign; it means that the people wish to repair a very bad situation. The government should listen.  