The House of Representatives member representing, Gumel, Gagarawa, Maigateri, Sule Tankarkar Federal Constituency in Jigawa state, Sani Zorro has called for the resignation of Jigawa state Governor, Alhaji Badaru Abubakar, accusing him of incompetency and highhandedness. Zorro, a former President of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) said the best thing that will happen to Jigawa state is the immediate resignation of Badaru who he said can no longer defend his position as the Chief Security Officer of the state, following pockets of security problems disturbing the state in recent times. But Jigawa state Government has dismissed Sani Zorro’s call, describing it as the aftermath of one who is still suffering from election defeat. Jigawa state Government also described the lawmaker as, “a frustrated mind that have suffered defeat and total rejection from his constituency due to lack of performance at the House of Representatives.” The Special Adviser to Governor Badaru on Political Matters, Alhaji Yahya Muhammad, insisted that, “Zorro should not be taken seriously because he has lost touch with the realities of recent political events in Jigawa state.” Zorro who cited prevailing invasion of bandits and killing of innocent villagers in Jigawa state insisted that Governor Badaru lacked the competence to protect the lives and property of citizens in the state. Even though Yahaya Muhammad claimed that Jigawa in the last four years has been peaceful. Yahya Muhammad noted that, “in the last four years of Governor Badaru, Jigawa has never faced any form of attacks; even the ones that happened are the normal attacks by armed robbers, not bandits or Insurgents as claimed by Zorro.” Zorro berated Badaru for engaging in, “endless and fruitless foreign trips,” while bandits are gradually taken over Jigawa state, adding that, “just recently, Badaru  traveled to China for 14 times in three years on personal businesses instead of focusing on the social economic development and governance in Jigawa state.” The lawmaker alleged that Badaru had invited Chinese companies who are his business partners to forceful take over farm lands in the name of industrialization. According to him, “Badaru gave out over 20,000 hectares of lands to the Chinese company without compensation commiserates to the value of the lands. And when people complain or reject the stipend call compensation, they jail them.” Zorro regretted that the worsening security situation in Zamfara started as a result of negligence and called for urgent action from Jigawa state government before the bandits take over the state. “This was how Zamfara governor neglected his primary responsibility for Governor Forum in Abuja. He spent more time in Abuja more than he did in Zamfara while bandits take over the state. “Now it has gone out of control and we don’t want Jigawa to get to that level. Governor Badaru spends more time out side Jigawa now and ignoring bandits attack in some villages. We want him to resign now before it is too late,” Zorro added. However, Yahya Muhammad disclosed that, “the Farms said to be allocated to Chinese was nothing but a baseless lies. Jigawa state government only engages one Mr. Lee who has been in Nigeria almost all his life. He is a renowned farmer in partnership with the government as people of Jigawa state.” He said in the partnership, “a farmer would release half of his farm to Mr. Lee while he would be operating half, and in this context instead of the previous one season farming now a local farmer would be doing three times farming with the help of the partnership.” According to him, “most part of Jigawa suffered lack of adequate rainy season to enable them have complete farming activities of thrice season and because of this problem,  the government entered into partnership with Mr Lee who would be supplying Water for the farmlands while a farmer would be getting free water, seedlings and other farming implements. Mr. Lee would be farming on half of the farm land, all on leasing arrangement.” Yahya Muhammad refuted the allegation that Jigawa is facing security challenges, saying that, ” in the whole of Nigeria, no State do enjoy peaceful coexistence like Jigawa and Sani Zorro claims are nothing but mischievous and false.” 