Big Brother Naija star, Bisola Aiyeola and popular online comedian, Woli Arole were among the stars that added colour to the private screening of Biodun Stephen’s latest movie, ‘Joba’, at Genesis Cinemas, Maryland, Lagos, on Thursday March 28, 2019. It was a moment for members of the press to get a foretaste of the much-awaited suspenseful and emotional drama, ahead of the cinematic release on April 5, 2019. Although, told using a faith-based template, ‘Joba’ has a strong and relevant emotional core that exists at given period in everybody’s life. It connects the viewers to events in their personal lives that question their beliefs, self-esteem and tenacity. A production of Shutterspeed Projects in collaboration with Cross Dimension Production, Biodun Stephen is able to achieve these, using vivid life experience to pass a message centered on love, strength and omniscience of God. The movie plunges it audience into a very gripping emotional journey on the travails of a young Christian couple battling between their marriage and faith. The faith of the couple is tried, especially when all fingers are pointed to the husband as the cause of their troubles. He must protect his wife who is on the verge of insanity, whilst still managing to keep his faith. Speaking at the event, Stephen said, “The story of ‘Joba’ is amazing. I was driving and listening to a gospel song titled, ‘Jesu Joba’. Right there, I got the idea; I ran home and wrote the story as it plays in my head that same day. Then I shared a post on social media that I have just written an amazing story, that I am very honoured that God chose me to write this story. After I posted it, I got a DM from a woman in South Africa saying, ‘God says I should work with you on this project’. I have never met the women before. Two days later, we signed the contract to collaborate on financing the project. ‘Joba’ is highly emotionally gripping.” The movie, ‘Joba’ which has Stephen and Christine Osifuye as Executive Producers, features prominent acts, including Blossom Chukwujekwu, Enado Odigie, Chris Iheuwa, Ronke Ojo, Christine Osifuye. Judging from Stephen’s cinema works like The Visit and Picture Perfect, ‘Joba’ raises viewers’ enthusiasm and expectations to a rewarding high-quality offering. The cast assemble was perfect. This showed in the chemistry between Ore ofe played by Enado Odigie and Lamide by Blossom Chukwujekwu respectively. Other celebrities present at the screening are, Gospel Singer Psalmos, and Senior Pastor of Christ Livingspring Apostolic Church (CLAM) Wole Oladiyun, among others.