Five suspected kidnappers terrorizing Ondo state citizenry were on Wednesday arrested by men of the Nigeria Police. They were apprehended following the abduction of one Omoghae Igbegbon along Akunnu – Akoko/Auga – Akoko road. They allegedly disposed him of N185,000 and demanded for N30m ransom for his release. Addressing reporters at state police command headquarters, Akure, Police Commissioner, Undie Adie said it took the spirited efforts of his men to track the kidnappers to their hideout in Ibilo, Edo State. He said”On April 2 one Prince Omoghae Igbegbon of Senior Staff Quarters, NIFOR, Benin City Edo State was attacked by unknown gunmen numbering six along Akunnu Akoko/Auga Akoko Road in Ondo State. “The hoodlums robbed him of N185,000 and dragged him into the bush. The abductors demanded N30m as ransom for his release. “On April 3, a team of Policemen with members of vigilante group trailed the kidnappers to their den at Ibilo, Edo State and after exchange of gunfire, the kidnappers fled to unknown destination. “They left behind one pump action, one double barrel and two single barrel guns. The victim escaped to a community in Ibilo where he explained his ordeal in the hands of the kidnappers. “The Police placed the community on red alert to watch out for any strange faces. Thereafter, one Ismaila Wakili,19 years, from Niger State whom the victim later recognized as one of the kidnappers was arrested and handed over to the Police. “Upon interrogation, the suspect confessed committing the crime and mentioned other members of his gang. “The suspect later led a team of detectives to the hideouts of the hoodlums at Aduwawa in Benin City, Edo state. The CP said Abdullahi Sanni, 33, from Kogi State, Mohammed Abdullahi, 36, from Sokoto State, Umoru Usman,25years, from Kebbi state and Sheu Usman, 25, from Niger State were arrested. He said the suspect identified them as members of the gangsters terrorizing Akoko axis of the state. Adie said efforts were on to arrest other fleeing members of the gang, while those already apprehended would be charged to court after conclusion of the ongoing investigation. However, Wakili who had earlier admitted to have participated in the crime denied knowing the other four suspects, stressing that the operation was his first outing. On last Monday bank robbery in Idoani, where seven persons were killed, the Police Commissioner said investigation was on to unveil the perpetrators. Adie added that security measures have been scaled up around bank premises across the 18 local government areas of the state.