The pronouncements of various stakeholders have evoked memories of the 2015 National Assembly leadership debacle. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) lost the opportunity to install its preferred candidates. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI examines the issues at stake and why another fiasco should be averted now. PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari touched a sore point in his four-year administration at a recent a dinner at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, when he lamented about some actions and decisions of the 8th National Assembly that thwarted the realisation of its agenda for change. The president made his feelings known when he hosted governors and senators-elect of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to a dinner at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, recently. President Buhari particularly cited the deliberate and persistent delay in passing the nation’s annual budget by the National Assembly. Since the coming on board of the administration and the inauguration of the 8th Senate, the executive arm led by President Buhari and the National Assembly have been embroiled in several epic battles that have marred the relationship between the two arms. The lack of synergy between the Presidency and members of the National Assembly has been a source of concern to party stakeholders. Indications are that Senator Ali Ndume, who represents Borno South in the Red Chamber, is gearing up to follow the footsteps of Senator Bukola Saraki, by trying to usurp the leadership of the chamber, which has been bestowed on Senator Ahmed Lawan by the APC national leadership. Ndume, it was learnt, has rejected entreaties by the party leadership to drop his ambition. In the view of analysts, the APC appears to be making the same mistake that led to the emergence of the Saraki-led Senate leadership and the Yakubu Dogara-led leadership of the House of Representatives, by seeking to impose Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila on the National Assembly. Such analysts say the party ought to have zoned the positions to its preferred regions and throw it open to all aspirants. This, they say, does not stop the party leadership from backing a preferred candidate. One of the analysts said: “But the way the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is going about it, by imposing particular candidates for the post of the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, amounts to interfering in the affairs of the legislature.” In the same vein, the Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Alhassan Garba, said: “The National Chairman of the APC, with due respect, may not always be right. This is a parliamentary institution only for legislators. Even in our own rules, we don’t create situations whereby only the ruling party members will constitute the committees. So, it can’t be winners-take-all (thing). When we come to sharing committee headship, certainly many committees will go to the opposition party.” With the current state of affairs, those who have already indicated interest to contest for the position of the Senate Presidency and the Speakership of the Green Chamber may not withdraw from the race, in spite of the threats and intimidations from several quarters to do so. Against this background, the leadership of the 9th National Assembly is likely to emerge through elections, rather than affirmations as being proposed by the APC leadership. To avert what happened in 2015, when the leadership of the 8th National Assembly connived with members of the opposition to emerge, observers believe that the party must tow a more conciliatory approach. The greater part of the failings of President Buhari’s first term has been attributed to the glaring lack of synergy between and among the three arms of government. If anything, in the view of public policy analyst, Uche Ugboajah, “the executive, the legislature and the judiciary came across as working at cross purposes, with each other holding tenaciously to its ground against the very interests of the people who put them in government “. With the election over, the attention of Nigerians is now turned to the possible complexion of the National Assembly, particularly the leadership of the 9th Senate. The public policy analyst said the country’s monitised politics has robbed off badly on the National Assembly, particularly the Senate, “robbing it of its dignity and integrity”. He said: “Sadly, the bastion of our contemplative policy making has been reduced to a safe sanctuary for corrupt politicians, especially former governors running away from the law. Although, through the just-concluded general elections, some of these oligarchs of corruption have been shown the way out of the Senate by the electorate, sadly some other more dangerous fugitives sequestered in Abuja are running to take cover at the hallowed chambers of the Senate.” The relationship between the 8th Senate and the Presidency has been acrimonious from the inception of the APC-led government in May 2015. The foundation of the unending rift is traceable to the controversy and contention that greeted the emergence of the senate leadership, where the Presidency and the APC leadership attempted to impose persons of their interest to certain leadership offices at the apex chamber, but without success. Following the emergence of Saraki and Dogara at the helm of affairs at the National Assembly, the executive and the legislative arms of government have been working at cross purposes, particularly with regards to budget preparation. Since 1999, the two arms of government had never experienced the kind of serious face-off over the passage of budgets as it happened in the last four years. Many commentators have urged the APC leadership to act fast to avoid a repeat of what happened in 2015. One of such commentators and a member of the House of Representatives, Abdulmumin Jibrin, said there is likelihood of a repeat of 2015, if the party fails to act fast. Jibrin, who was a guest on Channels TV programme, Sunday Politics, said the majority seat won by the APC should be properly utilised by the party and government of President Buhari. He said: “I had expected that with the experience of 2015, the party must have given direction. It is getting late because lawmakers are not the kind of people you tell to seat and they seat. In the 9th Assembly, I believe that the party should come out to give a direction on what we should do. Most of us believe that we should go with party supremacy, and that is, what the President wants.” In other words, there is need for synergy, for the ruling party to be able to steer the country towards the desired change it promised four years ago. The need for synergy between the executive and the legislative arms of government perhaps explains why there is fusion of powers in the parliamentary system of government, especially the Westminster model; the two arms of government are intermingled. Though there is separation of powers in the presidential system, which Nigeria currently practices, members of the National Assembly are expected to cooperate with the executive, not only because the the ruling party usually has majority in the parliament, but also in pursuit of policies that advance the national interest. So far, such synergy has been lacking between the two arms of government. Buhari’s first budget was presented on December 22, 2015, that was for 2016 budget. It took several months before the budget was passed by the National Assembly and eventually signed into law by the president on May 6, 2016. During the budget defence for that year, a lot of issues came up with some heads of government agencies disowning the amounts allocated to them, while some accused the National Assembly of inserting several projects under their agencies, in what has now become known as ‘budget padding.’ The 2017 budget was presented by President Buhari on December 17, 2016, and it also took several months for the National Assembly to pass it and the president assented to it on June 12, 2017. The controversy that trailed the 2017 budget was minimal compared to the one before it. However, the 2018 budget once again brought to fore the battle between the executive and the National Assembly, especially the Senate. At some point, heads of agencies were said not to be co-operating with the legislature for budget defence, and the president had to give an express directive for all heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to urgently attend to the National Assembly on the budget. In the end, it emerged that projects worth over N570 billion were introduced into the budget by the National Assembly, thereby increasing the size of the budget, which the president was reportedly not comfortable with. The first real battle between the executive arm and the Senate was the prosecution of the two presiding officers, Senate President Bukola Saraki and his deputy Ike Ekweremadu, over allegations that they masterminded the forgery of the Senate rules that ushered them into power. The allegations were that while the Senate rules as obtained in the 7th Assembly provided that the election of presiding officers shall be done via division, which was a form of an open ballot, suddenly, the rules were changed to allow secret ballot, although there was allegedly no time the then Senate changed its rules to accommodate such. As a result of the allegations, the Nigeria Police Force invited Ekweremadu for interrogation, and the Federal Government later initiated charges of forgery against Saraki and Ekweremadu on the matter as prosecution commenced before a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Jabi Division, Abuja. However, in a dramatic turn of events, the charges were dropped in October, 2015. The non-confirmation of Ibrahim Magu as the chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) by the Senate was, and still is, one issue that strained the relationship between the two arms of government. Twice Magu’s name was sent for confirmation to the Senate, and twice he was turned down. The EFCC acting chairman was first nominated in 2016 to head the anti-graft agency, but the Senate rejected him in December of that year, citing a report of the Department of State Security (DSS), which advised against the confirmation. In January 2017, President Buhari re-nominated him for confirmation by the Senate, but it later emerged that the Department of State Security (DSS) submitted two contradictory reports to the Senate on the nominee: one clearing him for confirmation and the other opposing his confirmation. The Senate relied on the later, and rejected Magu’s confirmation for the second time in March 2017. The upper legislative chamber recommended that he should be removed as the acting chairman of the agency. But Buhari refused to budge. As a result, the Senate delayed over 37 confirmations sought by the President for several months, and in some cases up to a year. The 8th Senate, under Saraki’s leadership, also embarked on some investigations that were perceived to be targeted at getting back at the President. For example, the Senate launched an investigation into the activities of the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal, over allegations of mismanagement and corruption, in what is now known as ‘grass-cutting’ deal. The Senate also probed the reinstatement of the former head of a presidential task force on pension, Abdulrasheed Maina, though President Buhari had ordered for his dismissal from the civil service. Being the year the general elections, 2018 was particularly one of sustained battles between the Presidency and members of the National Assembly, particularly the Senate.  One of the most controversial decisions of President Buhari in 2018 was his refusal to sign the electoral reform bill. In February 2018, the National Assembly forwarded an Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill to the President. This was vetoed. It vetoed the bill over disagreements on the issue of whether or not the National Assembly has the right to determine the sequence of elections. The lawmakers in re-ordering the 2019 elections had put the presidential election last, apparently to prevent the possibility of the elections being influenced by any bandwagon effect. The matter went to court and the Court of Appeal ruled in favour of the National Assembly. On June 27, 2018, the National Assembly sent another version of the amended Bill to the President for his assent. This was again vetoed on the grounds that it contained constitutional breaches. On July 24, 2018, the very day the National Assembly embarked on a recess till September 25, the National Assembly again passed another version of the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill which purportedly reached the President on August 3, 2018. Pressures from National Assembly members to the effect that the bill should be signed was rebuffed by the Presidency, with the argument that the President still had enough time, since the Constitution provides for a 30-day window within which he can assent to a bill or he would be deemed to have vetoed it. That 30-day window closed on September 2.