Some reporters and National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) officials have toured selected HIV treatment centres in Lagos. In this travelogue, Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF reports that there is still more to be done to rid the country of the deadly virus. An air-conditioned bus snaked its way out of hideous traffic in Ikeja and deposited its occupants in the heart of Lagos Mainland. The mission: to monitor and evaluate HIV activities in some treatment sites in the state. In no time, the ecstatic visitors were warmly welcomed into the ever-busy bowels of Agbomola Trado Clinic (ATC) in Ebute Meta, an old part of Lagos famous for its colonial-era buildings and Brazilian-style architecture. This instantly laced the trip with a tinge of unusualness, at least for some reporters on the trip. Loud whisperings elicited a barrage of questions: Why a traditional birth attendant home? Is this one of HIV treatment sites? Why not a regular hospital? But, having quickly sensed the discomfiture, Toyin Aderibigbe, NACA’s head of public relations and protocol division, calmly rescued the situation. She surmised that for Nigeria to record any appreciable impact in the fight against HIV, especially stemming the tide of mother-to-child transmission, it is suicidal to ignore the booming business in the homes of traditional birth attendants (TBAs). At some point, this was what nudged global health giants into evolving the idea of training and equipping TBAs in developing countries with information and skills for better service delivery, having realised the increasing popularity of these homes among the local parturient. Although TBAs literally run the show in the country, the jury is out with regards to the roles many unskilled hands play in exacerbating the maternal morbidity and mortality crisis, since many ply their trade in poor sanitary conditions, unskilled personnel, use of unsterilized equipment, and little or no knowledge of prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV. One of the beneficiaries of such trainings is Abidemi Ajayi, 42, who runs ATC. The home was established by his late father, Samuel Ajayi, in 1969. With the latter’s demise eight years ago, he is now fully in charge of administering a home that handles between 3-4 deliveries per day. Although the new ATC helmsman may not be a certified nurse, doctor or midwife, he appears skilled enough – through trainings and apprenticeship – in birth attendant issues, having been trained to proficiency in the skills needed to manage complicated pregnancies, childbirth, and the immediate postnatal period and in the identification and referral of complications in women and newborns. Being a traditional home, ATC relies heavily on herbal medicine and other concoctions to give succor to hordes of people thronging the facility daily, using the services of ten traditional and nursing professionals. Large plastic pots containing various soaked herbal mixtures dot several corners. Apart from attending to pregnant mothers, the homes also handles a coterie of services including management and referral services on infertility, HIV/AIDS, Malaria, haemorrhage, hypertensive disorders, and sepsis. All these have been fingered as the key contributors to maternal deaths in the country. But the home cannot be said to be a run-of-mill. The first floor of the small building housing ATC is fortified with modern diagnostic equipment, including scan, etc. There is also an ambulance that is ready to answer the calls of high-risk pregnancies and obstetric emergencies on a 24-hour basis. It delivery rooms are fairly okay. Enquiries showed that ATC charges N5,000 for antenatal services for a pregnancy between 1-6 months; it is slightly higher if the pregnancy has reached advanced stages before registering in the home for prenatal care. In all cases, Abidemi assured it is the rule of thumb to run HIV test for pregnant women before antenatal registration is formalised in a home where every normal delivery attracts N15,000. However, unlike in ATC where we were warmly received and given a freehand to carry out our mission in an unfettered atmosphere, our next port of call presented a complicated scenario that left a sour taste in the mouth. Despite the presence of two senior officials of the Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LSACA) in our team, those who run the Health Centre and Maternity on Harvey Road, Yaba, rebuffed all entreaties to allow us access to interact with people undergoing treatment in the facility. Its medical director (MD) said she would be summarily suspended if discovered to have spoken to the press or allowed us to interact with patients without “a written authorisation from the above,” forcing our team to exit the hospital with mission unaccomplished. Not satisfied with the excuses, The Nation, days after the disappointment, returned to Harvey Road Health Centre and Maternity incognito. It was discovered that more than 500 people, including twenty children, are currently undergoing HIV treatment in the facility. One very touching case is that of 14-year old Obinna Sunday who tested positive after he was picked up from the streets by a public-spirited neighbour last December. His parents are said to have died, leaving him with only his sister, who surprisingly is not tested positive. Findings further showed that Obinna’s mother was HIV positive, which probably contributed to her death; though his father’s status or cause of death could not be ascertained. One thing however stands in the way of Obinna’s treatment: inability to afford the cost of different types of tests recommended for him. The total cost of the tests is N8,500, which his sister said she could not afford. While HIV-infected persons currently on treatment at Harvey Road Health Centre and Maternity said treatment is absolutely free, they complained that tests cost a fortune. Cost of different types of tests ranges from N8,500 to 10,500, depending on what doctors recommended. But if the case of Obinna as an infected teenager is pitiable, stories of younger children orphaned by HIV abound in the hospital. While infected children whose parents are still alive are usually luckier, since family members are said to often to rally round to get money for tests, the orphans are often marooned to languish in hopelessness as a result of inability to afford test fees. Another pathetic case involved a boy who tested positive on account of a blood transfusion that went awry in the one hospital where he was treated. Though he is undergoing treatment now at Harvey Road Health Centre and Maternity, his status was said to have been discovered when tests showed that his entire family members – father, mother and siblings – are not HIV positive. One woman (name withheld) in her forties, who is also undergoing treatment in the hospital, has one of her children as HIV positive as a result of not knowing her status throughout her child-bearing years. Reality was to dawn on her when her last child became a regular hospital guest; perpetually falling ill. Tests later revealed that the mother and child are infected, though her children tested negative, spewing memories that leave her ruing the risks she took by not undergoing HIV tests before and during her four pregnancies. Still smarting from the bruises of disappointment at Harvey Road, our team finally berthed at the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), another HIV treatment centre in Yaba, where we were welcomed with open arms. While testing and treatment are free in many hospitals, it was learnt that each patient at NIMR has to contend with the hassles of paying N500 for baseline tests and N5,000 for enrolment for a lifetime treatment. Any public health facility that charges any user fee, according to NACA, is indulging in illegality because such fees have been found to reduce or block access to test or treatment, thus negating operational guidelines of the agency. Also coming to fore during the trip are issues of children born with HIV, but have grown weary of taking the requisite drugs with the passage of time, now rebelling against their mothers who have neither mustered the will to disclose to their wards the purpose of the incessant drugs nor their HIV status. But Naco Ezieme, coordinator of a support group that tends to the welfare and psychosocial needs of people living with HIV at NIMR, advised that mothers should reveal the closely-guarded secret to their children immediately after attaining adolescence. After interacting extensively with Dr. Nkiru David, a consultant pediatrician and head of clinical sciences department at NIMR, it is apparent that there is still a lot of stigma and discrimination about HIV, which discourages many people from wanting to come out for tests and treatment. While NIMR has mother-to-child transmission rate of less than one per cent, its adolescents’ clinic faces a lot of issues. One of them is lack of adherence to drugs and medication by adolescents and young adults who have been on antiretroviral drugs for about fifteen years only to become lethargic when they grow up. The consultant pediatrician added that the country needs manpower – social scientists and counselors that are trained in the delivery of health information – to understand young adults’ issues and be able to discuss same with them with empathy. “We need people to empathetically understand young adults’ concerns to let them know that these (anti-retroviral) drugs are needed not only for their continued health and viral load suppression, but for the health of the entire community because these are sexually active people,” she advised. She also cautioned that taking drugs haphazardly leads to drug resistance, stressing that adolescents and young adults living with HIV are a special group that needs a lot of support so as not to reverse the gains recorded so far. But the trip was not all about tales of woes and disappointment, as Prof Babatunde Salako, director general of NIMR, was on hand to field questions, temporarily halting his official duties despite not being pre-informed of the team’s trip. He stated that he finds it amiss that Nigerians hardly roll out the drums to celebrate whenever their country records a milestone. By this, Salako referred to the recent news of gains the country has recorded in the fight against the deadly virus, as exemplified by the findings of the Nigeria AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey (NAIIS), which was unveiled last month by President Muhammadu Buhari. “Let me congratulate the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) for the successful completion of the nationwide survey on HIV and beyond the fact that it was a successful project, the results were also very encouraging. We now have national prevalence of 1.4 percent, which is 50 percent less than what it used to be and that cuts across for most regions of the country,” he said. The foremost nephrologist, however, expressed his fears about NAIIS results, afraid that the good news about HIV prevalence rate in the country may cause donor fund to dry up. “The major fear that I have is that if the donors leave today, we will not be able to sustain this achievement. The government has to begin to put in the front burner the process of ensuring that they take over the funding of HIV completely from donors. We need to begin to look inwards to start bringing on board the process of sustainability, more like a take over from the funders and taking full responsibility to run all these programmes,” Salako said. 