Daystar Christian Centre has donated N10million to United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) in support of victims of conflicts in Africa. The donation was made on Tuesday at the Daystar Christian Centre in Lagos. Senior Pastor of the church, Sam Adeyemi, said that the donation was to support UNHCR in helping people forced to flee their homes because of conflict, violence or persecution in Africa. He said it was the church’s commitment toward restoring the resilience of families forced to flee across the continent. According to him: “When people flee their homes and leave everything they own behind, their needs become critical and their coping mechanisms compromised. “Without help, they cannot access shelter, or even cooking utensils – let alone education and healthcare. “Some arrive with severe trauma after facing unimaginable ordeals before and during flights.” He added: “We need to do something like Jesus Christ did; he provided food for the hungry, he touch sick people physical and heals their sicknesses”. “So our church (Daystar Christian Centre) has been involved in practical interventions in the community, building schools for children, providing bags for families that cannot afford, school fees for family that cannot afford, hospitals bills etc.” He also pointed out the church has been involved in community development project since inception. “We at Daystar are happy to support UNHCR’s work on the ground to provide emergency relief and support to our forcibly displaced brothers and sisters,” Adeyemi said. He also challenged the church community to tackle humanitarian challenges around them like Jesus would have done. The Assistant Communications Officer, UNHCR Nigeria, Mr. Gabriel Adeyemo, said the donation, which was about $30,000 was handed over to the UNHCR team in Lagos by the church in Lagos. Mr. Jose Antonio-Canhandula, UNHCR’s Representative to Nigeria and ECOWAS appreciated the church for the donation. He said the donation would be used to provide life-saving emergency assistance to families forced to flee their homes. “Nigeria is unfortunately affected by this phenomenon, not only in North-East, but also the Middle Belt. “Many displaced persons do not have where to sleep; no access to water; and access to healthcare facilities is very limited. “They do not participate in the economy and cannot fend for themselves,” Antonio-Canhandula said. He said the commitment of Daystar Centre to help uprooted families was truly appreciated and also demonstrated the spirit of sharing. He said that the “centre had paved the way for other civic organisations to support our brothers and sisters fleeing due to conflict.” Antonio-Canhandula noted that the world’s displaced persons had reached 68.5 million, adding an unprecedented level of over 25 million of them live in Sub-Saharan Africa. He said that 76 per cent of the 68.5 million were women and children. Mrs. Needa Jehu-Mazou, the Head of UNHCR’S private sector partnerships in Africa, said Nigeria is a very hospitable country and as foster in our entire plans for refugees problems over the year. She also said “what Daystar has demonstrated today is phenomenal, really ground breaking. “It is the first faith- based organisation in Africa to throw it weight and align publicly with the UN and commit funds to it. “9% of all our income comes from the private sector globally. It was 423 million dollars last year and I’m very proud to count Nigerians in Daystar Church in particular among this donors. “We also have incredible other donors in Nigeria like 2 baba who support us immensely, financially and so many other ways,” she stressed.  