The coalition of opposition political parties in Republic of Benin on Thursday raised the alarm over alleged growing political tension in the country. The opposition parties claimed persecution of politicians opposed to the ruling government in the country. A statement by one of the leaders of the coalition, Mr. Jean Adèkambi, claimed President Patrice Talon has dissolved all political parties and created only two new parties. Adekambi said that the move was aimed at preventing opposition parties from participating in the forthcoming parliamentary elections in the country. He noted that President Muhammadu Buhari “as the chairman of ECOWAS and a big brother in Africa cannot fold his arms and watch Benin Republic throw the sub-region into a possible endless political crisis that might cause the loss of thousands of lives and resources.” Adèkambi said: “Let this be clear. Nigeria has over 800 kilometers land border with Benin Republic and principally stands to suffer the consequences of any political instability in Benin Republic. “Therefore, on behalf of all opposition parties in Benin Republic, we call on the Government and good people of Nigeria to prevail on President Patrice Talon to revert to status quo by allowing all the political parties to participate in the forthcoming election and if possibly, postpone the election to give room for equal participation. “And also, to caution the president against the militarisation on Benin politics by rolling out hundreds of war equipment on the streets and every site in Benin to intimidate the public.” He added: “The latest development is that President Patrice Talon has dissolved all political parties and single-handedly created two new parties to pave way for his relatives and his loyalist and to prevent the opposition from taking part in the forthcoming parliamentary election. “The ECOWAS protocol agreement forbids any government from organising any non-consensual electoral process six months to election date. “Benin Republic has commenced full campaign for the Parliamentary Election, scheduled to take place on the 28th April, 2019. That is to say, in two weeks’ time. “In view of this development, we fear that Nigeria may recall its citizens from Benin Republic ahead of the election and may close its border to Benin Republic as to avert any possible security breach and inflow of displaced persons. This will then bring hardship to the ordinary man of Benin Republic.” The Beninese Foreign Affairs and Cooperation minister, Aurelian Agbenonci, contacted described the claims as fake news. Agbenonci said that the accusation is, no doubt, the handiwork of opposition leaders. He noted that there are procedures to establish political parties in Benin Republic. The international community, he said, to ignore the allegation especially when the country is peaceful. Agbenonci said: “The story in question is fake news. It is the handiwork of opposition leaders in the country. “As I speak to you, I am just from a rally in my country and I didn’t go with a policeman. “The country is peaceful and those saying that they are being persecuted are lying. “There is a procedure in establishing political parties in our country and they need to follow the guidelines.”