A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Chukwuemeka, has told Governor Nyesom Wike to leave Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi alone. Wike, after last week’s Supreme Court judgments, pleaded with Amaechi and other APC chieftains to join him to develop the state. He promised that court cases against APC members would be discontinued. But Eze, in a statement yesterday, said: “Wike’s broadcast, among other deficiencies, failed to address the critical issues bedevilling the state, especially insecurity and loss of value for human lives. The starting point for the governor ought to have been an unreserved apology to the people because he engineered the insecurity which has destroyed many communities. “Contrary to the erroneous impression contained in Wike’s broadcast, Amaechi has no case that Wike’s Attorney-General has to withdraw or recommend to be discontinued, as it is hypocritical to sit on a seat of the governor unjustly and look for who to hold peace parley with. “Neither the Transportation Minister nor the APC is the cause of the current bad governance in Rivers State. Wike, through his lack of vision and ineptitude, has turned the once economically bubbling, secure and peaceful state into a hotbed of cultism, killings, kidnapping and an unsafe haven. Persons who are responsible for the criminal activities are those who the governor and PDP are backing and protecting.” Chukwuemeka added that rather than waste time on empty broadcast, Wike should be preparing his defence at the tribunal “because the manipulated and massively-rigged elections would not stand”. He added: “It is sad that instead of Wike to address challenging issues confronting the people, he is dwelling so much on the crisis he ignited in Rivers APC, to his benefit. “While Wike was holding his state broadcast, medical doctors were protesting their unpaid seven-month salaries. Pensioners and civil servants are at a loss on who to present their plight of unpaid pensions and salaries months to.” The chieftain restated that pursuance of peace without social justice, mapping of strategies on job creation and elimination of hunger, amelioration of the plights of the civil servants, pensioners and most importantly strategies on restoration of security in Rivers State, would not bring about the desired results.