To stem the spread of malaria in the country, Evans Therapeutics Ltd, manufacturer and marketer of high quality pharmaceutical and healthcare products, organised a community sensitisation and awareness programme where residents of Isolo Local Government Area were tested and treated for malaria. The drug manufacturing giant said it embarked on the initiative in order to help Nigeria achieve the WHO’s 2030 target for malaria elimination. The residents, who came out in their numbers to partake in the early detection of malaria cases, were also given anti-malaria drugs. They also underwent several health check-ups to ensure they stay healthy. Speaking on the significance of the programme, Sesan Adebayo, marketing manager of Evans Therapeutics, said it was necessary to sensitise the community on the burden of malaria and create awareness on the economic impact as well as the disease prevention and drug use. He added that Nigeria is still struggling with malaria elimination because of people’s attitude towards the disease and the low level of knowledge towards drug use, noting that anti-malaria drug is being abused in the country. “One of the things we have identified is that malaria is highly over diagnosed in Nigeria and many times, people use anti-malaria when they don’t have the sickness. This is an environment where people have easy access to drugs; anybody can go to drug store to purchase anti-malaria drugs. “To conquer malaria, anti-malaria was made an over-the-counter drug, the only drug you can buy without prescription and people have abused that privilege. People will walk up to drug store without conducting test to request for anti-malaria drugs, with the assumption that they have malaria and then, not only will the drug refuse to work, they suffer the side effects of that medicine as well,” he stressed. While lamenting that the abuse of drugs has increased anti-malaria resistance in the parasites, he called for proper prescription and usage of the dosage in order to avoid negative implication on the health of individuals. “If anti-malaria is not properly used, the chances that the malaria parasite will develop resistance to that drug will increase,” he cautioned. Also speaking on ways to achieve zero malaria in the country, Gafar Yusuf, national sales manager, Evans Therapeutics, said it is imperative that every stakeholder plays a collaborative role in ensuring not only the reduction, but total elimination of malaria in Nigeria. To achieve the objective, he urged all health workers, companies, government and the community members need to work together. “It is not enough to set goals to eradicate malaria; everyone must play his or her own part in ensuring the success of achieving zero malaria,” he noted. As a pharmaceutical company whose goal is to ensure elimination of malaria among residents as part of its corporate social responsibility, Evans Therapeutics has brought testing and treatment of the disease to the communities, Yusuf said. This is in line with the 2019 theme, he added. “We don’t only manufacture but market sales of anti-malaria. It is important that we collaborate with the government and the people, and reach out to the grassroots by having direct contact with the communities. “That is why in our own small way as a company, we have carried out our anti-malaria campaign in Isolo Local Government Area by reaching out to residents and government workers and trying to make sure that they don’t only have knowledge of the parasites, but how to manage such when they have malaria,” he said. On how Nigeria can achieve near zero malaria by 2030, Yusuf lamented that the country was not able to meet or achieve the first policy of the WHO’s millennium development goal (MDG), which has now been changed to sustainable development goal (SDG), noting that the country must double its efforts in putting strategies in place for the people to ensure that before 2030, it attains minimal level of eradication of the disease, if not totally. On her part, Dr. Ajayi Temitope, medical officer of health, Isolo Local Government Area, said Nigeria isprone to malaria because of some peculiar  environmental factors and must ensure it increases awareness on the disease as most people misdiagnose malaria for other ailments. “People think that malaria has to do with fever and body pains; it also increases the rate of maternal and infant mortality. People just look at malaria as ordinary because it has been with us for a very long time and so they don’t take it serious. That is why they actually have issues with taking care of this scourge because Nigeria is actually endemic,” she said. She further stressed that Nigeria has neglected the preventive measures and focused on curative, which has contributed to the rise of the disease. Dr. Temitope, however, charged Nigerians to be mindful of their environment and ensure they stay clean and safe as well as use treated mosquito nets to prevent malaria. “Nigeria focuses on curative rather than preventive. This is why the malarial drugs are becoming resistant; it’s just like insecticides, once you use it for certain period of time, the organisms start creating genes that are resistant. That  is what has been happening, which is why chloroquine has been phased out over time and unfortunately, the same behaviour we had towards chloroquine is what we have put into the rest of the anti-malaria drugs. tal health would definitely go a long way rather than drugs, which become resistant eventually. “So people should focus more on the preventive aspect first and after that, then we can now turn to the treatment. After prevention, we will discover that people don’t have to come down with malaria and then the awareness has to continue because it is not every fever that is malaria,” she explained.