Police chief Mohammed Adamu yesterday in Lagos warned his men against extrajudicial killing, saying those involved won’t go unpunished. He said their supervisors, including the Area Commander, Divisional Police Officer and Sectional Head would also be sanctioned for failing in their duties The Acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP) was in Lagos over the killing of two persons – Kolade Johnson and Adaobi Ifeanyi – by some policemen in Onipetesi and Ajegunle on March 31 and last Saturday. He visited Governor Akinwunmi Ambode at Lagos House, Alausa,  as well as addressed officers of the state command at the Police College, Ikeja. Adamu told Ambode that the killings were unfortunate, adding that the officers involved had been arrested and were being tried internally. “But they will eventually be charged to court for prosecution. We are to serve the public by protecting lives and property and we are doing this dutifully, but the act of a few of us is denting the good work the majority is doing,” he said. Ambode said under his watch in the last four years,    the police have kept Lagos safe. The governor promised to continue to support the police to discharge their duty effectively. At the Police College, the IGP said:  “I am sounding this note of warning, loud and clear that any police personnel, who insists on being incorrigible by engaging in abuse of his or her power or misuse of his or her weapons with fatal outcome and in utter disregard to statutory provisions will be arrested, investigated through our internal disciplinary machinery, and if found culpable, shall be dismissed. “In addition, such personnel will be charged with murder or sundry offences, depending on his or her level of criminal liability. “The line supervisors of such officers, including the Area Commander, Divisional Police Officer or Sectional Head shall be held liable for lacking supervision and shall be similarly sanctioned. “Rather than the use of firearms, we shall henceforth use technologies and weapon systems such as electro-muscular disruption technology, commonly known as Taser or Stun Guns by the police for routine patrols as a strategic approach towards reducing incidence of fatalities associated with misapplication of lethal weapons by the police. “In perfecting these initiatives, we shall be engaging with human rights bodies, international agencies, development partners and civil society organisations.” He promised more administrative actions directed at giving  new orientation to the police and rejigging the command. “This may involve personnel re-organisation. There will be nationwide tailor-made training and capacity development programmes directed at reorienting personnel,” the police chief said. Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu noted that Adamu was visiting the command at an inauspicious time. “The Lagos State Police Command would have loved to welcome the IG on a better note than the one that brought him. It is sad and unfortunate that the IG is visiting Lagos due to the continuous misdemeanour of some policemen in Lagos’’,  he said, adding: “However, the command is blessed with hardworking officers making sure crime is reduced.”