Funke Akindele-Bello has been unveiled as the new face of ‘Clean Naija’. ‘CLEAN NAIJA’ is an improved hygiene initiative that will be taken to every nooks and crannies of the country through a designed Public , Private Partnership scheme. Championed by Reckitt Benckiser Nigeria; makers of Dettol – the  ‘Clean Naija’ initiative,is aimed at creating awareness, education and driving behavioral change to achieve a cleaner and healthier Nigeria. Notable Nigerians both in the public and private sector have thrown their weight behind the initiative which officially kicked off on Tuesday in Lagos with the unveiling of the Popular Nigerian actress and comedian as the campaign Ambassador and face for the nationwide initiative. According to the General Manager, Reckitt Benckiser West Africa, Mr. Dayanand Sriram who shed light on the lead of the initiative and why the campaign should be embraced by all Nigerians and even at the grassroots said, “At RB, we have made it our responsibility and purpose to help people live healthier lives and have happier homes. This is why we are launching the Clean Naija Initiative which is an integrated multi-level campaign with the aim of creating awareness, education and driving behavioral change to achieve a cleaner and healthier Nigeria. “We recognize this is an enormous task and we acknowledge the partnership of the Federal Ministry of Water Resources. It is also my utmost pleasure to unveil leading Nollywood actress and award-winning producer Funke Akindele-Bello as the Dettol Clean Naija brand ambassador. “Mrs. Akindele-Bello has been a worthy role model and an inspiration for all Nigerians. Having also recorded success in various selfless activities, we have deemed her worthy of leading our “Clean Naija Initiative”, he added. The initiative comes at a critical time, as Nigeria has been ranked amongst the top nations that bear a significant portion of the global disease burden and high under-5 mortality rates with over 150,000 children dying yearly. Many of these diseases, such as diarrhea can be prevented by proper hand washing habits and wide-scale hygiene education. This is a major motivation for the setting up of the Clean Naija Initiative. “As a new mother, I have come to appreciate more the need for improved hygiene practices. This campaign will help sensitise Nigerians on the health benefits of adopting simple but effective hygienic practices like proper hand washing regularly,” said Akindele, who recently welcomed a set of twins. RB Nigeria, through the Dettol brand, has over the years developed a number of programs committed to tackling public health and hygiene issues. These include the School Hygiene Program and the New Mum’s Program. The ‘Clean Naija Initiative’ will help educate children on proper hand hygiene habits through the School Hygiene Program, while the New Mum’s Program will enlighten pregnant and new mothers on hygienic practices that will protect them and their children from deadly diseases like diarrhea. Through the School Hygiene Program, RB has educated over seven million children on proper hand hygiene habits, while the company has used the New Mum’s Program to educate over five million pregnant and new mothers on hygienic practices to protect them during the pre- and post- phases of their pregnancies.