A socio-political group within the Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Frontiers (NSO-F), has tasked the incoming government of Prince Dapo Abiodun and his deputy, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, to pay urgent attention to the infrastructural needs of the people of the state, once they take office in May. The group lamented what it described as the very sorry state of infrastructure across the state. The Coordinator of the group, Comrade AbdulKareem Adesina, who spoke during a thanksgiving reception organized by the group for the deputy-governor-elect at Ota at the weekend, said the people of the state who voted massively for APC inspite of efforts to deceive them into doing otherwise, are expecting the new government to turn the fortunes of the state around positively. He appreciated the person of the deputy governor-elect, describing her as a worthy daughter of Ota-land. He tasked her to use her good office to attract development to the area which has suffered untold neglect from successive administration in spite of its huge contribution to the revenue of the state. Responding, the deputy governor-elect, Oyedele-Salako, who was in attendance at the event, thanked members of the group for going the extra mile in their support for her and the APC “without collecting a kobo from her or the party.” She promised to work for the people and assured them that the incoming governor of the state, Prince Dapo Abiodun did not seek political power for any other reason other than to better the lot of the people. “We are not here to milk the state but to work hard and turn the fortunes of Ogun state around for better. So we believe God that achieving success will not be difficult for us. We didn’t just promise the people, we meant to achieve all we offered to do. Moving round the state during the campaigns, we have seen the many needs of our people in the nooks and crannies of the state. And I can assure you that gradually, we will touch every part of the state,” she promised.