MEMBERS of Banono and Akut villages in Kajuru Local Government Area, Kaduna State have fled the communities, for fear of further attacks following the Monday morning attacks. Twenty villagers were killed in early Monday morning attack by unknown gunmen, who stormed the village in military uniform. But, the police in Kaduna yesterday confirmed that 21 persons were killed in the attacks. The command, in a statement by its spokesman, DSP Yakubu Sabo, said efforts were on to apprehend the fleeing bandits, who also rustled about 50 cows. Sabo added that reinforcement of more police operatives have been drafted to the area for intensive combing and patrol with a view to forestall further breakdown of law and order and reprisal. The police statement reads: “On 08/04/19 at about 0930HRS, we received a distress call that a group of armed men in large number on motor bikes entered Banono and Anguwan Aku – both are remote neighbouring villages in Kufana district of Kajuru LGA. “The attackers started shooting sporadically attacking the villagers and in the process, shot and killed 21 persons,  injured three others and torched 10 houses. “The bandits also rustled about 50 cows. Combine teams of  PMF personnel, conventional police, Army and the local vigilance group were promptly mobilised to the area, repelled the attack and evacuated both the dead and the injured to hospital. “While efforts are on to apprehend the fleeing criminals, reinforcement of more police operatives have been drafted to the area for intensive combing and patrol with a view to forestall further breakdown of law and order/reprisal and arrest of the perpetrators.” It added: “The Commissioner of Police Ahmad Abdurrahman is saddened by this attack and has reiterated the command’s commitment to apprehend the culprits. He sincerely condoled with the affected families on the irreparable losses.” The command appeals to members of the public to continue to assist the police with useful information that could help in addressing the security challenges and for the possible arrest of the criminals. However, a source from the village, Auta Bulus, told The Nation that they had fled Banono village since after the attack. He, however, said 27 bodies were counted after the attacks on Monday. But, stakeholders in the Birnin-Gwari Local Government Area, where people, including two policemen were also killed at the weekend, have asked the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, to extend the ban on mining to the council. The acting IGP, while addressing reporters in Abuja at the weekend, announced the ban on mining activities in Zamfara State, to checkmate armed banditry and kidnapping on the rise in the state.