Six students of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) have been awarded scholarship in the 2018/2019 academic session by SEYEM08, an American-based Foundation. The recipients were: Adejumo Oluwapelumi Oluwaseyi; Adisa Peter Ayotomiwa; Babatunde Titilayo Precillia; Omokayode Samuel Opeoluwa; Vincent Ufuoma; and Yormenkpeh Samson Oluwatosin. This was conveyed in a letter presented to the institution’s Dean of Student Affairs, Dr Dosu Malomo. It was learnt that the recipients were selected after a competitive essay test the foundation conducted in January and supervised by officials from the Students Affairs division of FUOYE. Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, Ayotomiwa, a 300-Level undergraduate of Geophysics, said he was joyful when he heard he was shortlisted. He said: “I am a beneficiary of SEYEM08 foundation. My joy knew no bounds when I saw my name in the list. If I hadn’t been on the list, I don’t know what would have happened to my studentship.” Babatunde Titilayo Priscilla from FUOYE’s Department of Public Administration said the scholarship has prevented her from dropping out from school. She said: “I was very happy when they gave me the scholarship. I am a hustler; and denying me this scholarship could make me drop out of school.” Oluwatosin from the Department of Theatre and Media Arts, also said but for the scholarship he would have left school for a year. He said: “I also benefited from the SEYEM08 Foundation. I’m very grateful and will continue to be because if I was not awarded the scholarship, perhaps I’ll have to miss exams again which may earn me an extra year. May you continue to flourish in abundant blessing.” Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, the Foundation’s Chairman, Mr. Olayemi Adedoja, said the gesture was to help young people realise their potentials. He said: “The goal of the scholarship is to encourage indigent students that all they need to be successful is to believe that with God all things are possible. All we are doing is just to give back in our little way to encourage potentials.” The Dean of Students Affairs, Dr. Dosu Malomo, thanked the foundation for its gesture. He advised the recipients of the scholarship to make judicious use of it. He said: “First, I want to thank this Foundation for reaching out to some of our students in FUOYE who are struggling with their school fees by granting them scholarship.” “I believe this is a gesture that cannot be forgotten by the recipients of this year’s scholarship award because the foundation has gone so far to save students’ future. “Second, let me congratulate the recipients of this year’s scholarship award. I want them to put in their best to their studies for it is the only way to reciprocate this gesture.”