The race for the Senate Presidency is getting exciting by the day. Yesterday two former Senate Presidents, ex-Speaker, ex-PDP governors backed the ambition of Senator Ahmed Lawan, who promised an independent legislature; Borno elders denied endorsing any candidate, and some All Progressives Congress (APC) youths urged the party to take all zones seriously. Yusuf Alli, Gbade Ogunwale and Onyedi Ojiabor report. Two ex-Senate Presidents, ex-Speaker, ex-PDP governors back Lawan  The jostle for the Office of the Senate President assumed a new dimension yesterday following the backing of the Senate Leader, Dr Ahmad Lawan by two former Presidents of the Senate and a former Speaker of the House of Representatives. Some former governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have also joined the push for Lawan. But Lawan and members of his campaign team yesterday met with more Senators-elect to explain their agenda of a United National Assembly. According to an investigation by our correspondent, the two ex-Senate Presidents, ex-Speaker and former PDP governors (names withheld) were said to be backing Lawan based on principles and the “need for a more robust legislature.” A few of the ex-governors hinged their support on “personal relationship they have had with Lawan irrespective of the position of their party.” The affected former chairmen of the National Assembly have “rated Lawan as a lawmaker with enormous legislative experience.” It was learnt that some of the foot soldiers of the ex-Senate Presidents had been meeting with Senators-elect to woo them for Lawan. A top source, who spoke in confidence with our correspondent, said: “The mandate given to Lawan and other APC lawmakers to reach out to top leaders and members of the opposition has started yielding results. “At least two former Senate Presidents, a former Speaker,  about three ex-PDP governors and some former ministers during the 16-year administration of PDP have joined forces with Lawan. They believe that Lawan’s choice will be better for the upper chamber. “These leaders have directed their supporters and loyalists to serve as lobbyists for Lawan because of the “need for a more robust legislature. They believe the Senate is derailing and losing its maturity. “At the appropriate time, all these leaders will publicly unveil their support for Lawan.” But Lawan yesterday had an audience with more Senators-elect from PDP in Abuja on how to have a united Senate and National Assembly. He pleaded with the Senators-elect to “rise above partisanship and give him a chance to lead the National Assembly. One of the PDP Senators-elect said: “Lawan actually assured us of fairness, equity and justice. We are happy that he is promising that there will be no discrimination. “So far, we are all weighing options because Sen. Ali Ndume has met with some of us too. Although our party is yet to come up with a position on the 9th Senate Presidency, this one-on-one initiative of Lawan has given us the opportunity to know who he is. When we get to the bridge, we will cross it.” Continue in page 2