The All Progressives Congress (APC) South East zone Stakeholders rose from a meeting Saturday in Enugu with a call to the national leadership of the party to revisit the subsisting zoning of principal offices in the 9th National Assembly in a more equitable manner that would accord more deserving positions to the South East zone. This, they said, was with recourse to the consideration that the country rests on the six geopolitical zones of South East, South-South, South West, North Central, North East and North West. In a communique read by the national vice chairman of the party, South East, Hon Emma Eneukwu, the stakeholders urged the national leadership of the party to draw strength from the need “to utilize the zoning of principal offices in the 9th National Assembly to further deepen and strengthen the electoral appeal of the party, especially in parts of the country where it may be considered as weak.” They admonished that at all times it should be borne in mind that since democracy is a dynamic process, the party should remain a truly national political party with broad based support in all parts of the country, the South East inclusive. The stakeholders deplored in strong terms, what they called “the undue interference and unwholesome meddlesomeness by forces by forces from outside the zone in the affairs of the South East of our great party aimed at fictionalising and destabilizing the party in the zone.” Present at the meeting include the minister for Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu; the minister for Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige; VON DG, Osita Okechukwu; Hon Nkeiru Onyejeocha and Hon Chile Okafor both aspirants to the Speakership of the House of Representatives. Others include Senator Chris Adighije, Senator elect Orji Uzor Kalu, Chief Uche Ogah, General J. O. J. Okoloagu (rtd), Dr Emeka Worgu, and a host of others. The stakeholders at the end set up a contact (lobby) committee to reach out to other zones of the country regards to their demand. The committee is headed by Dr Ogbonnaya Onu. Others include Dr Chris Ngige, Geoffrey Onyeama, Azubuike Udah, Senator Chris Nwankwo, Mrs. Ugo Okoye and Hon Austin Chukwukere. A reconciliation committee was also set up to be headed by Emeka Worgu while Sunny Onyeukwu would serve as secretary.   