China reaffirmed their supremacy at the 2019 ITTF World Championships when they swept medals in mixed doubles, men’s doubles and women singles on Saturday April 27 in Budapest, Hungary. A slow start the previous day against Ding Ning, it was somewhat similar for Liu Shiwen in opposition to Chen Meng who approached proceedings in a very deliberate manner, her services taking an eternity. Eventually, in the opening game she gained success by the minimal margin. Resolute, Liu Shiwen responded to secure the second and third games; at all times trying to increase the tempo of the play. In the fourth game Chen Meng went ahead 7-3, Liu Shiwen won the next three points, Chen Meng called “Time Out”; the break proved effective. She surrendered just one further point, parity. Electing to serve from the centre of the table, thus being able to cover any angles Chen Meng may achieve, Liu Shiwen did a Ding Ning of the previous day; she won the fifth game without surrendering a single point. Now confident, in the sixth game, Liu Shiwen established an 8-3 lead. The next two points went to Chen Meng, Liu Shiwen called “Time Out”. She secured the next point before after scintillating exchanges holding two match points at 10-8; she converted at the first attempt. For the Men’s Doubles Final, focused Ma Long and Wang Chuqin made the best possible start, the early timing for which the Chinese are renowned being paramount. Crowd support, Ovidiu Ionescu and Alvaro Robles responded; level at 8-all in the second game, the secured the next three points to level matters. Advice from Chen Qi, in the third game Ma Long and Wang Chuqin made the better start. They established a 4-1 lead; Ovidiu Ionescu and Alvaro Robles reduced the arrears to one point at 7-6, Chen Qi called his troops to order, “Time Out”. It proved a wise move, the duo won the next four points and at the second attempt secured the game. Once more in the fourth game, Ma Long and Wang Chuqin made the better start, they established a 5-2 lead; Ovidiu Ionescu and Alvaro Robles called “Time Out”. The break worked but in favour of China, Ma Long and Wang Chuqin surrendered just one more point; they were asserting control. Brave efforts from Ovidiu Ionescu and Alvaro Robles but matters were moving in one direction, in the fifth game Ma Long and Wang Chuqin established a stranglehold. They moved ahead 8-2, at 10-4 they held six match points, at the third attempt they converted. In the mixed doubles, Xu Xin and Liu Shiwen defeated their Germany counterparts to claim gold medals. The tournament ends today April 28 with men’s singles and women’s doubles finals. 