SIR: Since the end of the Nigeria-Biafra civil war, Nigeria hasn’t known true peace, as ethno-religious and political troubles have become features of our national life. Today, Boko Haram, a deadly insurgent group, has emerged in the north. Their hatred or distaste for western education underpins their philosophy. The crazed and murderous insurgents have seized the north-east by the jugular, killing people and taking female students captive. Some years ago, the Boko Haram group raided Chibok Girls’ Secondary in Borno State and took many school girls captive. It took intense negotiations between the federal government and members of the Boko Haram group before the girls were released from captivity. Later, the insurgents raided Dapchi Girls’ Technical College, Yobe and abducted school girls. While other girls who are Moslems had been released and united with their families, Leah Sharibu is still in captivity for holding fast to her Christian faith. While the Boko-Haram insurgency has remained unabated, the herdsmen are causing havoc in every nook and cranny of Nigeria. From Lafia to Taraba, and from Enugu to Anambra, the cattle herders have run amok, killing people and destroying the farmlands of farmers in their host communities. In the past week, they raided a community in Anambra West Local Government in Anambra State and killed six people. Where are the killers? Have they been arrested and arraigned as demanded by the law? In addition to this, in Zamfara State where governance is on recess for many years, the state government is conceding the state to the rampaging bandits. In Zamfara, anarchy reigns while Governor Abdulaziz Yari, a globe-trotter, is keen on satisfying and fulfilling his wanderlust desires. In other states like Kastina and Kaduna, pockets of violence do erupt there causing loss of human lives and property. Nigeria has returned to the Hobbessian state of nature where life is short, brutish, and nasty. In today’s Nigeria, we do not place high premium on human lives. That’s why a trigger-happy policeman shot and killed Kolade Johnson, recently, for violating no laws of Nigeria. Now, teenage school boys, who are cultists relish listening to mordant tales instead of imbibing the habit of reading. They kill one another in the name of rival cult fights. Now, the entire south-east is suffering from the infestation of cultism with its attendant deaths of young people. However, it is our political leaders at different levels of government who arm and sponsor the cultists to unleash harm on their political opponents and rivals during electioneering and on election days. But he who sows wind will reap whirlwind. Nigeria has now become a theatre of unsolved murder cases because our political leaders are complicit in the deeds.  Uruowulu-Obosi, Anambra State.