The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) has given home renovation loans of N14 million to some Chellerams Plc workers in Lagos. Its Managing Director, Mr Ahmed Dangiwa, said the fund would empower the beneficiaries to put their homes in better condition, adding that the bank’s target was to ensure many Nigerians had suitable houses. The beneficiaries were given N1million each, which Dangiwa said was part of efforts by the bank to complement President Muhammadu Buhari’s housing reforms. Represented by FMBN Zonal Coordinator, Lagos, Mr  Abiodun Fashina, the MD said the bank will continue to keep its promise on home ownership to Nigerians. He said: “FMBN has a mandate to provide affordable mortgages to Nigerian workers, particularly low and medium income earners though the National Housing Fund scheme. The Fund is sourced from 2.5 per cent of the basic income of workers earning the minimum wage and who are 18 years and above.’’ He said the fund’s objective is to provide cheap source of loans to nurture and sustain the mortgage industry and facilitate affordable homeownership for the low and medium income group. He explained that Section 14(2) of the NHF Act Cap N.45 of 1992 stipulates that a contributor to the NHF could access a loan from the fund to build, purchase or renovate  an house. According to him, to achieve this, FMBN has developed concessionary loan windows to enable Nigerians access mortgages for home ownership. He stated further that about N21.6 billion had, so far, been disbursed by the bank to 26,275 beneficiaries across the country under the Home Renovation Loan window. He identified lack of access to land, inadequate funding, inaccessibility of mortgage loans due to improper property titles, as some of the challenges facing the Fund. Others, he said, are low income of prospective borrowers, which affects affordability, cumbersome procedures for obtaining governor’s consent to land, which is also costly. Earlier, Chellerams Chief Executive Officer Mr Aditya Chellaram said the gesture was a demonstration of the firm’s concern for its staff welfare. The FMBN’s Lagos State Coordinator, Apapa office, Mrs Okoli Uche, urged the beneficiaries to ensure that the loans were used for what they were meant for. Uche advised Nigerians, who were yet to get their homes to key into the fund’s ‘Rent to Own’ housing programme, adding that it would enable them to access a house and pay for maximum of 15  years before becoming the owner