A widow whose son was a beneficiary of a scholarship scheme for indigent students in Anambra State, Mrs Victoria Ekwuoba, was full of thanks to God for being part of those whose wards were selected for the award. Ekwuoba said she had planned paying her child’s school fees with the proceeds from her farm before she was informed that her child was among the 35 beneficiaries. She expressed appreciation to the benefactor, the Onyebuchi Chris Ifediora (OCI) Foundation, a Non-Governmental Organisation, for the gesture. She said, “I had earlier borrowed money from my brother with the hope that when I harvest my crops and sell them, I will refund the money. “But with this scholarship , I can easily refund the money and face other needs of the home,” she said. Another beneficiary, Lucky Odinaka from Community Secondary School, Nando, while praying for the benefactor, promised to make him proud in his academic pursuits. Presenting the awards at Otuocha in Anambra East Local Government Area, founder of the foundation, Dr Chris Ifediora, said the scholarship was targeted at encouraging intelligent but indigent students in the area. Ifediora, who was represented by the Domestic Liaison Officer, Mrs Imelda Emeka, said the organisation had so far awarded scholarships to 72 pupils and students since inception in 2017. He explained that the beneficiaries, selected from various schools in Ayamelum, Anambra East and West Local Government Areas, mostly agricultural belts, consisted of 12 senior secondary school pupils who got N30,000 for registration for the NECO/WAEC Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) and 23 junior secondary school pupils who got N5,000 each for the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE). He said eight other students in tertiary institutions had also benefitted from the scholarship under the Cyfed Undergraduate Scholarships Scheme. Ifediora said the senior secondary school winners were examined in four subjects – English language, Mathematics, Biology and Civic Education; while the junior school recipients were strictly the best puils of Nsugbe community origin. “The selection of these students was based on their performance at the IFOMSSA (Ifedioramma Okafor Secondary School Academic) Challenge.  From 2020, the entire public secondary schools in Otuocha zone will be part of the IFOMSSA Challenge and Award,” he said. He said the Foundation had also introduced an award to cover UTME registration fees for winners at the senior category, who excelled in the examination. Also, the Acting Zonal Director of Education, Otuocha zone, Mrs Esther Okpoko, said the state government would continue to partner the Foundation and others to impact the desired knowledge on students.