Five aviation unions have concluded plans to picket Caverton Helicopters today over alleged ill-treatment meted out to their members by the police. The unions include the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE); Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN); Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals (ANAP); National Association of Air Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) and Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations Civil Services Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE). The unions said they resolved to take the action following the alleged parlous handling of issues involving their workers and the police. According to them, the picketing will hold today and tomorrow to enable members express their displeasure over the denial of their rights by the police and the alleged inability of Caverton Helicopters to pay their members their terminal benefits. In a circular letter issued at the weekend to all aviation workers, the labour union leaders directed those in Lagos to assemble today and tomorrow at 9 a.m at Freedom Square at the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) headquarters to protest what they called the denial of their rights by the police. According to the circular, dated April 10, and jointly signed by NUATE’s General Secretary, Ocheme Aba; ATSSSAN’s Deputy General Secretary, Frances Akinjole; ANAP’s Secretary General, Abdul Rasaq Saidu; NAAPE Deputy General Secretary, Umoh Ofonime and AUPCTRE’s General Secretary, Bello M. A, workers in Port Harcourt are to also assemble at the NAF Base operations of Caverton Helicopters to carry out similar protests. The circular reads: “In the early hours of Thursday, April 9, 2019, the Nigeria Police Force stormed Caverton Helicopters – Commando fashion – and intimidated, harassed, assaulted, brutalised and traumatised officials and members of NUATE who were engaged in the lawful activity of picketing Caverton Helicopters under the directive of the union; 12 of them were violently whisked away to an unknown destination. “They were later found to have been detained at a facility in Oshodi, Lagos, operated by the Lagos State Environmental Safety Corps Task Force. But the 12 comrades were later released after a mass protest at the airport by fellow comrades. It is noteworthy that no particular charges were entered against them by the police. “Also, NUATE’s official vehicle was towed away to the same facility and damaged beyond repair in the process. “Two of the assaulted comrades are still on treatment for the injuries received in the hands of the police while the lone female comrade among them is currently on trauma therapy.” The unions said all aviation unions condemned “the ungodly collaboration between Caverton Helicopters and the police to deny the firm’s workers the representation of their unions and their rights guaranteed by the nation’s Constitution and Labour laws”.