The Kebbi state government has concluded the recruitment process of 2000 teachers, the Commissioner for Education, Muhammad Aliero, has said. He said the recruitment was done to aid the development of basic education in the state. The commissioner disclosed this during an interview with reporters in Birnin Kebbi, the state capital. He said “(Even this month) Throughout, I was away to some local governments because we are recruiting about 2000 staff. “I went to all the headquarters and we have finished the recruitment of 2000. “We will start giving the offer by this month. We designed a very nice format where we will give automatic offer to anyone who made ‘A’.” He said the administration of Governor Abubakar Bagudu, met a very “sorrowful basic education condition” when it took over. Aliero said this made the administration to pay more attention to the sector. The commissioner said: “Education in Kebbi state is thriving very well given the kind of Governor that we have. We have an amiable Governor who is education-friendly. “When he came on board, (I’m sure that you have gone round and seen that our boarding schools), Government Day schools have enough furniture. “While coming on board, he gave premium to the education sector. “He met a very sorrowful basic education condition, where over 70% were still on the ground but 80% with no accommodation, bed and mattresses.” He also said the administration will continue the Cash Transfer Programme being implemented by the United Nations Children Fund in the state. According to him, the CTP project has increased school attendance and enrollment. He said: “We find it very laudable and interesting because it has gingered the attendance retention of our schools in a very big way. Because, before the cash transfer, only few schools have full attendance but now I think…. “If you compare the three local governments that enjoyed the programme. Very soon, we, in the state here, are planning to take over after the UNICEF intervention. “Our hands are on deck to make sure that we continue with the programme. I think I told you that Kebbi state spends 280 million on feeding. We have built 40 nomadic schools. “We have identified 504 almajiri Islamic schools. We will make necessary renovation for them and we’ll make sure that we send mathematics and English teachers to them. “When we do that, by 2020, our volume of out -of- school -children (OSC) will be very low and depleted. We will be the least in the north.”