The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has identified approaches the Oil and Gas Trainers Association (OGTAN) should adopt to make training in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry meet globally acceptable industry standards. NCDMB Executive Secretary, Simbi Wabote, in his presentation on “Human capital development as a driver for national transformation”, theme of OGTAN’s 2nd annual international conference  and exhibition, which held in Lagos, noted that the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD) Act supports local capacity development. According to him, the NOGICD Act provisions on human capital development are contained in Sections 10 (1)b, 28, 29, and 40, which stipulate that Nigerians shall be given first consideration for training and employment in any project executed by any operator or project promoter in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. He, however, noted that OGTAN as the nation’s premier training organisation, must ensure the implementation of a structured and standardised approach to human capacity development in the oil and gas industry. He said: “To operate as a Training Business Group, OGTAN must interface with key stakeholders, including local and international organisations, academia, and government agencies, as well as promote opportunities for on-the-job training through collaborative efforts with operating and service companies in Nigeria.” To him, for OGTAN to excel, it must adopt the seven Cs policy – categorisation, certification, compliance, collaboration, competency, curriculum and cost.  Wabote said: “Use the next one year to complete the categorisation of the training facilities on offer by OGTAN members.  At least, ensure 50 per cent increase in recognisable certification of your course offerings within the next two years and demonstrate full compliance with the NOGICD Act and any other laws of the land. “On collaboration, share facilities, resources, and ideas among yourselves as well as with external parties. Collaborate with the industry to secure and utilise subject matter experts to augment your training resource and ensure competence, OGTAN should take it upon itself to organise refresher and ‘Train the Trainer’ courses for its members. “Curriculum launch of the OGTAN training compendium at the next conference with a listing of all the courses on offer with their certifications will be very important, while such training must offer value for money. Deploy technology as necessary to drive down your cost. “Note that it is recognised that the government has implemented several initiatives to address our educational challenges, but the private sector has a big role to play in the delivery of quality education and training. There is opportunity to leverage the huge appetite for education and training to reprioritise focus areas and redistribute responsibilities. Human capacity development is the route via which we transform human liabilities into human capita.” He said Warren Buffet recognises what 50 per cent of human capacity has achieved for America and imagine what 100 per cent can achieve, same principle is applicable to Nigeria. OGTAN President, Dr. Mayowa Afe, said: “On our part and for the purpose of improved training service deliveries and value to our members, OGTAN is currently embarking on categorisation of our members in conjunction with all stakeholders. Issuance of guidelines for standardisation of training/establishment of National Occupational Standard (NOS) in conjunction with NCDMB and other stakeholders, and fostering collaboration between regulatory bodies, academia and the oil & gas industry, to help close the gap between university education and the practical requirements of the oil and gas industry.” Afe said OGTAN’s challenges include the perceived notion that anything local or Nigerian is not good enough coupled with Nigerians’ attitude for foreign training for reasons of personal gains in preference to patronage and development of local capacities and capabilities. Funding has also impeded the tooling, training and development of world class trainers in country. We need special funding interventions. OGTAN wants a seat on the governing council of relevant government institutions such as PTDF, NCDMB, NBTE, NUC, among others.