Barely two weeks after losing an eligibility suit filed against Governor Kayode Fayemi at the Supreme Court, former Ekiti Governor Segun Oni has sunk deeper into trouble with party leaders. Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in his native Ifaki Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government Area have summoned him defend himself against certain allegations. Oni, a former Deputy National Chairman (South) of the APC, had challenged Fayemi’s victory at the May 12, 2018 governorship primary in which he came second after he initially congratulated the winner. The ex-governor, in his suit, claimed that Fayemi was not eligible to stand as the APC flag bearer because he did not resign from office as Minister of Mines and Steel Development 30 days before the shadow election. Oni also averred in his suit the White Paper by a Judicial Commission of Inquiry raised by former Governor Ayo Fayose indicted Fayemi and barred him from holding public office for ten years. Prominent party leaders including the state APC Elders’ Forum had begged Oni to withdraw the case after the suit was filed at the Federal High Court but the former governor insisted on pursuing the case to a logical conclusion. But the Ifaki-born politician failed in his bid to sack Fayemi from office as his case was thrown out by the Federal High Court, Ado Ekiti; Court of Appeal sitting in Ado Ekiti and the Supreme Court in Abuja which all held that his case lacked merit. The APC executives in Ifaki Ward 2 have summoned Oni to appear before them within seven days to defend himself. The summon was contained in a letter dated 24th April, 2019 seen by our reporter on Tuesday signed by ward chairman and secretary and addressed to Oni. The letter reads: “We the executive members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ifaki Ekiti hereby request your presence at the Ilero Town Hall, Ilogbe, Ifaki Ekiti to clear some allegations against your person by some members of the APC Ward II, Ifaki Ekiti. “Kindly indicate by informing the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Ward II, Ifaki Ekiti the convenient time and date to meet the executive members within the next seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter. “Please treat as very urgent.” The state APC Publicity Secretary, Chief Ade Ajayi, confirmed the disciplinary action being taken by party leaders in Ifaki against Oni. Ajayi, a former House of Assembly member, said the party constitution provides for disciplinary action against any erring member. He said: “The party is bigger than any individual and the party constitution stipulates disciplinary action against any member found to have contravened party rules and regulations. “The party constitution provides that any disciplinary action against any member should start from his ward where such an individual will be given an opportunity to defend himself.” Fayemi, had within hours of winning the primary last year, visited Oni and other fellow contestants as a gesture of reconciliation and request to work together. Oni was also offered the Ekiti North senatorial ticket of the party, which he ceded to fellow Ifaki indigene who represented the district between 2011 and 2015, Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi.