THE numerous challenges facing Nigeria and other African countries are surmountable by Africans with the right knowledge, Managing Partner, Verraki Partners, Niyi Yusuf, has said. He spoke during the unveiling of the firm’s new corporate identity in Lagos. During an interactive session with reporters at the event, Yusuf explained that Verraki is a new business and technology solutions firm. He said the firm would be working with enterprises and governments to ignite opportunities, unleash their potential, pivot and turnaround their performance to create a better future across the continent. Yusuf, a former Country Managing Director for Accenture, promised to partner enterprises and governments to accelerate the development and transformation of Africa. He said the new entity was focused on implementing technology and business solutions designed inherently for Africa and specifically fit for purpose, while also curating business ventures to unlock new sources of growth across the continent. Led by foremost corporate professionals, Verraki said it will apply its global expertise and local insights to partner with enterprises and governments to accelerate the development and transformation of Africa by providing business solutions uniquely tailored for Africa. With the launch, Verraki is asserting its capability not only to provide tailored business solutions across technology, advisory and ventures, cutting across the social sector, services and real sector, but also its focus on working with its clients to provide solutions to Africa’s seemingly intractable challenges. “Professional services firms in Africa are currently at an inflexion point. Digital technologies, revolutionary ideas and new business models are creating disruptions and new factors such as agility, flexibility, risk tolerance, cost-leadership, value for money and entrepreneurship are key requirements for success. Verraki’s birth at an auspicious time like this is driven by our understanding of clients’ needs and our desire to harvest the opportunities the disruption brings and participate fully, via a rebalance and reconfiguration to address the specific needs of the market. “We are now able to expand our services to cover more sectors of the economy, to service different types of clients (small and big, local and multinational) and invest in the market while taking measured risks and developing relevant home-grown solutions that will be needs-based and affordable, offering significant value for money, he said.