Reader, have you noticed how bizarrely hot and unbearably, absurdly, unbelievably high the temperature has turned? You have? Then why have you not done something about it? I’m waiting for someone to have a good talk with the sun so it would turn down the volume of its intensity just now. I’m hoping that person will be you because the gentlemen I am seeing around me are only moaning. I can see someone going around with his fan which he has connected to a generating set which he carries around on his head. I confess I cannot do that. I just did my hair. I can see another one watering himself constantly like a plant from a bucket of water which he carries around with him. Again, I don’t think I can do that. My dress may get wet. ‘The weather, Madam; it is so hot I want to take off my flesh and sit in my bones!’, said the Rev. Sidney Smith. I have said this before? Forgive me, it’s this intrepid, scalding, sultry, superheated, sweltering, ultra-hot weather. I am so hot and bothered now even the dictionary has run out of words. The worst of the thing is that the only known remedy is not practicable just now in this land: no electricity to power the air conditioners. Enough of the weather moans. Someone tried unsuccessfully to play a practical joke on me on April 1, generally called April Fool’s Day, but I refused to believe it. The text tried to convince me that a machine had been invented that could uproot a fully grown tree and plant it somewhere else. The demonstration looked so life-like but I knew better; I knew that the magic for uprooting mature trees has not yet been invented. I ask you, where will the roots go? What I am waiting for is the machine that can uproot an entire house and plant it somewhere else. Yes, please, I have a few houses in mind. Have you noticed that Nigerians have this penchant of building their houses like ants, taking it right to the edge of their lot, whether it is sitting at the edge of a street, cliff or river? Well, I have, and I find it exasperating. I wish indeed that I could uproot such houses, and their owners of course, and plant them in this new place that has just been discovered: I think they call it Planet Mars. That’s right; there is plenty of land there for everyone who is land-hungry. Whenever I have had to look for an address in any locality in Nigeria, I find that I have to pass through streets that have been narrowed to mere slits by unconscionable landlords and land grabbers who have built their houses or fences right up to the very edge of the street so that you cannot turn the corner without making straight at an on-coming traffic! That is the foolish Nigerian mentality. He paid for the land; so he has to use every centimeter of it! Who will deliver us? So, I say, when I got the video of the tree-uprooting machine, I really wondered who was fooling whom. I mean if it was supposed to be an April Fool’s Day joke on me, it worked and it didn’t work but it got me really thinking, about so many things. It got me thinking about the month of April (very hot), fools (very many) and comedians (very funny). Let’s start from the beginning. Many people have written about the concept of April Fool’s Day and from it all, I have come away with one fact: the day commemorates nothing but a need for the world to go gaga on a certain day. As I said some time ago on this column, the day might have come about because a king in some far away land once asked his Fool, also known as Court Jester, to sit on his throne for one day. The only act that the said Fool was said to have enacted was that a day be set aside to celebrate, wait for it, tomfoolery. The Court jester obviously felt that everyone needed a day in which to let all their hairs down. Right. So, the person who sent me that tree-moving machine video wanted me to laugh at the improbability, and also marvel at the probability of the march of science. Even though science makes enquiries into natural phenomena and from it brings out other phenomena like tree-moving machines, however, there is an intervening variable, which is the human mind. In this case, the minds are from the western hemisphere. Someone did some nimble thinking to have devised that machine, if even in jest. Sadly, the minds of Nigerians (and Africans in general) are not so nimble. Someone said that the minds we carry around in Nigeria are festered and putrefied sores, that is why we cannot do any innovative thinking. Someone else pointed out that the country produces civil and structural and systems engineers without number, and yet the Chinese are building our rail tracks. There is no end to the number of our electrical engineers and yet there is no electricity. There are doctors without number in this country and yet people go to India for medical problems. Just yesterday, the president was lamenting that the country was spending tens of billions in Naira on medical tourism alone. There are enough professionals to power everything in this country, and yet nothing works. I can imagine the Court Jester taking one look at this country and giving this admonition to the king, if there was one. ‘Your country is more foolish than the King’s Fool, my Liege’, he would say. There are enough professionals to get everything running in this country, from the electricity problem to the rail track problem to the hospital problem, even to making the streets air-conditioned just to save me from this heat. Methinks that the bottleneck somehow lies somewhere between the government and the administrators of its policies. Certainly, since we always say that the buck stops at the king’s table, then the government carries the blame. It is certainly foolish to keep using our resources in this country to develop our manpower and then tell them we do not value them, and complain when other countries attract them with good work environments. Since we are running a free economy, no one can blame anyone for seeking good pasture elsewhere, particularly if, after developing them, we tell them that we do not value them. Then we turn around to import from other countries at exorbitant amounts other professionals to replace the very native manpower we surreptitiously chased out of our own land. Now, really, who’s the fool?! We really need to wise up. Our governments and the administrators interpreting the government’s policies appear to be either short-sighted, like me, or love their mess of porridge too much and too readily surrender our country’s birthrights. They forget too blithely two things: porridge soon dries up or becomes useless. More importantly, their failure spells someone else’s success. The failure of this country is the success of the beneficiary country, say China. In effect, our failure to develop Nigeria is a move to develop China using our hands. It is that simple. April Fools’ Day exists to help us remember that many a true word has been spoken in jest. Court Fools have been known through the ages to remind their counties’ Lieges that the ultimate comfort of the country is the comfort of the king. The entire country is one big fool if we let our national foolishness continue. To let it continue is to prepare to self-destruct.       