Victor Basola though a graduate of Biochemistry discovered his passion in book publishing. In this interview with Omolara Akintoye, the Managing Director/Chief Executive, Aaron & Hur Publishing, a creative book publishing firm based in Lagos with branches nationwide, explains his rise from grass to grace. Excerpts: What’s your assessment of the publishing industry? Publishing is one of the most profitable businesses right now in Nigeria. In fact, no matter who you are, you can venture into printing and publishing even if you don’t have a kobo on you. It is a knowledge based business that you can enter even without your own money. This is because the customer pays you upfront and you use the customer’s money to complete the job and then get your balance when you deliver the job. If you don’t have the printing knowledge, you can partner with a very good printer and share profit until you get grounded in the technicalities. One major warning, if you don’t know how to print don’t attempt to use your customer’s project to learn, you may land in the police station. People keep saying that Nigerians don’t read and I say, I don’t know about that because we have been printing thousands of books weekly for our numerous clients all over the world at Aaron & Hur  Publishing for the last eight years since we started. If you don’t know any business to start, just go to Shomolu and keep your eyes and hears open and you will be on your way out of poverty. Challenges encountered at the beginning At the beginning, I had serious problems because I didn’t know how to print. I only knew how to write and edit manuscripts. And that alone is not enough to pay my bills because the real money is in the printing. So I was busy travelling round the country to get jobs while the printers sat in one place and made huge profit from my labours. And you know what? I kept running into debts!!! Because if there are issues with the quality of the books, I had to use my money to repair it or if the books get lost in transit, I had to bear the loss. Also, because I wasn’t involved in the printing the cost of production, producing high quality books was very expensive because after the printer charges a high amount, I still added my own profit which made the margin too high and I was termed expensive by clients, hence I kept losing jobs. So I had to find a way to eliminate the middle man so as to keep my expenses low and the final margin very small. As God will have it, in 2015, after about 4 years of suffering I met a man who asked me to pay him N40,000 (about $110) for him to teach me printing for three days. Can you imagine, N40,000 for only three days? Anyway, I had no option but to humble myself, pay him the money and grabbed the life-saving knowledge in three days. That knowledge was a life saver. After then I began to control the printing process and then began to see some profit for my labour. That was when I could employ quality staff and I began to duplicate my influence in faithful men who became able to handle the business even as I travel around the world on my Evangelistic trips. Tell us about the initial capital and how you were able to get it? In the printing and publishing industry in Nigeria, except you want to deceive yourself, you don’t need any capital to start. I believe I am talking to young men and women who are ready to move their lives forward. Excuses are the tool that fools use. I have explained before, partner with someone who knows how to print and start getting jobs while the other partner handles the printing process until you learn the technicalities. You don’t even need an office. If you do a good job and maintain your integrity, a large percentage of your clients don’t really care to know where your office is located as long as you deliver exceptional quality as at when due. Can you tell us about your humble beginning? I am Basola Victor Ayodele, born by an Insurance salesman and a hairdresser in 1986 in a little town called Ile-Oluji, Ondo State. I was born into a humble beginning but with a very strong determination to succeed against all odds. I wasn’t born with the proverbial silver spoon so we had to rise against all odds to buy a spoon for ourselves as we began to grow up. And I thank God that I wasn’t born with a silver spoon because we would not have pushed for the golden spoons we now have. I was an extremely brilliant student with very high hopes of graduating with at least a second class upper degree, so as to secure a “good job”, but I couldn’t achieve that dream because of my collision with destiny. This happened the day I came across a book by Napoleon Hill titled “Think & Grow Rich” while on campus. That day, I concluded that I didn’t need my University certificate to make it. Let’s just say that I was distracted by my vision. Due to my unquenchable thirst for knowledge, I consumed every financial material I was privileged to come across and attended several business trainings, leadership and financial seminars while my mates where in the classroom studying to pass with good grades. This was later confirmed when with my third class certificate in Biochemistry in 2008; I was able to secure a “good job” with Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCO) as a contract staff shortly after graduating from the university with a mouthwatering salary of N150,000 monthly. I became restless again and resigned my appointment from SNEPCO after about 18 months to form what is today known as Aaron & Hur Publishing, a fast growing media group based in Lagos, Nigeria. It wasn’t easy at the beginning, in fact I remember one day I trekked about five hours from Allen Avenue in Ikeja to Ajuwon-Akute, because I had no transport fare of about N250 (less than a dollar) but today, the story is different. I suffered poverty and this was largely because I lacked a lot of experience and necessary know-how and there was basically nobody willing to teach anybody anything those days so I had to get my hands dirty and learn on the job. We made lots of mistakes but we kept pushing and God has been helping us. My advice today to young graduates is that they should find a company or a mentor who is excelling in their chosen field of endeavor and work there or attach themselves there so they can learn the ropes. This will save them from making costly yet avoidable mistakes. At this point, a fat salary should not be your focus but an opportunity to learn what you need for tomorrow. If you get the knowledge, you will get an edge that will equip you to produce the money. Compare your publishing work here in Nigeria and overseas, which one is beneficial? Publishing your books here in Nigeria is far cheaper than doing it abroad most especially if you have a quality publishing house like Aaron & Hur Publishing and a few others. If you see the quality of our jobs, you will not believe that it was printed in Lagos. Apart from our giant strides as one of the biggest publishing firm in Nigeria, we have clients in the topmost echelon of society in USA, France, Germany, Malawi, Greece, Ghana and some other countries because they know that it’s cheaper to print with Aaron & Hur Publishing in Nigeria because of our exceptional quality. However, a trial will convince you. Why did you choose publishing instead of pursuing your course of study? I didn’t know what I wanted before I wrote JAMB. Just like many students. Some of students were forced into studying what their parents desired and in obedience they mortgaged their passion. Not every brilliant student must study science. That’s the mistake many schools made in those days. I was extremely brilliant so we were conscripted into science class and that’s how I ended up studying Biochemistry. But obviously that’s not my passion. What are the regulatory or procedural landmines you have to cross to become a publisher? You have to register your Business as a Publishing company with Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and then register your presence with National Library so your ISBN’s are genuine and original. And you can submit your certified Copies after printing. How long do you need to wait before you break even or start making profit? If you know what you are doing four years is OK for you to start breathing fresh air. What are the sources of raw materials required for publishing? Unfortunately, almost everything we need for the publishing business is imported.