A member of the House of Representatives, Yakub Balogun (APC, Lagos) Thursday rose in defense of the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, saying those that described him in such manner as a fascist could not have had any relationships with him. Balogun, while refuting media report that he has quit politics said Tinubu is rather a builder of men. While he cited himself as an example of Tinubu’s large heart, Balogun noted that the interest of the majority and the downtrodden is always uppermost in his (Tinubu) mind. He said: “Asiwaju is an indefatigable, resourceful, visionary, God-anointed political leader, a fisher of men and women. “Asiwaju is a builder of men, who builds people from nothing to something, a helper and elevator of the downtrodden. “He is not a fascist and not a power grabber. In fact, Asiwaju is one of the best characters we have around”. The lawmaker, who is not returning to the next National Assembly because he stepped down from further contest for the ticket to the House of Representatives, however emphasised that he has not left politics. His decision not to contest a return ticket to the House, according to the lawmaker was a personal conviction that younger generation should be given the opportunity to also serve. “I made the decision out of personal conviction to allow others have a chance to serve the people too, I made it formal by informing my party hierarchy. “My decision was very voluntary but I have not abandoned politics because I believe I can still offer more in other capacities,” he noted. To emphasise the fact that to give opportunities to others to serve has always been part of him, Balogun said he left the service of Lagos State government as the Head of Civil Service (HoS) two years before the expiration of the tenure. “My philosophy has always been to allow younger ones to come up and that was what informed the decision not to contest again but allow someone else to represent my constituency. We have many competent graduates out there that can do it considering our population. “I will continue to play politics, I haven’t quit politics, it is in my blood and I will serve in any capacity entrusted to me because I believe politics is a veritable tool to serve,” Balogun said.  