A Lagos High Court  yesterday sentenced to 14 years in prison, a cook, Janet James, for beating to death her eight-year-old brother, Saviour, for stealing a piece of  meat from a pot of soup in 2009. Justice Adedayo Akintoye convicted James, 34, after she pleaded guilty to an amended one-count charge of manslaughter. The sentence will take effect from August 21, 2009 when the convict was remanded by a magistrates’ court. The judge said the defendant struck a plea bargain deal with the prosecution last Monday, adding that she pleaded guilty to an amended charge of manslaughter. The case was transferred to the court in 2013. Justice Akintoye said: “The sentence and plea bargain agreement state as follows: * Defendant has shown remorse for the offence of manslaughter committed on August 10, 2009 against the person of Saviour James. * The defendant pleads guilty to the offence as charged. * The defendant has agreed to serve 14 years jail term from the date of remand by this honourable court. * The defendant gives an undertaking to be of good behaviour, upon completion of the jail term. “In view of this, therefore, the defendant, Janet James, is hereby found guilty of manslaughter contrary to Section 317 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Lagos State, 2003, and is accordingly convicted of same. “I have taken into consideration that this is a 2013 case. I have also been guided by the plea and sentencing agreement entered into by the prosecution, the defendant, Janet James and the defence counsel. “I note also the fact that the defendant has been in remand custody for many years. As a result, therefore, the defendant, Janet James, is hereby sentenced to a term of 14 years. The term of imprisonment is to run from the date of remand, which is August  21, 2009. This is the judgment of the court.” James committed the offence on August 10, 2009 in  Ilupeju, Lagos. In her confessional statement, she said: “I carried him (the deceased) on my back and walked a long distance before throwing him across the fence. I decided to dump him there because the offices had long been closed. ”He always stole. I even warned him when I went to the village to pick him. I beat him on Monday night at about 8pm, after warnings not to steal meat from the pot failed. I hit him with this little pestle (turning stick). But he did not die on the spot. At about 11pm, he woke up to urinate. “But when I woke up at about 2am, I discovered he was foaming at the mouth. I called him, but there was no response. I tried opening his mouth and even hit him, yet there was no movement. “Then I waited until about 5am before carrying him on my back. I dumped him on the premises of an insurance firm and returned home.”