•The Board continues to grow from strength to strength In an era when Nigerians continue to bemoan the inefficiency and incompetence of far too many national institutions, it is truly heart-warming that the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has completely transformed itself under the leadership of its registrar and chief executive, Professor Is’haq Oloyede. Last week’s arrest of some 50 alleged “professional examination writers” who were attempting to write the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) on behalf of some candidates is only the latest in a series of courageously innovative measures that have made the board more effective than at any point in its 41-year history. Through its efforts at pre-emptive intelligence gathering, JAMB discovered that there had been multiple biometric registrations for specific candidates with the connivance of several Computer-Based Centre owners, and realised that there were attempts to compromise the integrity of the 2019 UTME. Increased vigilance during the examinations led to the arrests of culprits across the country. With characteristic swiftness, the board is undertaking the revalidation of the biometrics of all candidates in previous examinations in the recent past. Its intention is to ensure that both the perpetrators and beneficiaries of past examination malpractices are not allowed to get away with their offences. This incident displays all the positive elements of the new JAMB: continuous vigilance, in-depth investigation, comprehensive response. An organisation that was only able to remit a paltry N52 million to the Federal Government in four decades has delivered about N18 billion in two years. Its UTME, which used to be tainted by organisational chaos, widespread cheating, the blatant corruption of officials and other malpractices, has become a model of probity and efficiency. These spectacular achievements are attributable to Oloyede’s visionary leadership and the commitment of a majority of JAMB’s staff to this vision. The registrar did not begin by lamenting the challenges the board was confronting, nor did he elect to blame his predecessors for current problems. He first went after JAMB’s own staff, and in a series of deliberately public exposés, revealed the staggering extent of corruption within JAMB itself. Having set internal self-cleansing mechanisms in motion, Oloyede overhauled the antediluvian processes through which forms are sold and candidates registered. He quickly realised that only a technology-driven process could effectively fight the entrenched corruption and incompetence inherent in the system, and after initial hiccups, established procedures that have been widely praised for their speed and efficiency. The UTME itself has been converted from the former cumbersome and outdated paper-and-pencil test to a seamless computer-based test (CBT). Its frequency has been increased to multiple daily tests and expanded to weekdays, as opposed to Saturdays only. Such comprehensive reforms have the combined effect of making the UTME a much more credible gateway examination than it had hitherto been. More universities are scrapping so-called post-UTME tests and “screening” exercises whose justification was the unreliability of the UTME. Mercenaries, corruptible invigilators and compromised supervisors have begun to realise that they can no longer get away with their illegal activities, and the candidates themselves now increasingly understand that success can only be achieved in the old-fashioned way. In spite of all it has achieved, however, JAMB must appreciate the fact that much more still needs to be done. Attitudes which facilitate examination malpractice are still entrenched, especially the desperation of candidates, and the greed of invigilators and supervisors; the multiple-registration scam clearly shows that exam cheats are determined to circumvent the board’s security protocols. The board’s IT-driven processes must be made even more efficient than they currently are. JAMB officials who cannot understand that unethical behaviour will no longer be permitted must be found out and appropriately sanctioned. As JAMB continues to improve its services, it is to be sincerely hoped that many more Nigerian institutions are led by patriotic and committed individuals like Professor Oloyede.