Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank wants all elected candidates of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) not to betray the confidence of the people, but to be strongly determined to embark on massive execution of projects that will have direct bearing on Nigerians. Frank in a congratulatory message to the elected PDP governors across the country also asked the courts to void the elections of all APC governors and do what he described as the needful, saying the governing party has lost the confidence of Nigerians and are no longer in position to win any free and fair election. The former APC spokesman who has since pitched his tent with the PDP also asked President Muhammadu Buhari to toe the part of honour and publicly apologised to Nigerians for being a beneficiary of an electoral process tinted with fraud. Frank salutes the courage of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state, Bala Mohammed in Bauchi state and Fintiri in Adamawa state for fighting hard to defend the mandate of the people for the opposition party, while  felicitating with all other PDP governors-elect, Senators-elect, House of Representatives Members-elect and all the State House of Assembly members-elect across the country. He said the opposition PDP fought a good fight throughout the country despite what he described as “evil marriage and conspiracy by the APC government with security agencies and the electoral body to turn Nigeria to a one party state.” He said the ruling party “has now lost popularity in all the states of the federation, struggled to rig where it won and eventually becomes a regional party having lost massively in South-east and the South-south zones. “I make bold to say that the APC in Nigeria of today can never win a free, fair and credible election at all levels.” According to the former APC spokesman, the flood of petitions to Electoral Petition Tribunals across the states is an evidence of a sham and badly conducted election in the history of Nigeria under the APC government. “This election puts President Muhammadu Buhari’s integrity in question except he toes the path of late President Musa Yar’adua, who acknowledged that the election that brought him into office, was characterized by fraud and apologise to Nigerians. “When I raised alarms over plan to militarise the just concluded elections, some people didn’t take it serious but Nigerians could see how a government expected to protect them unleashed its institutions on them as video evidence of Ballot box snatching, intimidation of voters and massive manipulation of their votes were witnessed during the elections. “While I wholeheartedly congratulate the opposition PDP candidates across the country who could not be rigged, especially in Rivers, Bauchi, Adamawa, Oyo, Imo and others, I strongly believe that Judiciary will do the needful in Kano, Nasarawa, Kastina among other states where the will of the people were obviously manipulated. “I urge all the victorious PDP candidates to strongly determine to better the lot of their people who have repose confidence in them by massively embarking on projects and policies which will have direct positive bearing on the lives of Nigerians.” While calling on the PDP supporters to remain calm, Frank assured that the PDP and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, will reclaim the mandate freely given during the presidential election at the court of law.