Former Manchester United defender Patrice Evra is under investigation by the High Court of Paris for anti-gay remarks aimed at Paris Saint-Germain. Evra received criticism from former Monaco teammate Jerome Rothen for his celebrations after United eliminated PSG from the Champions League in March. Evra responded by publicly threatening Rothen, before following that up with another expletive-laden tirade on social media, over which sources told ESPN FC PSG were considered legal action. “Next time I see you, I’m going to slap you in the face,” Evra had said to Rothen. “Stop supporting teams who will never win. Even my cousin who is in the front [of the car] is p—– off. Paris, you are some f—-ts, some f—-ts, I’m telling you. ”We [United] put our D team [against PSG] and we did you. Some kids played — they used to clean my boots. They don’t even have sperm [yet]. Paris, you are some p—ies.” He finished by reminding Rothen: “I will f—ing slap you in the face.” PSG later condemned Evra in an official statement and expressed a desire to support any action taken by partners Rouge Direct, Sportitude and SOS Racisme. “PSG strongly condemns Patrice Evra’s homophobic insults towards the club, its representatives, and its former player [Rothen], in a video broadcast across social networks,” PSG’s statement read. “These remarks deeply shocked a club very attached to the values of respect and openness towards each other. “The fight against homophobia and all forms of discrimination is at the heart of PSG’s actions and values, which has worked alongside Rouge Direct to fight homophobia, as well as Sportitude against all forms of racism. “PSG will support any initiative taken by associated partners Rouge Direct, Sportitude and SOS Racisme.” Rouge Direct were involved in the investigation opened into Evra’s comments and spokesperson Julien Pontes welcomed the news. “It is of great satisfaction to us at Rouge Direct,” he told AFP. “We welcome the speed of the Paris prosecutor’s reaction, who decided that the law does apply to Mr. Evra. “With a bit of determination, we can start to sanction procedures that have not yet been seen before in the footballing world.” Pontes added that Rouge Direct are hoping Evra is handed “an exemplary punishment.”