Residents of Ekiti State are now engaging in panic buying of  the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol over alleged plans by the federal government to remove fuel subsidy. The situation  has caused long queues in the few stations dispensing the product while some had shut down completely since Wednesday. Most petrol stations visited on Friday and Saturday by our correspondent were shut down, except for  NNPC mega stations and some major marketers in Ado-Ekiti metropolis. Petrol stations along Iworoko, Ikere Ekiti, Old Iyin Road, bank road, and Ajilosun Area of Ado Ekiti shut down and placed their entrance gate under locked up. Many motorists besieged the petroleum stations to purchase the scarce product with an attendant of long queues. They struggle for as long as 30 minutes before they could buy the product. Though, in spite of the looming scarcity, the price of the product has not gone beyond the official pump price of  N145 per litre. A Commercial motorist, Alh Jimoh Eyonbo Anabi who spoke with The Nation along Bank Road in Ado-Ekiti, said the scarcity was artificial and a deliberate attempt to cause hardship. “The fuel dealers need to be sanctioned because this things is always happening towards the festive period. It is deliberate,” he said. But the Government of Ekiti State  has appealed to owners and operators of filling stations in the state to desist from hoarding petroleum products thereby creating artificial fuel scarcity in the state. A statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, said hoarding of petroleum product is an act of economic sabotage, which creates  uncesessary hardship for the people and cripples businesses. “Consequently, monitoring teams have been despatched to go round filling stations in the state and ensure that no filling station  hoard fuel at the detriment of the people. “Any filling station caught hoarding fuel will receive heavy  sanction.” The state Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi urges citizens of the State to go about their business activities  peacefully and responsibly.