Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday held talks with former Senate Leader Ali Ndume at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Details of their meeting were not made public but the Borno senator dismissed speculations that he was at the State House over his aspiration to become the next Senate President. Ndume had declared his intention to run for the number three highest political office in the land despite the endorsement of the Senate Leader Ahmed Lawan for the position in the Ninth Senate by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). After his parley with the vice president, the senator declined to speak on camera with State House reporters. When asked by reporters whether he would step down, he asked rhetorically “me?”  He refused to speak further on his ambition. He, however, said that he was still holding consultation. “This is not the time to talk now because I am still holding consultation,” he stated. In a chat with The Nation, Ndume explained that his visit to the Presidential Villa had to do with humanitarian issues in Borno State. Ndume said: “My visit to the vice president has nothing to do with my ambition.  I did not discuss any political issue with him. “The vice president has been deeply concerned on the challenges in Borno State.  I normally get in touch with him because of humanitarian issues in our state. This was what I went to discuss with him. “I did not talk about my aspiration to be the next President of the Senate and the vice president also didn’t raise it.” Borno governor pays solidarity visit to Lawan Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima paid a solidarity visit to the Senate Leader, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, who who has signaled interest to become the next Senate President. The visit dispelled insinuations that the governor hurriedly left for Saudi Arabia to avoid receiving Lawan last Saturday. According to a source, the governor’s visit boosted the morale of Lawan’s camp because one of the aspirants for the office, Sen. Ali Ndume also hails from the Northeast state. The source said: “The governor, who is also a Senator-elect, was at the campaign secretariat of Lawan to show some solidarity. “Lawan and leaders in his campaign group went for a wedding on Saturday in Maiduguri but the governor was alleged to have sneaked out of the state to Saudi Arabia in order not to receive the team. “But the governor dispelled rumours of shunning Lawan. His presence changed the mood at our campaign secretariat. “We were happy that the governor has demonstrated that he is true party leader. This is a plus for us because one of the contestants, Sen. Ali Ndume is from Borno State. “So far, Lawan has met virtually all the senators across party lines. We are making substantial progress.”