Anytime any day, I’m an advocate of fruits in season. You get the fruits fresh and cheap. They come packed with many of the natural beneficial nutrients. They have not been damaged with preservatives or the nutrients lost through handling. Currently, mango, African velvet tamarind and avocado pear seem to be the most visible fruits. Though there are other ones but these three seem to be the most popular fruits now so we shall concentrate on their health benefits. Popularly known as Awin in Yoruba, Icheku in Igbo and Tsamiyar kurm in Hausa, African velvet tamarind is the fruit of a native West African tree (dialium guineense). Especially loved by Nigerian children, velvet tamarind is cultivated not totally for its fruits but as a source of timber and fuel. It is a seasonal fruit with an orange pulp with the velvet shell which has a sweet and tangy taste. Many of you cannot help but stop by at your local fruit vendor to buy some when it is the season. You love the fruit but probably know nothing about its health benefits. Research reveals that there are 10 diseases this fruit could treat. Malaria: According to research, the leaf extract inhibits the growth of plasmodium falciparum which causes malaria therefore, taking a decoction can cure malaria. Treats ulcer and prevents hypertension: The leaf extract of velvet tamarind has the ability to increase gastric mucus secretion. Therefore, a decoction of the leave can be a remedy for gastric ulcer. The leaves are also highly diuretic-promotes the production of urine, making it easier for the heart to pump blood hence, reducing the risk of hypertension. Anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial properties: The fruit pulp contains abundant vitamin C which fights against microbial infections. The stem bark has the ability to reduce inflammation in bronchial tubes that arises due to bronchitis. Improves oral hygiene and cures tooth ache: The stem used as chewing stick (indigenous tooth brush) contains saponin which adds cleaning effect to the teeth and at the same time removes plaques and caries on the teeth of users. The stem bark decoction is also used to treat. Reliefs menstrual cramp and stops diarrhoea: The stem bark extract has significant analgesic property hence, can be used to reduce menstrual pain. You can take it along with papaya leaf, salt and water to work effectively. It can also stop diarrhoea. Jaundice and diabetes management: A decoction of velvet tamarind leafs is used in preparing medicinal solution for curing jaundice. It also lowers blood sugar and increases insulin sensitivity hence, can be used to treat diabetes. Hemorrhoids (pile): Piles are swollen veins in the anal canal caused by too much pressure in the pelvic and rectal areas and while not life threatening, these veins can be very painful. A study performed on ethanolic leaves extract of velvet tamarind showed it to be beneficial for pile treatment. Velvet tamarind increases the antioxidant capacity of the body: Oxidative damage which involves free radicals – highly reactive molecules with unpaired electrons, is believed to be one of the mechanisms behind ageing and many diseases. The abundance of antioxidants in the leaves helps protect the human body from damage caused by these free radicals when taken. Improves lactation and checks genital infections: A review of several studies has concluded that chewing the fruit pulp increase secretion of milk as well as check infections. Treats scurvy and wounds: The fruit pulp has high ascorbic acid content which is an anti-scurvy vitamin hence used as food supplement. Tender leaves of velvet tamarind, when squeezed and applied on wounds, stimulates the growth of healthy skin and protects the wounds against germs and moisture. Why the mango is called the king of fruits. Mangoes are the best, mostly 99% people all around the world loves mangoes. Just because of its taste, it is the best seasonal and summer fruit ever. There are up to 40 varieties of mangoes available. Some of the health benefits are The high levels of fiber, pectin and vitamin C help to lower serum cholesterol levels, specifically Low-Density Lipoprotein (the bad stuff). It can be used both internally and externally for the skin. Mangos help clear clogged pores and eliminate pimples. One cup of sliced mangoes supplies 25 percent of the needed daily value of vitamin A, which promotes good eyesight and prevents night blindness and dry eyes. The tartaric acid, malic acid, and a trace of citric acid found in the fruit help to maintain the alkali reserve of the body. Mango leaves help normalise insulin levels in the blood. The traditional home remedy involves boiling leaves in water, soaking through the night and then consuming the filtered decoction in the morning. Mango fruit also has a relatively low glycemic index (41-60) so moderate quantities will not spike your sugar levels. Papayas are not the only fruit that contain enzymes for breaking down protein. There are several fruits, including mangoes, which have this healthful quality. The fiber in mangos also helps digestion and elimination. Juicing the fruit from green mango and mixing with water and a sweetener helps to cool down the body and prevent harm from overheating. From an ayurvedic viewpoint, the reason people often get diuretic and exhausted when visiting equatorial climates is because the strong “sun energy” is burning up your body, particularly the muscles. The kidneys then become overloaded with the toxins from this process. The generous amounts of vitamin C and vitamin A in mangos, plus 25 different kinds of carotenoids keep your immune system healthy and strong. To be continued next week. 