Former Deputy Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly Kolawole Taiwo has thanked the peoples of Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency for backing the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the February 23 National Assembly elections. He said the party will triumph in the House of Representatives election which was declared inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Taiwo, who is the party’s candidate for the constituency, said INEC would soon come out with its decision for the contest. He said the commission invited stakeholders recently on the matter and said it was going to hold supplementary elections in some polling units, but the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) refused to attend. Taiwo said the supplementary election, which was proceeding smoothly simultaneously with other elections across the country, was cut short midway for inexplicable reasons. The former lawmaker urged the people to be undaunted, noting that the APC was certain of victory when INEC finally decides what to do in respect of the controversial polls. Taiwo said the resolve to serve the constituency is borne out of the need to make positive impact in the lives of the youth and bring development to the area. He said: “It is really pathetic to note that the only federal road existing in Ajeromi/Ifelodun has depreciated. It is an indication that the present occupier of the position has not done enough to lobby and push for the enhancement of the road. “It is not enough to be in the House, but what are you doing to justify the mandate given to you? To the best of my understanding, the PDP lawmaker holding forth for Ajeromi/Ifelodun is lagging behind in the discharge of her legislative duties which include lobbying. “Incidentally, when INEC invited stakeholders to a meeting on how to resolve the matter arising from the inconclusive election, the PDP candidate, Rita Orji, refused to attend. We learnt she went to Abuja to seek the support of the Speaker of House of Representatives, Mr. Yakubu Dogara. But the speaker cannot tell Ajegunle people who to represent them.” Taiwo said his experience as a lawmaker and deputy speaker is a testimonial of his commitment and hard work in the service of humanity. He added: “I want to assure the people that I am going to do it better than anyone that has been there before. I was in the Lagos State House of Assembly for 16 years. So, I know what to do. Ajegunle is a very important place in Nigeria. When you are looking for people from any part of Nigeria, you will find them in Ajegunle. “Ajegunle is about opportunity; it is about development. The people have got talents and we will help them to harness these great potentials. We will assist them to shed negative influences which our youths sometimes key into. They copy wrong model and it is our duty help them rediscover the good path.” He urged those fanning tribal sentiment to desist, because Ajegunle is the most cohesive and cosmopolitan area in Lagos, where people live like brothers and sisters. He said what should be emphasised is competence, not nepotism or other narrow interests. 