To effectively deal with the challenges faced by our criminal justice system, we must determine whether the adversarial legal system we practice meets the end of justice for our country. If it does not, we must take the bull by the horn, and replace the adversarial system with a better system. After all, at independence, we inherited the parliamentary system of government, but presently we practice the presidential system. Again, we moved from the monarchical to republic system, within three years of flag independence in 1960. In my view, the peculiar challenges of the adversarial legal system, has aided corrupt practices by ‘the rich’, instead of fighting the menacing scourge, because of our level of development. It has also subjugated the ‘poor man’ who cannot afford the huge cost associated with hiring qualified lawyers to offer robust defence in criminal trials, to suffer untowardly. Unfortunately, most of those who suffer prolonged detention even when granted bail are unable to meet the onerous bail conditions while awaiting trial. In an inquisitorial system, the judge or magistrate after an enquiry is entitled to deal with the case summarily, and bring justice to the parties. But under our adversarial system because the law presumes the accused innocent even when the facts evidencing guilt is glaring; the ‘poor man’ joins the ‘rich man’ to take advantage of the omnibus constitutional provision and plead ‘not guilty’ only to find himself in a kind of legal limbo when he is unable to pay a competent lawyer to pursue the case proffered against him to a logical conclusion. Having pleaded not guilty, the magistrate or judge can only convict or discharge the accused person after the prosecution and defendant have fully exhausted their legally allowable opportunities as adversaries. Of course, the trial in an adversarial system is usually laden with technical landmines, which the ‘big man’ exploits maximally. As defined by Wikipedia: “the adversarial system or adversary system is a legal system used in the common law countries where two advocates represent their parties’ case or position before an impartial person or group of people, usually a jury or judge, who attempt to determine the truth and pass judgment accordingly.” The challenge in the adversarial system would have been manageable if the judge or jury has the legal cover to ask questions, sift the grain from the chaff, and call persons or evidence which could help unearth the truth or engage in such other enquiries that will be beneficial to determine the veracity of the evidence presented. But the judge cannot. He is shackled by legal limitation to remain reasonably aloof even when the prosecutor is goofing. The judge must act as blind as a bat to any extraneous information or knowledge of the honesty or guilt of the accused, as he is bound to rely solely on the presentations made at the trial. Hypothetically, even if the judge or magistrate saw the accused committing the offence, or comes to that conclusion based on incontrovertible facts outside what the prosecutor is able to muster during trial, the judge is estopped from applying that knowledge in coming to a decision. While the above scenario aids the ‘big man’ who is able to hire a battery of lawyers and legal consultants to bamboozle booth the judge and the prosecutor, it however subdues the ‘poor man’ who cannot afford a lawyer and who also cannot rely on an investigation conducted by the judge or magistrate to gain an acquittal. As argued by learned author Andrew Perkins, the adversarial system: “empowers the parties to the dispute to take control of their own case on the basis that they (as opposed to a judge)  are better placed to present their best case.” In advanced countries, where the prosecution has developed the forensic capacity to gather and present evidence, the prosecutor is well equipped to confront the ‘big man’ in the legal tangle. But in developing counties, which unfortunately have higher propensity for corrupt practices, the lack of capacity by the prosecutor becomes a form of albatross, and thereby turns the criminal justice system into a huge joke, in many instances. In search of solution to the challenge posed by our inefficient legal system, President Muhammadu Buhari at the recent workshop for judges by PACAC and NJI, urged the judiciary “to come up with an integrated approach that balances process and substance, promote clarity to ensure a coherent and realistic formulation of objectives.” On his own part former president made his famous suggestion that the federal government should hire ‘ogbologbo lawyers’ to counter the highly skilled lawyers employed by the ‘big man’ to give the state a blue eye. At the lower rung of the criminal justice ladder, the tragedy is that being unable to hire a lawyer to defend him in court, the ‘poor man’ can easily be forgotten in jail while awaiting trial. In some instances, the case file gets missing, and the alleged offence committed by a prolonged detainee could become a conjecture even for the state prosecutor. According to a media report obtained from the Nigeria Prison Services in 2018: “the total inmate population in Nigeria Prisons stands at 73, 631, and of that number, 50, 159, which represent 68 per cent are awaiting trial.” With the number of prolonged awaiting trial men turning a national embarrassment, the judiciary has been called upon to decongest the prisons. In August 2017, the Attorney General and Minister for Justice Abubakar Malami promised that within two years the federal government will decongest the prisons. Save for the touted Virtual Automated Case Management System (V-ACMS) which the ministry has procured to aid collation of data of prison inmates, the prisons are still stuffed with prolonged awaiting trial inmates. On the other hand, quite a huge number of politically exposed high profile accused persons who have been in court for donkey years on charges of corruption, are rubbing the inefficiency of the criminal justice system into our national psyche, as they audaciously get elected into important political offices, while awaiting their own trial. Learned author Andrew Perkins capture the unfairness when he wrote: “in the adversarial legal system in situations where the parties do not have ‘equality of arms’; a better resourced party may be more able to gather evidence and present a stronger case to the judge than their opposition.” Of course, the inquisitorial system has its own challenges, which includes that the judge having participated in the investigation may be biased during trial. So, to better appreciate the fundamental changes our criminal justice system needs, relevant authorities should understudy the advantages and disadvantages of the two legal systems, to choose the way to follow.