The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has inaugurated a secured information platform for the Nigerian Army. At a ceremony in Abuja yesterday, the COAS said the platform would greatly enhance the performance of the Army in its commands and units. The Army chief said the platform would take off with 350 users, adding that provisions would be made for its subsequent expansion. He added: “It gives me great pleasure to welcome you all to this occasion of the launching of the Nigerian Army Secured Information Platform (NASIP). “The platform is a secured web-based information sharing and collaboration solution that was recently acquired by the Army. “This is in line with my vision of having a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional roles. In this case, this launching is to afford the Army an efficient and robust platform for paperless interactions that would ensure secure and speedy communication of correspondence between the various departments, formations and units in the Army while minimising the use of paper to the barest minimum. “As seen from the demonstration of its features, the platform is an upgrade from the NAWANI system. “It has its server residing in NACWC with a storage capacity of 500 terabytes and backup storage of 112 terabytes. The platform is currently capable of accommodating about 350 users for the initial rollout with additional provisions for expansion to accommodate more users in the future. “The major requirement that was considered before the acquisition of this platform was security and speed among others. Consequently, this platform is able to provide secured emailing with end-to-end encryption functions within customised web domain and revolutionary integration with text, voice and video chat and conferencing.” Buratai also said: “Additionally, it also enables sharing of calendars and allotment of tasks for error-proof planning and task delegation. The system is custom-built to provide real-time collaboration between departments, formations and units. “The solution has an integrated Document Management System (DMS), which ensures that users’ files are available at any time on all devices. “The user-friendly Document Management System also features easy documents sharing and fast in-browser document editing incorporated within the comfort of dedicated software application for desktop and mobile options. It also features offline work or compatibility within all applications. “Furthermore, in addition to its core functions, it also features Army policy/procedures and news room modules designed to keep users abreast with NA policies and news as soon as they are published. More so, all NA’s social media accounts can be accessed through the platform.”