There could not have been a better time than now to present a book on sex and child abuses considering the increasing spate of sexual abuses in the society today. The recent presentation of protecting your child from sexual abuse written by Pastor Bisi Adewale therefore came at an appropriate time when parents need such valuable information on how to protect their children from predators. Speaking at the presentation in Lagos, Pastor Bisi Adewale said the 163-page book was borne out of an urgent need to ‘mitigate this great problem in our society today and I am happy you are a witness to the coming alive of this life-changing and destiny-preserving book.’ He stated that the menace of child sexual abuse in the society has become so alarming that one can only imagine what is happening under the roof. He also disclosed that statistics about child sexual abuse keep increasing every day for the worse, adding that with its presentation to the public today, ‘one child or more may be delivered. Who knows how many children will have their lives transformed and delivered from the hands of pedophiles? The book, which is the 92nd book from the Family Booster’s stable, contains about 51 heart rending stories of past victims of child sexual abuses. According to the author, the book was written to help in dealing with the menace of child sexual abuse in the society. “A study revealed that 1 in every 10 children would be sexually abused before age 18. The book seeks to open the eyes of parents to the need to protect the lives of their children from pedophiles in our society. Many of these victims, now adults, shared stories of what happened to them when they were younger. Some were as young as four years old,” he said. The book reveals what sexual abuse is and how a child can be abused. It also gives the differences between sex education and sexualisation, recent statistics on child sexual abuses and shows reasons why parents should be careful about people they trust with their children’s upkeep. A study revealed that about 80% of sexually abused children have been abused by people known closely to them (Uncles, Cousins, Aunties, Teachers, Spiritual leaders, Neighbours, Nannies, Baby sitters etc). Indicators or signs that a child is being sexually abused are also revealed in the book while factors that predispose a child to sexual abuse are also mentioned. In the book, readers will be exposed to mistakes parents make that exposes their children to sexual abuse; what to do when a child is sexually abused; how to prevent abuse and how to protect children from abusers. The latter chapters of the book expose how to give an age-grade sexual education by giving a practical guide on how to educate toddlers, pre-scholars, grade-scholars, pre-teens and teenagers.  