Tuberculosis (TB) has over the years been on the increase despite the level of awareness and efforts by the government and other agencies to curb the disease. Moses Emorinken reports  A typical commercial bus ride in Lagos; a city adjudged as the third most stressful city in the world, by Zipjet is definitely an interesting case study. In this city, you’ll find that an average sixty capacity mass transit bus accommodates at least ninety people ‘inconveniently’ seated, while about thirty others stand and clamp their hands firmly on the rod that runs from one end within the bus to the other end. Now, imagine that combined with the terrible squeezing, sandwiching, and overloading of passengers in the bus for the mostly non-existent sitting and standing spaces, an individual who has been infected with the dreaded tuberculosis (TB) disease suddenly coughs heavily and repeatedly into the already heated, tense and poorly ventilated bus environment. Your guess is almost as good as mine; in one word – DISASTER! Statistics show that a single carrier of the TB disease can infect between 10 – 15 people in a year. TB is an airborne bacterial infection caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis that primarily affects the lungs, although other organs and tissues may be involved. It spreads from person to person through the air.  When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. Common signs of TB are: persistent coughs for two weeks or more, coughing of blood, chest pain, fatigue, unexplained weight loss, night sweats etc. According to a global report by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2017, TB remains the world’s deadliest infectious disease: it killed 1.6 million people in 2017, including 300,000 people with HIV. In the same year, 10 million people fell ill with TB. In 2017, an estimated one million children became ill with TB and 230,000 children died of TB (including children with HIV associated TB). The report also stated that: “Nigeria is among the high TB, TB/HIV and Drug Resistant Tuberculosis (DR-TB) countries globally. The country is ranked first in Africa and sixth globally among the 30 high TB burden countries, and contributes 9% to the global 3.6 million missing TB cases after India (26%) and Indonesia (11%).” This is just a tip off the gory reality the world has to contend and grapple with as the days unfold.  In the grasp of TB’s claws Amina had barely touched the helm of attaining her legitimate age of responsibility and young adulthood when the malevolent claws of TB set pace on her trail. It was almost two months to her 18th year birthday. Although weeks earlier she had been embattled with incessant chesty coughs, however, that was not enough to fade her genuine smile, grin and hopes for the days ahead. It seemed like a new and beautiful world was slowly unfolding before her eyes like the hibiscus that blossoms early in the morning. She could hardly contain the involuntary surge of excitements that gushed out of the depth of something she could only experience but could never explain. Little did she know that her excitement was about to be prematurely aborted. Her happiness was cut short as fast as it came when a test in a government hospital revealed that she had developed Drug Resistant Tuberculosis (DR-TB). Two months earlier, Amina had developed a strange kind of cough, one that she had never experienced before. The strange cough resisted vehemently every curative prescription in all the over-the-counter cough mixtures and antibiotics that Mr. Chinedu, popularly known as Docky, the neighbourhood chemist prescribed for her. Attempts by her parents to find succour for her terribly problematic condi tion met with stiff resistance. In fact, after a while, her parents decided to visit a local herbalist who combines the twin powers of an herbal practitioner and a diviner. According to him, a woman from Amina’s paternal side was responsible for the coughs, unexplained loss of weight, loss of appetite and night sweats that she had been experiencing. Her parents spent more than half of the meagre income they earned as peasant farmers in order to find a cure for their beloved daughter. All efforts proved abortive. Their joyous daybreak came when a neighbour having observed keenly the travails of Amina’s parents decided to give them a piece of advice that will end their long nights and days of torture and financial exploitation by ignorant and quack healers. He advised them to jettison their traditional/spiritual approach and seek proper medical attention in a close by government hospital. This was the beginning of freedom for Amina. She was tested and confirmed positive for DR-TB. After several months of consistent treatment and strict monitoring by health caregivers and her parents, she is now totally free of TB and has gone ahead to live a normal life filled with uninterrupted birthdays. Well, the sad reality is that not many people are as fortunate as Amina. Some have died with the disease and have ended up spreading it to those around them, especially their loved ones.  A disease of the poor? Many Nigerians, especially the supposedly ‘educated’ and elite are oblivious of the fact that TB is rife in and might just be dwelling in or close to their homes. The notion that TB is a disease of the poor is a dangerous fallacy because everyone is susceptible to the disease. Although, due to the work, social and living environment that the poor find themselves, they are more prone to contracting TB compared to the rich. Unsafe, unkempt and dirty environment, improper disposal of refuse and sewage, poorly ventilated houses and work spaces, overpopulated households compared to the available space are some of the disadvantages that the poor have to deal with everyday; this makes them more vulnerable to contracting TB. “Tuberculosis is a respecter of nobody; whether you fly first class, economy or belong to the class of those who practically live below the breadline. It is the disease of both the rich and poor, young and old, educated and uneducated, class and classless,” says Jennifer Nimfyel, a 23-year-old TB survivor. “I can’t tell specifically how I got TB, because it is an airborne disease that can be contracted anywhere. One can contract TB in buses, churches, mosques, in the choir while singing, and so on. “I started receiving treatment in the year 2016 for Drug Susceptible Tuberculosis (DS-TB) after several weeks of persistent chesty coughs, but I was not consistent with the drugs, then I relapsed and it became worse. “A second test was carried out and was discovered that the Drug Susceptible TB had advanced to Drug Resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB). This was largely because of my inconsistency in taking my drugs,” she said. Drug Susceptible TB is the opposite of Drug Resistant TB. If someone is infected with TB bacteria that are fully susceptible, it means that all of the TB drugs will be effective so long as they are taken properly. Jennifer is TB free today and currently studying to become a nurse and an advocate for TB in Nigeria. According to Mrs. Itohowo Uko, a Deputy Director with the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme (NTBLCP), “TB is not the disease of the poor. We have had children from rich homes whose parents have drivers that take them to school in air-conditioned cars contracting TB. Some of them got TB from their drivers.”  Ignorance helps the disease Unfortunately, despite progress made in the last few years in the fight to end TB, every hour, eighteen Nigerians still die of TB; a disease that is absolutely preventable and curable. Every hour, not less than 47 people develop active TB, seven of which are children. Baba Ibadan, as he is fondly called by his friends, will be dearly missed by all not only because of his congenial demeanour, but because of the fatherly role he plays in the lives of some homeless children that litter his street in Ibadan. His first son, Alabi, while recounting the excruciating pain and torture his Continue on page 2