Doctorcare247, an integrated telehealth platform that enables doctors and other healthcare specialists to diagnose and treat patients online, has been launched in Lagos. At  the heart of the telehealth package are features to provide access, aid service delivery, and bring convenience to users, thus promising to bring about a revolution in the way healthcare is accessed and delivered in the country. At the formal unveiling of the service, Chucks Chibundu, chief executive officer of Doctorcare247, said the platform is designed to change the landscape of healthcare delivery in Nigeria. According to him, the primary reason for creating the online platform is to bring convenience to the people, especially now that patients clamour for convenience and quick access instead of spending their precious time on endless queues in hospitals waiting to access treatment. It provides round-the-clock e-health consultations through doctors and specialists certified by the Nigerian Medical and Dental Council, the professional health regulatory body for the professions of medicine and dentistry in the country. What this means is that the platform provided by Doctorcare247 can help users to break the barriers of distance, travel time, logistics and long waiting hours in hospitals because its features allow patients to access quality healthcare services from medical providers online, anytime and anywhere. “What we have done is to make sure that patients can get healthcare services whenever and wherever they need them. People are searching for convenience; they want everything delivered to their doorsteps. So, imagine you don’t have to go to the hospital and wait for hours just to see a doctor. That is what Doctorecare247 will do for you. You can easily consult your doctor via audio, video calls and text, instead of going to the hospital,” Chibundu said. While acknowledging that telehealth is an entirely new thing in Nigeria, Chibundu said he is optimistic that Doctorcare247 is an idea whose time has come because experience has shown that Nigerians, like their counterparts abroad, want convenience in everything they do, including shopping. When the idea started two years ago, the health technology expert and former banker said he decided to travel around the world to learn more about the features and drivers of their telehealth industry and how these can be localised in the country to the benefit of everyone. “I remember two years ago, when the idea came, people questioned why I wanted to go into something that had not been done. Why not?  That was my response, because I was convinced of the efficacy of the solution and the need and gap it was going to fill,” he said. Through the use of information and communication technology, Doctorcare247 seeks to bring virtual access to its users for treatments such as general wellness, child wellness, mental wellness, lifestyle management and remote patient management. Its features show that the doctor-patient consultations are done via a secure high definition video chat, texts or calls with all records held in a secure cloud storage. With a mobile device such as computer, laptop or phone, a patient can schedule consultation sessions at his or her convenience through a branded application on IOS, Android or via the web. Its promoters said consultations will be done via a secure communication channel in high definition video, audio and text chat between patients and remote healthcare providers such as doctors and consultants. The platform is built to transmit images, data and sound in real-time, while patients can also post questions about simple health conditions under text consultations. At the unveiling ceremony, Foluke Akinniranye, chief retail officer of HealthPlus Ltd, a fast-growing pharmacy chain, said her company has investigated Doctorcare247 and can confirm that it is credible, adding that it is what Nigeria needs at this time to address issues of lack of access to healthcare, self-medication and self-prescription. Akinniranye, who said she has worked in the United States’s health sector for 20 years before returning home last year, attested to the efficacy of telehealth and stressed that Doctorcare247 can help the government in fulfilling its mandate of providing quality healthcare services to citizens. She enjoined hospitals, laboratories, pharmacy stores and health management organisations in the country to exploit the opportunities provided by the platform to further bring succour to their clients. Her position aligned with the views and experiences of people – both doctors and patients – who have used the service and provided testimonials and endorsements for the telehealth platform. An elated Charles Odibo, a public relations expert who compered at the ceremony, also applauded the innovation as a platform that is set to take Nigeria’s healthcare delivery to its next level where citizens will be empowered with access to healthcare delivery at the best convenience possible, instead of spending time agonising in hospitals. “Doctorcare247 is about accessing healthcare anytime and anywhere. It is about giving convenience and access to medical practitioners 24 hours in a day and seven days a week. It is exciting because you can easily reach a pharmacy, a doctor, even a laboratory from your phone. This will help the overall healthcare of the country,” he enthused. Thanks to the rising popularity of telehealth, which has contributed to the widespread use of apps by clinicians and their patients, a transformation in the delivery of health information and services is fast taking place around the world – a development Doctorcare247 seeks to bring to the fingertips of all Nigerians. In the United States, for example, the platform has triggered a swift shift in the country’s healthcare landscape. Studies suggest that two-thirds of health IT executives in the US believe that the use of mobile technology will substantially or dramatically impact the delivery of healthcare in the future and that the use of mobile devices by physicians to view patient information or access non-protected health information is widespread, and the percentage of clinicians using apps to actively engage in direct patient care has grown in the past years. With about 169 million mobile phone subscribers and penetration rate of more than 84 per cent, Chibundu believes Nigeria is Africa’s undisputed largest mobile phone market and a goldmine waiting to be tapped. “The Nigerian digital health space is largely virgin. Government is currently pushing technology and healthcare policies that are aimed at ensuring Nigeria takes advantage of global trends to align and enhance local efforts for desired benefits to Nigerians. Our initiative through Doctorcare247 is to complement efforts of government at building capacity that supports universal healthcare for all, albeit driven by technology. “We hereby enjoin all stakeholders in the healthcare space: medical practitioners, corporate organisations, government and individuals to embrace this new and convenient cost-effective solution that would provide opportunity for prompt access to deserving healthcare services. Hospitals and healthcare providers can conveniently extend their services to patients beyond the walls of their locations, using our virtual platform,” Chibundu said. To further drive the platform’s acceptability among the populace, a popular Nollywood actress, Roselyn Meurer, was unveiled as Doctorcare247’s brand ambassador. The Doctorcare247 founder said she possesses the right profile and personality that fit “what we are doing here and what we look to achieve.” As the brand ambassador, Meurer promised to use her huge followership on her social media handles and her presence in the film industry to propagate the gospel of Doctorcare247 to all Nigerians “because I am also passionate about any platform that brings access and convenience to healthcare delivery in my country.” 