International Breweries PLC, member of AB InBev,  has hosted its distribution partners across the country to a gala night at the Lagos  Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja. . The distributors were commended for their excellent performances in the recent financial year, winning delectable prizes. It was also an opportunity for the company’s distributors, trade partners and other key stakeholders within the distribution value chain to exchange ideas, as well as deepen business relationships. In her remarks, International Breweries Managing Director Mrs. Annabelle Degroot was full of praise for the company’s distributors. “We want to spend this evening celebrating and thanking our special partners in our business, our distributors. The successes we recorded in 2018 would not have been possible without your hard work and commitment,” she said. She urged them not to relent in their work, adding that as a very ambitious organisation keen on meeting the needs of consumers across the country, neither the International Breweries PLC organisation nor its trade and distribution partners would rest on their oars. “We are looking forward to a 2019 that will be even more impactful than 2018,” she added. She assured the distribution partners that in the best traditions of ABInBev, International Breweries PLC would continue to engage them closely and render support to their businesses, reminding them about the company’s commitment to its communities and sustainability in general. Speaking on the role and the relationship that exists between the company and its valued distributors, National Sales Director, Godwin Oche, said the distributor-partners play a very critical role in the supply chain and was appreciative of the synergy that exists between the company and its distributors. He added that overseeing the movements of products from factories to the points of sale and managing all attendant risks, the distributors have been able to bring real value to consumers which have helped to enhance the reach and ensure year-round availability of the leading product brands across the country. Speaking further, Mrs. Degroot assured the distribution partners that in the best traditions of ABInBev, International Breweries would continue to engage them closely and render support to their businesses.  