The Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) inaugurated a car park/bus stop in President Muhammadu Buhari’s honur to mark its 30th anniversary and Founder’s Day. The project, undertaken by the immediate past executive of the Students’ Union (SU), was inuagurated by the incumbent SU President, Comrade Popoola Ayobami, popularly known as Dasilva. According to Popoola, the car park would be known as President Muhammadu Buhari Car Park/Bus Stop, with the aka acronym ‘PMB square’. The two accompanying shed stands were also named; one in honour of the incumbent Vice Chancellors, Prof Felix Kolawole Salako, and the other for his predecessor Oluwafisayomi Adelaja, (now late). Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE shortly after the event, Popoola expressed happiness over the completion of the project, describing it as a dream come true. He also said the car park would address one of the problems of the institution. He said: “This is going to be a welcome development because we have just been able to salvage one of the problems affecting the university, which is a key factor to the growth of the university. “What we have just done is one of its kind, which is a landmark in the history of students’ unionism and we have not had any regret for embarking on this project.” Before cutting the ribbon, the vice chancellor appreciated the students and the union executives for their good conduct which made the project see the light of day. Prof Salako also described the project as one that would alleviate the sufferings of students, who usually wait for hours for vehicles after lectures. He said: “It (the project) is going to be a lot of relief for commercial vehicles going from the gate to the campus. Definitely, people are going to have a space to sit while waiting for vehicles, the commercial vehicles will also be relieved having a conducive environment to really do their work. This project will go a long way in terms of community relationships.” The naming was done to appreciate President Buhari-led administration’s efforts to dualise Camp-Alabata Road leading to the main campus. “The road has been abandoned for years until recently when little attention was given to it. Though the road needs total reconstruction because its design  was done more than 20 years ago. This cannot match the 21st Century demand on the road. So, there’s need for Federal Government, especially the Federal Ministry of Works, Housing and Power to look into this and do the needful. “Our decision was based on the fact that we appreciate the efforts of Federal Government led by President Buhari on the anti-corruption crusade, economy and security nationwide as well as the dualisation of Camp-Alabata road leading to main campus. “This is the first time President Buhari would be honoured at FUNAAB and this honour was carried out by students’ leader led by the number one student on campus Comrade Da Silva. “It behoves the Federal Government, especially President Buhari, to give this number one University of Agriculture in Africa and one of the best in the world, the needed attention and funding so that  food insecurity could be addressed by transformative and proactive ideas from these students of Agriculture driven by technology.”