A fake Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) official, John Ojeile, has been attacked by a mob for allegedly kidnapping a six-year-old girl at Ikosi-Ketu, Lagos. The incident occurred last Friday at Onakoya Street, Ikosi-Ketu, Lagos. The victim, Abigail Akinlemibola, was kidnapped by Ojeile, a purported Private with service number 8252. It was gathered that the child had followed her grandmother, Madam Grace, to a street, off Onakoya Street, to buy airtime. The suspect, dressed in a suit, carried her when the grandmother was loading the card. The Nation learnt that Ojeile pretended to be a pastor and was begging for alms, which made people, including the grandmother, not to suspect him. He was said to have watched the old woman and when he noticed that she was busy loading the airtime, he carried the girl and moved. It was gathered that having successfully passed two streets and was on the third, luck ran out on the suspect, as a woman, whose child attended the same school with Abigail, saw the man carrying her. “The woman knows Abigail very well because she always greets her. So, the woman asked the girl why she was being carried like a baby. “She also asked the man whether he was related to the girl and he claimed that he was her father. The woman was not convinced and she asked Abigail if she knew the man. She said no. “The woman then raised the alarm, attracting passersby. While they were interrogating the man, the child’s grandmother and a search team she had raised, arrived the scene,” a source said. The Nation learnt that the suspected kidnapper allegedly used charms to hypnotise the girl before carrying her. Confirming the incident, the child’s father, Mr. Akinmayowa Akinlemibola, said he was grateful to God for using the woman to thwart the kidnap. He said: “Abigail is my daughter. She lives with her grandmother at Ketu. I was told that while the mob were beating the man, and searching him, they found charms and an NSCDC identity card on him. “He was taken to Ketu Police Station. We were invited to the station on Monday, but on getting there, the Investigating Police Officer (IPO), Mercy, was not available. She was ill. The IPO later called that they were taking the case to court. “Abigail’s grandmother got there, but the police demanded ‘mobilisation’ to visit the kidnapper’s sister’s at the address he provided.” Akinlemibola appealed to Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu to ensure that the suspect was not let off the hook, so that he would not kidnap another child. Contacted, NSCDC Lagos Commandant Tajudeen Balogun said from the identity card found on the suspect, it was obvious that he was an impersonator, “because the agency does not inscribe Private on its identity cards.” He said he was unaware of the incident, as no one had petitioned the corps to ascertain if the suspect was an NSCDC official. 