•Murder of a Nigerian barely 24 hours after acquiring a medical degree exposes a nation in fear Dr. Stephen Urueye, a house officer at Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba, lagos, had graduated with smiles and a sense of accomplishment, and had probably looked forward to a fulfilling life of practice and a sense of commitment to his widowed mother who struggled to see him through medical school as her only child. Less than 24 hours after graduation, he was tragically stabbed to death by hoodlums on his way home from work. Futile it was that he was rushed to the hospital after the attack. So, in a twinkle of an eye, an education sojourn of almost 16 solid years evaporated. In a country with one of the poorest doctor-citizen ratios in the world, with a huge drain of personnel in other fields of medicine in search of better conditions of service, another doctor just got wasted by fellow youths, themselves obviously victims of a system that has no structured plans for the youth and children. Last week also marked the fifth anniversary of the abduction of the Chibok girls that attracted global outrage. These were girls who had been in school and were at the time writing their West African School Certificate Examination (WASCE). As if that was not enough, last year, more than 100 Dapchi school girls were abducted. Five reportedly died in custody while the poster girl of the Dapchi abduction, Leah Sharibu, is still with her abductors, more than a year after. Some students of BirninYadi were also murdered in their hostel as they retired to sleep for the night. There have been too many tragedies confronting the Nigerian children and youths across the nation. Even UNICEF came up with the alarming statistics of Nigerian children that have been harmed through violence and other forms of abuses in Nigeria.  As it is, with all the insecurity and violence in the country, more children are at risk nationwide. With the alarming statistics of out-of-school children numbering more than 13 million, and with Nigeria having the unenviable position as the poverty capital of the world, the future seems too bleak for the children; and what is a nation without its children? The dangers are overwhelming. The young doctor is obviously one of the victims of a system that has failed its young ones. We wonder how secure the path he took was. It must have been unlit. It is doubtful if that kind of heinous crime could have happened in a well-lit pathway. With the drop in the supply of electricity, it is possible that the young man was a collateral damage of the epileptic power supply amongst other dangers. We can as well assume that if there was a good and safe transportation system, the young man might not have been attacked as he walked home. If security was provided along the route he took, he might have been alive today. We also feel that his alleged attackers are equally victims in their own ways. The unemployment rate is quite high and these idle hands are exposed to crimes. There is a heightened rate of drug abuse as different types of drugs like codeine and tramadol keep flooding the streets and made very accessible to the wrong hands. In fact, we believe that the death of Dr. Urueye is a metaphor for the average Nigerian youth and the ills that they face. We advise that there must be radical action to fix things that can help their development and productivity. The necessary infrastructure must be fixed to assist in creating employment. Real, functional education beyond certificates acquisition must be introduced by the states and federal governments for relevant skills to be acquired, to get the youths employed and productive. The level of insecurity in the country is cause for concern as bandits, herdsmen, hoodlums, cattle rustlers, Boko Haram, kidnappers etc., are all made up of youths. The proliferation of small arms and weapons ought to be checked by the security agencies. Beyond the deaths at home, Nigerian youths, in the bid to scamper abroad also face the dangers of deaths at the hands of traffickers in human slavery and organs. The government must take ownership of the children of Nigeria, nurture them and secure their lives and future.