The representative of Lagos State in the All Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) Kolade Alabi has been elected the National President of the association. The election was conducted by Odunayo Ategbero-led Board of Trustees (BoT) in conjunction with the members of the Transition Management Committee (TMC) in Abuja. Alabi emerged victorious after his challengers from Akwa Ibom and Delta states stepped down. He becomes the first person in the Southwest to emerge National President in the 20 years of the association. At the Chelsea Hotel in the Central Area of Abuja where he was sworn in, Alabi thanked ALGON members for trusting him with the leadership of the association. He promised not to betray their trust by moving the association to the next level. He said: “The sustainable legacy that our out-going executives are leaving behind is well taken with “Applied Wisdom” in every sense of it and will serve as a lamp of experience for the next generation of leaders of ALGON. “In the light of the foregoing, it is with utmost temerity and joyful heart that I accept to serve as elected the President of the ALGON. “Within the political space of our dear nation and having given me the opportunity to steer the ship of ALGON, the kernel of advancing our cause towards an enviable trajectory is my vision and an unbiased or subjugated relationship is my mission.” He promised to liaise with the state governments to ensure a smooth transition of one council administration to another. “The panacea to the above challenge is to liaise with the State Governments continually so that we can transit effectively from the tenure of one administration to the next without acrimony. With this mindset and notwithstanding our diversity, we shall align, co-operate and collaborate with our respective state authorities for the general advancement of our people,” he said. To achieve this, he vowed to be guided by “our collective understanding that the following concepts regardless of our generational bracket ‘particularly as your President, I will always initiate, create opportunities to listen to divergent views, dynamic and adopt the principle of inclusion, representatives in action as well as decision-making committees. “Neither will I marginalise nor gag anyone for that matter. More importantly, l will be flexible with conventions and traditions.  The need, to move ALGON forward is key, instinctive and already placed in the front burner,” he said. Ategbero congratulated Alabi, who he described as a credible person capable of leading ALGON to the next level. He urged him not to disappoint the association. Other members of the executive include Mohammed Mahmoud Aliyu from Kaduna as the Deputy President, Ezekiel Pabuet (Plateau) – Auditor, Sani Hassan Dogarai (Gombe) – Treasurer, Toafik Isa (Kogi) – Legal Adviser, Frank Archibong (Akwa Ibom) – Financial Sec and Augustine Mbagwu (Imo) – Publicity Secretary. 