Representatives of Chibok in Borno and Dapchi in Yobe yesterday sought spiritual help at The Synagogue, the Church of All Nations, at Ikotun-Egbe, Lagos. They prayed for the release of Leah Sharibu and other pupils kidnapped by Boko Haram. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the representatives, who carried several placards told the General Overseer, Temitope Joshua, that they were at his church because they had exhausted all human efforts to get the pupils released. Their spokesman told Joshua that the father of Leah Sharibu could not come with them because he had been bedridden by stroke, as a result of the kidnap of her daughter. He said they had been watching the church activities  through a  cable television, hence their joint visit to plead for intercessory prayers. The spokesman said they had no doubt that with the approval of Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God could trigger the release of the remaining pupils kidnapped in 2014 and 2018. The cleric told them that there was nothing impossible in the sight of the Creator of Heaven and Earth. He urged the congregation to pray and fast on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday, for the release of the remaining schoolgirls. He said: “There is nothing God cannot do” and urged all to see the prayer and fasting on the mentioned days as an assignment. Some of the placards read: “Please intercede on our behalf for the release of Leah Sharibu, “The remaining 112 students kidnapped in Chibok are yet to be released, please help, among others. On April 14, 2014, 276 schoolgirls were kidnapped from the Government Secondary School, Chibok in Borno State. Responsibility for the kidnappings was claimed by Boko Haram, a terrorist organisation operating in Northeastern. Since 2014, 164 of the girls had regained their freedom, while 112 are still being held by Boko Haram. Also on February 19, last year, no fewer than 110 schoolgirls were kidnapped by the insurgents from the Government Girls’ Science and Technical College (GGSTC), Dapchi, located in Bulabulin, Yunusari Local Government area of Yobe State. One hundred and nine of them  were released, except Leah Sharibu, who was said to have refused to denounce her religion.