Mr. Hafiz Bakare is the former Managing Director/Chief Executive, Keystone Bank Limited. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, the ex-staff of First Bank of Nigeria Plc shares fond memories of working at the nation’s premier bank, where he once played a key role which helped to revamp the brand vis-à-vis his career trajectory in the banking and financial services sector. Excerpts: Working at First Bank of Nigeria Great and nostalgic as I was not just a part but made some modest contributions which I will dwell on in the course of the interview. I first got involved with FirstBank as a Management Consultant in 1996 when I was a key member of the Andersen Consulting (now Accenture) led Enterprise Transformation Project tagged “Century II”, which laid the foundation to reposition the bank for a more successful second century of operations, maintaining leadership in a more challenging and dynamic financial services industry. Among other deliverables on that major project, I had primary responsibility for conceiving the idea of a new Consumer Banking Strategic Business Unit (SBU) and developing the SBU Strategy along with a FirstBank counterpart staff, Mrs. Christy Okoye, then an Assistant General Manager who later became the pioneer Head of that SBU and eventually an Executive Director in the Bank. I subsequently joined the banking industry and some years later in 2003 came back to FirstBank to start a career that lasted six years. I served as the Bank’s  Chief Strategy Officer with responsibilities covering Strategy and Implementation (for the Bank and the Group); New Business Development; Mergers & Acquisitions; Conception/Incubation of New Subsidiaries and Group Co-ordination; Economic Intelligence; Local/International Ratings, Investor Relations, Brand Management and Corporate Communications. At some point I also oversaw the Products portfolio covering Consumer Banking Products, Agricultural Business, Money Transfer and Wholesale Banking Products.  I remain a proud ambassador and alumnus of FirstBank, going on to become an Executive Director in Keystone Bank Limited upon nomination by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), culminating in my service as Managing Director/CEO having led the post-divestment transition of Keystone Bank upon AMCON’s successful divestment. Fond memories of banking career I was actually headhunted by the then Chief Strategy Officer, Mr. Remi Babalola whom I later took over from as he went ahead to become an Executive Director in the Bank and later Minister of State for Finance. It was a very easy decision since I had earlier been involved with the turnaround effort as a Consultant back in 1996 and the Bank had revalidated that project in 2001 with the theme: “Century II – The New Frontier” which was being diligently implemented as at 2003 when I was requested to join. During the Century II project in 1996, the Project Coordinator was Mr. Bernard Longe, then DGM, Finance & Planning who later became the pioneer Executive Director in charge of Transaction Banking, a new SBU that evolved from that project and subsequently became the Managing Director/CEO. He revalidated the project in 2001 as indicated and upon his exit, Mr. Jacobs Ajekigbe who took over from him continued along the path. I was impressed by the fact that despite the changes in leadership over time, the Bank had kept faith with the roadmap provided by these projects for radical repositioning. So, I felt a sense of duty to be part of this focused premier banking and financial services institution and accede to Remi Babalola’s request to “come back home.” The Division led by Remi Babalola as Chief Strategy Officer, was officially called Corporate Planning & Group Co-ordination as at 2003 and was the focal point of the Brand Transformation Project which was ongoing as at then as a conscious part of “Century II – The New Frontier. After the launch of the new corporate identity in 2004, Brand Management became a department under the Chief Strategy Officer. This excluded Public Relations; Press Management; Corporate Communications; Advertisement; Image Management; Event Management; Sponsorships; Corporate Social Responsibility; Management of Below The Line items such as calendars, diaries, seasonal greeting cards, souvenirs/promotional items etc, which remained under the purview of Corporate Affairs Department until 2006 when I took over as Chief Strategy Officer. Managing corporate image of a bank The thematic brand essence of the Bank arising from the Brand Transformation Project and which also guided management of the brand when I was in charge was: “Dependably Dynamic”. This was consistent with the two key imperatives of “Growth” and “Modernization” which underpinned the Bank’s strategic intent of being “the clear leader in the financial services industry”. Even if the actual words of the brand essence have changed based on recent rebranding efforts by the current management of the Bank, the philosophy remains the same i.e a bank that takes pride in its rich history, longevity, time honoured ethical values that confer solidity (standing “gidigba”) and safety while it has made itself nimble and modern enough to adapt to the dynamic operating environment and be strongly competitive! Dependably Dynamic as brand essence represents the single concept which drives the understanding of the brand and best personifies the behaviour, products and services of the Bank even as it has its roots in the past, present and future. The brand essence captures the spirit of all the four identified brand pillars at the time and which remain relevant: Leadership, Safety & Security, Enterprise and Service Excellence. Besides, the foundation for managing the brand’s corporate image was laid by the Brand Transformation Project which was ongoing when I joined the Bank. When I later assumed the role of Chief Strategy Officer, the erstwhile Corporate Affairs Department came fully within my purview under the name Image Management in addition to the responsibilities handled by the former Chief Strategy Officer. Image Management was headed by Jide Ogundele from the old Corporate Affairs while Brand Management was headed by Emmanuel Obeta who was hired for the purpose in the course of the Brand Transformation Project, both of them reporting to me as members of the team. As these individuals subsequently moved on to other roles within and outside the Bank, I got the CEO’s concurrence to merge all image management, brand management and corporate communications activities as one single Brand Management Department for greater synergy to achieve our objectives under me as Chief Strategy Officer, and engaged someone who had earlier joined the team, Helen Uju Ogboh (still in the Bank but has moved on to other responsibilities) to work with me in driving the process. Brand projection and management of corporate image were then actualised and driven within the context of the larger role of the Chief Strategy Officer as strategic activities vital to corporate success. Therefore, on one hand, we drove “direct” initiatives around advertisement and significant presence in local and international media coupled with deliberate feature articles; outdoor advertising on billboards and wall drapes; sponsorship of and participation at strategic local and international events (World Economic Forum, Economist Conferences etc) with speaking opportunities at the highest level;  international awards and presence at CEO and Board levels; use of Below The Line items (calendars, diaries, corporate gifts etc) as conscious means of strategic brand projection due to the quality and timeliness being competitive tools; as well as general branding. Modest successes On the other hand, my role as Chief Strategy Officer also enabled me to leverage various other initiatives within my purview and fully optimise opportunities for brand projection and corporate image enhancement. Some of these include branch development in liaison with other stakeholders complete with proper branding to enhance customer experience in the outlets; creation of new subsidiaries of the Bank and extending the group coordination role to ensure uniform branding across all subsidiaries both locally and internationally projecting the FirstBank monolithic brand, expansion of the Bank internationally in Asia and Europe with representative offices or branches, enhancement of the design, quality and content of the Bank’s Annual Report reinforcing the FirstBank corporate identity and the variants of the Bank’s brand colours at different times; the Bank’s hydrid offer making it the first Nigerian institution to attain N1trillion market capitalisation which was well exploited in the press; Standard & Poor’s international ratings being the first in the 100-year history of the Bank and the second Nigerian corporate to obtain such thereby raising the Bank’s international profile; investor relations participation at various international fora (London Stock Exchange, IFC Washington DC, Merrill Lynch, Renaissance Capital etc) to project the brand and tell the FirstBank story usually together with the then Chief Risk Officer, Mr Sanusi Lamido Sanusi (SLS) who later became the Bank’s CEO, subsequently Central Bank Governor and now Emir of Kano. Comparative analysis of banks current corporate image and rating I believe the current corporate image is still consistent with what we tried to achieve with the dependably dynamic brand essence as it continues to portray a Bank that is proud to project its rich history and longevity while it strongly adapts to the dynamic operating environment to be modern and competitive. It offers services to customers within the context of very strong and unapologetic but reasonable corporate governance and risk management. I would rate the corporate image A++.