Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige said on Tuesday that statistics revealed that about 2.78 million workers die from occupational accidents and work-related diseases annually across the world with an additional 374 million workers suffering from non-fatal occupational accidents globally each year. Speaking at a symposium to mark the 2019 World Day for Safety and Health at Work in Abuja, the Minister said these statistics were alarming, adding that the economic cost in these figures is not only enormous and unquantifiable, but is also tragic and regrettable. Represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, William Alo, the Minister said “This immeasurable human suffering and catastrophes caused by poor occupational safety and health practices and conditions are largely preventable.” He said this included the holding of road shows, rallies, symposia; media outreach exercises, press conference, distribution of poster, flyers and other information education and communication materials, among others nationwide. He added that free medical screening was being targeted towards the enhancement of safety, health, and welfare of workers in the informal sector. “You can attest to the fact that technological advancement including digital technologies, artificial intelligence, robotics nanotechnology, and increasing automation is becoming more common in the workplace and machines are now attempting to take over the role of humans. “In a renewed effort at addressing changing patterns and emerging risks in the workplaces, the government has embarked on measures in ensuring safe, healthy and decent work for all. “Government has also embarked on measures to promote a culture of prevention through various workplace interventions that include the vigorous enforcement of extant labour laws through conduct and factory inspections of workplace, nationwide. “In addition, employment patterns and structures are shifting with the introduction of new forms of employment such as outsourcing, contract staffing, and a host of other non-standard forms of employment. “All of these now present various threats and challenges to the safety and well-being of workers which must be addressed by the future of work”. He however, said that the ministry had encouraged concerted effort of all stakeholders toward effectively rising to the transformation challenges and opportunities posed by rapidly advancing technologies which revolutionized occupational safety and health concerns. Ngige said the evolving world of work today and in the future, undoubtedly called for innovative investments in labour as a major factor of production, through continual learning and skill development, adding that Nigeria as a member state of the International labour Organization (ILO) had since 2004, joined the annual awareness-raising campaigned. This the Minister said had intended to focus on the magnitude of work-related accidents, injuries, diseases and deaths and contemporary remedial approach through a preventative safety and health culture at work. He assured all that the ministry would continue to develop and subsequently, review policies, legislative and regulatory framework that was critical to achieving sustainable improvement in safety and health standards in the workplace. ILO Country Director in Nigeria, Denis Zulu, said Nigeria has been consistent in commemorating the World Day for Occupational Safety, adding that “It is an important day for us in the ILO, because we are commemorating 100 years old of the ILO and it gives an opportunity to see how much progress has been made in the safety and health. “I must admit over the past few years, we have made tremendous progress around policies and we have also made progress towards having an updated law that reflects the changing environment in the world of work. “We are delighted that the government is taking this issue very seriously but also the presence of the private sector, trade unions is particularly important. This is because health and safety in the workplace is not just the responsibility of the government but also the employers and the workers who are actually around the workplace”. Also speaking, Director, Occupational Safety and Health in the ministry, Dr Ifeoma Anyawutaku said it was part of the ministry mandate to ensure safety and well-being of Nigerian workers in their workplace. “It is our mandate that nobody goes to work to meet his death or get harm or sustain injuries in the cause of doing his or her job. So, the Federal Government under the Ministry of Labour and Employment is doing so much particularly in enforcing standard, laws and regulations by guaranteeing the safety the health and the well-being of every Nigerian worker in their various workplaces. “In addition to enforcement, we are involved in promotional activities and rising awareness to ensure that every worker knows those hazards they exposed to and to also ensure that every worker knows what steps to be taken.” 