Multi-talented Tijani Ibrahim’s story is one of a kind. He was born without a limb, but that did not stop him from succeeding. Against all odds, he pursued his dream of attaining academic excellence. He just completed his Ordinary National Diploma programme in Mass Communication at the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic. In this interview with EFOSA TAIWO, the physically-challenged Ibrahim recounts his life experience, describing it as satisfactory than regrettable. How was growing up like? It was okay based on the family I grew up with. They made me to care less about anything. How did your family make you less worried about your condition? They treated me not in a special manner. Others went to school, I did too. Others did home chores, same with me. They were beaten for doing wrong things, so was I. Also, my family is like a motivation to me, they believe in me, spend most on me and they keep letting me feel that I can do everything others can. What led to the loss of your limb? I was born this way Does this mean it was inherited or what story were you told about it? It wasn’t hereditary. I am the only one like this in my family. It is just God’s will, and I feel that’s the best for me How many are you in your family? I can’t actually say because I am from a polygamous home. We are about 12, but only five from my Mum. Did you at any point in your lifetime feel hopeless about your condition ? I have never been hopeless. What has been your inspiration? Let me say this, what people call your shortcoming should be your strength. Many still believe I can’t, and I always want to prove to them, I can do all. What has been your biggest challenge? It used to be lack of confidence in doing all. I once thought I had limit to what I could do, but now I feel I can do almost all and I am the best thing and most talented I have ever seen. How supportive have your parents been? They are always supportive, they have shown me love and spent almost all they have to make me a successful person. They made many sacrifices for my satisfaction. What about friends? You know in life, not all friends are friends. Some are there for the moment. However, majority of them are also a source of motivation. They sometimes act like I am better than them. Some make me feel I am the most talented. Recently, one of my best friends (a female) asked me about my girlfriend and immediately she teased me that she knew I couldn’t be single because I am talented. What is the most embarrassing moment you have ever had? I remember the day I forgot my lines on stage. That day was funny, the only thing that helped me was that people knew I was good. I dropped the microphone to the next performer, who did well. I collected the microphone again but still, I couldn’t remember. I left the stage in shame. What is your most rewarding moment? When I was given a honorary award at a sport competition, Nasfat game (NASGA) 2016. I think that’s the only one I can remember for now, because I have had many rewarding moments. As an underdog, coming third at Mash up contest is what I could call the best.  I participated in scrabble. Have you ever been discriminated against as a result of your disability? Not really, because immediately I get to a place, I always make them realise that I am not different from them. Sometimes I want to appear better. What has always been your ambition in life? No special ambition, I just want to leave an unforgettable, but positive memories behind. I want to live forever. If you were to spend three hours of your lifetime with someone of your choice, who would that person be ? Nick Vujicic, the motivational speaker and cleric, who has  no limb and arms, but 1.3 million followers on Instagram. What are your hobbies? Snooker and football. You have an Instagram page where you inspire people, tell us more about it The instagram page is-@thrivespeak., I created it a long time ago, though, different names had been used. I created it to unleash my passion to be a motivation to others, and be a hope for the hopeless. Those who believe they can’t, seeing me will make them believe they can also do it. The Instagram page is just one of the platforms I use in doing this. What would be your words to those in your shoes? They should know that life is all about war. We just have to keep fighting if you want to be what you dreamed. Prepare for pain and suffering. Like I do say: “You either suffer to stop suffering or suffer for not suffering.” Also, you should know, we are all gifted, therefore, can do something special. Don’t believe someone is talented and you’re not, you are just yet to know what you can. I am not good in anything; I just love, wanting to try everything that makes me appear talented.