According to the sages, laughter is the best medicine. They go further to say that a merry heart does the body good. They go even further to claim that life, love and laughter are intricately melded together. Even more preposterously, they claim that those who know how to laugh at life’s situations live longer. This means of course that those who don’t know how to laugh soon wither off. Well, all I can say is that whoever says these things has obviously never had a toothache. Anyone who has ever had a bout of toothache can testify to a number of things. One, it begins quietly, often when you’re cracking a bone. The ‘crack’ sound you hear from the cavernous yonder often catches you by surprise. Two, it is no respecter of persons. It would have a king writhing in pain, on the bare floor, underneath his expensive throne, crown flung aside most disrespectfully, the same way it would seize a market maid. Three, it never strikes in the morning when you can quickly redirect your route towards the dentistry. No sir, the blasted thing always strikes deep in the night when help is anywhere but right where you are; or else it strikes at the beginning of the weekend, ruining your every chance of enjoying that cow-leg pepper-soup you skimped, saved or accepted bribery to buy. I tell you, when the toothache comes on one, there are no age restrictions on the shouts of pain as you writhe and respond with irritated malice to any question from the rest of the healthy world. ‘Where are the car keys?’ ‘Un hoe, un mo mont’, which, under normal circumstances, would probably have come out as ‘In here, in my mouth’. I have been a faithful student of laughter; I have even done researches on the sort of humour that produces it. And they are many. The quirky twist of understanding of particular words is one source. Take the instance of a well-known thief caught in the act of stealing someone’s purse only to turn around to claim that he actually thought it was the one he had lost earlier. Or, take the case of a man addressed by his wife as ‘Hon’. Asked what it meant, his wife replied it was a term of endearment to which the man replied, ‘After forty years, it is a term of endurement’. The readiest source of humour of course is when animals are given human characteristics and they are depicted slaving away at the stove, playing cards or tennis or even driving. The act of animals replicating human frailties brings out the ridiculousness of those humans more, and makes you ask, why give these poor animals such a bad name? And, all the while, the poor animals are thinking, ‘Are you sure human beings do these things?’ Has it struck you that no matter how much you prod and joke, Nigerians do not seem to appreciate humour? I am willing to be corrected on this but most Nigerians I meet appear to have given their sense of humour a permanent holiday. Indeed, they all go around as if they are all suffering from toothache and so cannot generate or even respond to laughter. Everyone is going around with dead-pan seriousness as they grapple with the reality of life in Nigeria – a life of no water, no electricity, no food, no health, no money. It is all they can do to stay alive, let alone smile. The market woman has no joke for the buyer, only a frown of ‘I beg commot for my front if you no fit buy’. Ditto for the petrol attendant, the taxi driver. Everyone you meet these days is going around looking like Mount Etna in the throes of a volcanic eruption. Don’t get me wrong. I occasionally come across genuine humour factories. No, not from Baba Sala and his professional colleagues – those are simply plying their trade; I mean, people who can generate spontaneous laughter from any given situation they find themselves in; but they are too abominably few. Just the other day, I cut into someone’s lane in traffic with my car and, quite offended, he shouted, ‘Stupid woman. Go get a driver!’ Now, how is that for a response? I mean, how was that supposed to help my driving? Such responses are too deep for me; they strike at the Nigerian’s comical reaction to one of the many contradictions that surround them. Indeed, I always find the Lagos traffic to be a humour factory. It is always amazing to watch the mass of humans there screech their ways around the land like crazed, drunken mice, in the name of making a living. Everyone walks so purposefully and so fast, even armed robbers, that pedestrians can collide heavily against each other. You can stand and watch helplessly as those who drive around zoom around you like bullets, driven by crazed drivers with speed in their eyes. Yep, you’re right; the same people would love to shout ‘please slow down’ if they could when they are being driven to the cemetery in their caskets. Oh yes, we can also find some humour in the Nigerian government too. In the name of central control, the government has made itself the only viable employer in the land, and yet cries that no development is taking place! How can?! Development is when the citizens are given certain resources and asked to go and multiply what they have. Studiously, the said citizens creatively use their share of these resources to bring out finished goods and/or provide services for other citizens. That way, different goods and services are spread around the country. Nothing but chaos can attend the present arrangement. It is confusion reigning supreme and feeding my sad mirth. Humour resides elsewhere too. Look at the same government’s road agencies in the land – not a bit of humour between them to make a baby laugh. Altogether, they seem to have come to the conclusion that only one brief connects them and the public – not to represent the government. Whatever they do, they do not do it smiling. I think that is mainly because they do not appreciate the humour of public service, which is so funny. Me, I continue to find humour all around me. Just look at the social media; it’s full of budding humorists, pranksters, and people who have no idea how to use it. Facebook alone is full of people who are suffering from mild attacks of narcissism. If they have not put a picture of themselves in different modes: sleeping, eating, walking, standing, angry, pretentiousness, mouth-agape and other modes on their walls for the whole world to marvel at the fine specimen of human beings they are, life is not complete. Facebook should be a complete dossier of the people we know. These days, it is turning out to be a complete dossier of the people I don’t know anymore. Perhaps, I should correct myself. Nigerians do have a great sense of humour. It just does not lie in the universally acknowledged quirks of character, actions or even words known to send one reeling backwards. It does not lie in attempting to make light of different situations that accost us daily. Nigerians challenge us to understand their sense of humour. It lies in doing exactly those things that go against nature, reason and universal good judgment, that defy any human understanding, or that belong in the animal kingdom. They are the things that give us toothache, which laughter obviously cannot cure.  