FC Barcelona host Manchester United in the second leg of the quarter-finals match of the UEFA Champions League in less than two hours. The Catalans go into the fixtures with a 1-0 aggregate lead knowing that a draw at the Camp Nou is enough to secure them a semi-final place for the first time since 2015. Barcelona on paper is widely adjudged to win on paper, as they are favourites to win virtually every game and also among the favourites to win every title. Five reasons listed below show clearly why the Spanish side should emerge winners over the Red Devils. Lionel Messi alone gives any team an upper hand and he will be very essential in Barcelona’s goal to win not just this game but also the UEFA Champions League this season. The 31-year old already has 43 goals this season whilst providing 18 assists, more than any other player by far. Messi will be a menace for the Manchester United defence.  He is very dangerous, can score, dribble and create from basically all angles. The great battle between both sides will take place in Camp Nou in few hours. Records have it that the Spanish sides progress in knockout games when they play the second leg at home. In their last eight quarterfinal ties, they’ve played away first they progressed in six and so expected to be a torrid time for Man. United in the Nou Camp. Although it is not exactly a golden ticket for the better team to progress but in this case it is very glaring that Barcelona possess a lot more quality in their squad compared to the Reds. They are better than Man United in almost all positions and also looking from the team-play perspective. Barcelona are more tactically sound and balanced in both defense and attack with their transition fast and smooth enough to break any team down. Barcelona have been champions of La Liga in seven of the last ten seasons and are on course to  winning this year’s edition as they top the table leading second place Atletico Madrid with 8 points. They’re also on course to win their fifth consecutive Copa Del Rey title but have failed to win the UEFA Champions League, a trophy they last handled in 2015. Watching Real Madrid win three editions in a row after 2015, they are desperate to clinch the title, now that their rivals are out of the competition. Messi already promised fans at the beginning they will try to bring the UCL home. 5. Midfield duel FC Barcelona will definitely win the midfield war against Manchester United. They have a balanced midfield with Sergio Busquet in defensive midfield role and controller Arthur holding onto possession and resisting press.  Arturo Vidal could also feature, doing the tackling and making life difficult for the Red Devils.