Green House emerged the overall winner of De-Bright Group of Schools maiden inter-house sports competition held recently, at AUD College, Isolo, Lagos. The champions lifted the trophy after clinching 16 gold, six silver and eight bronze medals ahead of Yellow House with 12 gold, 11 silver and eight bronze medals; and Red House with seven gold, 13 silver medals and 12 bronze. Proprietor of the school, Oresanya Adekunle said it was not just a competition, but an event aimed at  uniting the students, their parents and teachers together in another way. “When organising competitions, it should not only be about the games, we need to consider a lot of things like uniting the people especially our wonderful students and their parents. We test ourselves against others to measure specific skills interesting to us and for the love of participating in our chosen sport,” he said. Oresanya said the overall winning house deserved the trophy following its exceptional performance. He further appreciated the parents and sponsors for making the competition a success. “The event went well without any form of injury and the weather was favourable and I will also like to appreciate the sponsors who have encountered the students to do well in the competition,” he said. One of the sponsors and a parent, Ayodele Ogunmuyiwa noted that he had no regrets sponsoring the champions. He also said he sponsored Green House in memory of his late father. “It was a very interesting competition and I enjoyed it. It is an honour to sponsor the winners and I did that in memory of my late father because he was a great man and I have no regret doing that. The children have all done well and they made us proud. Who knows, they might be representing the country tomorrow,” he said. Another parent, Fatai Dosumu, praised the management for organising the competition. He said: “It has been a fantastic competition so far and I can say it is a well packaged inter-house sports.” Speaking with The Nation, the Captain of the champions, Okwudishu Michael gave kudos to the sponsors and house masters for preparing them well ahead of the competition. Michael noted that the training they got led to their victory. “It was great lifting the overall trophy. We were scared at a point but the training we got helped us a lot to get ahead of others. I will like to say thank you to our sponsors for boosting our moral before and during the competition because that alone was a plus to us,” he said.