Following the lost suffered at the last general election, a factional group within the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Oyo state, known as Reformers has called for the immediate dissolution of the party executives from the ward to state level to pave way for a more popular and proactive executives to run the party affairs. The group also disagreed with the party chairmen at the local government level that the party lost the last election in the state as a result of overconfidence and electoral fraud. In a statement issued by the group’s secretary, Mr Sulaimon Ramon, the Reformers noted that the party lost the election due to imposition of candidates, lack of internal democracy, internal wrangling and high handed of the governor. The group further condemns the call by the party chairmen at the LG level to make the party’s governorship candidate in the just concluded election, Mr Adebayo Adelabu the state party leader as well as nominated state candidate for ministerial slot. The statement reads in parts, “We lost the election to imposition of candidates, lack of internal democracy, internal wrangling, high handedness by the governor and the incompetence of the party executive under Chief Akin Oke. “What Oyo state APC needs now is a college of tested and patriotic party leaders under the leadership of a tested leader with credibility, sound knowledge of politics, grassroots mobilization, kindness and an army of loyal supporters. It is far from being a responsibility of a political greenhorn like Adelabu.” The group accused the party chairmen of making the statement as a payback to the former governorship candidate after he released the buses used for the last election at their various local governments to them. It advised the chairmen to understand that the party is bigger than individual greed and interest of each and every one of them, noting that “this was the way they hailed and shouted Sheu until Ajimobi led us to the present dungeon.” The APC Reformers however advised the national leadership of the party to note that with the statement credited to the party chairmen at the local government level, they have not learnt from the latest avoidable failure at the election and they are yet to retrace their steps for future success. It then called for the immediate dissolution of the party’s entire executive from the ward to the state to pave way for integration, harmonization and a fresh democratic congress which will “usher in a pragmatic, populist and proactive executive.”