Oluremi Olaoye, Head, Corporate Communication at the Bank of Agriculture (BOA) in this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf and Abdulgafar Alabelewe addresses issues raised by concerned members of staff. Excerpts: There are claims that staff have not been paid for over 12 months now. How true is this and why? This is not true. However, the Bank’s Strategic Business Units, such as branch offices and zonal offices are expected to generate businesses and manage their operations to be profitable such that they are able to pay their salaries, in situations where it is obvious they do not have the capability to pay, the Head Office intervenes by providing them funds. No promotion in the last 20 years. How true is this and why? This is not true. The last general promotion exercise took place in 2015. Apart from this, as recent as this month (April) staff who have acquired additional qualification were appropriately elevated. The petitioners also raised allegation of gross incompetence by the current board. What’s your take on this? The Board of the Bank has not been reconstituted since it was dissolved in 2015. Is it also through that, there is system breakdown on the bank? There is no “system breakdown” in the Bank. BOA has been pivotal to the success of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) well acclaimed Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP). The Bank has disbursed over N82 billion to about 425,000 farmers nationwide. The CBN will surely not run such an important programme through an institution whose system has broken down. Apart from the ABP, the BOA is running other programmes through products targeted at youths and women with the objective of reducing unemployment and ensuring financial inclusion. There are claims that the present problem of the institution emanated from the political loans packaged by the Head Office but the burden shifted to the branches under a concept tagged: Sustainability. What is the justification for this? The Bank has a loan process which ensures that all credits are properly appraised. This involves several layers from the desk officer through various levels before it gets to the executive management or the Board of Directors for amounts beyond the threshold of the Executive Management. Apart from this, the Bank has a Risk Management Department headed by a very senior person (General Manager) who operates a robust risk management framework to appraise all credit requests. This includes a critical appraisal for politically exposed persons (PEP). It should however be noted that credits papers emanate from the branch offices, are reviewed by the zonal offices before the Management Credit committee’s review and recommend for approval or otherwise. Thus, the onus lies on branches which generate the credits to recover them. What is the bank management doing about the alleged general low staff morale? Thank you for classifying it as “alleged.” However, the staff morale by our assessment is not low. Maybe this was the case a few years ago. Let me state for clarity that working with the staff unions, the bank recently reinstated staff loans, regularised the appointment of erstwhile contract staff, appropriately placed staff with additional qualifications and instituted a new regime of manpower development through trainings. It has also been alleged that, members of the management team recruit their families to the Bank over the existing staff. Without due process. What is the management’s reaction to this? Every recruitments done in the Bank under the current management has gone through the due process, and the process has been open and fair. As earlier said, every effort has been made by the management to ensure that every staff gets what he merits, promotions, upgrading, etc. It would however be unfair to deny qualified family members of staff from applying for employment with the Bank.