The Rivers State government and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) are bickering over alleged debt. The Rivers State Internal Revenue Service (RIRS), on Wednesday, sealed off the commission’s corporate headquarters in Port Harcourt, the state capital, over an alleged unpaid withholding tax that amounts to N50 billion Chairman of RIRS, Adoage Norteh said the NDDC premises were sealed off because the commission refused to make its financial records available for audit. But the NDDC denied the claims in a statement by its Director of Corporate Affairs, Charles Odili, saying that the commission’s record revealed that the claim is incorrect. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Yekini Nabena, accused Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike of instigating the sealing off of the NDDC office. Speaking with reporters on Wednesday, Nabena, who is also Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC said the Rivers State Governor was hiding behind the state revenue agency to witch-hunt the NDDC management. He said Wike, who is hiding under the guise of a bogus N50 billion unpaid tax was using the Rivers State Internal Revenue Service to harass the NDDC in a bid to frustrate the Commission’s development activities for the region. He said the sealing of the NDDC office did not follow due process as public records have shown, saying: “It is disheartening that the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike has chosen to sabotage the activities of the Niger Delta Development Commission all in his bid to score political points against the President Muhammadu Buhari government. “Wike should know by now that an attack on NDDC’s operations is an attack on the South-south and other oil-producing states which the commission was established to develop.” While calling for caution, he called on the elders, leaders and other stakeholders across the Niger Delta to call Governor Wike to order. “In the meantime, I call on stakeholders in the Niger Delta to call Governor Nyesom Wike to order since he has decided to take his known executive rascality to new heights. Clearly, the sealing of NDDC’s office by the Rivers State Internal Revenue Service did not follow due process and is politically motivated to sabotage the President Muhammadu Buhari developmental agenda for the South-south and other oil-producing states. “The interest of the Niger Delta is bigger than any individual, in this case Wike. If this issue is unresolved and persists, the Federal Government must consider relocating the NDDC office to neighbouring Edo State to allow for the commission’s ease of operations.”