Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto  (UDUS) in partnership with National Automative Design and Development Council  (NADDC) has concluded plans to start an Electric Vehicle Pilot programme. This was revealed last week by NADDC Director-General Jelani Aliyu. Presenting a paper at a public lecture to mark the university’s 35th, 36th and 37th joint convocation, Aliyu, a prominent Sokoto-born car designer, said he was excited about the collaboration that is underway. “That is why I am particularly excited about a programme that our agency, the National Automative Design and Development Council, is doing with this very university. God willing, we shall soon start an Electric Vehicle pilot programme,” Aliyu said. According to him, following a meeting with UDUS Vice Chancellor Prof Abdullahi Abdu Zuru, three electric vehicles are in the process of being procured by the agency, adding that once done, they would be transferred to UDUS for  test-running towards identifying likely challenges. He said: “We recently met with the Vice Chancellor and our agency is in the process of procuring three electronic vehicles which we will test run here in collaboration with the Energy Research Centre, to begin the technology transfer and understand opportunities and challenges.” Aliyu noted that the motive behind the introduction of such sophisticated technology on the soil of UDUS, is to scrape out the phobia for advanced technology and empower the people technology wise. “The whole objective is not to be afraid of advanced technology, to identify fantastic innovation, secure it, deploy it within our localities thereby enlightening and empowering our people,” Aliyu explained during the lecture. Once the delivery is taken, the two electric vehicles will be situated within permanent site, but will also go back and forth between the two campuses, Aliyu further explained. “The Electric Vehicles will run within the permanent site, and also shuttle between the two campuses,” he added. Zuru expressed his sincere gratitude to Aliyu for not just delivering an inspiring lecture, but also picking UDUS as the first university to launch the pilot programme, before two others. “Three universities-University of Lagos (UNILAG), UDUS, and University of Nigeria, Nsukka  (UNN) have been chosen by the agency to begin the Electric Vehicle Pilot studies, and I’m happy to inform you that it will be launched here first,” Zuru said during his vote of thanks.