The ruling All Progressive Congress is in the process of replacing its National Secretary following the resignation of the immediate past National Secretary, Mr Mai Mala Buni, who was recently elected as the Governor-Elect of Yobe State, North East, Nigeria. Architect Waziri Bulama is a frontline candidate for the top position, Bulama had previously contested for the same position of National Secretary during the 2018 National Convention of the party but he later stepped down to pave way for Mr Buni to emerge unopposed after an agreement by leaders of the party from the North East geo-political zone where the position was zoned to. Architect Waziri Bulama is a scion of the famous Bulama family of Borno State, he graduated from Ahmadu Bello University with a B.sc degree in Architecture in 1983, he also obtained an M.sc degree in Architecture from the same institution in 1984. He thereafter proceeded to the University of Bedfordshire in 2005 and bagged an M.sc degree in Entrepreneurship and Business Management in 2006 from the university. Architect Bulama is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Architects and is a former chairman of the Borno State Chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Architects. Bulama is the Chairman/CEO of KDC Construction Limited. He served as the Deputy Director-General (Coordination) of the APC Presidential Campaign Council in 2019, Architect Bulama played a pivotal role during the merger and formation stage of the party when he headed the strategy and planning committee which gave the APC firm footing and ensured victory for the party in the 2015 general election. He is a political tactician who is well acquainted with the principles of building a coherent party, he has the wherewithal, clout, carriage, candour and pedigree to take the APC to greater heights. Architect Waziri Bulama has always demonstrated deep loyalty and sincere commitment to the ideals of the All Progressive Congress’ (APC). The National Secretary of any political party is expected to be someone with the vital ability, experience, skills, leadership management experience, political party administration skills, political knowledge, campaign experience, partnership building, political party knowledge and understanding of the complete political party constitution, policy, processes, procedures, structures, rules, political research, political party budget management and other vital information relating to a political party and with the responsibility to manage, motivate, supervise and lead a team of people within the political party structure in consultation with the National Chairman and the entire leadership of the party, Architect Waziri Bulama  has all these qualities and is well grounded to carry out these responsibilities. Architect Waziri Bulama is a politically sagacious and dogged politician, who do not just possess high managerial skills but is a political technocrat whose administrative acumen is needed in building the ruling party and ensuring the success of the government. Architect Bulama has shown over the years from his performance which he has clearly demonstrated when given responsibilities by the party that he will help in building and delivering dividends of democracy to the people. A recent report in one of the major daily newspapers described Architect Bulama in glowing terms: “Also of importance was that Bulama’s administrative competence was highly exhibited during the Presidential Campaign as the Deputy Director General (Coordination).”In fact, one of the leaders of the party was said to be so impressed with Waziri’s deep intellect, his eloquent marketing of Mr. President and APC programmes all through the period of the campaigns, especially in live television programmes and debates, that he remarked, ‘this is our next national secretary.” Following his endorsement and recommendation to the party leadership by the Borno State Governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Shettima who also doubles as the Chairman, Northern Governors Forum and the support for him by the CPC bloc of the All Progressive Congress, it should be a smooth ride for Bulama to emerge as the next National Secretary of the ruling APC. It is my sincere belief that Architect Waziri Bulama will bring to bear his strong organisational and managerial skills to bear on the office of the National Secretary when appointed.