At a two-day workshop on the environment in Lagos, some journalists proffered solutions on how to conserve the ecosystem amid threats posed by climate change and global warming, among others. CAMPUSLIFE correspondent ABDULSALAM MAHMUD, who was there, reports. Participants at the African Arts and Media Earth Initiative (AAMEI) 2008/19 academy have recommended that concerted efforts should be made by the government and relevant stakeholders in the environmental sector to halt the spate of degradation occasioned by man’s unregulated activities and over-exploitation. This year’s edition, held at Lufasi Nature Park Eti-Osa, Lagos was themed: ‘Development and nature: Reporting the connection.’ The event was anchored by AAMEI’s founder and environmental reporter Ugochi Oluigbo, and assisted by Bunmi Obanawu,  founder of the  Fight Against Desert Encroachment (FADE),  a Non-Governmnetal Organisation (NGO). AAMEI uses art, entertainment as well as the traditional and new media to explore and create environmental conversations about the changing ecosystem Environews Editor-in-Chief, Mr Michael Simire, opened the floodgate of discussions. Speaking on ’The mandates of environmental journalists,’ Simire advised Environment reporters to write factual, objective and balanced stories, documentaries and features on the impacts of deforestation, burning of fossil fuels, greenhouse emissions, gas flaring, and oil spillage, among other activities ravaging the country’s ecosystem. The Editor, African News Network (ANN), Tunde Osho, cautioned young reporters against disseminating fake and malicious news. He urged them to go the extra-mile and verify any piece of information they receive, saying: “You must be fact-checkers who distill inconvertible facts from blatant falsehood in any information.’’ “Though fake news looks so juicy and ‘unbelievably true’ on the face value, journalists who are peddlers of rumours and outright lies risk tarnishing their good reputation, and professional integrity,” Osho further warned. Jennifer Igwe, an award-winning reporter, highlighted the significance of having a human-angle perspective to reports on environmental issues. Igwe noted that being adventurous helps reporters to identify ‘unique and beautiful’ angles to  reports, urging participants to read widely so as to broaden their horizon. Igwe advised her colleagues to  be in touch with experts versed in environment matters, especially when working on stories about environment. “It is imperative that you relate cordially with environmental activists, and experts in the field. This will enable one to know more about topical environmental issues and the effective solutions to address them. Environmental activists are change-advocates, hence they should be fair, accurate, balanced and objective in their reportage. They should verify information from credible and reliable sources. More importantly, they should be more concerned about writing impact-making stories on environmental problems.” Managing Editor, Sahara Reporters, Mr Fisayo Soyombo, drew a distinction between undercover and investigative journalism. He said while the undercover journalism reports are also investigative in nature. not all investigative reports are undercover in nature. On professional hazard, Soyombo said reporters who write stories to expose acts of corruption by government officials risked being murdered, harassed, or assaulted physically, to mention a few. “As an investigative reporter, you must have plan B and C in case the main strategy you adopted for doing an investigation fails or you run into trouble,” noted Soyombo. Another speaker Mr Desmond Majekodunmi, lamented that human beings, their exploitative tendency and harmful activities, are reasons many species of plants and animals have gone into extinction across the world. Majekodunmi, who is the Founder of Lufasi Park, disclosed that about 12 million tons of waste plastics are deposited into seas and oceans by rainfall, flooding and erosion. A situation, he maintained, causes severe plastic pollution. “It is heart-warming that prominent world leaders have also lent their influential voices to the campaign on tackling climate change. Prince Charles of Wales stated at a previous UN General Assembly gathering that tackling global warming is the greatest challenge facing the world. While Bill Gates, one of the world’s richest, said climate change is a terrible problem, and it absolutely needs to be solved. It deserves to be a huge priority,” Majekodunmi said. A conservation ecologist and wildlife photographer Dr. Babajide Agboola, sought more ‘corporate social responsibility (CSR) on wildlife. He, nonetheless, expressed dismay that some financial and other profit-making institutions that use animals such as elephant, eagle, lion, birds and many others, as part of their logo, have done little or nothing about conserving the endangered animals’ species. Agboola emphasised the need for photojournalists to carry out diligent research to know the aggressive features of various species in wildlife habitats so as not to get harmed in the course of their job. He added: “Always observe and carefully track animals or the subjects you intend to give shots. Then be wary of animals’ threat zones. You must also be patient while trying to get the favourite shots you wish to take of wildlife animals. Among other things, know the techniques of photography and master your camera very well.” Two participants at the workshop, Gbemile Oluwatosin and Ajibade Adedotun, showcased a collection of their wildlife photographs. The Founder of Climate Action Nigeria, Mr. Kelvin Akoje, on his part, said timely response to environmental issues would help to mitigate the impacts of disasters, such as flooding, erosion, and even the age-long farmers/herders’ clashes. A participant, Miss Toluwalase Ogunleye, a post-graduate student of Environmental System and Climate Change at the Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), said she gained first-hand experience on how to ‘tenderly’ care for her environment and save it from destruction.