The feud between the Pension Ad Hoc Committee Chairman Ehionzuwa Johnson Agbonayinma and the National Pension Commission (PenCom) may worsen. The commission has declares its loss of confidence in the leadership and proceedings of the House of Representatives ad hoc committee set up to probe its activities. Industry sources told reporters in Lagos that the chairman should recuse himself from the ad hoc committee, following the discovery that his daughter allegedly got a job in PenCom with fake certificates. This led to her sack and alleged threats against the commission. The development is coming on the heels of the House of Representative ad hoc committee’s investigation into the activities of PenCom from April 2017 to date under the chairmanship of Agbonayinma. Prior to the commencement of the investigation, the commission had embarked on routine certificate verification and it was allegedly discovered that the chairman’s daughter secured employment in PenCom with fake certificates, which ultimately led to her sack. Sources, who spoke in confidence, said there were indications that the ad hoc committee’s leadership was no longer fair in its proceedings but engaged in “witch-hunt” that would produce an unjust outcome. One of the sources said: “This development has heightened concerns that the chairman has personalised the investigation, which led to the commission’s loss of confidence in the leadership of the ad hoc committee. “PenCom and some operators expected that the chairman would recuse himself from the ad hoc committee with this glaring case of conflict of interest, but he has continued to pursue an agenda of harassment of officers of the commission who appeared before the committee. “The commission believes that he lacks the requisite impartiality to preside over the committee’s proceedings. It is doubtful that the commission will get justice in this investigation. This concern has been communicated to the Leadership of the House.” PenCom’s Head of Communication, Peter Aghahowa, declined to comment on the matter. 