American multinational financial services corporation, Visa Inc., has  urged financial institutions to continue investing in cybersecurity tools. Visa facilitates electronic funds transfers through its branded credit cards, gift cards, and debit cards. Its Head, Risk Management, West and Central Africa, Aribidesi Lawal, said though a lot has been done by the lenders and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in this respect, there is still much more to be done, adding that Visa as technology firm, has done a lot to make customers’ trust the platform for making and receiving payments and therefore, help to deepen the government’s cashless drive. Lawal, who spoke on “Securing the future of digital payments”, he said the firm has done a lot to curb both real and emerging threats in the payment industry. Aribidesi said security used to be synonymous with hindrance, innovation tools and solutions, but has stopped being so. Speaking on its free solutions to drive cashless payment and online transactions, he said the eCommerce Threat Disruption (eTD) scans the front-end of ecommerce merchant websites; identifies connection between malicious malware and merchant websites to combat growing e-commerce frauds. Another new tool is the Payment Attack Scenario Simulation (PASS), which he said, proactively tests known and hypothetical vulnerabilities to model and predict malicious behaviour; provide intelligence to remediate such vulneravbilities. While the Card Attack Tool (CAT) scores all card not present transactions to identify Bank Identification Number (BVN) testing attacks; Real-Time Attack Disruption (RAD) enables acquirer reporting and merchant suspension, Vital Signs enables Real-time ATM fraudulent cash-out monitoring, reporting and investigation for all VisaNet clients. On   fraud and authorisation insights and performance, Lawal said tools such as Visa Transaction Controls (VTC) for Consumers/Visa  Purchase Controls (VPC)  for P-Cards are available for customers free of charge. He said application programming interface (API) for issuers allows cardholders to track and manage all payment activities on enrolled accounts and tokens. Cardholders set purchase restrictions on an account use and request alerts on different payment activity/events, using their smartphone or computer, adding that it could be used for all brands and card types.