The police in Lagos have arrested six suspected traffic robbers along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, Alafia and Costain areas of the state. Three of the suspects Daniel Ani, 19, Akinbode Muiz, 17, and Oluwasegun Emmanuel, 24 were arrested at about 10pm under Daleko Bridge, Iyana Isolo while robbing motorists in traffic; two others Olalekan Taoreed, and Adeniyi Okunloye, 25, were apprehended at Alafia along Badagry Expressway on Friday night while Godwin Okafor, 31, was picked at Costain. Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) in a statement on Sunday said those arrested at Daleko confessed to be responsible for traffic robbery in Mushin and environs. “They confessed to have stolen numerous phones and bags from different victims as well as a bag containing the sum of N25,000 belonging to one  Oyebanji Ibukun of 14, Waheed Ologunju Street, Oke-Afa Isolo, before they were apprehended by the police. “Two knives and cutlasses were recovered from the suspects. Investigation is ongoing, suspects will soon be charged to court. “Patrol team attached to Orile Police Station at about 8pm on Friday received a distress call that some traffic robbers are operating at Alafia along Badagry Expressway. “Anti-robbery teams were quickly deployed to the scene. Two suspects Olalekan Taoreed, 20, of 20, Sunday Street, Ijora Badia and Adeniyi Okunloye, 25, Alaba Road, Suru  Alaba were arrested. “One Samsung Duos handset stolen from one of the victims was recovered from them. One big sharp cutlass which was used in inflicting injuries on their victims was recovered from them. The suspects confessed to be responsible for traffic robberies along Orile and environs. Investigation is ongoing and suspects will be charged to court. “CP Zubairu Muazu warns that tough times await traffic robbers with the deployment of surveillance teams across the state. The command will continue to make Lagos State difficult for cr Meanwhile Okafor, who was arrested by policemen attached to the Taskforce on Environmental Sanitation, was said to be a notorious pickpocket who allegedly made between N80,000 to N100,000 daily. The Taskforce said the suspect was the ringleader of a four-man gang that operated at different areas of the state in a commercial bus, robbing victims of valuables. “The suspect was nabbed after he and three others now at large, jumped down from a commercial bus on top of Costain Bridge immediately they suspected that a patrol team of the agency was chasing them from Ojuelegba,” said Chairman Olayinka Egbeyemi, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) in a statement by his spokesman Taofiq Adebayo. He said the Taskforce acted on series of complaints by commuters about the activities of criminals who used commercial bus to rob them. A resident of 127, Ojo Road, Ajegunle, Okafor, Adebayo said, co feared to have started off as a bus conductor 15 years ago before graduating to pickpocketing. He said the suspect confessed further that his gang operated at different parts of the state including Oshodi- Mile 2, Obalende, Pen-cinema, Agege, Ojota and Ikorodu Road, adding that any passenger who refused to corporate was beaten and thrown off the moving bus. “We have been in this robbery and pick-pocket business for long as we dispossessed our passengers of their valuables such as wallets, jewelries including phones which we sold as fairly used to the public,” Adebayo quoted the suspect. 