The Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and the 2019 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) clashed for five days , affecting many candidates who had to forego one for the other. Some parents and teachers are worried about the implication of this for the admission seekers. KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE, BUSOLA SEBIOTIMO and Zainab lawal report. THE 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) ended yesterday with some of the 1.8 million candidates who are also writing the 2019 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) forced to miss their Trade/Entrepreneurship Subject papers. The WASSCE for School Candidates began April 8 with Catering Craft Practice, Marketing and Salesmanship – all entrepreneurship subjects which are compulsory for all SS3 pupils writing the examination.  The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) scheduled all the 24 trade/entrepreneurial subjects being offered in the curriculum to be written from April 8 to April 25. However, a shift in the date of the 2019 utme by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) because of the rescheduled elections resulted in a clash in both examinations. The six-day UTME held in 700 Computer-Based Test (CBT) centres nationwide from April 11-13, and 15-17, fell within the WASSCE timetable. Before the examination,  WAEC Nigeria and JAMB had pledged that there would be no clash.  WAEC Nigeria’s Head, Public Affairs, Mr. Demianus Ojijeogu told The Nation at the examining body’s headquarters in Yaba, Lagos, that the Council would address the clash “internally and administratively.” He said candidates would not sacrifice one examination for the other. “I assure you that no candidate would miss their exams.  We are working on it.  The JAMB Registrar is in touch with the WAEC Head of National Office (HNO) and we will sort it out internally,” he said. The JAMB Public Relations Officer, Dr Fabian Benjamin, also told The Nation on phone that the examining body had been told by WAEC that there would be no clash. “The registrar has reached out to the HNO and he was assured that there would be no clash,” he said. However, findings by The Nation proved otherwise. Schools said they were not told about a change in the timetable to address the clash. Mr. Oluwasegun Owoeye of Ilupeju Senior Grammar School, Oshodi, lamented that WAEC did not communicate any changes to the school.  Principal of Mind Builders High School, Ikeja, also said the school did not hear from WAEC. Fortunately for them, pupils of both schools were not affected by the clash. Owoeye said the school’s chosen entrepreneurship subject was done before the UTME began. “The students here do Office Practice and that has been done before UTME started. WAEC did not change the timetable and these subjects that are clashing with the UTME are offered by the minority,” he said. Continue in page 2