Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai and Inspector-General (IG) of Police Mohammed Abubakar Adamu have visited Kakangi village in Birnin-Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State, where several people, including two policemen, were killed. Hundreds of Birnin-Gwari indigenes took to the streets with placards, protesting the incessant killings and unabated kidnapping going on in the area. Five people, including two policemen, were killed by the bandits in Kakangi on Saturday. The bandits, who invaded the village on motorbikes, also razed houses and the community’s market. The Nation gathered that the protesters stormed the streets ahead of the IGP’s and the governor’s visit, chanting that killings and kidnapping in the area must be brought to an end. The protesters, led by the Coalition of Birnin-Gwari Association, also laid siege to the Emir’s palace at about 3pm and demanded for deployment of more troops to the town, which had over the years, been ravaged by the activities of kidnappers and armed robbers. Saying that enough is enough, the protesters noted with dismay the attacks on innocent residents by bandits. Auwal Yunus, who spoke on behalf of the protesters, said: “We equally called on our people to peacefully join hands in the struggle to send a clear and unambiguous message to governments on our plight.” He called on the National Emergency Agency and the State Emergency Agency (NEMA) to assist in rebuilding of homes destroyed during the various attacks on communities so as to enable internally displaced persons to return to their homes. Some of the placards carried by the protesters read: “We want peace, stop killings of innocent people of Birnin Gwari”; “Mr. President, we need your special intervention”; “Stop the killings, El-Rufai respond” among others. The IG later met the Emir of Birnin-Gwari, Alhaji Zubair Jibril Maigwari and elders of the town. The acting IG had visited the area to personally access the security situation and meet the stakeholders in the area. El-Rufai, on his own separate visit, went to Kakangi village. Accompanied by some government officials and security chiefs, El-Rufai described the attack as “inhuman” and “ungodly”. The governor, however, assured the residents of his government’s commitment to restoring peace and security to the area and other troubled parts of the state. The governor also visited the injured at the hospital.