Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has called on all Nigerians to unite against the various security challenges bedeviling the country and assist the government with necessary support to win the war. ACF made the call in its Easter message by the National Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu. ACF argued the task of overcoming security challenges posed by kidnapping, insurgency, cattle rustling, banditry and the unnecessary clashes between various ethnic groups cannot be left to government alone. The statement reads: “Christians all over the world celebrate Easter with prayers and activities of self- sacrifice for the common good of the society. “The period commemorates the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ which gives Christians the opportunity to reflect on the exemplary life and good teachings of Jesus Christ that include his tolerance, forgiveness, love and self- sacrifice for the good of humanity and strive to live up His legacies at all time. “The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ has united Christians to be one people through promotion of core value of humanity that comes with sacred inviolability of the individual. We are now equal before God. “ACF, therefore, wishes Nigerians, especially Christians, happy celebration and also urges all Nigerians, no matter their status to practice the virtue of tolerance, forgiveness, self-sacrifice, good neighborliness and love for one another, and continue to pray for peaceful coexistence, harmony, stability and prosperity for all. “It is against such backdrop that ACF wishes to submit that the task of overcoming security challenges posed by kidnapping, insurgency, cattle rustling, banditry and the unnecessary clashes between various ethnic groups cannot be left to government alone. “All leaders and Nigerians should come together and live up the synergistic potential against collective challenges for common good. “Specifically, ACF calls on the governments at all levels and security agencies to intensify their operations and also maintain surveillance in the red alert states until peace and normalcy are restored. “But for the needed normalcy to return, all Nigerians must also play their roles of providing support by way of intelligence to the security agencies which would enable them to succeed. “The governments should therefore hit the ground running by making Nigerians become one in favor of good governance needed for the good of all.” 