Wife of the Katsina State Governor, Hajiya Hadiza Aminu Bello-Masari Saturday warned members of the National Youth Service Scheme, NYSC, against indulging in all forms of drug abuse, warning that as future leaders of the country they should avoid drugs abuse and addiction. Hajia Hadiza who spoke at the closing ceremony of 2019 Batch ‘A’ SAED in-camp training activities for corps members deployed to Katsina State on Friday 12th April, 2019 said indulging in abusive or overuse of drugs amounted to their impeding their future and growth. The 2019 Batch ‘A’ SAED programme was designed to ensure that corps members remain self-reliant after service by equipping them with all the necessary entrepreneurial acumen as well as vocational skills. A total of 12 skills were displayed by members of various platoons show casing the talent and artistry of the participants. These include carpentry, fashion design, cosmetology, tie and die, food processing, bead making and leather works. The First lady also informed the corps members that the Katsina State Government is very poised to address the issue of youth unemployment through their involvement in the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Program SAED. She said; “To effectively tackle the issue of youth unemployment in the state, the Katsina State Government established the youth craft village which is located within the NYSC Orientation Camp.” This is a deliberate attempt to enhance high level performance and participation in the skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development by the National Youth Corps Members during their three (3) weeks Orientation Exercise, “I sincerely do hope that Corps Members made good use of facilities in the craft village during the SAED in-camp training,” she said. She commended the NYSC Management for introducing and sustaining the SAED programme, as well as the corps members who have received training in one skill or the other. She advice the corps Members to take in camp training program of SAED very serious. Earlier, the state coordinator NYSC Katsina State, Hajia Ramatu Sanda, while applauding the remarkable successes of the SAED program since its inception, said over 300,000 graduates have been trained and equipped by the NYSC since the commencement of SAED program. She reiterated that Katsina State has one of the best Camps in the Federation with the craft village at the disposal of the NYSC.