Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi yesterday inaugurated a 26-man committee to prepare the ground for the May 29 inauguration of new governor. The Committee christened “Koseleri” comprises 16 members from the ruling, All Progressive Congress (APC)-led administration while the incoming Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government has 10 members. Speaking at the brief inauguration, which held at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s office, Ajimobi recounted the various historical feats his administration had achieved in the  state. The committee his chaired by the Secretary to Government, Olalekan Alli has top government functionaries including the governor’s aides, commissioners, special advisers and civil servant. David Olatunde (Permanent Secretary, Civil Service Commission) will serve as the secretary. Other members include the Head of Service, Mrs. Hannah Ogunesan, Ajimobi’s Executive Assistance on Administration, Soji Eniade, Commissioners Toye Arulogun (Information, Culture and Tourism), Oluseun Abimbola (Attorney-General/Justice), Isaac Ishola (Environment and water resources), Oyewole Oyewumi (Agriculture, natural resources and rural development) and Dr. Azeez Adeduntan (Health). Others are Commissioners Isaac Omodewu (Lands, housing and survey), Abimbola Kolade  (Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters), Prof. Joseph Olowofela (Education, Science and Technology) and Abimbola Adekanmbi (Finance, Planning and Budget). The Special Advisers in the committee include Dr Isiaka Kolawole (Economic Planning and Budget), Dr Ayandele Ayanyinka (Efficiency) and Mr Segun Bolarinwa (Security). The Governor-elect team includes a former Senate Deputy Whip, Hosea Agboola, the PDP candidate for Oyo Central Senatorial district in the last election, Mr Bisi Ilaka and the lawmaker representing Ibarapa East state constituency, Mr Debo Ogundoyin. The list also has, Miss Loalde Ajibola, Mr Adeniyi Babatunde, Mr Seun Ashamu, Dr D.V Bello, Mr Wale Adepoju, Mr Temi Adibi and Mrs Oyedijo Ayo-Famola.  