Lagos State University (LASU), has described as “false” reports that its Pro-Chancellor and  Governing Council Chairman, Prof Adebayo Ninalowo, directed that N474 million be withdrawn from the institution’s Pension Investment. Though LASU said it dipped its hands into the university’s reserves to cater for the National Universities Commission (NUC) accreditation last October/November, it denied  tampering with the staff contributory pension. It said the pension funds of employees yet to register with pension funds administrators were intact. “Management of Lagos State University has denied outright a publication accusing the Pro-Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor of diverting N198, 000, 000 staff pension to buy luxury cars,” said a statement signed by the university’s image maker, Mr Ademola Adekoya. The statement continued:  “For Year 2018 accreditation exercise, LASU presented 37 academic programmes. Preparatory to NUC visit, the university established a model of instituting task teams for all programmes to be accredited. The task teams are supervised by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), while the Vice-Chancellor monitors activities of the task teams from the background using dedicated peer review teams of seasoned professors. Each task team comprised a member of management, the dean of the faculty and heads of the concerned departments. Others were representatives of all staff and Students’ Unions, bursary, and internal audit. “It is pertinent to state that at no time did the university borrow from Staff Contributory Fund to finance accreditation expenses. However, the university borrowed the sum of N474, 000, 000. 00 from its provision to meet past service obligations. The Pension Fund for members of staff who are yet to register with Pension Fund Administrators (which is less than one hundred million naira), is intact. “In taking the above step, the university obtained approval of the Governing Council while the Office of the Special Adviser on Education and the Visitor to the university were duly carried along. At no time did the Pro-Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor violate the provisions of the financial guidelines of the university.”