Ekiti State Government has ordered the deployment of military Joint Task Force patrol in the town sharing border with Kwara State. The squad was constituted to curtail the overbearing influence of suspected bandits. Some suspected herdsmen last Tuesday besieged a farmstead called Eda, at Iyemero in Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State. They shot two persons and raided houses during the midnight attack. Those shot by the assailants, including a seven-year-old boy, later died in hospital. This prompted Governor Kayode Fayemi to seek military intervention to prevent further carnage at the border town. The Olu of Iyemero-Ekiti, Oba Ebenezer Ogungbemi, hailed the governor for his quick and tactical intervention, saying this was a reflection of a responsive and people-centred government. The monarch and members of his council, in a letter dated April, 20, 2019 and addressed to Governor Fayemi, said the effort of military and local hunters would annihilate the suspected killer-herders and restore peace to the community. In a copy of the letter made available to reporters in Ado- Ekiti yesterday, Oba Ogungbemi said the community would help the soldiers with sensitive information to stem the rate of killings. He said about 60 persons displaced from their houses, who took refuge in his palace for three days, had returned home due to Governor Fayemi’s intervention. The letter reads: “We are thankful to Governor Fayemi for deploying military joint task force to restore tranquility to Iyemero, which has guaranteed peaceful coexistence among the residents. “The Olu-in-Council and the entire people of Iyemero-Ekiti wish to express our deepest and  heartfelt  gratitude to the governor for his prompt response during last week’s insurgency, which led to death, maiming, displacement, chaos and disturbance of peace in our town. “With the support and assurances of Mr. Governor, we are convinced that lasting peace is in sight and we are protected from the yet-to-be-identified assailants and terrorists. “We are happy to inform you that the displaced farmers had returned to their farmstead.” The monarch said the governor had built the foundation of trust and confidence in the residents by approving the construction of a police station at Iyemero, which will provide safety for our people and ward off criminals from the boundary community.” Oba Ogungbemi said the hunters had started receiving instructions on the need to be conventional in approach and refrain from any action that could portray them as being vindictive against any ethnic group. “This military deployment won’t stop us from being security conscious. We are not unaware that the military can only discharge their duties effectively when they are provided with information they can work on. “We are looking inward to ensure that saboteurs have no room to operate, so that the operation targeted at curtailing these blood-sucking bandits can be successful,” he said. The monarch thanked the governor for being magnanimous towards the injured by paying their hospital bills.