Watford has booked its place in the FA Cup final for the first time in 35 years thanks to a 3-2 comeback win against Wolverhampton Wanderers after extra time. Matt Doherty and Raul Jimenez scored in either half of normal time to put Wolves in command of the all-Premier League affair, but Gerard Deulofeu came off the bench to turn the tie on its head, scoring a world-class goal with 11 minutes to go to set up a dramatic finale. Watford’s pressure was relentless and it told as Troy Deeney was tripped by Leander Dendoncker in the final seconds of the match at Wembley, allowing the Hornets’ skipper to brush himself down and convert for extra time. Deulofeu then scored the decisive fifth goal of the match in the additional 30 minutes of time, becoming the seventh player to score a brace in the semi-finals of the FA Cup and setting up a showdown with Manchester City here in a month’s time. There was very little between the sides in the opening half an hour of the match, with both teams managing a couple of off-target attempts apiece. Jonny cut inside and curled the ball inches wide and Joao Moutinho skimmed the roof of the net from a free kick for Wolves, while Deeney and Will Hughes were both wayward at the other end. Watford then carved out a good opportunity for Andre Gray, preferred to Deulofeu alongside Deeney from the off, as he got on the end of his strike partner’s deep delivery but hooked the ball over the crossbar with just John Ruddy to beat away. Just when the Hornets were starting to build some momentum, though, with their diamond formation in midfield causing problems for Wolves, their opponents opened the scoring through Doherty. The wing-back got away from Abdoulaye Doucoure at the back post and nodded home Diogo Jota’s curled cross into the six-yard box after Wolves’ corner – coming after Dendoncker’s deflected shot was pushed over the bar – was worked short. Wolves nearly scored a second in a matter of minutes as Jota, who grew into the first half, grazed the outside of the post with his curled effort. Javi Gracia’s men should have gone into the interval on level terms, however, as Gray missed his second good opportunity of the half by failing to convert Deeney’s knockdown, though credit has to go to Conor Coady for diving in front of the goal-bound shot. Doucoure flicked the ball over and Jimenez nearly nearly squeezed a shot in in from a tight angle as the two sides continued to trade blows in the opening 15 minutes of the second half. After plenty of toiling from the Hornets, Wolves scored what looked to be a crucial second goal thanks to a brilliant finish from Jimenez, chesting Doherty’s long ball and acrobatically sending it past Heurelho Gomes – VAR confirming he was just about onside.