A group of Lawyers in Bauchi state known as the Body of Bauchi Lawyers of Conscience, BOBOLAC, has called for the immediate appointment of the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Mohammed as substantive CJN. The group has also called on the National Judicial Council, NJC, and Federal Judicial Service Commission, FJSC , to comply with the provisions of Section 231 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) that relates to the appointment of a substantive CJN. The call followed the removal of the embattled and erstwhile CJN, Walter Onnoghen,  who was suspended from office in a judgement delivered   by   Chairman ,  Code of Conduct Tribunal Chairman , Danladi Uma, last week. Buhari appointed Muhammad who hails from Bauchi State as acting CJN in January after  Walter Onnoghen, was suspended. The then CJN, who has now been convicted of fraudulent assets declaration by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) has been barred for holding any public office for the next 10 years. President Muhammadu Buhari with the approval of the National Judicial Council (NJC), had also extended the tenure of Justice Tanko Muhammad as Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) for another three months. But addressing a media conference on Saturday, BOBOLAC urged the relevant authorities to set in motion the machinery necessary for the appointment of Justice  Tanko Muhammad   saying his meritorious service to the country  and judicial experience deserves a worthy appointment in substantive capacity. The Convener of the group, Shipi Rabo Esq, said “From  his stint as Acting CJN so far coupled with his abundant integrity and rich judicial cum intellectual background, it is our point that the most proper thing to do is to initiate the process of appointing him in substantive capacity so that the much needed stability in the system would be attained  among other attendant advantages of taking that step” he said. “It is time the right thing is done. Let my Lord wear the cap in the full for the good of our nation’ s  judiciary” he added further.