Journalists in Abuja were recently taken through a training session to enhance their capacity. The focal point of the one-day intensive training for senior journalists in Abuja was how to discern the dangers of fake news and hate speech which were becoming more visible in daily news reportage, especially on the social media. Packaged by the communications giant, MTN, the session was part of MTN’s strategies for effective communication in the country, the Organisation sad. Tagged “Strategies for effective communication,” the resource persons included, Nkechi Ali-Balogun, the Principal Consultant of NECCI Consulting Ltd, who spoke on Crisis Communication and the New Media. Oludare Ogunyombo, who had worked as resource person and head trainer to the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) spoke on leadership and organisation culture as enablers in Media practice. Hope Afoke Orivri, a mass communications specialist and broadcaster gave an insight into aspects of fake news, hate speech and alternate truth as threat to the future of the media And leadership and management expert, Dr. Okey Ikechukwu who is also a human capital development and communications consultant, discussed the ethical issues of social media in journalism All participants had fun especially during the interactive sessions during which various ideas were shared amongst the journalists and resource persons, and doubts on  current concepts and theories n the sector were cleared. The Senior Manager, External Relations MTN, Funso Aino, said that the training session for journalists was also one of the ways MTN gives back to the society that has been wonderful to it. He said, “We do capacity building for journalists because the media is a critical stakeholder in MTN’s business in Nigeria. So in furtherance of efforts at contributing to capacity building within the media, we always seek new opportunities to impart knowledge and skills into journalists in the course of their jobs.” The  objective of the training, according to him, was to “Enhance skills and industry knowledge of media practitioners; Improve relationship with the Nigerian media; Equip participants with requisite training tools and techniques; Improve participants’ competence, efficiency and effectiveness on their jobs; and to Improve strategic thinking and decision making ability amongst the journalists.” The participants received illumination of various aspects of the subjects considered and expressed their appreciation for the training and requested that it should be a continuous annual exercise so as to benefit more reporters in the Federal Capital Territory.