All is now set for President Muhammadu Buhari’s visit to Lagos state on Wednesday. Lagosians would be throwing their door open again to the president who is coming to the state for the second time. Security operatives including the Nigeria Police and men of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) were seen taking position in Oshodi and the Oshodi-Airport Road, Tuesday afternoon ahead of Mr. President’s visit. Buhari would during the visit be inaugurating among others, the 170-bed Institute of Maternal and Child Health at Ayinke House, the 10-lane Murtala Mohammed International Airport Road, and the Lagos State Theatre, located at Oregun. But the highpoint of President Buhari’s state visit according to the Chief press Secretary to the Lagos State Governor Mr. Habib Aruna is the inauguration of the Oshodi Transportation Interchange, and the 820 Mass Transit buses. He said the interchange would cater for one million passenger traffic daily, with each of the terminals accommodating no less than 300,000 passengers daily. He said the interchange and the new buses are part of the Bus Reform Initiative (BRI) of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. According to him, the interchange would afford Lagosians a new transportation experience that would take the stress of transportation within the state away from commuters. He said President Buhari would be opening the Lagos Theatre at Oregun, which was another initiative of the Ambode administration’s to reposition arts, culture and theatre as a major economic hub of the government. “The President would also be visiting the Ayinke House where he would be declaring open the 170-bed Maternal and Child Health at Ayinke House. The Centre has been upgraded by the former Governor of Lagos State Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola. Today’s visit is the second by President Muhammadu Buhari, who on March 29, 2018,had commissioned the Ikeja Bus Terminal, as part of activities slated to celebrate the birthday of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.