Eight corps members posted to Anambra State for the national service yesterday renounced membership of cults. They also promised to stop drug addiction. Fifteen of them gave up irregular migration, while others embraced the Nigerian culture for the first time. Speaking at the closing ceremony of 2019 Batch ‘A’ orientation course at Umunya camp, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) State Coordinator, Kehinde Aremu, said the achievements were recorded as a result of trust and team spirit among camp officials. He said: “We have confidence that they have finally given up drugs, especially marijuana. We also have every reason to believe that those who renounced cultism won’t go back to it. “A marriage proposal of love with rings was publicly made on Sunday between two corps members. “Your excellency, you will be the special guest of honour when they fix their wedding date because it is Anambra wedding. “These are the manifestation of the spirit of Anambra, the light of the nation.” Aremu said the repentant corps members would be handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for a follow-up. He challenged the corps members to see themselves as revolutionary torch bearers, good ambassadors of the leading youth organisation in Africa and shining examples to other youths. Governor Willie Obiano disclosed his administration’s plan to improve the remuneration and allowances of corps members to be posted to rural and hard-to-reach parts of the state. The governor, represented by Youth Empowerment and Creative Economy Commissioner Bonaventure Enemali was optimistic of the corps members’ readiness to elevate the fortunes of the state with their talents, education and high sense of responsibility. “Ample opportunity shall be given to you to contribute and excel in the implementation of government programmes, especially in areas of providing manpower for quality education, health care, agriculture, among others. “We shall not spare any effort in ensuring that your proven expertise and creative energy are fully harnessed towards making Anambra’s light more luminous and to improve the lives of the citizenry,” he said.  