The Lord Bishop Diocese of Lagos (Anglican Communion), Rev Humphrey Olumakaiye, has implored the church to put the nation on the path of righteousness. The cleric spoke at the annual Lenten talk, Choral Renditions and Breaking of fast organised by The Island Club of Lagos with theme: Renewal of the Spirit and the Re-born Worship in Nigeria, Life in the Spirit, Life of Worship. Olumakaiye regretted that some vices had bogged down the Nigerian socio-religious landscape for a long time. He said: “The nation has been faced with corruption and maladministration, economic and structural woes, insecurity, instability and insensitivity in governance and lack of continuity in policies. The Church has also been challenged with disunity and denominational politics, poverty-infused Christianity, insincerity and self-motivated calling, syncretic religion and exploitative and business-oriented/privatised church ministries.” The cleric noted that the current Church has drifted far from the original gospel and the original mission of winning the world for Christ. Olumakaiye said: “The independent relationship between the Church and the nation has made it such that a nation will always reflect the kind of Christians and churches in it, and vice versa. Most churches in Nigeria are at best generally taken as private businesses. Churches are established by self-called individuals, hence wrong doctrines and practices develop without any system to check their spread. “The role of holistic theological education in the repositioning of the Church and the worship life of the nation cannot be overemphasized. The scripture says that righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people.” He noted that to reposition the nation is to return it to the paths of righteousness. Olumakaiye added: “Our nation is really sick and dying. The Church has also grown lethargic, pursuing shadows rather than focusing on its responsibilities as the salt of the nation. God has made us watchmen for the nation, to cry out to him for help and healing when we see the nation in danger…” The chairman of Island Club, Mr. Olabanji Oladapo said the Lent is a period before Easter during which Christians fast, abstain from all sinful acts and express penitence.