THE Ministry of Power, Works and Housing has begun the clearing of drains in some parts of Lagos to avert flood during the rain, Federal Controller of Works Adedamola Kuti said yesterday. He told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the desilting of drains had started at Ijora, adding that evacuation of drainage channels on highways across Lagos would begin soon. “We are doing clearing of drains on the highways before the beginning of the rains. Watch out for us. “Of course, for us to enjoy the rainy season, we need to ensure that some of these areas, as we have identified, are opened up for proper drainage,” Kuti said. Speaking on the Alaka bridge project, where  workmen were seen on the bridge descending Ijora carriageway, he said some of its expansion joints were being replaced. “We are carrying out maintenance work on the Alaka bridge because it requires replacement of some expansion joints that are bad, about eight of them. “We have already completed the entire milling and resurfacing of that stretch of the Alaka bridge, even towards the Ijora end. Some of those silted drains have been cleared. “Other works include the replacement of those hand rails, those guard rails will be replaced, some manhole covers will be provided to replace those vandalised,” he said. Kuti listed the inner routes where rehabilitation works had been completed in Yaba to include Adekunle, Herbert Macaulay, Sabo, Alagomeji and WAEC Junction roads. “We have done some work around Iganmu, we have intervened somewhere around Barracks in Surulere as well as Ojuelegba. “The interventions are continuous, we are picking them one after the other,” he said. He said the ministry was collaborating with the Lagos State Government to work on some potholes on some sections of the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. The collaboration, Kuti said, would be around Abule Egba to Ota sections of the highway where the state government has an ongoing project. The contract for the rehabilitation of the highway, he said, had been awarded to Julius Berger. “I will give instructions to that effect since the contractor is on site. The contractor is supposed to make the road motorable at all times,” he said. On the ongoing reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Kuti said work was ongoing on the first kilometre. “Surveys are ongoing and the contractor has his equipment on ground and trying to get them in proper shape. He has already started scarification and filling of some of the embarkment and work has started. “We are working on the first kilometre stretch, from Agbara,” he said. On the Third Mainland bridge, Kuti said:  “We completed the investigative test last year. “The results are out and we have an idea of the number of critical expansion joints that we are replacing. Just last week, we did a confirmatory test on some of the piles. “We actually sent some divers into the water to confirm the state of some of those piles, so work is ongoing because the contract itself includes the maintenance work on some of those piles that are having problem. “No cause for alarm, serious work will soon start, materials are getting in soon, but meanwhile, surfacing works on the Third Mainland bridge is ongoing. “We have already completed the Island bound carriageway, we are working on the Mainland bound,” he said.