President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki has assured the police authorities of speedy passage of Police Reform and Trust Fund Bills before the expiration of the Eight National Assembly. Saraki gave the assurance when the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu paid him a visit in his office on Wednesday. In a statement by his media assistant, Olu Onemola, Saraki was said to have emphasised the commitment of the federal legislature to strengthen the nation’s security architecture. According to him, the passage and signing into law of the Police Reform and Trust Fund Bills, which are at various stages in the two chambers of the National Assembly, would help to bequeath a more effective and efficient Police Force to the country. “The performance of the Nigeria Police is key to our nation’s security. This is because apart from us ensuring that the institution is well-funded, we need to ensure that the police play its constitutional role in the security of our nation. Across party lines, the police can be reassured of our support to strengthen it as an institution. “Funding is a major issue, and I know that a lot of work has been done to ensure that the Police Trust Fund Bill get to its current stage in the House. Before the end of the 8th Senate, I want to assure you that we will pass this Bill. “Another critical issue is the Police Reform Bill which has gone through Public Hearing with major input from stakeholders. We started this process before your tenure, but we can still allow a few more days before it is laid, so that you too can make your contributions. “We would like you to take a close look at this Bill alongside the Committee, so that by next week, we can lay the Report of the Bill and pass it. Once we begin to address the issue of funding and institutional reform of the Police, many of the recent incidents that we have seen like the abductions yesterday on Abuja-Kaduna road, and the killing of the young man in Lagos, will also be addressed,” Saraki was quoted as saying. IGP Adamu was quoted as saying that the Police Trust Fund Bill, which has been passed by the House of Representatives, was still being considered in the Senate. “The security challenges in the country are so high but resources are limited. It is our view that the passage of the Police Trust Fund Bill would assist in strengthening the institution and alleviating many of the challenges that we face,” the IGP was quoted as saying.