MACAULAY: Dear Omobola, my name is Macaulay. I will be happy if The Nation can bail me out. Some people have been calling me saying that they are PTAD staff in charge of my pension case. They have duped me and collected N400,000 from me, claiming my file is on the last stage. I am a pure federal retiree. I retired from Federal Ministry of Agricultural Department on grade level 13. Step 6. I retired in May 1994. The trouble with my pension is that there was an increase in the payment that made my pension N30, 000 and another N22, 000. Instead of paying in one voucher, it was paid separately and suddenly the N22, 000 was stopped. I complained and with the help of a colleague in Abuja, the error was corrected and arrears were paid in February 2014. By March again, the same year, my pension came back to N30, 000. Later there was an increase of 33 per cent and that makes N50, 258.20. This is what I have been receiving since. The N22, 000 is a forgotten issue. This is where those in the PTAD have been milking me up to the tune N400, 000. They will tell me I should send money for the process. By now my monthly pension should be up to N80, 000 but I am receiving N50, 258.20. The first person to collect money from me was one Rosemary. Others are Mrs Zainab Usman, John Ose, Dr. Rose Ndom, Mrs Uwakwe, John Okafor and Collins  Udoko who says he is the HOD. I have their phone numbers and the agents they use their names and account numbers and banks are with me. When the situation demands, then I will forward them. Madam, God almighty will surely reward you. I celebrated my 80th birthday in 2016. When do I enjoy my labour? Thank you. Hope to hear from you soonest. PTAD: The pensioner has been contacted. We have asked him to scan and send a copy of his verification slip to enable us investigate his complaint. ABIDEMI : My name is Abi demi, I want to inform you that my pension issues have been resolved and I have been paid by Crusader Pension. I thank The Nation newspaper and PenCom for their intervention. THE NATION: The Nation is happy that your pension issues have been resolved. Do watch out for the newspaper publication every Wednesday for pension news. BAYO: My name is Bayo. Please I will like to know when a person starts receiving monthly pension. My sister was retired in 2007 after 18 years of service to the Federal Government. She was paid gratuity. She is now 51, she was retired 12 years ago. When will she qualify to receive monthly pension? Thank you for your attention. PTAD: We could not get through to the pensioner to get her details because no phone number was provided. We advise that the pensioner send her complaint, name and account details to complaints@ptad.gov.ng or call any of these numbers for further clarity: 080022557823, 094621700 Suleiman: I retired on level 14 step 10 in June 1996 and was last paid N59400 monthly in March 2018. In August, that year, I did a new verification at PTAD Abuja only to be paid N43,200 monthly thereafter. They say I was being overpaid. Please is there any table for calculating pension? PTAD: We could not reach the pensioner to get his details because no phone number was provided. We advise that he forwards a copy of his verification slip including his complaint to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us investigate and resolve. ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff of Yaba LCDA. I have been with Stanbic IBTC PFA since its inception. But just this month my pension fund was transferred to Leadway PFA without my authorisation. Please what can I do because I want Stanbic IBTC as pension manager. STANBIC IBTC: Further to our response below, please note that in line with the first PIN rule, as stipulated   by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), the first Retirement Savings Account (RSA) Personal Identification Number (PIN) obtained by an RSA holder should be maintained. Based on the above, the first PIN generated for Mr. Abdulsalam by PenCom is with LeadWay Pension while ours is the second PIN. Consequently, his contributions were transferred  to his valid Pin with LeadWay as approved by PenCom while his second and invalid PIN was invalidated on our records. Please note that Mr. Abdulsalam can choose to transfer back to us once the Transfer Window is declared open by PenCom. ABDULLAHI: My name is Abdullahi and my PFA is trustfund, I have retired since 2014 and I have done my biodata in August 2018. I later went to my PFA trustfund to request for my 25% of my total savings but I was told that PenCom did not send money for MDA. I am seriously in need of money because my children’s school fees is becoming a problem. TRUSTFUND PRISCA: Thank you as always. But we need this customer’s Personal Identification Number (PIN) to be able to act on this. EMMANUEL: Good Day ma. my name is Emmanuel, the son of late Supol James. We have an issue on the pension of our late dad who passed away on March 13, 2015. We have paid the money they asked us to and we have also submitted all the necessary documents. But we have not received any message on his pension. Please help us. PENCOM: Please we need further details such as his PIN Number and Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to enable us investigate the issue.  We called the above number provided but was wrong number. UDOCHI: I am Udochi and I am 47 years old. I retired from Walvis Nigeria Limited in 2014. My PFA later paid me 25 per cent. I need your help because I am having a health issue and I have issues with my children school fees. Please you can give me half of my money or all the money, that is with you. I will be happy so that I can take care of myself. PENCOM: Having collected 25 per cent, the remaining money will be paid to you as pension when you attain the age of 50. OJI: Hello sir/ma, my case is PenCom related. I retired from service in 2015 on GL 08, but was paid off on GL 07. The reason is that I got promoted in 2014, but Customs failed to implement or effect the salary variation till September 2015, when I was to retire the next month. I was paid off on GL 07 instead of GL 08, and I was heavily shortchanged. Kindly help me as it is affecting my monthly pension. PENCOM: Customs is a self-funded organisation, therefore, you should channel your complaints to Nigeria Customs Service to get the variation for your promotion. Your employer NCS will now compute the variation and remit same to your Retirement Savings Account (RSA). 