A teacher at a private school in Ogun State has been declared wanted for alleged sodomy on many pupils within ages nine and 11. The teacher, Adebayo Gbadebo, was said to have fled last week after his alleged crimes at Isolog School, Agbole in Akute, were uncovered. Although his last attempt was said to have been a fortnight ago, The Nation gathered that the suspect was declared wanted when some child advocates reported the case to the police. Gbadebo’s alleged atrocities were exposed by a parent of one of his victims identified as Daniel, who is said to have developed a severe medical condition as a result of the anal rape. It was learnt that the child’s parents knew about the incident after he allegedly sodomised another child. When the school learnt about it, it was gathered that the head teacher, Mrs. Rachael Oduntun, allegedly fired Gbadebo without reporting the crime to the police. The school was said to have also administered drugs on the victims without their parents knowing, just as it allegedly threatened workers and pupils not to discuss it with anyone or risk sack. “These pupils have been taken to hospital for medical examination. One of the victims, aged nine, has been diagnosed with a severe condition. Her anal nerves have been damaged, which causes her to pass urine and faeces uncontrollably. “It was discovered that Gbadebo started abusing her sexually when she was six-years-old, while he molested other victims from Basic Five. “His wife has reported him for sexually abusing a kid in their neighbourhood. The man is a serial rapist and needs to be imprisoned before he goes about hurting other children,” said a source who pleaded anonymity. Confirming the manhunt for the suspect, command spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), said it was unfortunate the school fired him without reporting the crime. He said the school proprietor and headteacher had been ordered to produce the suspect. “They claimed they do not know his whereabouts and that they fired him when they knew about it. The police were not informed, until the NGO came into the picture. The proprietor and the principal were invited for their statement. After that, they were asked to produce the suspect within a given time,” he said.