NO  fewer than 3,000 post-primary school pupils in Delta State have participated in the yearly late Chris Ikomi Memorial Essay Competition organised by the NNPC/Chevron Joint Venture in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. Speaking at the contest’s award in Asaba, the General Manager (GM), Policy, Government and Public Affairs, Chevron Nigeria Limited, Mr Esimaje Brikinn, said the figure represented a significant increase over the 2,352 students that participated in 2017. Brikinn, represented by Mr Kayode Adeboye, Chevron’s Communications Coordinator, said the Junior Category winners were Master Ebenezer Douye, a JSS3 pupil of St Brendan Catholic College, Bomadi (winner); Efezino Abamba of St Georges College, Obinomba (second) and Fedora Amarachukwu Nnah of Nigeria Secondary School, Oghara (third). In the Senior Category, Favour Udezue, an SS2 of Our Savour Secondary School, Sapele emerged overall winner; Oghenefejiro Edemoye (SS3) of Stella Maris Secondary School, Ashaka came second; while Master Ifeanyi Elijah Dumkelechi (SS2) of Peniel Academy, Boji-Owa, came third. Speaking on the theme of the competition, “Nigeria of my dream”, Brikinn said it challenged pupils to think. “This theme enables our young scholars to exercise their fertile minds to envision an improved Nigeria and project their hopes and aspirations for the future. It is our desire that the theme would stimulate the youths to work towards a better Nigeria,” he said. Thanking the Delta State government for its support and encouragement of the 17-year-old contest through the education ministry, the GM assured of Chevron’s contributions to the development of the education sector. “The commitment of the NNPC/Chevron Joint Venture is still as firm as it has always been towards improving the quality of education in Nigeria because education is important for the development of the country. We have demonstrated this commitment to qualitative education down the years through investments in educational infrastructure, sponsorship of manpower development programmes and provision of scholarships,” he said. The Commissioner for Secondary and Basic Education, Mr Chiedu Ebie, said it was gratifying that the competition caught pupils’ attention considering that the number of entries had increased steadily. “The success of any programme is dependent on its sustainability, which has been demonstrated time and time again by NNPC/Chevron Joint Venture since the inception of the competition in 2001,” he said. He praised the organisers and the Ikomi family, noting that a total of 3,426 students participated in the 2018 edition, as against 2,352 in 2017. Trophies and cash prizes were presented to the winners in the two categories and their teachers and principals.