The Bauchi State government has expressed readiness  to pay the N30,000 new minimum wage recently  signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, to improve the welfare of civil servants in the state. Speaking  in a telephone interview with The Nation Correspondent on Friday night, the State Commissioner for Information, Ibrahim Umar Sade, said the outgoing governor,  Muhammed Abubakar of the All Progressives Congress (APC),  led administration  has been an advocate of the new minimum wage for civil servants. He said though the governor is ready to pay the new minimum wage but he doesn’t know the stand of the  incoming government of the Peoples Democratic Party ,PDP, led administration in the state. “We are ready to implement new minimum wage but we don’t know about the incoming administration. Whether they can pay or cannot pay. The governor himself has been agitating for the increment and he is ready to do it. ” The governor has been paying salaries of workers promptly because he has the issue of the workers at heart but you know we are now in a transition period, we don’t know the stand of the incoming government on it.” Meanwhile, The Nigerian Labour Congress ,NLC, in Bauchi State has  expressed optimism that the outgoing  governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar will implement the new minimum wage . Also, speaking in a telephone interview with The Nation Correspondent , The state NLC Chairman, Comrade Hashimu Muhammad Gital, said the Union is happy that the new minimum wage has been signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari  and doesn’t contemplate any reason why the state will not implement it. ” We are happy that the minimum wage has been signed into law by President Buhari and it has become a law ‘ We don’t contemplate any reason why the state will not pay after all necessary things has been put into consideration before its implementation. “Bauchi State has not been lagging behind in any issue that has to do with workers remuneration. Dating back to history, there has not been any new minimum wage implemented that the state fails to comply with, we are very sure the state will pay. “We are very positive and we have congratulated our members because this one will be a reality, ” he said. When asked if the state labour congress  would embark  on a strike action if the government fails to pay the minimum wage, Gital said the decision to embark on any strike action lies in hands of the national body of the Congress. Meanwhile, all efforts to get the Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, Zainabari Yaya to speak on the new minimum wage   proved abortive as of the time of filing this report.