Barely four days after rainstorm devastated valuables at Ugbe, Akoko Northeast local government area of Ondo state, two other neighboring communities of Ikare-Akoko and Supare-Akoko at the weekend lost properties worth several millions to the same natural disaster. Findings revealed that over 500 houses were affected in the two communities, apart from that of Ugbe-Akoko. In Supare-Akoko the home town of the former deputy governor, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, the only 10 downpour laced with whirlwind devastated more than 500 houses. Residents particularly house owners were in tears because of an incalculable losses occasioned by the rainstorm. The development was the same in Ikare-Akoko, headquarters of Akoko Northeast local government. An eye witness, Mr Aliu Ehinju Anobi from supare-Akoko said when the rainstorm started, people started running helter-sketer for their lives. According to him, over 70 percent of buildings in the town were ravaged. Ehinju Anobi listed Police Station, Old Palace, Schools and many churches being badly devastated. He said at Ikare-Akoko, the situation was even worse than Supare-Akoko as houses especially at Igbede  and Ishakunmi, were affected because of house demolition to pave way for dualization of Ikare road. A community leader from Ishakumi in Ikare, Akoko, Chief Oluke Olamomiara described as a disaster, stressing that many are now homeless. He said the rainstorm consumed also many valuables, urging government to come to their rescue especially now that building materials are too costly. The Olisupare of Supare-Akoko,Oba Kasali Adedeji who went round the affected places in the community sympathized with his subjects. He called on the state government and National Emergency Management Agency, (NEMA) and well to do citizens to assist  the people who could not afford new houses now. Chairman, Akoko Northeast local government, Rafiu Eniayewu assessed the damages in the two communities and assured victims of government assistance as it was caused by natural disaster.  