Ordinarily, it would have come across as a policy of genius. Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, announced that the Federal Government plans to upgrade the Sambisa Forest as a tourist site. The army chief gave apparently cogent explanations for this plan. Only apparently. It would, he posited, grant us much-needed revenues, serve as a spot of entertainment and a resource for scholars and researchers. Of course, anywhere war relics are gathered, people will be curious. War relics are a memorial of organised, if sometimes spontaneous, human savagery. They also are testament to technologies of extermination as well as platforms to pore over the stories of human daring and heroics in times of harrowing temptations. So, on a philosophical level, Sambisa as a tourist site is a seductive proposition. It covers a wide sweep of land that stretches from Borno State, and tentacles in such other states as Yobe, Gombe, Bauchi and Jigawa. That means it is under the care of local governments and state governments. It is enriched with fauna and flora, with alternations of balmy and wet weathers that enrich such trees as tallow, rubber, wild back duck, baobab, and quite a few others. We cannot also discount its umbrella and nourishing power for leopards, lions, elephants, hyenas as well as a choir of birds. But for the army chief to say we should make the place a tourist site in terms of its military appeals also acknowledges by its omission the failure of government over the years to retain the lush environment for fauna and flora, and what we have is a diminution of its powers to retain its wild and dynamic beauty of feline creatures, rodents and sturdy trees. What we have today is a shadow of its verdant past, its quality of a zoo model, its rich and enviable reserve of money. Why? Because the Boko Haram insurgency ran through its Edenic magnificence with hate and rapine, with a distortion of God and malevolence of human destruction. They turned Sambisa Forest from a forest of Eden to the devil’s dive, carting away girls for its hideouts, especially because of its intimidating mountain ranges, its vast expanse that could task the endurance and technological equipment of soldiers. That war is still on, and while the government can claim that it has degraded the insurgents by an effort of military will, the state of Borno and environs are not strong enough to shut their eyes for dreamy nights. Their fragility bears out in spasms of girl-child suicide bombs, in ambushes of military patrols and formations, in raids that cripple towns, and sometimes by sustained episodes of combats. That they happened in the past, especially before 2015 with damnable ferocity, has made the present seem tame. This has inspired some illusory enthusiasm, especially in official quarters where persons now tend to look beyond the depredations for new draughts of peace. It is that mighty illusion that drove the chief of army staff to such grandiose sense of Sambisa as a sort of arboreal paradise where relics of war could enhance our revenue and show the triumphal soldiery of our armed forces. This was premature glee and a celebration before the fact. The army chief was jumping the gun, though no pun is intended. The guns have not silenced the foe yet. Once that is accomplished, we can heal the wounds fully and reap in full the dividends of peace. Tourists only thrive where there is not only peace, but no hint of hostility. We should not forget that Sambisa had a near Elysian past where the splendour of trees and lawns bowered four-legged beasts beneath the cawing and squawking of winged creatures. This was the time when Sambisa was a games reserve.  The reserve that spanned a wide scythe of 2,258 square kilometres has shrunken over time. This was from the early 1970’s when Nigeria had just woken up from a fratricidal tragedy and was entering a berth of optimism. But Sambisa Games reserve attracted tourists and had the tracks for animals and roads for safaris. It shrank with government neglect and social and economic stress to a little over 500 square kilometres. The lions no longer roar or roam in their former numbers. Far fewer throats of sonorous birds plume nodding boughs. Rather we saw humans as beasts and hear the rumble of ominous vans and primal screams of abducted girls. Now Sambisa Forest has become a metaphor for failed forests across the country, especially in the northern part all the way to Bauchi State where hoodlums lurk, raid and vanquish fragile villages and kill men, women and children. It is not as if as a nation we have done well with our tourist potential in other parts of the country. The Yankari Games Reserves, the Obudu Cattle Ranch, the slave relics in Badagry, the Biafra monuments in Umuahia are in such a state of disrepair and despair that the army chief’s swagger is more of a gallows humour than policy. 