The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award, also called the International Award for Young People Nigeria, offers young Nigerians opportunity to develop leadership skills, one-time Lagos State Finance Commissioner Mr. Wale Edun has said. He spoke yesterday in Abuja during the presentation of silver and bronze awards to participants of the programme, as well as Award Leaders. The participants, aged between 14 and 24, were drawn from public senior secondary schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Edun, a trustee for the award, said: “We want our young people to be of international standard, but we want them in Nigeria. “If we want to pay attention to our young people and their development, this is the type of programme we need to encourage them to do. “For development of the young person, their minds, their talents, their confidence, it must also be things such as the award the programme gives. It is the skills that people learn outside the classroom that lead them to a living. “It is this type of activities – playing a piano, saxophone that may well be an alternative source of livelihood, especially while waiting for formal employment. “The other sector of activity of the award is that they go on an adventurous journey that allows them to develop their leadership skills.” The National Director of the award in Nigeria, Miss Toyin Odu, said 100 students from 20 schools in the FCT participated in the award. She said the programme would help the students to find their purpose in life by teaching them skills that they could use to overcome life’s challenges. “The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award encourages young people to find their purpose, passion and place in the world. There are 1.8 billion young people in the world today, making it the largest youth generation in the world. “When you give them the skills, like adaptability, resilience, determination, those key skills that will help them, give them what they need to become better versions of themselves later in life, to become financially independent. Once you give them that, I think they will do well in the world,” Odu said. The Director, FCT Secondary Education Board, Mrs. Nanre Emeje, said the programme was designed to transform and equip the students positively in the society. According to her, the award will give them what they need to become great in life. “The award will spur them to a level for them to showcase their God-given talents in the society,” Mrs. Emeje, who was represented by Ajayi Olatunde, an assistant director in the agency, said. The award was established to help youngsters succeed in life, irrespective of their background. 