After going through the grind mill for some months, the Lagos state year 2019 budget was finally passed at plenary on Monday by members of the House Assembly. The total budget size passed by the Assembly is N873.532b, which is a difference of about N21.215b from the N852.317b originally presented to the Assembly by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in February. Of this amount capital expenditure stands at N479.691b while recurrent expenditure is N393.841b Although the House had said it was allotting another day for debate of the report of the Appropriation committee because of its volume and technicality when the report was presented last week Friday, it was surprising that it did not take the House up to 10 minutes to debate and make few corrections before adopting the report, taking the third reading and passing the budget. The Chief Whip commended the committee for its report especially the provision that office of the Accountant-General should be strengthened for better performance. He also suggested some monies that the committee recommended to be dropped which are meant for continuation of some infrastructural projects should instead be paid into a specialised account. Former Appropriation committee, Hon. Rotimi Olowo, supported Abiru on the specialised account suggestion and subsequently moved the motion for the adoption of the report as amended as a resolution of the House he was seconded by Hon. Adefunmilayo Tejuoso. When Speaker Mudashiru Obasa put it to vote the lawmakers voted for adoption of the report. The speaker subsequently put the allocation sectorally to vote before the third reading was taken and budget passed. Obasa then directed the Clerk of the House, Azeez Sanni, to send a clean copy of the passed Appropriation law to the governor for signature. It was a tortous journey for the 2019 budget, which resulted to a lot of controversies leading to some insinuations, accusations and counter accusations in several quarters. These dramas resulted in its passage being delayed till April, which is unprecedented in the passage of budget in Lagos state. After it is passed, it is hoped Ambode will sign it into law this week for resuscitation of governmental activities.