 www.effectivecare.com.ng/diab The information below was published by WHO a few months ago. I am sure it will be of help to you. So many death caused by Diabetes is due to ignorance or lack of knowledge on it. These spurred the need to highlight to you the following facts sourced from WHO (World Health Organization) documentation. There is an emerging epidemic of diabetes that can be traced back to rapid increases in overweight, obesity and physical inactivity.Total deaths from diabetes are projected to rise by more than 50% in the next 10 years. Most notably, they are projected to increase by over 80% in upper- middle income countries. www.effectivecare.com.ng/diab The early signs of diabetes are not always obvious. They may develop slowly over time, making them hard to identify. Many are asymptomatic. Because they can worsen over a period of years, type 2 diabetes may remain undiagnosed longer than other more obvious conditions. Here are 7 early signs to watch out for: 1. Frequent Urination Also known as polyuria, frequent and/or excessive urination is a sign that your blood sugar is high enough to start to spill into the urine. Because your kidneys can’t keep up with the high glucose levels, they allow some of that sugar to go into your urine, where it draws additional water, making you have to urinate often. 2. Extreme Thirst Extreme thirst is one of the first noticeable symptoms of diabetes for some. It’s tied to high blood sugar levels, which cause thirst, and is exacerbated by frequent urination. Often, drinking won’t satisfy the thirst. 3. Increased Hunger Intense hunger, or polyphagia, is also an early warning sign of diabetes. Your body uses the sugar in your blood to feed your cells. When the cells can’t absorb the sugar (because of a lack of insulin), your body looks for more sources of fuel, causing persistent hunger.  www.effectivecare.com.ng/diab 4. Nerve Pain or Numbness You might experience tingling or numbness in your hands, fingers, feet, and toes. This is a sign of diabetic neuropathy, or nerve damage. You are most likely to experience this after several years of living with diabetes. 5. Slow Healing Wounds There are several reasons why a wound will heal more slowly if you have diabetes. Poor circulation, the effects of high blood sugar on blood vessels, and immunodeficiency are just a few. If you experience frequent infections or wounds that are slow to heal, it could be an early symptom. 6. Blurred Vision Blurred vision occurs early in unmanaged diabetes. It can be a sign of high blood sugar levels, which cause fluid to shift into the lens of the eye. This usually resolves when blood sugar levels normalize. www.effectivecare.com.ng/diab 7. Dark Skin Patches Dark discoloration in the folds of your skin is called acanthosis, nigricans and is another early warning sign of type 2 diabetes. They are most common in the armpits, neck, and groin regions, according to the Mayo Clinic. The Takeaway If you have any suspicion that you may be experiencing the early signs of type 2 diabetes, talk to your doctor . As with most serious diseases, successful treatment and reduced risk of complications depend on swift diagnosis. Left untreated, type 2 diabetes can lead to lifelong impairment or death. Diabetes Natural Solution www.effectivecare.com.ng/diab If you or anyone you know has been experiencing any of the above signs, get free information about a Natural Way to Diabetes Management and Consequent Cure. An Effective and Scientifically Proven Natural Dietary Approach, that you can adopt to reverse and subsequently curb Diabetic Condition within a short period of time. If you have been struggling with Diabetes and would like to enjoy better health and deal with this problem in the Shortest possible time From Now…then Let Me Show You How to get this done! In the free information here www.effectivecare.com.ng/diab    I will reveal the following : * How you can Get Rid Of Diabetes within 30 days even if everything else you have tried didn’t work for you. *A Natural Supplement almost nobody is aware of that can help you overcome Uncomfortable Diabetic Symptoms. *And Notable Testimonials From People Who Have Engaged the Program. …and lots more. Really, only nature makes perfect! Click this link   www.effectivecare.com.ng/diab   to see. Remember to share this with family and friends. Once again, seeing is believing! To see what you can do to reverse your diabetic condition naturally click this link now www.effectivecare.com.ng/diab