Samuel Chigozie, 19, has been elected the Students Union President of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) in Imo State. He tells AJALA SAMUEL AKINDELE how he wooed fellow students with his ‘belief campaign’. Tell us more about yourself? My name is Samuel Frank Chigozie, an undergraduate of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, 400l, Department of Geology.   I am 19-years old and from Imo State.   By the grace of God, I am the Student Union Leader of my school.  I am an award winning motivational speaker and writer at regional and national level. How did you emerge as the Student Union Leader of your institution? Before you become a Student Union Leader there has to be an election.  By experience I have been involved in school politics for two years. First and foremost, I was nominated to represent my department in the house and after an in-house election I emerged as the Speaker of the Students Representative Council (SRC) After eight months in office I resigned to run for the Students Union Government President.  For one month I had to campaign and convince the students about what I was set to do in office. The election came in August and by the grace of God I was victorious.  This is my third month in office after I was inaugurated in September, 2018. Having been a student in my school for three years and being in the SUG for one year before I ran, I noticed something. The SUG was far away from students and student could not see the SUG as a support base for their aspirations, dreams, and abilities.  They could not see the SUG as a bouncing part to where they should get to. So that was simply what I came to offer to the students and they bought the idea and they supported me. As a 19-year old teenager, how did you run your campaign? The fact that I am 19-year old does not mean I have not gathered knowledge for a while that would allow me run a successful election.  So, I did not consider my age though a lot of people felt my age should have disqualified me because I was too young to run for such office or even handle it.  But then looking at the fact that once you can sell belief to people and they can get hold of it, they can give their vote for you. That was enough for me to do what I wanted to do. There are also some key stakeholders we informed to get their blessings but that does not mean they are the ones to run the campaign. But we do not rule out that money has to be spent on campaigns, very true.  Definitely, you have to pay for fliers, stickers, data and other publicity materials and buying of campaign form.  So the bulk of my money went for campaign not inducing anybody. What are your aspirations for the next five years? My aspiration as a person is basically to add value to people’s lives.  It may not be through politics at the end of the day but it may be through sports or ministry.  Basically, it is just to add value to people.  If you add value to people by showing them the reason they live and then they will value you so much because of what you have given to them.  Show them the reason to be inspired and get more value out of life.  Add value to them by not just inspiring and motivating them but giving them enough reasons to push on and keep getting better. In 2018 all the conferences I attended I made sure I paid for people’s ticket fee in order to make them get better and learn.  So this has been my little way of adding value to people’s lives. In 2019 there will be ways of inspiring people to give business grants to show them that I want to inspire them to give value to people’s lives.  When I do that automatically I blessed then in what they cannot imagine and it makes the society gets better. What have you done since you were elected as the SUG President? I had to start my plan for what we had to do in office by calling all my executives together and asking them serious questions on what we want to do in the year and it has really been productive.  It has helped to form a forum of what we intend to do with our various offices alongside forming alliances with the SUG in Imo State and outside the state especially those in Port Harcourt, Enugu and Anambra. For the first time ever we recorded over 1,500 freshmen who just got admission registering for the SUG ID card and it has been produced.  It has always been known that after students register they wait till the end of the session for them to get their SUG I.D card.  We have over 1,500 students whose ID cards are ready for collection as soon the ASUU strike is over. Also, we created a pamphlet for student; it gives them guidelines on registration, the map of the school to help with movement and security. It can enable them to calculate their result for 100 level (first and second semester) to enable them track their progress. I have worked up a leadership programme that is going to raise 100 leaders each semester.  So that when I am handing over I am handing over 200 leaders that are sound and ready to take up responsibility in the school and outside to the next SUG leaders. We are bringing an innovation tech challenge that is going to encourage the technological spirit of our students – showcasing the talent and abilities of our student to the world –aside from the essay competition, debates, poetry and every single thing that has to spring forth what student has in them. At the end of the day my government would have been set to be Leadership and students focused government.