President Muhammadu Buhari and former President Olusegun Obasanjo last Tuesday displayed part of the military trainings they underwent during their military days. They showed to all in the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa that they didn’t simply pick the title ‘General’ on the streets or bought it with money, but worked hard for it. Part of the military training they received was not to let the enemy or opponent know their true feelings, ideas and plans at all times. So, like other soldiers, they were trained in the art of deception, concealment, and misinformation or disinformation. While deception in warfare have dated back to early history with great emphasis on tactics, in modern times, military deception has developed as a fully fledged doctrine. Misinformation and visual deception were also said to have been employed during World War I, which gained greater prominence during the World War II. World history also showed that the Allies executed one of the largest deceptions in military history, Operation Bodyguard, which helped them to achieve full tactical surprise in the buildup to the 1944 invasion of Normandy. So over the years, soldiers worldwide have been applying  military deceptions in attempts to mislead enemy forces. They engaged methods including creating or amplifying an artificial fog of war via psychological operations, information warfare, visual deception among other methods. Tactical deception is engaged when an individual is able to use an “honest” act from his normal repertoire in a different context to mislead familiar individuals. Strategic deception is an attempt to deceive an adversary, including possible spill-over effects of misleading the public at home, and the populace of one’s allies and friends. Any enemy that falls for the deception will lose confidence when it is revealed and may hesitate when confronted with the truth. So to stay top of the game, any good soldier must be skillful in deception, concealment and misinformation. Despite leaving the military few years back as Generals, Buhari and Obasanjo were still able to bury their emotions and feelings before the commencement of the National Council of State meeting last Tuesday. Like the saying goes, ‘old soldier never dies’, they pushed aside their hostilities as if nothing was at stake. Staring at one another in smiles, they shook hands and exchanged pleasantries before the meeting started. Photographers and cameramen in the hall didn’t waste any time to capture the moment as they clicked away. But many political watchers however believed that the smiles were just for the cameras as great hostilities were deeply buried behind the smiles. Especially, when the meeting was just two days after Obasanjo released his second time-bomb letter criticising Buhari. Obasanjo, in the 16-page letter, two days earlier, accused Buhari of plot to rig the February Presidential election and also claimed that Buhari was already behaving like the late Head of State, Gen. Sani Abacha. The letter had stated in parts “Today, another Abacha Era is here. The security institutions are being misused to fight all critics and opponents of Buhari and to derail our fledgling democracy. “EFCC, Police, and Code of Conduct Tribunal are also being equally misused to deal with those Buhari sees as enemies for criticising him or as those who may not do his bidding in manipulating the election results.  ”I  am concerned as a democrat who believes that with faithful and diligent practice of democracy, we can overcome most of our political problems and move steadfastly and surefootedly on the course of stability, unity of purpose, socio-economic growth and progress for all. “Democracy becomes a sham if elections are carried out by people who should be impartial and neutral umpires, but who show no integrity, acting with blatant partiality, duplicity and imbecility. ”For all Democrats and those carrying out the process of elections, there must be the red line that must not be crossed in tactics and practices of democracy. ”I personally have serious doubt about the present INEC’s integrity, impartiality and competence to conduct a fair, free and credible election. From what we saw and knew about Osun State gubernatorial election, what was conclusive was declared inconclusive despite all advice to the contrary. ”The unnecessary rerun, if viewed as a test-run for a larger general election, would lead people to expect incidences of deliberately contrived, broken or non-working voting machines or card readers, confusion of voters as to their voting stations, inadequate supply of voting materials to designated places, long line to discourage voters and turning blind eyes to favour the blue-eye political party of INEC because the Commission’s hands will be tied to enable hatchet men and women to perform their unwholesome assignment. “The transmission and collation of results are subject to interference, manipulation and meddling.  If the INEC’s favourite political party wins with all the above infractions, the result will be conclusively declared and if not, there will be a ‘rerun’, the result of which is known before it is carried out”. He stated Buhari’s media handlers also replied Obasanjo swiftly in a statement the same Sunday. It stated “The sixteen-page letter the former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, wrote to President Muhammadu Buhari and released this afternoon is the last push by desperate politicians who can’t handle the President politically and have resorted to subterfuge. “Our first message to the former President is that he needs a good doctor for good treatment and to say to him, “Get well soon.” “As repeatedly said of him, since Chief Obasanjo left office in 1979, he never let every succeeding leader of the country function freely, and this included the one he personally handpicked against all known rules drawn up by the party that put him in the office of the President. “But Chief Obasanjo is jealous because President Buhari has more esteem than him and the sooner he learns to respect him the better. “It is a notorious fact that in dealing with any leader that he failed to control, he resorted to these puerile attacks. As the grand patron, more correctly the grandfather of corruption as described by the National Assembly, Chief Obasanjo released today’s letter purely for the reason of rescuing his thriving corruption establishment. “The elections starting in February will be free and fair as promised the nation and the international community by President Buhari. “What Chief Obasanjo and his co-travellers in the PDP should expect is that from the outcome, we will teach them a political lesson that they will never forget. This margin will be much bigger than we had in 2015. “Claims that President Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) have embarked on the president’s “self- succession project, by recruiting collation officers who are already awarding results based on their projects to actualise the perpetuation agenda, in which the people will not matter and the votes will not count” is not only utterly false, but a copious note from the book on the failed third term agenda of President Obasanjo. “A leader who took USD 16 billion “upfront” to supply electric power yet failed to add a single megawatt to the national grid and to date, there is no trace of the money is jittery that he will be called to account. He is a coward. “Nigerians looked up to him as a role model and a ray of hope to ethical and clean leadership until President Yar’Adua called him out to explain what happened to the sixteen billion dollars of taxpayer’s money. It is clear that with him sitting on top of the heap of corruption, he is no different from the crowd he leads. “This language of his 16-page letter, likening President Buhari to General Sani Abacha, a man he dreaded and the one who jailed him under military laws is most unfitting from a former President of Nigeria. “We are unable to get the words to describe a 90-year old liar, except to say that by the publication of this tissue of lies against the President, he Obasanjo, not the President will fall from everyone’s esteem.” it stated It is really hoped that the increasing political tension in the country will recede in the days ahead.