For several months, the people of Edo State have been at daggers drawn with the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) over the latter’s alleged incompetence and highhandedness. This situation has given rise to several protests mostly championed by a civil rights orgnaisation Edo Civil Society Organisation (EDOSCO). The protests against BEDC got to a crescendo at the twilight of 2018 when Governor Godwin Obaseki as well as the Council of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs in the state publicly registered their displeasure with BEDC. Irked by the continued darkness brought upon the state know to be generating at least 600 megawatts, Obaseki was said to have walked out the disco’s boss in Edo State from a meeting with federal legislators. The governor’s anger was said to have been fuelled by the darkness BEDC has thrown government offices, street lights and other facilities into. He was also saddaned by the folding up of small and medium scale businesses owned by artisans that depended on electricity to survive. He had accused BEDC of being unable, unprepared to extend electricity to over 195 communities in the state, in addition to 128 other communities with collapsed distribution infrastructure that were yet to be fixed. Another sin of the disco according to Obaseki, was the darken that had befallen Ihovbor community for 16 months after the transformer bought and installed by the people was allegedly carted away by BEDC. ”BEDC has been an obstacle all the way. They will not provide electricity and will not allow you to get alternative sources of power. The state will not allow it. As Governor of Edo State, we have lost confidence in BEDC. We don’t want them here. We are in darkness. “Let us remain in darkness until we find people who are capable of delivering electricity. This is our position. Despite the fact that the state generates about 600 to 700 megawatts of electricity, the people are still in darkness. How am I to explain the irony to the people, who are well aware that they produce a substantial amount of electricity in the country?” Queried Obaseki at the meeting with federal legislators. He said that BEDC has failed to recognise that they have to be patriotic and responsible to the state and the country but instead they have been noncommittal about the issue of power distribution. “To assist them in their function, we set up electricity committees across the local government areas chaired by the Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu, with BEDC as member to understand the challenge. But BEDC frustrated our resolve to finding a lasting solution to the issue of providing electricity to our people,” the governor said. Similarly, the Council of Traditional Rulers in the state headed by the Oba of Benin Ewuare II on November 30 last year, issued a communique condemning in strong terms, “the poor performance and inability of BEDC to provide electricity to the people of Edo State.” It frowned at BEDC’s inability to provide prepaid meters to those willing to buy and its imposition of illegal and outrageous estimated billing system on its consumers. The council further endorsed actions by Obaseki in calling for the non-renewal of the contract between BEDC and the relevant agencies of the Federal Government, urging Obaseki to vigorously pursue the procurement of alternative source(s) of power in order to bring comfort to the people of Edo State. “We cannot continue to dwell in unending darkness and watch our people suffer untold hardship, resulting from the inefficiency of BEDC. Our people who are into small and medium scale businesses are going out of business daily and bigger businesses are having their share of the hardship. “We will not allow our economy to collapse on account of the incompetence of BEDC’s management and we urge BEDC to either rise to the occasion or provide electricity or leave our communities. As leaders, we have exercised sufficient restraint, hoping that BEDC would overhaul its system to better serve Edo people. But the company’s capacity to deliver on its mandate is suspect, and what is worse, is the disrespectful posture of its managing director Mrs Funke Osibodu,” said the council in the communique. Obaseki seeks to provide 55 megawatts for Benin metropolis through a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) from the CCETC-Ossiomo Power Plant. According to the governor, the agreement would change the tune of power distribution in the state and in the near future, provide enougu energy to distribute to neigubouring states. The first phase of the construction, according to the governor, is expected to be commissioned in April, which will make more electricity available for distribution in the state. Director of CCETC Clean Energy/ Ossiomo Power Plant, Dr. Uwa Egiehon, confirmed that the 55 Megawatts power plant which is a joint venture between a Chinese Company, CCECT Clean Energy and  Ossiomo Power would be delivered between April and May, as the company intends to use natural gas from a 50-metre gas pipeline close to the site to provide 5 megawatts of electricity to the state government offices and streets lights on Sapele Road in Benin City, the state capital, in the first phase of the project.