Despite its lingering strike, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has highlighted her achievements. The union stated this on its twitter handle @ASUUNGR titled: “ASUU and its achievements in the Nigerian universities system”. The union supported Nobel laurate Prof Wole Soyinka, who suggested amid the prevailing strikes that universities be closed for about two years to fix the rot in the system. “A thorough-bred scholar and academic, he had seen the level the system had degenerated to. Thus, the call for a shutdown,’’ ASUU stated. It added: “ASUU was concerned about the state of our universities following a groundswell of public outcry.” The tweets expressed that it was the union’s efforts that led to the setting up of a committee that looked into the state of the public universities, chaired by Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, and also the establishment of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund now) in 2011. “ASUU’s concern led the Federal Ministry of Education on November 1, 2012 to set up the Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led committee on Needs Assessment of public universities. “TETFund was formed as a product of the Education Tax Act of 1993. Prior to the establishment of the scheme in 2011, the government- owned tertiary institutions were poorly funded. The scheme was designed to improve on the management of funds disbursed to these institutions,” the tweets added. However, students have reacted to  the tweets. Amor Akan bemoaned the union’s incessant strikes, urging it to account for previous funds that were disbursed to it. “The previous disbursement of funds to the union in 2013, how were they done in the universities?” Akam asked. “Little or nothing reached the infrastructure of the universities, which is a result of inveterate corruption in the union,” he tweeted. Okere Ikay tweeted that the union should devise other strategies to deal with the Federal Government. “We understand your angle @ASUUNGR, but a strike is a destructive strategy, which causes more harm than good to the system. Other strategies can be devised,” he added Another student simply known as Michael commended the union’s struggle towards revitalising tertiary institutions. “We support your struggle; it is for our good,” he said. ASUU embarked on indefinite strike on November 4, last year to demand improved funding of universities and implementation of previous agreements it entered with the government. Some of the demands include the implementation of the 2009 FGN/ASUU agreement, Memorandum of Understanding (MoU; 2012 and 2013) and Memorandum of Action (MoA, 2017) and truncation of the renegotiation of the union’s agreement.