We are in the season of inflamed emotions and less rational thoughts, you notice this whenever elections are by the corner. It is therefore not unusual that the state of the nation often tops the agenda whenever you see Nigerians gather together. The question that often pops up in such gatherings is ’how did we get here and how do we forge ahead?’ For me, one fundamental quotient is missing – critical thinking. We all need to imbibe critical thinking techniques. With it, we will be able to separate facts from opinions, examine an issue from all sides and make rational inferences devoid of biases. This makes rational critical thinkers the voices of reason in times of mass hysteria or panic. As Franklin D. Roosevelt said, “We have nothing to fear but fear itself.”  The critical thinker usually has the comprehensive skills to consider all possible options toward solving a problem. He often remains calm and knows when he is right. Critical thinkers are less likely to fall for scams or tricks because they approach everything with a healthy amount of scepticism. Those who lack critical thinking skills often assume that everything they hear is true, regardless of the source. Socrates, it was who set the agenda for the tradition of critical thinking. Simply put, it is to reflectively question common beliefs and explanations, carefully distinguishing those beliefs that are reasonable and logical from those which – however appealing they may be to our native egocentrism, however much they serve our vested interests, however comfortable or comforting they may be – lack adequate evidence or rational foundation to warrant our belief. Socrates’ practice was followed by the critical thinking of Plato (who recorded Socrates’ thought), Aristotle, and the Greek skeptics, all of whom emphasised that things are often very different from what they appear to be and that only the trained mind is prepared to see through the way things look to us on the surface (delusive appearances) to the way they really are beneath the surface (the deeper realities of life). From this ancient Greek tradition emerged the need, for anyone who aspires to understand the deeper realities, to think systematically, to trace implications broadly and deeply, for only thinking that is comprehensive, well-reasoned, and responsive to objections can take us beyond the surface. Can anyone question the fact that we need deep thinking in Nigeria? Francis Bacon, in England, was explicitly concerned with the way we misuse our minds in seeking knowledge. He recognised explicitly that the mind cannot safely be left to its natural tendencies. In his book “The Advancement of Learning,” he argued for the importance of studying the world empirically. He laid the foundation for modern science with his emphasis on the information-gathering processes. He also called attention to the fact that most people, if left to their own devices, develop bad habits of thought (which he called “idols”) that lead them to believe what is false or misleading. He called attention to “Idols of the tribe” (the ways our mind naturally tends to trick itself), “Idols of the market-place” (the ways we misuse words), “Idols of the theater” (our tendency to become trapped in conventional systems of thought) and “Idols of the schools” (the problems in thinking when based on blind rules and poor instruction). His book could be considered one of the earliest texts in critical thinking, for his agenda was very much the traditional agenda of critical thinking. By virtue of what they stand for, higher institutions are supposed to be the pillar of critical thinking, this is the major reason research is a fundamental part of all studies. But the way things are presently, you have your answer if you attempt to measures the products of our higher institutions. I don’t have to stress this as I assume we are all too familiar with the state of education in the country. Let’s start from the area of pitching one ethnic group against another. There are stereotypes about almost all ethnic groups in Nigeria. Right from as long as we can remember, we are told to beware of certain ethnic groups because “that’s the way they behave.” We grow up not questioning these stereotypes and when we assume positions of leaderships they are already etched in our minds and difficult to ignore. But a critical thinker will judge people based on their character and not ethnic group. What about infrastructure? Currently, government at all levels in Nigeria concerns itself with the building of infrastructure. Let me state from the onset that I’m a firm believer in world class infrastructure because they make our modern existence easy. But the big question remains: while we concentrate on infrastructure, should we continue while the moral firmament of the country is tattered? Of course, the building of infrastructure is laudable, but it is only a matter of time, of course, that children who do not understand the value of hard work will destroy whatever physical structure that we build today. As we build infrastructure let’s not forget that we need to ‘build’ the people that would appreciate and value the infrastructure and literally ‘own them.’ These set of informed citizens are ‘built’ through the educational system to be critical thinkers. To this end, they are taught to consider all options before they act. If time is an important factor, they consider the fastest method of achieving a goal. They may even discover a shortcut. Critical thinkers embody the phrase “work smarter, not harder.” They are masters of efficiency. A critical thinker has the self-awareness to know the difference between a rational thought based on careful consideration and an emotional response based on personal bias. Emotion is the enemy of reason. By understanding his own perspective, he can also consider the perspective of others and come to a conclusion based on fact, not feelings. From solving problems to facing real world situations, critical thinking is a valuable skill for students, and eventually citizens, to master because it teaches a variety of skills that can be applied to any situation in life that calls for reflection, analysis and planning. It is also a domain-general thinking skill imbuing in us the ability to think clearly and rationally in whatever we choose to do. If you work in education, research, finance, management or the legal profession, then critical thinking is obviously important. I must add that critical thinking skills are not restricted to a particular subject area. Being able to think well and solve problems systematically is an invaluable asset for any career. For instance, it is very important in the new knowledge economy. The global knowledge economy is driven by information and technology. One has to be able to deal with changes quickly and effectively. The new economy places increasing demands on flexible intellectual skills, and the ability to analyse information and integrate diverse sources of knowledge in solving problems. Good critical thinking promotes such thinking skills, and is very important in the fast-changing workplace. Critical thinking also enhances language and presentation skills. Thinking clearly and systematically can improve the way we express our ideas. In learning how to analyse the logical structure of texts, critical thinking also improves comprehension abilities and promotes creativity. To come up with a creative solution to a problem involves not just having new ideas. It must also be the case that the new ideas being generated are useful and relevant to the task at hand. Critical thinking thus plays a crucial role in evaluating new ideas, selecting the best ones and modifying them if necessary More than at any other time, we need critical thinkers because it is crucial for self-reflection. In order to live a meaningful life and to structure our lives accordingly, we need to justify and reflect on our values and decisions. Critical thinking provides the tools for this process of self-evaluation. In the same vein, it is the foundation of science and a liberal democratic society. Science requires the critical use of reason in experimentation and theory confirmation. The proper functioning of a liberal democracy requires citizens who can think critically about social issues to inform their judgments about proper governance and to overcome biases and prejudice.