Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta state has urged the electorates to be prepared to defend their votes. The governor made the call on Thursday, January 9, at the well-attended campaign rallies of the PDP in two local government areas in the state. Thousands of party supporters thronged the venues of the rallies in solidarity with Governor Okowa. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta state has urged the electorates to be prepared to defend their votes in the 2019 general elections. The governor made the call at the campaign rallies of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Warri South, Uvwie and Okpe local government areas of the state held at the Warri Township Stadium, Effurun and Orerokpe respectively. The governor also expressed confidence that the PDP will have a landslide victory in the general elections, reports Legit.ng Specifically, at Orerokpe, Governor Okowa said, “At all the places visited, Deltans are coming out in their large number because they are confident this government is their own. “I am confident that all of you who are at the rally ground have your permanent voter’s card, but records show that there are still people who are yet to collect their PVCs, visit them at home, escort them to collect their PVCs because we don’t want to lose any vote.” “During the elections, for every unit, don’t leave after voting, remain, send delegations to accompany the electoral officers to the ward, the local government headquarters and to the state headquarters, don’t give them room to rig because, you can see that the opposition is not engaging in campaign because they are aware that they cannot win in a free and fair contest.” While listing some of the projects he has executed in the areas, the governor stated that if his administration could do so much in four years, another four years would transform Delta state. He thanked the people for collaborating with his administration to deliver dividends of democracy in practical terms. “We have the youths, women, and elders on our side, so, we are not afraid of going into the elections; Deltans love good things, we have agreed on the principles of rotation and it is cementing the bond of unity in our state,” the governor said at the Warri Township Stadium. On his part, chairman of the campaign council, Professor Sam Oyovbaire said: “I testify that Governor Okowa has performed; ask yourself what the opposition has done in Delta state, they have only brought hunger; when they meet you, ask them if they have contributed any little thing to the development of Delta. “Governor Okowa is working very hard and the results of his hard work are visible for all to see; our governor has delivered first class dividends of democracy, he will complete his second term in office.” Also speaking, former minister of defence, Dr Roland Orisejafor, said at the rally in Warri that, “the crowd you are seeing here is clear evidence of the performance of the governor; we are going to protect our votes, we are voting for stability, we are voting for continuity, we are voting for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for president, Dr. Okowa as our governor.” “We don’t have lazy youths in Delta state; the federal government is an embarrassment to Nigeria, security is in shambles, the economy is in a problem, Nigerians are hungry, we must get it right with our votes.” Others who spoke at the rallies stated that the performance of Governor Okowa has endeared the PDP to Deltans.