President of Koinonia Global Services Inc., Canada, Olufemi Boyede, is a certified International Trade Professional with over 30 years of professional experience in international trade and strategy with bias for export business. He spoke with Sunday Oguntola on how Nigeria can maximise export opportunities. Excerpts: What in concrete terms do you think should be done to effectively promote non-oil sector? Non-oil export development is a direct function of a broad-based consultative and generally agreed and adopted National Export Strategy.  Such a strategy will have a National Strategy Team driving it.  This does not imply a vote of no confidence in the National Agency charged with responsibility for non-oil export promotion. Rather, it helps first and foremost to establish collective ownership (and therefore, collective responsibility for success or failure).  It establishes synergy (of all MDAs and the Private Sector Associations and sub-groups with stake in the growth of the country’s exports. Of course, a perfect strategy will also contain an action plan, a monitoring and evaluation mechanism and be flexible enough to be subjected to regular, if not continuous modification.  Resources for its implementation will have to be budgeted for (and must be outside the usual running budget of the NEPC. Above all, the team as a whole must be made to report to an authority higher than the Nigerian Export Promotion Council.  In the case of the United States of America that I am so fond of citing, the team was actually of Cabinet status and reported directly to President Obama. The lowest ranking member was the Secretary (Minister) in charge of the relevant agency and Heads of the Private sector players. Until we understand the National Export Strategy team must be unique, deliberate and vibrant (more like a task force) we are very unlikely to get any results. Looking at our non-oil sector and the global trend of doing business do you think as a country we have a chance in making a statement in the global front? Based on what is on ground now, my answer is a categorical no.  International Trade (exports) thrives on competitiveness.  There is no way an average Nigerian exporter can favourably compete as of today in the international market. Apart from the myriad of challenges back home that culminate in unduly high unit cost of exports, our reluctance to sign some agreements that bestow zero or preferential tariffs on our products has also negatively impacted our ability to compete globally. Ask a Nigerian exporter of Cocoa. The EU remains Nigeria’s biggest importer of Cocoa and other agricultural products.  Since we out-rightly rejected (in whole) the Economic Partnership Agreement proposed by the EU, Cocoa, (beans and other value-added derivatives) now attract as high as 7% import duty in the huge EU market. Worse still, the Export Expansion Grant, the only one of 18 existing (by law) export incentives in Nigeria, has never really worked smoothly.  I can tell you categorically right now that the last time any Nigerian exporter enjoyed the EEG was in 2014. Commendably, the NEPC succeeded in getting the backlog of unpaid grants (2007-2016) incorporated into the Federal Government’s domestic debt profile.  The Council has pushed for this to be paid via promissory notes but despite promises that exporters would receive these PNs before the end of 2018, access remains a mirage. Along the line, the NEPC modified the scheme, reducing the grant rate from a possible 30% of repatriated proceeds to 15% (with exporters required to pay a 2% Administrative fee (before collection, mind you). The grant was to be paid via a newly introduced instrument tagged the Export Credit Certificate.  Again, despite all the motions we have seen, no movement has been achieved.  We are gradually approaching a third export year now (another set of backlogs) and yet, no one has seen the colour of the Export Credit Certificate.  How do you assess the current administration’s policies in the sector? For an administration that came in when Nigeria was just clawing herself out of the throes of economic depression, it was expected that more serious attention would be paid to non-oil exports. Unfortunately, the administration seemed to immediately distance itself from non-oil export orientation by basing its diversification agenda on non-oil revenues, particularly tax thereby trivializing the non-oil export sector. I am not playing on language and connotations here.  There is a clear distinction between non-oil revenues and revenues from non-oil exports. Mr. President recently presented the 2019 Budget to the National Assembly.  In the breakdown subsequently released by the Minister of National Planning, only 5.2 billion was earmarked for payment of export incentives, particularly the Export Expansion Grant. Going by the trend of EEG paid-outs over the past ten years, I am shocked that government by this singular action seems to be establishing a threshold beyond which Nigerian exporters are not allowed to go. Ironically, a whopping N305bn has been earmarked for payment of subsidy on imported petroleum products. The ERGP is a 142-page document.  The first time the word “non-oil export comes up in the entire document is on page 73 and it was just a passing mention of the government’s commitment to pursuing the NEPC’s zero-oil plan. The zero-oil plan itself has been evaluated by the International Trade Centre and this United Nations Global Agency for (Export) Trade Development has told NEPC categorically that it does not qualify as an export strategy. That is why Nigerians have been saved the noisome cacophony of zero-oil- that was nearly all over the place for two full years.  So as it stands, we really still do not have a National Strategy on Export Development and Promotion. You have been part of some state’s summit on non-oil export. What from your view is stopping states and even individuals from invading the world with their products? The Ogun State adire industry readily comes to mind? Let me start by stating emphatically it is not only Ogun State that has an exportable product in the adire you referred to.  The 36 states and FCT have at least 2 products that can make waves in the global market. Niger State is the world’s largest producer of shea nuts butter.  Paradoxically, 95% of this product grows in the wild.  Why is Niger State not the world’s largest exporter of shea butter?  Ondo State produces 65% of Nigeria’s Cocoa and Nigeria is rated as the world’s sixth largest exporter of Cocoa. What is the ranking of Ondo State in World Cocoa deliveries?  Delta, Edo, Akwa Ibom and Cross Rivers States between them have the capacity to catch up with Malaysia on Palm Oil.  What is the share of these states in world trade in palm oil?  Lagos State has the longest/largest natural beach along West Africa. Cocoanut grows in the wild and even with its Coconut Development Agency Lagos State is yet to feature officially as a world exporter of Coconut (and derivatives).  I could go on and on. The Nigeria Export Promotion Council, one of its presentations, listed at least twenty products where Nigeria is top-five largest producer in the world.  But in not a single one of these does the country feature even on the top-fifty list of exporters. The answer is simply where there is no plan, there cannot be results.  And plans will come as a result of the leadership’s understanding and prioritization of non-oil exports as an economic roadmap. Talking about incentives for exporters what is the current situation? As I had stated in answer to one of your questions earlier, the situation is dim and gloomy. Again let me reiterate that this situation is sad.  Check the world’s largest players in export trade.  The USA, Australia, China, Malaysia, India and Ghana next door, all have very fantastic and functional support instruments, programmes and incentives to push their products into the world markets. South Africa, the last time I checked, had thirty-four separate Export Promotion Councils, each dedicated to a sector where the country deems herself to have high potential.  Nigeria has only one. Australia incentivizes exports to the level of refunding a telephone call made by an exporter, or the cost of visit of a potential importer, once these lead to actual export sales.  Australia and USA have a yearly Presidential Exports Awards instituted over fifty years ago. Recently, Nigeria, through the NEPC, decided to activate the never-started Export Development Fund.  I am not sure if the Fund has been endowed and how much the Federal Government is dedicating to this only pre-shipment catalyst for export growth.  Permit me to say in pidgin English – our road still far. 