• Maybe the victim would have lived if we enforce laws on emergency treatment Maybe Owojaiye Bukky, 42, wouldn’t have died if she hadn’t been allegedly rejected at the private hospital in Lagos where she had sought treatment. . An official of the Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS) was quoted as saying: “At 10:35am the Agege crew were notified of someone in need of medical attention at Iyana-Ipaja roundabout and on getting there, they met these two children: Toyin Ojo (female) 15, and Ezekiel Ojo (male) 11, beside their mother’s lifeless body, who was said to have collapsed inside Keke-NAPEP after being refused treatment at an unknown private hospital.” The picture of two confused and crying children standing beside their mother’s body lying on the road is a pathetic image.   It is unclear why the hospital reportedly refused to treat the woman. Also unclear is the woman’s health condition, for which she had needed treatment. However, the circumstances of her death suggest that her case had most likely needed urgent medical intervention. The hospital’s alleged refusal raises an important question: What is expected of a hospital in an emergency? When a situation poses an immediate threat to life, it requires urgent intervention to prevent a worsening of the case. Sadly, it is on record that people have died because hospitals refused to treat them. It is noteworthy that the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, had emphasised what was expected of doctors in emergencies at an event in Abuja:  ”Hospitals are sanctuary for the sick and injured… Doctors must show no restraint in treating emergencies, even with gunshot wounds you must treat them, thereafter raise questions. You must also treat emergencies before asking for money because life is more precious than money.” Two laws show that it is a serious issue when hospitals refuse to treat people who need treatment. The National Health Act 2014 states: “A health care provider, health worker or health establishment shall not refuse a person emergency medical treatment for any reason.” An offender is liable to a fine of N100, 000, a jail term of six months or both, upon conviction. Also, in 2017, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Compulsory Treatment and Care for Victims of Gunshot Act. But it is one thing to have laws and it is another thing to implement them. The point is that the dead woman had a right to treatment. The private hospital that allegedly refused to treat her failed to do what hospitals are supposed to do. The hospital should at least have stabilised her condition. In cases like this one, the hospital has a lot of explaining to do. This incident highlights the positive role of LASAMBUS. Ironically, it also illustrates how hospitals can complicate the role of the ambulance service. If the dead woman had been treated at the hospital, maybe her condition wouldn’t have deteriorated in the tricycle, leading to her death. Therefore, there would have been no need to call the ambulance service. Public response in emergencies is also important. Maybe the woman wouldn’t have died if she had got first aid to prevent her condition from worsening. Public empathy and assistance are useful in emergencies. Indeed, it is said that first aid can mean the difference between life and death. There is a need for a public enlightenment campaign to encourage members of the public to be more willing to give first aid, and to teach them how to do so. The traumatised children of the dead woman are reported to have been examined medically at the welfare unit of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH).  It is reassuring that they were handed over to the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, and the Ministry of Youth and Social Development. They should be helped to overcome their trauma.