It is interesting that Governor of Lagos State Akinwunmi Ambode’s defeat in the October 2, 2018 All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary is still controversial. He lost the primary after his party’s leadership had said his administration was a one-man show.  Ambode’s loss continues to produce drama after drama. The January 8  Lagos APC campaign launch at the Skypower Ground,  Ikeja, which was  attended by Ambode and the APC governorship candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, ended in chaos. At least one person was reported killed and three journalists were injured in the confusion that followed gunshots at the venue. A report said: “Lagos State Police Command thereafter declared the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Lagos State Auditor Mustapha Adekunle aka Sego wanted for “attempting to disrupt the rally.” Adekunle described the action as a “frame-up.” NURTW members accused Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal of bias.  The Organising Secretary, Berger Unit in Oshodi, Semiu Omosansan, was quoted as saying: “In a situation like this, we expect that the Commissioner of Police will carry out thorough and unbiased investigations in dealing with the case… We implore the CP to get his facts right.” About a week later, there was news of Edgal’s redeployment. He was to be replaced by Kayode Egbetokun, reports said. Those interested in cause and effect connected the development with alleged poor performance by the police when violence erupted at the APC rally.  But power didn’t change hands.  Edgal told reporters:  “Well, there is a directive that the status quo should remain till further notice… we were about concluding the handing over and taking over procedure when we were instructed by our bosses from Abuja to suspend action for now. So, there is no change of guard for now.” The reversal of Edgal’s redeployment, following the appointment of Acting Inspector General Mohammed Adamu, was an eye-opener.  The Nation columnist, Segun Ayobolu, said in his January 19 column: “Unfortunately, all kinds of conspiracy theories are being read into his perceived lukewarm attitude to providing maximum security at the Sky Power Ground, venue of the APC flag off campaign rally. For instance, one theory has it that as a school mate and close friend of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, Edgal was piqued at the governor’s loss in his party’s primaries and was thus part of a plot to cause mayhem at the rally in order to create the impression of the APC as a fractious and badly divided party going into the elections.” Ayobolu argued: “Of course, there is no way to prove this kind of allegation but such insinuations and speculations are bound to arise when such a grave security lapse occurs on the watch of a CP who is otherwise highly experienced and competent.” If “this kind of allegation” can’t be proved, why does Ayobolu seem to believe it anyway?  Ayobolu stopped short of saying Edgal had plotted the disruption with the disrupters.  In Ayobolu’s view, this singular disruption is sufficient to prompt a call for Edgal’s removal: “Can critical and substantial sections of the political class trust Imohimi Edgal to be a dispassionate professional in Lagos in the forthcoming election? I doubt it. Just as under his watch gun totting hoodlums and rival NURTW factions could have easy access into the venue of a political rally to kill, maim and cause mayhem, can Imohimi Edgal be trusted to maintain law and order and enforce the peace on election day? I doubt it. Edgal’s professionalism, objectivity and emotional detachment are badly tainted. He has become a liability rather an asset to the NPF in Lagos.” Another kind of drama was on stage when a member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) of the APC in Lagos State, Chief Lanre Razaq, appealed to party members and people in Epe to stop destroying and defacing Sanwo-Olu’s campaign posters. Razaq said at a January 23 stakeholders’ meeting at Jubilee Chalets in Epe: “The party has chosen the person it wants to fly the governorship flag in the election as Ambode’s tenure expires by May this year. The party says he cannot have a second term and has chosen Sanwo-Olu. There is nothing we can do about it because the party has the final say. Even if we are angry and we fight, there is nothing we can do. The anger is much because our son was dropped. Yes, we are all angry, but there is nothing we can do about it. The party has decided; all we can do is to support the party’s position.” Razaq added: “Let us not bring any suffering upon ourselves. We have a lot of work to do. If we don’t support the party, all the uncompleted projects in Epe will stop and we shall suffer for it. There is nothing anybody can do at this point. Let us rethink about our anger and act more reasonably and support the party. If we remain angry and say no, others will take advantage of it and we shall be the losers. The party expects 92,000 votes from Epe; let us give them 120,000 votes instead.” A January 21 report captured yet another drama: “The much- awaited presentation of Lagos State 2019 budget… at the House of Assembly by Governor    Akinwunmi Ambode failed to hold. Although the governor’s advance team arrived at the Assembly around 3pm raising hope Ambode was on his way for the presentation, the team left the Assembly premises around 4pm before plenary even commenced with the lawmakers said to be in a parliamentary session.” The report continued: “Sources at the Assembly hinted that the governor was not there to present the budget but to hold a meeting with the lawmakers, which was why the governor’s press crew and advance team were directed back to their beats. When the lawmakers  eventually held plenary, nothing about the budget or the governor’s visit came up for discussion.” As Ambode’s May exit date approaches, the endgame drama further highlights his failure in the primary election. For the outgoing governor, it is a dim       ending to a bright beginning.  The lesson: In party        politics, “inclusion” isn’t just a slogan.