The nation must take their warning seriously President of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Maxi Sam Ohuabunwa’s call on the government to match its words with action by patronising Nigerian pharmaceutical industry, though seemingly innocuous, is very worrisome. This is because the government ought to be the one admonishing citizens to patronise made-in-Nigeria pharmaceutical products and ought to be seen to be leading by example, by having these pharmaceutical products in government hospitals and affiliated agencies. In contrast, however, we have consistently outsourced the healthcare of our government officials who time and again travel abroad for medical tourism. Beyond this very worrisome situation, we recall the alarm raised by the wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, and her daughter, Zahra, about the Aso Rock Clinic being bereft of drugs and other minor facilities that a clinic of its status ought to have. The government must first provide the needed infrastructure that would aid productivity not only for the pharmaceutical industry but for all sectors of the economy because of the chain effect. Drug production in the 21st century has gone beyond the mundane. Beyond infrastructure, it is a known fact that the country is suffused with fake and substandard and adulterated imported drugs which the late National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control’s (NAFDAC) director-general, Professor Dora Akunyili, brought to global focus. It does seem the light has been extinguished by her death. We expect the government to take seriously the issue of our porous borders that provide easy access to the merchants of death who regularly bring in fake drugs to a population that is largely poor and illiterate. The government must begin to take a holistic view and stand on the nation’s health sector. No country can progress without a healthy and well-educated population. The PSN president enumerated in his presentation the implication of a country without health security. It must be known that no exporter nation cares so much about another nation’s survival beyond the transactional benefits. It therefore implies that there must be a deliberate effort by the Nigerian government to support, with all seriousness, the pharmaceutical industry in Nigeria for the benefit of the people. A country with one of the lowest life expectancies in the world must have an urgent introspection. Most developed countries guard their local industries seriously such that making them viable and productively active are often made campaign issues that determine the success or failure of candidates. However, government patronage cannot be seen as an end in itself; there must be requisite political will to police our borders, increase production of local raw materials, invest in education and research, provide all needed support for the sector to flourish and produce the needed drugs. It must never be taken for granted that the influx of fake and illicit drugs like tramadol and codeine that are decimating the youth population also flood the country through dubious drug importers. There is a weird sense of acquiescence to accept and promote foreign economies and in particular their healthcare services when our government officials and families fly abroad to access their functional medical system. In a way, it shows the highest form of health insecurity as we outsource the health of our leaders that should be national treasures to foreigners that have no emotional or political allegiance to our citizens. The PSN call must be taken seriously and the needed action taken to save what is left of our almost prostrate healthcare sector that has seen needless deaths and incapacitations of the population, after all, as the saying goes, a healthy nation is a wealthy nation.