• The trend must be arrested Apparently worried at the number of children of school age who hawk in the state during school hours, an exasperated governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has threatened to order the arrest of parents of such minors as one of the measures to arrest the drastic decline in the rate of enrolment into schools. Speaking in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, during a meeting of stakeholders in the education sector, Fayemi lamented that “the current school enrolment rate of 55 per cent as against 96 per cent recorded in 2014 is unacceptable to this government. Something must be done urgently to reverse the situation.” Restating the belief of his administration in the catalytic role of education in development, the governor said: “Part of the responsibilities of government is to ensure that children and youths, who are the future of the nation, are properly groomed through qualitative education that will prepare them for the future”. It was obviously to achieve this objective that Fayemi, immediately on assumption of office in October, 2018, abolished all education levies as well as the education tax imposed by the preceding administration, while also introducing a policy of free education in public primary and secondary schools. The continuing low enrolment level of school pupils and the attendant high incidence of street hawking by children indicate, unfortunately, that these progressive educational policies are not having the desired effect. While applauding the seriousness that the Ekiti State government attaches to children attending school, the arrest of uncooperative parents can only have the desired effect if elementary education is made not only free but also compulsory. In that case, parents who refuse to send their children to school would be violating the law and thus subject not just to arrest but also to prosecution and punishment. Again, the ramification of the problem goes beyond those children found hawking during school hours. Children who are forced to undertake the stressful activity of hawking after school hours are exposed to a double jeopardy. First, they may have to review their notes or do their homework, which are critical parts of the education process, at night when they should be resting in preparation for school the next day. Secondly, they are vulnerable to accidents on the highways as well as the evil activities of assorted criminals. In other words, street trading by underage children is undesirable both during and after school hours. But then, we come to the most fundamental aspect of the problem, which is the poverty dimension. Most families are forced to utilise their children as street traders or give them out as hired labour when they should be in school because of the extreme poverty among a substantial number of the populace. With the high rate of unemployment, the negative impact of the protracted economic crisis on the informal sector and the inability of the vast majority of Nigerians to access credit for small scale businesses, the meagre amounts that children hawkers make daily means so much to their families. In such a situation, it is important to sensitise parents to the fact that educating their children and equipping them with the requisite skills to function in the contemporary global economy is the most feasible opportunity to lift families out of poverty in the long run. Meanwhile, governments across the board must intensify the war against corruption as well as drastically cut down on wasteful expenditure in order to make more resources available to deepen and expand ongoing social intervention programmes. Other states should emulate Ekiti in making the issue of out-of-school children an urgent priority. For, this is a grave and portentous social challenge in a country where over 13.2 million children reportedly belong to this endangered category.  