•For optimal performance, governments need to pay scholars on time Minister of Education, Malam AdamuAdamu, has announced that his ministry has released N9.7 billion to clear the backlog of allowances owed to students at home and abroad. The money, according to the minister, would include payment of five months arrears owed to foreign students in 2017, and nine months allowances in 2018. In view of assurances from the Federal Government that the country had recovered from the recession of 2016 over one year ago, there is no justification for virtually turning Nigerians into mendicants in foreign countries during the many months of lack of allowance from the Federal Ministry of Education. Nigeria has been awarding foreign scholarships for over half a century, during which many of those in positions of power in the country at present were trained. It should have been a no brainer for the ministry to realise that delaying release of funds to scholars —within or outside Nigeria— is to subject innocent students, especially those in foreign countries, to unnecessary suffering. Such delay of funds can also impact negatively on the training of such scholars who, instead of focusing on their study, are forced to squat and forgo some meals. Awarding young men and women scholarships to acquire state-of-the-art knowledge and skills in other countries indicates that those in power appreciate the pivotal role that education plays in national development. It is, therefore, surprising that the Federal Ministry of Education has been unable to remit direly needed funds to students to meet their monthly bills. Such tardiness should not have come from a regime of change, more so one that has publicised its achievements in provision of meals to primary school pupils across the country. Public officers and bureaucrats in charge of disbursing scholarship funds ought to do better than they have done in the last two years. The reasons for studying abroad include equipping citizens of various countries with knowledge and skills that can make them competitive in an increasingly global economy. It is thus encouraging that the Federal Government has sustained the award of scholarships to study at home and abroad. But not giving needed attention to processing and releasing funds to those on scholarship regularly subverts the noble goals such policy is designed to achieve. We, therefore, urge the Federal Ministry of Education to accelerate the process of re-confirming that students denied their allowances for the past two years are still enrolled. Such immediate response from the scholarship board will save scholars the embarrassment they have coped with since 2017. Any further delay on this important matter should be avoided, if only to allow those affected for several months to have the peace of mind and renewed energy to catch up in their studies. Delaying release of scholarship funds not only puts avoidable stress on students, it also makes the country look irresponsible in foreign countries where such matters are usually given prompt attention. New advances in science and technology make it imperative for Nigeria to expand opportunities for scholarships, which many citizens had taken advantage of in the past when the country’s economy was buoyant. But government—state or federal—ought to ensure that it gives scholarships to only those that it can provide funds for promptly.