2019 was packed full with news on the international scene. Important news items broke at regular intervals, some happening even while readers or listeners were yet to finish digesting the ones that broke earlier. Below are some of events that made the headlines on the international scene in 2019.  Nancy Pelosi regains speakership as shutdown continues On January 3, Nancy Pelosi regained her power as the Speaker of the United States of America House of Representatives after Democrats regained majority control of the House. However, she was still to bring to an end the government shutdown that had lasted for a few weeks then.  Brazil dam disaster kills over 230 The first major disaster of the year occurred on Janury 23 when a dam at the Córrego do Feijão iron ore mine in Brazil ruptured near the municipality of Brumadinho. There was a massive mudflow which destroyed the mine offices during lunch time, along with several houses, roads and farms. About three months later, the Civil Police of Minas Gerais posted a final death tally of 237, with 33 missing.  Maduro begins second term in office January 20 saw embattled Venezuelan President Nicholas Maduro begin his second term of six-year tenure amidst protests by thousands of Venezuelans.  Kelly arrested Hugely gifted but very controversial American singer, R. Kelly, was arrested on February 2 after turning himself in on ten counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse, including with three minors.  Trump meets Kim Jong-Un February 27 witnessed the beginning of a second summit between US President Donald Trump and North Korea’s leader Kim Jong-un in Hanoi, Vietnam. The following day, the summit collapsed as the two leaders could not reach an agreement  Ethiopian Airlines plane crashes, kills 157 On March 10, a Nairobi-bound Ethiopian Airlines Max 737 Flight 302 crashed near the town of Bishoftu, Ethiopia. It had taken off from Addis Ababa Bole International Airport. All the 157 people onboard lost their lives. The crash sparked a global debate about safety of the aeroplane, resulting in the grounding of the model by carriers and regulators around the globe.  Cyclone Idai makes landfall in Mozambique March 14 was a day of nightmare for Mozambicans. Over 1,000 people lost their lives after the Category 3 cyclone made landfall in the country. The cyclone left in its trail a lot of havoc in the country along with neighboring Zimbabwe and Malawi. It also led to heavy rains and serious flooding. According to estimates by the World Bank, the affected countries faced financial damages of over $2 billion.  Terror attack kills 50 in New Zealand Terror visited New Zealand on March 15 when no fewer than 50 people were killed and 50 others wounded after a gunman opened fire at the Al Noor Mosque and Linwood Islamic Centre in Christchurch. The assailant, later identified as Australian citizen Brenton Harrison Tarrant, was arrested and charged with murder. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described the attacks as “one of New Zealand’s darkest days.” The country passed a sweeping ban on semi-automatics and assault rifles six days later.  Julian Assange is arrested On April 11, WikiLeak co-founder Julian Assange, who had been a fugitive at the Ecuadorian embassy in the United Kingdom for seven years, was arrested. The WikiLeaks co-founder was arrested after he was found guilty of failing to surrender to the court. He faces federal conspiracy charges in the U.S. for leaks of government secrets. At present, extradition hearings are going on against Assange in the British courts.  Fire outbreak at Notre-Dame Cathedral On April 15, fire broke out at the 850-year-old cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris, France, causing heavy damage to the iconic structure. A large part of the roof and its spire were destroyed in the blaze. Officials suggested that the fire might have been ignited by ongoing renovation work at the gothic landmark.  Serial bomb blasts rattle Sri Lankan capital, kills 250 On April 21, an Easter Sunday, a series of bomb blasts at churches, hotels and a housing complex in and around Colombo killed more than 250 people and wounding hundreds of others. An island-wide curfew was imposed until the next day. On April 23, the Islamic State militant outfit claimed responsibility for the attacks.  Comedian becomes Ukrainian President On April 22, final results revealed that comedian Volodymyr Zelenskiy won the Ukrainian election. Zelenksiy had no political experience aside from playing a parody president on television.  Japan Emperor steps down History was made On April 30 when for the first time in over 200 years, Japan Emperor Akihito announced he was stepping down. His son is expected to succeed him.  Uprising against Venezuela President Nicolás Maduro Also on April 30, Nicolás Maduro’s re-election to a second term in May 2018 was met with popular uprising. In January 2019, Popular Will party leader Juan Guaidó had declared himself interim president, gaining support from the citizens as well as winning recognition from over 50 nations. On April 30, he led an uprising called “Operation Freedom” to oust Maduro’s regime. Maduro, at the end of the uprising and with the support of Russia, managed to cling to power.  Narendra Modi’s wins India’s general elections by landslide May 23 saw Indian incumbent Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attain a landslide victory, winning 303 out of the 543 seats available. The substantial win confirmed a second term for Modi as the country’s prime minister. South Africa appoints majority women cabinet On May 30, South Africa made history after it was revealed that more than half of its cabinet members are women.  Theresa May formally resigns After much of bickering and going back and forth, Theresa May resigned on June 7 as British Prime Minister. She served for nearly three years as the United Kingdom’s Prime Minister. May formally quit as the leader of the ruling Conservative Party over failed Brexit negotiations.  100 die in Mali attack On June 10, a Mali village was burnt, killing at least 100 Dogon people.  Boris Johnson becomes British Prime Minister On July 24, the Queen of England promoted Boris Johnson to become the Prime Minister. He took over from Theresa May who resigned on June 7.  Trump gets funding for wall On July 26, the Supreme Court ruled to give the American President, Donald Trump, the sum of $2.5 billion to fund the building of a wall between the United States and Mexico border. The court ruled in a 5-4 vote.  Jeffrey Epstein found dead American financier and friend to movers and shakers of the society, Jeffrey Epstein, was found dead by apparent suicide in his prison cell on August 10. Epstein was awaiting federal charges after a story broke about him owning a sex trafficking business. Epstein was originally on suicide watch before the incident. Xenophobic attacks in South Africa On September 3, there were looting and attacks on foreign-owned businesses in South Africa. The president has said he is hoping for arrests to be made in respect of the attacks. Since the attacks began on September 1, five people have died.  Nigerians and their business were the main targets of these attacks.  US house announces Trump’s impeachment probe On September 24, 2019, House Speaker Pelosi announced that six committees of the House of Representatives would begin a formal impeachment inquiry into President Trump. Pelosi accused Trump of betraying his oath of office, U.S. national security, and the integrity of the country’s elections.  Ground offensive launched in Syria On October 9, Turkey launched a ground offensive in Northern Syria. The EU has urged Turkey to end its offensive.  Ethiopian Prime Minister awarded the Nobel Peace Prize On October 11, Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The Ethiopian leader helped end his country’s 20 years old war with Eritrea.  America kills ISIS leader On October 26, it was announced that ISIS leader Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi was killed in a raid by US troops.  53 Malian armed forces personnel killed in attack The world woke up on November 2 to the news that terrorist attack on the Malian Armed Forces had left 53 soldiers and one civilian dead. No group claimed responsibility.  Bolivian President resigns On November 11, after nearly a month of protests, President Evo Morales resigned after his 14-year reign. Protesters accused him of election fraud, and cheered when he announced his resignation. By November 16, at least five people died during clashes between pro-Morales and anti-Morales sides.  World’s youngest Prime Minister elected in Finland Finland, on December 9, made history by appointing the youngest prime minister in the world. 34-year-old Sanna Marin was selected by Finland’s Social Democratic Party to take over as the country’s leader.  Boris Johnson returns to power with big majority Boris Johnson returned to Downing Street on December 12 with a big majority after the Conservatives swept aside Labour in its traditional heartlands. The Conservatives won with a landslide.  The prime minister said it would give him a mandate to “get Brexit done” and take the UK out of the EU next month. Jeremy Corbyn said Labour had a “very disappointing night” and he would not fight a future election.  Trump impeached On December 18, US President Donald Trump became the third American president to be impeached. He was accused of improperly seeking help from Ukraine to boost his chances of re-election in 2020. Trump became only the third president in US history to be impeached after two votes in the Democratic Party-controlled House of Representatives.