By Musa Odoshimokhe House of Representatives member Hon. Kolawole Taiwo has said efforts are ongoing to initiate a bill to protect people from domestic hazards in view of the gas explosion that killed people in Lagos recently. Taiwo said some people were desperate to make profit by refilling liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) or cooking gas cylinders in residential areas. At a press conference in Lagos, he said the fire that claimed the lives of five residents of Ajegunle metropolis was due to failure to comply with precautions during gas filing. The lawmaker said the incident, which took place in his constituency, damaged property worth millions of naira, adding that it was due to indiscriminate establishment of gas plants. According to him, many hapless victims who sustained various degree of burns were receiving treatment in the hospitals and other health facilities.  He said no amount of succour could be given to the affected constituents if the issue was not holistically addressed. “It is good for us that people at the local level are now embracing gas as a cheaper, safer and cleaner means of cooking. The use of LPG reduces the unnecessary felling of trees for cooking which poses more harmful effect on climate change. This also reduces the pressure on kerosene, an important fuel for airplane. “However, gas is highly inflammable and our people demand for it is on the increase, so entrepreneurs now site mini-gas plants indiscriminately, across major cities of Nigeria, which poses grave danger to the locals. “I had to rush down here when I learnt about the development few days ago due to a barrage of calls from my constituents, and what I saw was disheartening.” He urged landlords to shun the pecuniary gains and consider safety when giving permission to site gas plants in residential areas, noting that even those corporate entities siting gas plants have them cordoned off in restricted areas with enough guard. Taiwo commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for promptly wading into the matter, adding the governor promised to foot the hospital bills of the victims. 