By Maxwell Jelil Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) is illegal in Nigeria, but in parts of Kwara State, it is still ongoing. A non governmental organisation, Kick Against Genital Multiple ( KAGM) is wagging a war against the FGM. Executive director of KAGM, Mr. Funso Alimi said the body will put every resources to end the debasement of women. He said many communities in Nigeria still engaged in the age-long practice. In Kwara State for instance, the family of Arogunde Adeniyi Oladipupo of Idiogun, Offa town engages in female circumcision. It is customary to do circumcision for all female children. With the attendant pains, infection and disease like HIV/AIDS contacted through circumcision, the campaign to end it became more potent. Some bold people are resisting practice, a position that put them at conflict with the adherents of FGM. Oladipupo’s refusal to allow them performed FGM with their daughter drew the ire of the family head and this resulted in conflicts. His father, a strong politician is battling the Oladipupo to enforce the FGM. The wife ran with the grand child to her father’s house, but the husband father went for them. This forced Oladipupo to flee to Ghana, in order to protect the grand child. Despite this, it has been cases of threat to their lives. The battle has being raging and worrisome. They have been reliably informed that the circumcision exercise will continue to fester because of the huge wealth at the disposal of the head of the family. According to Alimi: “We are determined to do what ‘End Cutting Girls’ are doing to put an end to FGM in Nigeria are doing. It is no longer acceptable to subject the girl child to this barbaric act. “We recently visited the family of Arogundade Adeniyi Oladipupo in Kwara who are still practising FGM. We let them know the danger and why it must end. We shall prosecutes families that refuse to end the barbaric acts.” Kwara State Police authorities are aware of the development and willing to act on petition brought before them. He said: “No convictions have been made because only few states have ratified the law. Much advocacy is needed to make people aware of the act.” A 2017 report by the UN Population Fund estimates that one in ten women between the ages of 15 and 49 have undergone FGM in Nigeria. The report says that the practice has reached alarming rates in six Nigerian states, including Kwara. According to the report, Kwara and states in the North Central are fighting hard to end FGM. However, Nigeria’s First Lady Aisha Buhari had called for the elimination of the practice since 2016. 