The spirit of extreme love for money at all costs and by all means among young Nigerians must be tamed to avoid total collapse of the Nigeria family system, Director General National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) Otunba Segun Runsewe has said. He spoke on the rise in reported activities of Nigerian youths, sometimes supported by their parents to ‘hustle’ for money even if it involves the killing of persons. Otunba Runsewe stated that the trend is uncultural, unnigerian and uncivilized and should be stopped by all well meaning Nigerians from all works of life. He said ‘the killing of Miss Favour Daley–Oladele, a final year sociology student of Lagos State University by her friend and his mother for money ritual is unacceptable and has nothing to do with the rudiments and culturally accepted means of survival and of money making. “Killing somebody for money ritual is never a business neither does it have anything to do with being poor or lacking anything good in life but of a spirit not associated with our people and our way of life”. Otunba Runsewe submitted. To stem this tide, the custodian of Nigerian culture enjoined the people and government at all levels to partner in refocusing the minds of young Nigerians on the true values of our culture, particularly as it relates to working hard to earn a decent living. “NCAC under my watch from 2020 will embark on Nation wide cultural advocacy to help call attention and reeducate Nigerians to stop the quest to become rich or make money by all means which if unchecked will destroy the entire fabric of the family system and the Nigerian culture of love for one another”. Otunba Runsewe noted that this trend has also polluted parents who also sell their children for money ritual, prostitution or into slavery, just to make end meet. “We are not going to allow this to continue and we shall take the battle to various communities, institutions and leaders at all levels both religious and tempora so that we can bring Nigeria back again to what it used to be culturally”. He added. Disturbed by silence or women groups and organisations in Nigeria, he called on their leadership to take up the battle and stop Nigerians mothers from supporting their children in the quest to get rich at cost and not excluding a national woman conference or retreat to arrest the growth of cancer of get rich quick among young persons. “Our women and mothers can do it and I want them to fight it right from the homes. If our mothers says no to this type of unacceptable attitude from our children, then we can go to sleep. We shall engage our women and they will take the matter and solve it, Otunba Segun Runsewe explained