The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has restated its commitment to the conduct of credible elections in the country, but noted it is a joint responsibility. INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman of the Commission’s Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr. Festus Okoye, who stated this Monday evening in a chat with The Nation in Abuja, also noted that the electoral body is a creation of the law, but has no capacity to create laws. Okoye was reacting to an allegation by the National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, that the INEC had been conniving with the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to rig elections. The PDP National Chairman also demanded that the Commission effect reform of the electoral process, threatening that his party might boycott future elections if the demand of reform is not taken into consideration. However, Okoye said the Commission’s commitment to ensuring credible elections is intact, adding that it will continue to improve on the processes and procedures of making credible polls a reality. He also reminded political party leaders that the task of delivering credible and acceptable elections is a shared responsibility, asking that all stakeholders join the Commission’s efforts to make standard and credible elections possible in Nigeria. “The Commission is a creation of the Constitution and the law with clearly defined mandate and responsibilities. The Commission is not vested with legislative powers but operates within the ambit of existing laws and powers donated to it by the Constitution and the Electoral Act to make Regulations, Guidelines and Manuals. “The Commission is irrevocably committed to the conduct of credible elections and will continue to improve on its processes and procedures. The conduct of credible elections is a shared responsibility and the Commission enjoins all the critical stakeholders to join hands with the Commission in the task of conducting credible elections,” Okoye said.