By Grace Obike, Abuja The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) has revealed that it has so far disbursed N75.5 billion from 2017 till date. The bank said it includes 3,541 mortgages and 25,242 home renovation loans and financing the construction of over 7,286 housing units. MD/CEO FMBN, Arc. Ahmed Dangiwa, who made this known,  said the pro-active efforts of the current management of the bank has led to a 45 per cent increase in FMBN’s speed of processing National Housing Fund (NHF) housing loan applications. He added that as a result, the bank has been able to reduce substantially the huge backlog of loan applications that they met when they assumed office two years ago. Group Head, Corperate Communications, FMBN, Ahmed Abubakar, said: “I am pleased to note that we have recorded unprecedented improvement in the turnaround time of NHF loan applications. While before now it used to take an average of two years to process an NHF loan, we have been able to bring this down to four months. “This is a significant improvement. Of course, we are still not where we want to be, but at least, we are now moving in the right direction and intend to do more.” He stated that from day one, improving the turnaround time of housing loan applications has been the priority of FMBN’s management, because it  understood quite early that it has been a big issue over the years. This, according to him,  has led to the accumulation of huge backlog. “When we came on board, we set out clear strategies to reduce it. And we have made decent progress,” Abubakar said.  He added that from 2017 when the managment  came on board to date, it has been able to successfully process and disburse loans totaling N75.5billion. This includes 3,541 mortgages and 25,242 home renovation loans. “We have also financed the construction of over 7,286 housing units within this period. “These figures represent a marked improvement in the performance of the scheme since it was established 27 years ago,” Abubakar added. Speaking specifically on the backlog of housing loan applications, Arc. Dangiwa said FMBN will continue to prioritize the 100 per cent clearing of all qualified housing loan applications that have gone through the various stages. He added that the bank was aware that though it has made significant progress in reducing the backlog and disbursing loans to beneficiaries, efforts would be sustained to ensure that everyone is attended. He, however, said the bank’s weak financial capitalization remains a major handicap to its ability to deliver on its social housing mandate of affordable housing. Dangiwa, therefore, re-stated his call on the Federal Government to increase the capitalization of the bank from the meagre N5 billion – with only N2.56billion fully paid up – to N500billion as a necessary first step to strengthening the capacity of the bank to meet the housing demands of Nigerian workers.” 