Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Nine robbery suspects who specialise in one chance robbery and handbag snatching have been arrested by the Anambra State Police command. The police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed who disclosed this on Monday, said the suspects were nabbed inside a forest at Nkwelle Ezunanka, Oyi local government area of Anambra State. He said the suspects were part of the gang allegedly involved in series of armed robbery, phones and handbags snatching within Onitsha and its environs. He listed the exhibits recovered from them to include arms, bags of weeds suspected to be cannabis sativa, different handsets, laptops and other incriminating items reasonably suspected to have been stolen from their victims. He said, “Following credible intelligence report, operatives attached to the Command Special Anti cult unit (SPACS) in conjunction with operation Kpochakpu II arrested the following suspects inside the forest at Nkwelle Ezunanka in Oyi LGA of Anambra State. “Ikechukwu Ezeh aka Mopol, 34 from Okija in Ihiala LGA, Jude Nwachukwu, 24 from Ebonyi, Samuel Egbe, 25 from Ebonyi, Chukwudi Augustine, 24 from Ebonyi, Jacob Godwin, 22 from Ebonyi, Paul Linus, 26 from Ebonyi, Uche Okoye, 27 and Augustine Uzokwa, 26, both from Anambra State. “Exhibits recovered from them includes one double barrel gun, one single barrel gun, 2 big bags containing weeds suspected to be cannabis sativa, 2 computer laptops,19 pieces of cell phones, locally made bunkers for inhaling hard drugs, charms of different categories, packets of Roller use to wrap hard drugs, 44 lighters, 3 packs of cotton bud, 2 bottles of perfumes, cash sum of #42,500 Naira and other incriminating items.” Mohammed further disclosed the arrest of a 22-year old notorious robbery suspect terrorizing Upper Iweka axis. He said the suspect, Arinze Ozemenam, aka Arewa of Army Barracks, Onitsha was nabbed around 1:20 pm by Police patrol team attached to Awada Division. “Suspect allegedly wayled one Emeka Nweke ‘m’ of Nkpor and robbed him of physical cash and other belongings while returning from the Church Service at Goodness and Mercy Park,” he added. The PPRO assured that the cases were under investigation after which suspects would be charged. “The Commissioner of Police, John Abang enjoins the public whose handsets/laptops were either snatched or stolen through similar modus to report at the Special Anti cult unit Enugwu-ukwu with proof of ownership in order to claim their property and also give further evidence to aid Police investigation. “The Command assures the public that it will continue to deny the criminals the opportunity to operate through intensive patrols, continuous raids on black spots and criminal hideouts and intelligence gathering in order to enable Ndi Anambra and residents alike enjoy the Yuletide peacefully,” he added.