The push for economic development through air transportation is increasingly gathering momentum at domestic, regional and international arenas, with experts saying adequate government support and a raft of intervention measures could reduce attrition rate of indigenous carriers in their roles as enablers and catalysts of economic development, writes KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR  The relationship between air transportation and economic development is increasingly gaining global traction, robust enough that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), International Air Transport Association (IATA) and Airport Council International (ACI) are closing ranks to optimise the benefits of the air transport value chain. Significantly, the bodies have continued to roll out measures – in terms of policies, programmes and initiatives – that will not only attract, but sustain and protect investments in airline and allied businesses to keep economies running. According to IATA,  aviation remains a key driver of economic development. Over one third of all trade, by value, is sent by air which makes aviation a key component of business worldwide.  The global body said the aviation industry supports 65.5 million jobs around the world.   Some of these roles are within the industry at airports, for airlines and in civil aerospace and air navigation services, while other jobs are supported by the economic activities that air travel creates. Besides, supporting $2.7 trillion of the world’s gross domestic product, air transport facilitates international trade, in particular valuables and perishable goods. Experts say the global aviation market is expected to grow significantly in the coming decades. By 2036, the global air transport is forecast to support 97.8 million jobs and will $5.7 trillion to the global economy. According to a global fact sheet for 2017  provided by IATA , over 4.1 billion passengers were carried by airlines in 41.9 million scheduled flights  flown across 7.75 trillion kilometres in 1,303 commercial airlines. At a time global carriers are filling in the gap, airlines in Nigeria are grappling to play their role as drivers of economic development. Besides Air Peace which currently parades a sizeable fleet of aircraft types – Boeing and Embraer – others are struggling to get their airplanes out of maintenance facility. Regrettably, the failure rate of Nigerian carriers in the last decade has called to question the role airlines could play as enablers of economic growth in a country where air transport still holds the key in accelerating the movement of passengers and cargo goods and other allied services. Besides Air Peace, which currently has the largest pool of airplanes and scope of operations; it is filling the gap as an economic enabler by providing air link between Nigeria’s commercial hub, Lagos, its political capital , Abuja and other major cities including Port Harcourt, Owerri, Enugu, Calabar, Uyo, Benin, Asaba, Warri, Sokoto, Yola, Kano , Kaduna and other cities it categorised as “under served “  and “unserved.” Experts say airlines’ role in the logistic value chain in the movement of passengers,  goods and services across the length and breadth of the country underscores the in  creasing value of air transportation mode. Besides, being the fastest and albeit safest mode of transport, airlines create job opportunities for millions of Nigerians in the aviation and allied sectors. Towards this end, experts say the health of indigenous carriers is directly proportional to their contributions to economic development. Air Peace’s Chief Operating Officer, Mrs Oluwatoyin Olajide, told The Nation that  the carrier in its few years of operation, has bridged the gap in connecting major cities in Nigeria’s air link by providing a window for people and cargo to move seamlessly thereby contributing to the gross domestic product. She said airlines remain key drivers in pushing national economic development through their on- time performance services, which has made seamless for organisations and individuals to move from one location to the other in the accomplishment of their corporate responsibilities. The airline COO said besides providing a platform for people and goods to move, airlines as key players in the logistic value chain have created job opportunities for many professionals in the aviation and related industry. But, experts say if local carriers must play their role as economic enablers, operators must step up on-time departure to reduce frequent incidents of flight delays which impact on the national economy for businessmen and women hoping to meet their schedules and appointment. Speaking in an interview in Lagos, Chief Pilot of Air Peace, Captain Victor Egonu, said domestic carriers will continue to contribute their role in national economic development, if government puts in place the right policies that will guarantee the sustenance of such carriers. He said domestic carriers,including Air Peace will be excited if the relevant agencies could fix sore points at major airports to reduce the burden of airlines. He listed such sore points to include flooded and undulating runways at some airports, night landing facilities at some secondary airports in addition to multiple screening points at airport terminals to improve turnaround time for indigenous carriers. He said:. ‘’Any measure or step that could be taken by government to reduce the burden on domestic carriers will put them in a vantage position to contribute significantly to national economic development. “It is time government should start considering domestic carriers as partners in progress. The whole idea is to empower these carriers so that they could improve their operations both domestically, regionally and intercontinentally in the bid to advance the economic development of the country.” In his views, former Secretary General of African Airlines Association (AFRAA), Mr Nick Fadugba said government should design policies that should support local carriers to remain in business and make their lofty contributions to the development of the national economy in the provision of travel services, aviation fuel supply, airline  catering aircraft maintenance and repairs and other support services. Also speaking, Executive Chairman of Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), the umbrella body of indigenous carriers, Captain Nogie Meggison said local airlines would have contributed more to the development of the national economy if they get the support of government. He said : “ The operating environment for local carriers is very harsh. Multiple charges and taxes , unpatriotic policies by government, these factors are militating against the potential of Nigerian carriers to contribute significantly to national development. “ Look at an airline like Air Peace, which in the last five years has taken on many battles and challenges . Such an airline should be supported by government as a strong carrier which is flying the flag of Nigeria in the international scene. Government needs protective policies , the way other countries such as United States and the government of the United Arab Emirates are supporting the Gulf Carriers. That is what Nigerian government should do to local airlines.” He cited the patriotic services Air Peace carried out a few months ago, when it evacuated over 520 Nigerians trapped in the xenophobic attacks in South Africa.  Speaking in an interview, Chairman of Air Peace, Mr Allen Onyema said local airlines need support from government to enable them accelerate the growth of the economy by providing a platform of movement for trade, commerce and industry. He said local carriers contributed significantly to the over 14.2 million passengers recorded in Nigeria in 2019. He said the passenger traffic figure compared to 11.2 million flown the previous was enough evidence of the commitment of local operators. He said : “ Though the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority has not released passenger figures for this year, the figures of last year speaks volumes of the exploits of local airlines, including Air Peace, which continue to weather the storm in an unfriendly business environment. “ He said local carriers could do better if government reviewed sundry charges under the guise of taxes and levies at airports nationwide accounting for over 65 per cent of revenues accruing to airlines. The airline boss said : “ What local carriers are asking from government is an enabling environment that will make things work. We look forward to a time when the taxes will be streamlined in such a way to help local carriers help the government and help the country by contributing to the national economy and by extension national economic development .” Also speaking, Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Captain Abdulsalami Mohammed said domestic carriers could contribute to economic development if they explore economies of scale, cooperate and forge alliances. He said one of the ways they could be stronger as economic enablers is by pooling their expertise and equipment together. Mohammed said: “ Airlines will continue to play greater role in economic development, when the operators evolve sustainable operational plans.” 