By Precious Igbonwelundu  For dumping refuse indiscriminately, nine persons arrested by the Lagos State Environment Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) have been sentenced to a week in prison or N5,000 each. The convicts Gabriel Joel, 25, Segun Adekunle, 30, Joel Godwin, 20, Kabiru Aliu, 44, Aminu Lawal, 44, Christy Nwamkama, Ochanya Ejembi, 20, Mercy Amu, 20 and Garuba Abdul Kadiri, 20 were arraigned before Chief Magistrate MA Ojo in Ogba on Thursday after their arrest in different parts of the state. It was gathered that they were arrested during a joint exercise with officials of Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) and later charged to court. The suspects were said to have pleaded guilty to a charge of indiscriminate waste disposal in public places under the Environmental Management and Protection Law, 2017 and were sentenced after their pleas for leniency. “The Magistrate ruled that the offenders be imprisoned for one week or pay a fine of ₦5,000. Seven out of the offenders fulfilled their conditions while the other defaulting two (Kabiru Aliyu and Aminu Lawal) were taken to prison,” said LAGESC spokesman Kehinde Adebayo. According to him, the Corps Marshal CP Akinpelu Gbemisola (rtd) warned residents to desist from defacing the state as the agency would continue its clampdown on violators and impersonators.
He said the agency arrested a 40-year-old man Hakeem Oyediji, a resident of No 4, Iretioluwa Street, Bolade-Oshodi for allegedly extorting illegal traders while posing as a LAGESC official. “He was arrested after a tip-off while trying to extort money from illegal street traders at Bendel Close, off Bishop Aboyade Cole Street, Victoria Island. He has since been handed over to the police for further investigation. “It was discovered that he has been impersonating the Lagos Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) who had been operating for more than three months with a fake Lagos State Government identity card. “The Lagos State Government frowns sternly at impersonation of staff and would ensure examples are made of erring individuals aiming to tarnish the excellent image of the state to feed their covetousness and laziness,” she said.