 The Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Dr. Joi Nunieh, has stated that Niger Delta is persistently faced with health challenges, due to lack of quality healthcare facilities and services to take care of the people of the region. Worst hit, according to the NDDC chief, are the people living in the rural communities, who bear the environmental impact of oil production and related activities. She noted that the federal government’s interventionist agency was discussing with key stakeholders and potential partners on strategies for boosting primary healthcare in the crude oil and gas-rich Niger Delta. Nunieh, who spoke during a courtesy visit by the President of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, at NDDC’s headquarters in Port Harcourt, stressed the importance of extending health facilities and services to the rural communities. She said: “Findings from recent inspections of health facilities in the Niger Delta region reveal the need to seek urgent collaboration to effectively tackle the inadequacies in the health sector. We find it necessary to have a robust engagement with the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria and the pharmaceutical industry. “There are some prevalent ailments in the region which exist as a result of hydrocarbon contamination. These diseases are killing people and decimating aquatic lives. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) reported that one in every eight person in the Niger Delta would die of cancer. This is frightening and NDDC is worried about the prognosis.” The acting managing director also requested the relevant players in the pharmaceutical industry to assist the commission to provide drugs at subsidised rates for the primary health centres in the rural communities, stating that it would contribute to the efforts to promote healthy living in safe and clean environment.” She announced that NDDC was starting a “Charity Begins at Home” programme that would encourage the clean-up of the communities at the grassroots. Nunieh said: “We are going to have a competition, where all the Niger Delta communities will contest for the cleanest village in the region. The prize will be an infrastructural project that will be based on the assessed need of the people in the community. The NDDC chief also stated that in the 2020 Next Level agenda, the commission would desist from giving handouts to youths, stressing that such practice was not sustainable.  