Like mock beads, the sweat told the story not of the past hour but of his day. “It’s been hell,” he said, unable to transcend clichés to explain his navigation through the Lagos traffic. The sweat beads connected like neck chains, transforming his face into a map upon a map. Water dots on flesh. His neck was immune from the invasion, clammy but deceptively clean. “All because of Christmas?” his taciturn struggles continued. I sniggered, and he knew why. Earlier in the year, he had said he wanted the state governor to get the boys on the road, rain or no rain, to fix the infrastructure torture of the city. It was in those days when the heavens screamed, flashed and roared, and pall followed pall in reckless downpour. In the United States where he spent a few years, I had asked him if anyone fixed any road in winter. He said the road never descended that bad, so it was never an emergency. The argument stalemated when I asserted that emergency in Nigeria and the United States are different matters. Well, the rains have now shrunken back into the skies, and weather now smiled for construction. He said part of the reason he spent that many hours behind the wheels were construction work going on in Lagos. “Now, I can explain why you cannot find the words today,” I challenged him. He knew the traffic pain was because of the boys of the BOS of Lagos. They were now in intersections and nodal pulses of the city. They were taking advantage of the dry berth. Turning triumphal, I compared him to the children of Israel who griped over Pharaoh’s oppressive rod. After Moses shepherded them through the Red Sea, they waxed livid with nostalgia to the days of Pharoah’s beneficence of free bed and bread. “Cool down,” I advised. “Manna will soon fall from heaven when much of the roads are in good shape.” Hitting back, he warned that if I appealed to heaven, I might be calling for rainfall. Let us leave the heavens in peace for now, he seemed to surrender. The days of Manna are no longer here, he implied. But he raised another issue germane to Nigeria’s iconic city: the surge of migrants. This Christmas may be the first in a generation when the city did not feel the hollowness from human outflow. The city seemed to sea. No matter how much leaves, a sense of its fullness remains. It is the time bomb of today’s development. The population keeps swelling. That was where my friend found traction as he could not pass any other polemical muster on the traffic issue. Hence the BOS of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is making his focus three-fold, in spite of the vast ambition of his THEME agenda. They include infrastructure, education and health care. For a city ballooning out of control in numbers, we cannot forget what Roman Historian and philosopher Tacitus emphasised in his voluminous opus. He noted that we must learn to build the body and soul. The body must be nourished in order for the mind to flourish. The BOS of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is making his focus three-fold, in spite of the vast ambition of his THEME agenda. They include infrastructure, education and health care. This was also Awolowo’s wisdom when he pushed for free education and health care, as building blocks of his vision. In one of his campaign stops in the Southwest, he had roared as his voice of low-decibel grandeur could go: “The Unity Party of Nigeria is dedicated to giving you light in your head, light in your spirit and light in your body.” To build a city, you must build the people. But the people cannot work their health and minds without the right environment. Hence we need infrastructure of hardware before the software. The hardware has been a hard road. When his name popped up from relative obscurity, and his moment turned into momentum with chants of Sanwo-Eko – pay Lagos bills – he hardly knew what was afoot. First, that he would meet an almost empty treasury, and would have to wait it out in the quest of a John Bunyan’s pilgrim. Then the weather. The elements and capital became two capital vexations for the captain of the city. He did not know how to frown or growl in public. He kept a sunny and tranquil persona, working the city to a hope and future, a vision some believed and many who doubted are coming around. His stage presence is gradually growing Obama-esque. His public rhetoric, at first halting and tentative, has cruised into cadences all his own. In a city like Lagos, doubt is easy. More than half of the country relies on whether it works or stumbles. The bar is always high. Now he is working out with his new budget a steady 2020, and it will be his year of revelation. He is showing signs of that already. He is not only a Lagosian, but a true Metropolitian, who like his predecessors like Tinubu and Fashola, know how to relate to all and sundry. At the annual luncheon of Government College, Ughelli, he stunned the old boys with his memories of his youthful days in the old Bendel State, drawing a mental map of the delta. With cheerful swagger, he plunged among the old boys, some of them septuagenarians and octogenarians like the Sam Amuka of The Vanguard and Professor Itse Sagay. “You know Guiniwa?” he asked a stunned old boy who thought him a stranger. Guiniwa is a popular road that bifurcates Warri. When he took on the stage, he spoke of his exploits as a young man in the area, reeling out names like Okumagba Layout, Eneren, Abraka, Ughelli all the way to Bomadi and the riverine reaches of the state. Nor were his taste buds about starch and banga out of the tale. Claps, roars, kaboom!! The roof fell. Lagos needs not just minds like Governor Sanwo-Olu, we need the president and the national legislature to understand that holding Lagos is holding Nigeria. If Lagos is poorly managed, the nation will fall off a tragic cliff. That is why he wants to hold the mind and body as policy foci, as software on the hard infrastructure. The three will undergird his THEME. The Yuletide season has happened with glee and no drama of blood and mayhem. It is a testament to good work. So, as we enter 2020, Sanwo-Olu seems set not just to THEME ahead, but steam.   I did not know that former Delta State Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan, with his soft voice and unflappable face, had a gift for devastating metaphor. It took a wrong celebration for him to growl. He did by unzipping his mouth. On his Facebook page, he took 15 un-zips at his successor Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, who was receiving accolades from traditional rulers for work that Uduaghan accomplished. One post after another, Uduaghan ripped the robes that Okowa was wearing, coats of many colours, none of which he tailored. Uduaghan was particularly miffed by the airport in Asaba for which many have attacked him and now praise him. Okowa has been governor for about five years. He won the election not on merit but on quota, and he should know that he ought to start showing what he did rather than wearing his predecessor’s robes. Where are his hospitals and major roads, or schools? The event of the hungry monarchs took place at a structure Uduaghan built. It’s time for some governors to show the dignity of achievement, not the shame of borrowed robes.