Maize Growers, Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria (MAGPMAN), has commended the Federal Government Anchor Borrowers Programme initiative, saying it is a big support to farmers in Nigeria. Dr Edwin Uche, the National president of MAGPMAN said this at a National Stakeholders Meeting held on Thursday in Abuja. According to Uche, the programme is a big support to maize farmers as well as every player in the maize value chain and other commodity value chain in Nigeria. “We must again commend the FG for sustaining the programme, for sustainability is the key,’’ he said. He added that there were other programmes of the Federal Government with duration that was not as lasting as the Anchor Borrowers Programme which had been running for six years now. The national president said that the meeting was designed for all key players in the maize value chain in order to appraise the progress as well as address challenges that existed in the value chain. issues and how to deal with the commodity, land and tractorisation and market performance which are key issues for us,’’ Uche said. According to him, MAGPAMAN is the apex body driving maize value chain in Nigeria and has structure in every local government and state in Nigeria including the FCT. He said the association provides support to farmers, finance to agriculture, and access to capacity, mechanisation, technology and exposure based on global best practices in agriculture. The national president also said the association drives agriculture from the concept of agribusiness, ensuring there was profitability to agriculture. Uche said MAGPAMAN was also introducing other agricultural programmes to farmers in order to ensure that they benefited from Federal Government’s intervention. “We have a strong structure that has capacity to drive home agriculture and ensure food security in Nigeria, and the whole concept is to ensure that farmers earn value and profitability,’’ he said. Dr Bello Dogondeji, the Chairman of Federation of Agricultural Commodity Association of Nigeria (FACAN), said maize was an important commodity in the commodity business worldwide. Dogondeji, in his good will message drew attention to the quick commencement of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) signed by President Muhammadu Buhari in June. “If we consider maize as one of the staple food in the world, that means we can trade with our maze within and across our continent. “By July 2020, I think the AFCTA will be fully operational so our strategy should be toward that,’’ he said. The FACAN chairman urged the association to double its efforts in sensitising farmers about recent agricultural developments. Dr Adam Saffer, representative of U.S. Aid made a presentation on Nigeria Agribusiness Investment Activity: Overview for MAGPAMAN. He said many products were being produced from maize, stressing the need to invest in the sector as agriculture was going through a revolution. According to Saffer, agriculture can be the mainstay of the economy if mechanisation is achieved as it will go a long way in encouraging the youth to go into agriculture. (NAN)