Eric Ikhilae,  Nicholas Kalu and Gbenga Omokhunu, Abuja  AFTER about four months days in custody, activist Omoyele Sowore last night regained his freedom. His released followed the directive by Attorney-General and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami that Sowore and a former National Security Adviser (NSA) Col. Sambo Dasuki should be freed from the Directorate of State Service (DSS) custody. The statement from Malami’s office said: “The office of the  AGF  has reviewed the pending criminal charges against the duo of Col.  Dasuki (retd.) and Omoyele Sowore. “Whilst the Federal High Court has exercised its discretion in granting bail to the defendants in respect of the charges against them, I am also not unmindful of the right of the complainant/prosecution to appeal or further challenge the grant of bail by the court having regards to extant legal provisions, particularly Section 169 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. “However, my office has chosen to comply with the court orders while considering the pursuit of its rights of appeal and/or review of the order relating to the bail as granted or varied by the courts. “In line with the provisions of Sections 150(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), and in compliance with the bail granted to Col  Dasuki (Retd) (as recently varied by the Court of Appeal) and the bail granted to   Sowore, I have directed the State Security Services to comply with the order granting bail to the defendants and effect their release. “The two defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land. “I wish to reiterate again the utmost regard of my office for the entire judicial structure of Nigeria. “This administration remains unrelenting in deepening the rule of law and the administration of justice in general.” Sahara Reporters, which Sowore owns, said on its verified Twitter handle @SaharaReporters: “He was released on Tuesday evening following an order to the Department of State Services by Nigeria’s Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), for his freedom.” Dasuki’s lawyer, Ahmed Raji (SAN), commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the AGF for the decision. Raji said: “We thank God Almighty.  We thank God Almighty.  And we thank God Almighty. “We thank the President of our country, AGF , the entire Judiciary and all Nigerians.  It is well with us. May God continue to be with all of us.” Dasuki, who served as NSA during the Goodluck Jonathan administration,  was arrested by the Department of State Services on December 1, 2015 . He was accused   of  stealing $2.1 billion and awarding   phantom contracts to buy 12 helicopters, four jets and  ammunition for the war against Boko Haram insurgents. Sowore, who called for “revolution now” against the government, was arrested on August 3 and detained. He was arraigned on charges bordering on threat to national security, among others. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu on December 2 ordered him to be released within 24 hours. The DSS complied but re-arrested him at the court premises, 24 hour after prompting local and international outcry. The  Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN)  commended the Federal Government for the action. CAN  said in  statement   by its President, Rev Samson Ayokunle,   that  the gesture was a Christmas gift to the populace and  clerics. It said what the government did represented a  new dawn  for the country’s democracy. 