Akwa Ibom Government has condemned the derision of its free education scheme by the State Chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Comrade Etim Etim Ukpong.
The derision of the scheme, according to the government, is distasteful and in bad faith. In a statement titled Re: NUT faults Akwa Ibom State free education scheme by Commissioner for Information, Charles Udoh KSJ, the government said it has been doing much to fix the educational rots it inherited. These measures, it said, should be commended because they are beginning to yield results and not condemnation. Listing out the measures, Udoh said: “For the avoidance of doubts, the current government of Akwa Ibom State inherited an educational system that was already on its knees begging for attention like in most other parts of Nigeria. “From infrastructure to personnel and even curriculum, strategic interventions were needed across board. Despite the not-too friendly state of our national economy, the state government continued doggedly to fund the Free & compulsory basic education in public schools in addition to over N600 million spent annually on WAEC/NABTEB fees for indigenes in public secondary schools. “The Akwa Ibom State Government in an audacious bid to find the right fix for the educational sector in the state hosted the first ever Education Summit & Exhibition by any state in Nigeria which had as active participants all major stakeholders including the state Chairman of NUT. “Subject-matter experts within the country were also brought into the mix. It, therefore, calls to question the real intentions of Comrade Ukpong in castigating the state government so soon after, especially when he is aware that a committee saddled with the task of implementing decisions reached at the summit has been set up.” He went on: “The Akwa Ibom State NUT Chairman cannot also claim to be oblivious of the positive strides the state government is taking towards revamping the educational sector. “So far over 1,400 school blocks have been constructed and renovated and over 20,630 dual-desks provided to public schools in the state. “Additionally, 10 computer laboratories with internet facilities have been constructed in 10 secondary schools across the 10 federal constituencies while over 17 community secondary schools have also been taken over. “The Akwa Ibom State Government has continued its periodic procurement & distribution of free text books & other educational materials and has also continued to pay Subventions to public primary & secondary schools despite lean resources. “These interventions have seen a steady improvement in the performance of students of public schools in the state in national examinations and competitions. “As further demonstration of the commitment to ensuring that the education remains a front burner issue for the current administration, Governor Udom Emmanuel approved the setting up of an education monitoring team under the direct supervision of the Governor’s office. “The team has the day-day task of monitoring and reporting the state of affairs in schools across the state. “All these are in tandem with continued regular payment of salaries and pensions to workers in the state, including teachers. “Despite the unfortunate tone of the NUT Chairman’s statement, the Akwa Ibom State Government remains undaunted in its march towards transforming the educational sector in the state.”