James Azania, Lokoja  The Kogi State Police Command, on Tuesday, paraded the suspected killers of the late Kogi Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Women leader, Mrs Salome Abuh. Those paraded at the Kogi Police Command headquarters, Lokoja, include Ocholi Edicha (30), who allegedly led others that burnt the late PDP Women leader alive at her home in Ochadamu in Ofu LGA, two days after the November 16 Kogi State governorship election. Others paraded alongside Edicha, include Adamu Haruna, Onu Egbune, Musa Alidu, Attai Haruna Egwu and Attah Ejeh, while others are said to still be at large. The late Salome Abuh was recently laid to rest in her village, Aji-Obala, Ofu LGA. According to the state commissioner of police (CP), Mr. Hakeem Busari, Edicha, during interrogation confessed that he led the gang that burnt the house of Elder Simeon Abuh (husband of the slain woman). “During interrogation, Ocholi Edicha confessed that he led the gang that burnt the house of Elder Simeon B.S Abuh, which led to the death of his wife, Mrs Salome Achejuigu. “The suspect further confessed that they were responsible for the series of armed robbery incidents in Ochadamu and its environs. “The Kogi State Police Command while condemning the killing of Mrs Salome Abuh and Awolu Zekeri, calls for calm and assures that all the perpetrators will not go unpunished. “Efforts are still on to get other members of the gang. All suspects will be arraigned in court,” the CP said. Edicha, however, denied being among those that set the Abuh residence ablaze, with the PDP Women leader inside, much less leading those that perpetrated the act. He also denied ownership of a locally made double barrel gun, which the police said was recovered from him (Edicha). He said that those that carried out the act were All Progressives Congress (APC) members from Ejule. He also absolved the five others that were paraded, saying that they were not among those that carried out the act. At her burial last Saturday, the husband of the deceased, Elder Simeon Abuh said that the late Salome Abuh has paid the supreme price for Igala land through politics. He described her as a martyr whose political sagacity will remain fresh in the minds of her political associates. He called on the Federal Government to ensure that the perpetrators of the heinous act are arrested and brought to book. The candidate of the People Democratic Party (PDP) in the Kogi governorship election, Musa Wada, said that Mrs Salome Abuh died for Kogi State and Igala nation. “I am not going to relent a little bit. I will pursue this gruesome and senseless killing of Mrs Abuh. “Whenever I think of the circumstances of her death, I wonder who will ever wish that for his enemy, but the unfortunate thing is that the killing was perpetrated by the children of Igala nation, who joined hands with the oppressors to kill members of the opposition parties. “Regardless of their intimidation and oppression, we will reclaim our stolen mandate, because they are just keeping it temporary. I assure you that the emancipation is going to be very soon,” he had said.