The Lagos State Commissioner for Finance, Dr. Rabiu Olowo, has tasked finance and accounts officers in the public service to reflect the THEMES agenda in their operations. THEMES is an acronym of Traffic Management and Transportation; Health and Environment; Education and Technology, introduced by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to make Lagos a 21st Century state. Olowo gave the charge at a three-day retreat organised for the  management staff of the Ministry of Finance and other offices under its supervision. The retreat with the theme: “Ligning Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda” is part of efforts for relevant officers to key into the programme. In his opening remarks,  the commissioner stated  that besides ensuring the agenda, the retreat will wfurther promote a cordial working relationship among all the finance officers from the Ministry of Finance, Debt Management Office (DMO) and State Treasury Office (STO). He said: “This retreat is essential and important to the Ministry of Finance as it is expected to align all departmental objectives across the STO, Office DMO which makes up the finance ministry. According to him, the retreat will define clear goals ahead the next fiscal year such that all key players in the management of the state finances. Olowo maintained that judicious use of the resources of the State is very vital in achieving each of the pillars of the Governor’s developemental agenda as enunciated in the T.H.E.M.E.S policy framework. In his words, “the roles of finance cannot be over emphasized by any serious minded government because every policies or decisions made by the government come with its financial implications thus making finance indispensable in achieving the goals of this present administration”. The Lagos State House of Assembly Committee Chairman on Finance, Hon. Rotimi Olowo enjoined the participants to be more dedicated and committed with a view to impacting the lives of all residents of the State. The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Ganiat Abidemi Raji in her address at the Retreat stated that the retreat provides an excellent opportunity to discuss emerging issues on Ministerial responsibilities, exchange views on existing challenges and developmental perspectives. “The topics of discussion that will be treated during this retreat have been carefully chosen to refresh the memory of participants about their core duties and align them to key performance indicators for effective service delivery, “the Permanent Secretary noted. Raji however enjoined participants to relate with each other, network, exchange ideas and keep abreast of cutting edge policies that can only come with such gatherings. Giving an overview of the retreat, the Director, Financial, Intellegence and Research, Mr Olujimi Ige  said that the retreat will further improve communications, reporting and team building among different departments in the Ministry of Finance and also align their activities towards the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda of the administration. According to the Director, some of the discussions will center on Time Management and Ministerial presentations amongst others, noting that at the end of the retreat, the participants from different departments would be able to integrate their activities together and avoid overlapping functions.