Whose responsible for the loss of $41.9b from oil theft, pipeline vandalism and environmental degradation are yet to be held to account, the National Economic Council (NEC) said on Tuesday. It noted that in the first six months of this year, 22 million barrels of oil, valued at $1.35 billion was lost to thieves. Speaking at NEC’s inaugural policy dialogue, the chairman, Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, called for special courts to try oil thieves. The event was organised by the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) in Abuja. According to Obasekli, most of the crude oil losses were recorded on trunk lines operated by companies which own production fields and the pipelines, a situation he described as disturbing. Obaseki, who said that trunk lines outsourced to third parties recorded the least breeches, urged the Federal Government to temporarily take over those operated by International Oil Companies (IOCs). He said: “Some of our key findings, for the first half of this year, are that we lost 22.6 million barrels of crude oil at an estimated cost of about $1.3 billion. “These losses occurred in the Nembe trunk line, where we lost 9.2 million barrels. In the Trans Niger pipeline, we lost 8.6 million barrels; and in the Trans Forcados pipeline, 3.9 barrels. “We noticed that the lines that were outsourced to third parties recorded the least losses.” Obaseki said proper governance was absent, and that no one has been held accountable for the breaches. “When breaches are reported, when products are lost, we just deal with the financial losses. Nobody is ever held accountable; nobody is brought to order,” he lamented. The governor called for special courts to try oil thieves and pipeline vandals. “We also observed that there is a very slow prosecution of culprits when people are arrested. “Looking through the law, we couldn’t find any concrete evidence of people who were caught, prosecuted and convicted on the crime of stealing crude oil,” he said. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipre Sylva, said oil theft requires collaborative effort to check. Represented by his Special Adviser on Niger Delta, Mr Felix Bobnabena, the minister reiterated Federal Government’s commitment to ending incidences of oil theft. Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, described oil theft. “NNPC as a player in the downstream sector has felt the direct brunt of the attacks on our facilities and assets. Between 2001 and 2019, we recorded a total of 45,347 pipeline breaks and breeches on our downstream pipeline network. “If you do the math, it comes to about an average of seven incidences daily,” said Kyari, represented by Chief Operating Officer, Upstream, Mr Roland Ewubare. He called for an effective framework of collaboration between governments and communities in tackling the problem. NEC, chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, is constitutionally mandated to “advise the President concerning the economic affairs of the Federation, and in particular on measures necessary for the coordination of the economic planning efforts or economic programmes of the various Governments of the Federation.” Membership comprises of the 36 state governors, Central Bank of Nigeria Governor and other co-opted officials.