 THE financial markets have huge impacts on the lives of individuals and government and should be developed to promote desired growth and development, President, Financial Markets Dealers Association (FMDA) Mrs. Adetoun Dosunmu has said. Speaking during the financial markets conference organised by the Financial Markets Dealers Association (FMDA)  in Lagos, she explained that though it is not everyone that plays in the financial markets, the result of trading in these markets can be seen and felt by every participant in economic life—individuals, businesses, and government. The conference held in Lagos focused on the theme: “The Nigerian Financial Market – An Agent for Growth and Development’. Dosunmu said those trading in financial markets influence economic and social life in one way or another. She said that countries with better-developed financial systems enjoy faster and more stable long-run growth and development. “Evidence from  recent empirical  studies suggests  that  deeper, broader,  and better  functioning  financial markets  can stimulate  higher  economic  growth  and  development,” she said. The event, attended by government officials and private sector operators , was meant to promote the development of the Nigerian financial market and drive growth of the economy. It was attended by experts from the private and public sectors including regulators who provided insights into how the Nigerian financial markets as well as the SME sector can help achieve and drive growth of the Nigerian economy. She said that FMDA is committed to ensuring the growth of a safe and efficient market in Nigeria as well as  a strong and reliable partner to Nigerian market participants and institutions now and in the years ahead. Also speaking, Deputy Director, Policy Advocacy, Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Abayomi Salami, said there is a strong correlation between economic prosperity and ease of doing business. “Reforms in the past 12 months showed that starting a business has witnessed 26 pr cent reduction in cost of registering a business with time to register a business dropping from 14 to two days. Obtaining certified true copies of title documents of a property has dropped from five days to half a day and conducting a search from seven days to one day,” he said.  