By Precious Igbonwelundu  A Lagos school teacher has been accused of sexually assaulting a nine-year-old physically challenged pupil. The teacher identified as Jacob Peter is currently being detained at the Gender Unit of the Lagos State Police Command in Ikeja. He was alleged to have inserted all five of his fingers into the minor’s private part on several occasions before eventually penetrating her with his male organ. According to the victim’s mother (named withheld), she discovered her daughter was urinating frequently and uncontrollably, a development she found strange. The woman said she queried her daughter for urinating on her body and probed further to ascertain what was wrong with her only for the girl to disclose that her teacher has been forcing his fingers and penis into her private part. With the help of a family friend, the woman said she ran to Magodo Police Station, Isheri and reported the case which led to the arrest of the teacher. She said the girl was taken to Mirabel Centre at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) where it was established she was penetrated and then treatment given her. Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) confirmed the incident, adding that the suspect would be charged to court at the completion of investigation. Similarly, the police in Ogun arrested a 60-year-old man Taofeek Shotayo for alleged rape of his neighbour’s 10-year-old girl (named withheld). The suspect was arrested on Monday evening following a report at Aregbe Police Station by the victim’s stepfather. It was gathered that Shotayo, a resident of Abule Aro in Obantoko, Abeokuta, gave the victim N600 each of both times he raped her. It was learnt that the girl’s stepfather had noticed unusual traits in her which he related to her mother and she was questioned by them. “During questioning, she opened up that the old man had slept with her two times and on each occasion, he gave her N600,” said a source. Spokesman DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi said the suspect has made confessional statements and that the case would be transferred to the Anti-Human Trafficking unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation and prosecution.