Precious Igbonwelundu  One person was Monday feared killed and others injured after crisis broke out between factions of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) at Oluwole, Lagos Island. The fight which started at about 2:45pm was said to have been over the control of park.
It was gathered that parties had agreed on weekly control of the Oluwole Park for each faction so that peace would reign in the area. But one said was said to have reneged on this agreement, which forced the other faction to storm the streets ready for war. Traders around Mandelas, shoppers and residents of the area were said to have scampered to safety when the hoodlums started throwing bottles across the road. The Nation reports that yesterday fight at Oluwole was the third in two weeks involving NURTW members in the area. Meanwhile, violence also broke out at the Berger Bridge along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on Sunday evening that left at least two persons injured. It sad gathered that the fight which started in the evening, was instigated by one Musibau Issa, a giatmeat vendor said to be on the run. Issa, our Correspondent gathered, had mobilised some touts to go and disrupt a party where the group met stiff resistance. Motorists plying the bridge, who took to the social media to report the incident, said that cutlasses were being thrown into the air by the hoodlums without a care for innocent passersby. “That bridge area is becoming something else. They were just flinging cutlasses from one side to the other without a care for those driving or passing by. A similar thing happened there last week. “I do not know if anyone was killed in it but it was bloody. Many people sustained injuries there,” said a woman. Contacted, police spokesman Bala Elkana said 15 persons were arrested over the Lagos Island crisis and two in respect of the incident at Berger. Elkana told our Correspondent that no one died in both clashes, adding that two persons sustained injuries at the Berger crisis. He said: “For the Oluwole issue, police have taken over the park. Calm gas returned there. 15 suspects were arrested and they have been charged to court. No one died and nobody was injured. “Two persons sustained injuries in the Berger incident while two others were arrested. No one was killed. The police are hunting the mastermind of the violence known as Musibau Issa.”