Shelim, a rural settlement in Gamawa Local Government Area of Bauchi State, is a rustic backwater with over 1,000 residents. It has been without any infrastructure for nearly 50 years The dwellers in Shelim community are nomadic farmers, occupying a savanna farmland. They live mostly in huts and mud houses. Only the village head owns a motorcycle with which he assists inhabitants during medical emergencies. According to the village head, Saleh Ibrahim, the inaccessible health care facility in the settlement has posed a challenge for them. ” We have to go to Taranka or Bulkwachua to access health facility, which is almost 4 hours journey. “The women in labour at times die on the way while some go unconscious become getting to the facility.” But all of that have changed courtesy of the EU/ UNICEF Hard to Reach Services. Through it, they access antenatal care and receive malaria, typhoid and pneumonia treatment. They also get immunisation for the children. ”Our wives, children are being treated here , we don’t have to stress ourselves  to go into town, maternal mortality has reduced drastically since EU/ UNICEF intervention and our children no longer suffer from malnutrition,” he stated. A mother of two in Shelim village,  Ramatua  Adamu, (22) said  at times they trek to access health facility until now. Ramatua said: ” Now I get free drugs , we no longer trek to access health facility due to EU/UNICEF intervention” Adiza Garba gave birth two months ago with the assistance of UNICEF midwives at home. She said there was no way she could make it to the nearest health facility with the distance and the unmotorable road. She said the antenatal care and drugs given by EU/ UNICEF aided the  safe delivery of her twin babies. 15-year-old Karamatu Idris said she delivered her two- month -old baby at home. She said though she gave birth to her first child at a health facility, her second child was delivered at home with the assistancd of a UNICEF midwife. She said the UNICEF Hard to Reach Mobile teams aided her safe delivery with the services rendered. The Chairman Gamawa Local Government, Alh.Ado Lele   blamed paucity of funds for the inability of the council to attend to the plight of the dwellers in Shelim. Speaking with our correspondent in a telephone interview, he said: ” We don’t have money to support them that is why we keep silent on this matter. Getting finance has been our major challenge.” When asked if any attempt has be made to get assistance from the State Government, he said:  ” I don’t know if any letter has been written so far.  Let me contact the local government Director of Primary health care first and i will get back to you.” The  Maternal and Child Health MCH) Coordinator of the UNICEF Hard to Reach Mobile Team in Gamawa LG, Sugura Umar,  said the EU/ UNICEF has made  tremendous efforts in reducing maternal mortality in the settlement. She said: ” EU/UNICEF has made giant strides in seeing that there is a reduction in maternal mortality rate in the LG in developmental aspect especially in terms of  capacity building. “Various programs like the  The Modified Life Saving Scheme ( MLSS) and prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV ( PMTCT), recruitment of  Community Resource Oriented Persons. (CORPs) and Hard to Reach teams have immensely contributed towards the reduction of maternal mortality by making health services available to the people in remote settlement.” She added that EU/ UNICEF supply equipment to each health facility especially those in one Primary health care (PHC) per ward. She said further that all coordinators of the UNICEF team are trained on mentorship and so many areas of intervention. ”Where a pregnant woman is enrolled into ANC ( Antenatal care) she is  given transport fare of N1,000. “In  each of her recommended 4 ANC visits, she gets N4,000 when she delivers in the health facility and child receives first immunisation vaccines and N1,000 in each of the next 4 immunization schedules for the child. “These amount to a total of N12,000 for one woman from pregnancy stage, through delivery to fully immunised stage of the infant. ”This strategy is designed to bridge the gap of financial barriers hindering pregnant women in remote communities from attending ANC; delivering in the hospital or fully immunizing their children against preventable diseases. Over 3,500 women have benefitted from the scheme in the 3 supported PHCs.” Briefing newsmen at the UNICEF headquarters in Bauchi, The Chief of Field Office,UNICEF, Mr. Bhanu Pathak, disclosed that the EU-UNICEF Maternal, New-born, Child Health and Nutrition (MNCHN) Project in the state  UNICEF was funded  by  the European Union (EU) in 2017 to support Bauchi State implement health care services under the project Strengthening Primary Health Care and Community Resilience for Improved Maternal, New-born, Child Health & Nutrition (MNCHN) Outcomes in three Northern States of Nigeria. He said the 54-million-euro multisectoral health and nutrition project were being implemented across the three states of Adamawa, Bauchi and Kebbi by EU-UNICEF, supports Adamawa, Bauchi and Kebbi States to strengthen Primary Health Care (PHC) and Community Resilience for Improved Maternal, New-born, Child Health and Nutrition (MNCHN) Outcomes in the 3 States. According to him, the goal is to significantly contribute to the reduction of maternal, new-born and child mortality and morbidity in the 3 States towards the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 3, with overall objective of improving the nutrition and health status of women and children through a sustainable primary health care delivery system and improved community resilience. He mentioned several interventions being carried out to meet this objective in the state. He said: “They include: Supply of standard equipment to all 323 main PHCs in the state (1 PHC/ward). ”Health workers were also trained to improve their capacities in delivering quality of care services in the PHCs, including Modified Life Saving Skills (MLSS), Quality of Care, Prevention of Mother-to-Child transmission (PMTCT), Integrated Management of Common Childhood illnesses (IMCI), Integrated PHC services, Health Management Information Systems” ”Free commodities  were also supplied to the main PHCs to ensure free treatment for all under 5-year-old children; free Ante-natal Care (ANC), hospital deliveries and post-natal care (PNC), including screening of every pregnant woman for HIV; and providing the ones confirmed positive with Antiretroviral drugs to prevent mother-to-child transmission. ”Several integrated services including antenatcat care (ANC) management of labour and deliveries of pregnant women, immunization, nutritional screening,  among others were provided at the community level” He further disclosed that 9 teams in these LGAs have attended to over 90,900 under 5 children, and over 8,500 pregnant women who have benefitted from one or more of the integrated services being provided. Meanwhile, to address the challenges bedevilling the  heath sector Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State of recent  presented a total sum of N167b  for 2020 budget proposal before the Bauchi state House of Assembly. The Ministry of Health has the second largest share with a total budget of N25.7bn to provide adequate  heath services for the people of Bauchi state. The governor in his  first 100 days in office had said he will declare a state of emergency in the health sector . He lamented the deteriorating state of the health care system in the state where he cited the dearth of manpower in health facilities across the state