Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Some traders affected by the recent fuel tanker explosion at the Ochanja market, Onitsha have lamented exclusion of their names from the list of beneficiaries in the compensation for their losses. The victims who claimed they did not benefit in the compensation exercise threatened a showdown over their omission. The market, said to be the second-largest in the state, was on October 16, 2019 gutted by fire when a tanker laden with petroleum products fell in front of Toronto Hospital, Onitsha, near Upper Iweka, spilling its contents through a channel to the market, destroying lives and property. The state government had distributed the sum of N100 million to over 700 victims who lost their wares to the inferno. While N1 million each was given to the next of kin of the deceased persons, two persons who sustained broken legs as a result of the incident got N500,000 each, while traders who lost their wares received varying sums. Governor Obiano, had during the fund disbursement, said the compensation was from the State government’s purse. He said, “We’re calling on well-meaning individuals, to help the victims as well, so that they can fully overcome their plight. “We believe that these people are the genuine victims of that incident that happened in October. “They are traders and we will continue to support them. My administration will continue to promote the interest of traders in the State.” But the aggrieved victims, expressed displeasure over the omission of their names, demanding to be compensated like others. They petitioned the two market leaders, Nelson Ojukwu, President General of Ochanja Central Market and Okonkwo Chinedu Anthony, the spokesman of Landlords/Plazas Association at Emordi Shoe and Bag market. Reacting to the complaints, Ojukwu admitted that scores of the victims were not compensated but assured that their names were been compiled. He said, “They are many but I don’t know their number. It is the market committee in charge of the records of the disaster and loss that will give their number. “The committee is compiling their names which will later be presented to the state government. “All I know is that the state government has been of immense assistance to us and has fulfilled all her pledges to us.” On his part, Anthony regretted that most of the victims had relocated to their villages following the losses they incurred during the incident. “We also have many of them that were not compensated by the state government but we hope the government will compensate them. “Most of them have gone to their various villages as they have nothing left in their shops and I urge the government to come to their rescue. The deputy governor, Dr. Nkem Okeke, at the inauguration of the Building Materials International Market Extension in Ogidi, Idemili North local government area, on 26th November 2019, confirmed the disbursement of the funds to the victims. Okeke, who is the chairman of the Fire Disaster Committee, hinted that every family that lost a dear one received the sum of N1million. “N700,000 was given to each of two victims with special cases, N200,000 each to those who sustained various degrees of injury while 763 traders (that included those who lost their wares) received N100,000 each”. He urged the traders to always allow men of the fire service to carry out their work regardless of the time of arrival “Even if it is a soul that is saved it is more precious than not saving at all,” he added. Reacting on the new market extension, the Deputy governor charged traders to support the government in establishing more industries, insisting that “government cannot do everything.” “Anambra is known for trading. Use your money to establish factories. We want factories and industries not only trading; let people put their money in industries.” He also restated warning against street trading, maintaining that, “those on the streets can be overrun by vehicles which may result in their untimely death.