Cyber security operators under the aegis of the Information Security Society of Africa-Nigeria (ISSAN) have called for collaborations in boosting cyber security in the country. They made the call while speaking at a Cyber Security Workshop Themed: “DDoS Evolution – Staying Protected” organised by ISSAN in collaboration with 21st Century Technologies Limited in Lagos. While welcoming stakeholders at the Workshop, President of ISSAN, Dr. David Isiavwe, decried the worsening state of cyber security in the country. He said, “Those who watch the cyber space closely, will all agree that there is a lot of happenings each and every day. New forms of attacks are being contrived and implemented by the bad guys, and all they need is one successful attempt. We hear of all the various attacks both on individuals and companies alike. Indeed, even the cyber security gatekeepers are not spared. And huge sums of money are at risk each time there is a successful attack.” Dr. Isiavwe who is also the Group Head Operations & Technology, Ecobank Nigeria Kimited further lamented the fact that everyone and every institution was susceptible to these attacks as social engineering attack is unrelenting. He said data based manipulation-insiders and outsiders is on the rise, attack on card data and card processing technology infrastructure via rogue IT infrastructure, spear phishing attack and combination of different methodologies were rampant. He therefore called on all stakeholders to be proactive, create customer awareness activities, continuous and automated monitoring of systems and infrastructure, employment of Artifucial intelligence and Machine Learning as well as robotics and data analytics. He also called for collaborations among stakeholders. Speaking on the theme of the workshop in a keynote address, Long Lee Shih – DDoS Security Expert, Nexusguard Ltd, also explained how individuals and organisations could avoid being victims of cyberattacks, including Origin Protection (OP) for large networks, among others. His keynote address was followed by a robust plenary session that included Dr Wale Obadare, MD/COO, Digital Encode Ltd; Long Lee Shih, Ighoakpo Eduje, Chief Information Security Officer, Heritage Bank Ltd; Igboa Abumere, Chief Information Security Officer, Stanbic IBTC Bank; Bharat Soni, Chief Information Security Officer, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc and Dr. David Isiavwe.